Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED
 COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 25
40-HO
                       Development Credit Agreement
                  (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated September 27, 1993
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 25
40-HO
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF
HONDURAS (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated
December 8, 1992, from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural
reforms in the Borrower's agricultural sector (hereinafter
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the
Association in the financing of urgently needed imports
required during such execution; and
      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the
Association has decided in support of the Program to provide
such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three
tranches as hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities
      that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
      pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
      Development Credit Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing
      Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
      between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower
      shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of
      such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
      reasonably request, on the execution of the Program
      referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit
      Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the
      Association of their  respective obligations under the
      Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
      purposes of the Credit."; and
      (c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Agricultural Credit Study" means the study to be
carried out by the Borrower's Central Bank, in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, to recommend
measures to increase the participation of financial
intermediaries in the granting of agricultural credit in the
agricultural sector;
      (b)   "BANADESA" means the National Agricultural
Development Bank (Banco Nacional de Desarrollo Agricola) of the
Borrower, established pursuant to Decree Law No. 903 dated
March 24, 1980;
      (c)   "Cajas Rurales" means the rural credit financial
institutions within the Borrower's territory, established
pursuant to Article 44 of Legislative Decree No. 31-92;
      (d)   "COHDEFOR" means the Honduran Corporation for
Forestry Development (Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo
Forestal) of the Borrower, established pursuant to Decree Law
No. 103 dated January 10, 1974, or any successor thereto,
acceptable to the Association;
      (e)   "EC" means the Economic Cabinet (Gabinete Economico)
of the Borrower, conformed by the Borrower's Ministers of
Economy, Finance, Planning and Natural Resources and the
President of the Borrower's Central Bank, who chairs it;
      (f)   "First Tranche" means a portion of the Credit not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 18,100,000, to be released by
the Association on or after the Effective Date;
      (g)   "Forestry Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan of
action included as an annex to the Program, designed to
Page  3
implement reforms in the forestry subsector within the
Borrower's agricultural sector;
      (h)   "IHMA" means the Honduran Agricultural Marketing
Institute (Instituto Hondureno de Mercadeo Agricola) of the
Borrower, established pursuant to Decree Law No. 592 dated
February 24, 1978;
      (i)   "INA" means the National Agrarian Institute
(Instituto Nacional Agrario) of the Borrower, established
pursuant to Decree Law No. 69 of the Borrower dated March 7, 1961;
      (j)   "Land Tenure Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan
of action included as an annex to the Program, designed to
implement reforms in land tenure within the Borrower's
agricultural sector;
      (k)   "Legislative Decree No. 31-92" means the
Decree Law No. 31 of the Borrower dated March 5, 1992;
      (l)   "Public Administration Action Plan" means the
Borrower's plan of action included as an annex to the Program,
designed to: (i) implement reforms in the organizational and
administrative structure of the public institutions and
entities within the agricultural sector and in the regulatory
framework of such sector; (ii) strengthen the institutions and
entities referred to in (i) herein; and (iii) improve the
mechanisms to prepare the budgets of SRN, INA, IHMA, COHDEFOR
and BANADESA;
      (m)   "Rural Credit Action Plan" means the Borrower's plan
of action included as an annex to the Program, designed to
improve the access to credit by the rural population, in
particular the smallholders;
      (n)   "SAL II Program" means the program defined in the
preamble of the Loan Agreement (Second Structural Adjustment
Loan) of September 17, 1990 between the Borrower and the Bank;
      (o)   "Second Tranche" means a portion of the Credit not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 10,800,000, to be released by
the Association on or after the date on which the conditions
referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement have
been met;
      (p)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986);
      (q)   "Special Land Credit Fund" means the fund of the
Borrower to finance the acquisition of rural land within the
agricultural sector, established pursuant to Article 69 of
Legislative Decree No. 31-92 (Fondo de Tierras);
      (r)   "SRN" means the Secretariat of Natural Resources
(Secretaria de Estado en el Despacho de Recursos Naturales) of
the Borrower; and
      (s)   "Third Tranche" means a portion of the Credit, not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 14,400,000, to be released by
the Association on or after the date on which the conditions
referred to in paragraphs 4 and 5 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement have been met.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty-three million, three hundred
Page  4
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 43,300,000).
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August
1 commencing August 1, 2003 and ending February 1, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
February 1, 2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
Page  5
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                           Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   subject to paragraph (j) of Part I of Schedule
                  3 to this Agreement in relation to the First
                  Tranche, and to paragraph (i) of Part II of
                  such Schedule in relation to the Second
                  Tranche, furnish to the Association as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than
                  ninety days after the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account has been made under each the
                  First, Second and Third Tranches, a certified
                  copy of the report of the audit by said
                  auditors of the records and accounts in respect
                  of the expenditures financed by the Association
                  under each corresponding First, Second and
                  Third Tranche, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records and
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
Page  6
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for
                  the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                  from the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of each such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted in respect
                  of the First, Second and Third Tranches, as the
                  case may be, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause INA and COHDEFOR to
have their records and accounts audited each year, starting in
1993, until the Closing Date, in accordance with the terms of
reference referred to in Part I (c) of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.05. To the extent that an action to resettle
affected population is required to be undertaken by the
Borrower, as a result of the Borrower's execution of the
Program, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its
approval, prior to executing any resettlement action, a plan to
resettle the affected population.
      Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower, through SRN, shall and
shall cause INA, IHMA, COHDEFOR and BANADESA to furnish to the
Association by August 30 of each year, starting in August 1993,
for its review, until the Closing Date, their annual budgets
(including current expenditures and investments), as approved
by the EC, for the upcoming year.
      (b)   Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower, through SRN, shall and shall cause INA, IHMA,
COHDEFOR and BANADESA to furnish to the Association by
March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year,
starting in June 1993, for its review, until the Closing Date,
quarterly reports concerning SRN's evaluation of the
implementation of their annual budgets for the quarter
preceding the date of presentation of such reports.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.
                                 ARTICLE V
Page  7
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the macroeconomic policy
framework of the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of
the Program.
      Section 5.02. The date December 26, 1993 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de
Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Secretaria de Estado en el Despacho
              de Hacienda y Credito Publico
            Tegucigalpa, D.C.
            Honduras
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  Hacienda                  1308 HACIENDA HO
                  Tegucigalpa
                  Honduras
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                        By /s/ Rene Arturo Bendana
                                                Authorized Represent
ative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  8
                        By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                                  Regional Vice Pres
ident
                                          Latin America and the Cari
bbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods required during the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association
by notice to the Borrower:
       Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
       112                --          Alcoholic beverages
       121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobac
co
                                      refuse
       122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                      or not containing tobacco
                                      substitutes)
       525                --          Radioactive and
                                      associated materials
       667                --          Pearls, precious and
                                      semiprecious stones, unworked
                                      or worked
       718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and
                                      parts thereof, fuel elements
                                      (cartridges), nonirradiated fo
r
                                      nuclear reactors
       728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
       897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                      platinum group metals
                                      (except watches and watch case
s)
                                      and goldsmiths' or silversmith
s'
                                      wares (including set gems)
       971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                      gold ores and concentrates)
    (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
    (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 8,660,000 may be made on
account of payments made for such expenditures within fourth
Page  9
months before the date of this Agreement;
    (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
    (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
    (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption; and
    (g)   expenditures for crude oil imports in amounts which
shall exceed the equivalent of 25% of the amount of the Credit.
3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may
be required by the Association upon the basis of statements of
expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify.
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR
18,100,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Program; (b) that the actions described in Part I of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association; (c) that the
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent
with the objectives of the Program; and (d) that the SAL II
Program as applicable to the agricultural sector, is being
carried out in a manner consistent with the objectives of the
Program.
5.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of SDR
28,900,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association:
(a) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Program; (b) that the actions described in Parts I
and II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association; (c) that the
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent
with the objectives of the Program; and (d) that the SAL II
Program as applicable to the agricultural sector, is being
carried out in a manner consistent with the objectives of the
Program.
6.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraphs
4 and 5 above, the Association shall have given notice to the
Borrower that the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Program or the actions taken pursuant to Schedule 3 to this
Agreement are not satisfactory, or that the macroeconomic
policy framework of the Borrower is not consistent with the
objectives of the Program, or that the SAL II Program as
applicable to the agricultural sector, is not being carried out
in a manner consistent with the objectives of the Program, and,
within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the
Association or the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework
Page  10
continues to be not consistent with the objectives of the
Program, or the SAL II Program as applicable to the
agricultural sector, continues to be carried out in a manner
not consistent with the objectives of the Program, then the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                                Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded
through international competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
    (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
    "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international community should be notified in a
    timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
    by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
    bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
    to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
    newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
    and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                Development Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                technical journal of wide international
                circulation; or
        (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                that are potential suppliers of the goods
                required."
    (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may
    require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
    currency widely used in international trade and specified in
    the bidding documents."
    (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
    (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the
basis of such procedures, provided that such contracts shall be
awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder, without taking into
account, in the evaluation, financial costs for foreign
exchange components, and that such procedures shall have been
found acceptable to the Association;
    (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, except that direct contracting procedures
acceptable to the Association may be used where considered
appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines; and
    (c)   by any purchasers, subject to the provisions of
paragraph 3 below, in respect of the supply of commodities, on
Page  11
the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from more than one supplier.
3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly
traded commodities may be procured through organized
international commodity markets or other channels of
competitive procurement acceptable to the Association, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph
1 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2
and 3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information
as the Association may reasonably request to support withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract.
6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account
on the basis of statements of expenditures.
                                SCHEDULE 3
             Actions Referred to in Paragraphs 4 (b) and 5 (b)
                      of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
I.  Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to this
    Agreement:
    (a)   progress has been achieved in the implementation of the
Land Tenure Action Plan;
    (b)   progress has been achieved in the implementation of the
Forestry Action Plan, including the carrying out of any
resettlement actions thereunder;
    (c)   the terms of reference to carry out the annual audits
of INA and COHDEFOR's records and accounts as referred to in
Section 3.04 of this Agreement, have been approved by the Associatio
n;
    (d)   progress has been achieved in the implementation of the
Public Administration Action Plan;
    (e)   an action plan to implement the recommendations of the
Agricultural Credit Study has been furnished to the Association
for its review;
    (f)   progress has been achieved in the implementation of a
plan of action, satisfactory to the Association, to divest
BANADESA;
    (g)   all legal instruments necessary to implement the
operation of Cajas Rurales, in accordance with Article 44 of
Legislative Decree No. 31-92, are issued and duly published,
based on the principles set forth in the Rural Credit Action
Plan;
    (h)   the Cajas Rurales in operation, are carrying out their
activities in accordance with the provisions of Legislative
Decree No. 31-92, and the legal instruments referred to in
Page  12
paragraph (g) above;
    (i)   the Special Land Credit Fund, to the extent it is
operating, is carrying out its operations in accordance with
the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 31-92 and the
regulations to such Legislative Decree; and
    (j)   a certified copy of the audit report referred to in
Section 3.03 (b)(ii) of this Agreement in respect of the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the First Tranche
has been furnished to the Association.
II.       Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 1 to
          this Agreement:
    (a)   further progress has been achieved in the
implementation of the Land Tenure Action Plan;
    (b)   further progress has been achieved in the
implementation of the Forestry Action Plan, including the
carrying out of any resettlement actions thereunder;
    (c)   certified copies of the reports of the annual audits
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement have been
furnished to the Association;
    (d)   further progress has been achieved in the
implementation of the Public Administration Action Plan;
    (e)   progress has been achieved in the implementation of the
action plan referred to in Part I (e) of this Schedule;
    (f)   further progress has been achieved in the
implementation of the action plan to divest BANADESA;
    (g)   the Cajas Rurales in operation, are carrying out their
activities in accordance with the provisions of Legislative
Decree No. 31-92, and the legal instruments referred to in
paragraph (g) of Part I above;
    (h)   the Special Land Credit Fund, to the extent it is
operating, is carrying out its operations in accordance with
the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 31-92 and the
regulations to such Legislative Decree; and
    (i)   a certified copy of the audit report referred to in
Section 3.03 (b)(ii) of this Agreement in respect of the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the First and
Second Tranches have been furnished to the Association.
