Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2540-2-HO
                          Second Agreement Amending
                        Development Credit Agreement
                   (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit)
                                   between
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                     and
                            REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                             Dated March 3, 1995
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2540-2 HO
                          SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
       AGREEMENT, dated March 3, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
HONDURAS (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
       WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered
into a Development Credit Agreement (Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit) dated September 27, 1993, (the Development
Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in
the financing of the program referred to in Recital (A) of the
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
       (B)   the Borrower and the Association have entered into
the Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit) dated June 10, 1994,
whereby additional assistance was made available to the
Borrower for the financing of the Program;
       (C)   the Borrower has requested the Bank to provide
further additional assistance toward the financing of the
Program by increasing the amount made available under the
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eighteen million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 18,600,000); and
       WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance
to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
Page  2
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
               Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
       Section 1.01. Section 1.02. of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended by:
       (a)   substituting the amount of "SDR 10,800,000" by the
amount of "SDR 29,400,000" in paragraph (o) thereof;
       (b)   deleting the word þandþ after paragraph (s) thereof;
       (c)   substituting the period at the end of paragraph (t)
thereof by a semi-colon and adding the word þandþ after such
semi-colon; and
       (d)   adding the following new paragraph (u):
                   "(u) 'Second Amending Agreementþ means the
             agreement, dated                               ,
             1995, entered into between the Borrower and the
             Association to amend the Development Credit
             Agreement (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit)
             dated September 27, 1993, as amended on June 10,
             1994."
       Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
             "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
       Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
       referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount
       in various currencies equivalent to eighty-one million
       nine hundred and eighty thousand Special Drawing Rights
       (SDR 81,980,000) (the Credit) which includes: (a) an
       original amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-
       three million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
       Rights (SDR 43,300,000); (b) an additional amount in
       various currencies equivalent to twenty million eighty
       thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,080,000) (the
       Additional Financing); and (c) a second additional amount
       in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million and
       six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
       (SDR 18,600,000) (the Second Additional Financing ).".
       Section 1.03. The proviso added by the Amending Agreement
to the end of Section 2.04 (b) of the Development Credit
Agreement is amended to read as follows:
             "; provided, however, that any commitment charge on
       the Additional Financing and the Second Additional
       Financing shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after
       the respective date of the Agreement Amending Development
       Credit Agreement (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit)
       and the Second Agreement Amending Development Credit
       Agreement (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit),
       respectively."
       Section 1.04. Paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended
by the substitution of the amount of "SDR 48,980" for the
amount of "SDR 67,580."
       Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end
of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
             "8. After a date twelve months from the date of the
       Second Amending Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made
       and no commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts to
       or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures
Page  3
       to be financed out of the proceeds of the Second
       Additional Financing. At any time after such date, the
       Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
       unwithdrawn amount of the Second Additional Financing from
       the Credit Account or any part thereof.".
                                 ARTICLE II
                         Effective Date; Termination
       Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective
until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been
furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of
this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
       Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to Section 2.01 of this Agreement, there shall be
furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower that this
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
       Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Association dispatches to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
       Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into
force and effect by June 1, 1995, this Agreement and all
obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless
the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of
this Section. If this Agreement shall terminate under the
provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement
shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Agreement
had not been executed.
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                   REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                   By /s/ Roberto Flores Bermudez
                                                   Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
