RESTRICTED
FILE COPY. 
FILE    CO   Y XReport No. P-743
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor ma-y ;t be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
SERVICIOS ELECTRICOS DEL GRAN BUENOS AIRES, S. A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
September 24, 1969



REPORT AND BECOMMNDATION CF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROFOSED
LOAN TO SERVICIOS ELECTRICOS DEL GRAN
BUENOS AIRES, S.A. WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an arount in varieus currencies equivalent to US$60 million to
Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenes Aires, S.A. (SEGBA) for the third
Buenos Aires power project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In August 1968, SEGBA indicated to the Bank that it would
need a third loan to help finance the execution in 1970 of the final
stage of its 1967 - 1970 expansion program. Subsequsntly, however, the
launching of the El Chocon hydroelectric project, with the help of
the Bankls loan of December 1968 to Hidronor, and the Government s
decision to build a nuclear power plant at Atucha resulted in a change
in SEGBAJs investment plans. A new program was prepared for 1970 - 1972,
with the aim of connecting the transmission lines from El Chocon and
Atucha with SEGBA's system and further expanding transmission and distri-
bution in Greater Buenos Aires. This program was presented to the Bank
in February 1969 as a basis for a third loan and a mission appraised it
in Buenos Aires in April/May. Negotiations were held in Washington
between August 12 and 28, 1969, with Ing. Gabriel A. Meoli, Executive
Vice President, representing SEGBA and Dr. Daniel Fernandez, Financial
Minister at the Argentine Embassy in Washington, representing the
Government.
3.        The two previous loans to SEGBA were made by the Bank in
January 1962 and January 1968, in the amounts of $95 million and $55
million, respectively. The first enabled SEGBA to complete a 600 MW
thermal plant and expand its transmission and distribution system. The
work was carried out diligently and the loan account was closed in June
1965. The second loan is helping to finance investment in transmission
and distribution under SEGBA]s 1967 - 1970 program. While the project
is progressing satisfactorily, delays in delivery under several equipment
contracts will make it impossible for SEGRA to claim full reimbursement
under these contracts before December 31, 1969, the Closing Date of the
loan. Consequently, SEGBA intends to ask the Bank to postpone the Closing
Date to April 15, 1970; simultaneously, SEGBA intends to cancel an amount
of up to $4.5 million which will not be used for the project, mainly
because its cost proved lower than estimated.



h.        The following is a summary statement of the previous Bank loans
to Argentina as of August 31, 1969:
Loan
Number    Year         Borrower               Purpose    Amount   Undisbursed
-  -                             (US$ Million)
288       1961   The Argentine Republic         Roads       30.9      -
308       1962   Servicios Electricos del
Gran Buenos Aires, S.A.
(SEGBA)                      Power       93.4      -
505       1967   The Argentine Republic        Livestock   15.3      15.2
525       1968   Servicios Electricos del
Gran Buenos Aires, S.A.
(SEGBA)                      Power       55.0     30.1
577       1968   Hidroelectrica Norpatagonica
S.A. (HIDRONOR)               Power       82.0     7h.7
619       1969   The Argentine Republic         Roads       25.1/    25.0
Total (less cancellations)                301.6
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                       21.6
Total now outstanding                    280.0
Amount sold                    5.5
of which has been repaid       .9        h.6
Total now held by Bank                    275.4
Total now undisbursed                             145.0
5.        The program of credit to livestock producers, supported by the
Bank's $15.3 million loan made in 1967, has been very slow to get under
way mainly because of an apparent lack of demand for credit from the
producers. The Bank intends to undertake a thorough reappraisal of this
project if there is not soon a substantial increase in the rate of lending.
6.        IFC has made commitments to seven companies in Argentina for
a total of $23.7 million; through cancellations and terminations, this
amount wias reduced to $18.0 million. IFC presently holds $8.3 million for
its own account; of this, $4.2 million is undisbursed.
7.        The proposed loan is likely to be the only Bank operation in
Argentina in the current fiscal year. The rehabilitation of the Argentine
railways, to which I referred in mr report of June 9, 1969 on the proposed
loan for the second road project (P-722), is progressing. By the end of
1969, the railways expect to have formulated an investment program, which
the Bank may decide to appraise for financing in the next fiscal year.
Also, an additional road project may be ready for consideration next year.
1/ Not yet effective.



- 3 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.        BORRCWER:             Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos
Aires, S.A. (SEGBA)
GUARA.NTOR:           The Argentine Republic
PURPOSE:              To finance part of the foreign exchange
costs of a program for expanding SEGBA's
transmission and distribution system.
AMOUNT:               In various currencies equivalent to
US$60 million.
AMORTIZATION:         In 20 years, including a. L-year period of
grace, through semi-annual installments
beginning November 15, 1973 and ending
November 15, 1989.
INTEREST RATE:        7% per annum.
CCMMTMENT CHARGE:     3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        A report entitled "lServicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires,
S.A. (SEGBA) Appraisal of 1970-1972 Expansion Program"! (PU-19a) is
attached.
The Power Sector
10.       The installed generating capacity of the electric power sector
in Argentina is 4,100 ICJ; an additional 1,700 MW is represented by power
plants olvmed by industry. The sector comprises one large system supplying
the Buenos Aires-Litoral area, two medium-size systems serving, respectively,
Southern Buenos Aires Province and the city of Cordoba, and five smaller
systems, three of them in the north and two in the west of the country;
in addition, there are some generating plants in small localities.
11.       Public supply of electricity in the Buenos Aires-Litoral system
is presently ensured by SEGBA, a Government-owned stock corporation,
Compania Italo-Argentina de Electricidad, S.A. (CIAE), a Swiss-controlled
private company, and Agua y Energia Electrica (AyEE), a federal agency
which operates thermal plants on the Parana River above Buenos Aires.
Four years from now, Hidronor's hydroelectric plant at El Chocon and the
Atomic Energy Commission's nuclear plant at Atucha should be connected
iith this system.



12.       In Greater Buenos Aires, which includes the federal capital
and 31 municipal districts southeast and northw6st of it along the River
Plate, SEGBA and CIAE generate and distribute more than 50% of the total
public supply of electricity in Argentina. Since the beginning of 1968,
as a result of a coordination effort consistently supported by the Bank,
all generating plants of the two companies have been controlled by a
central dispatch office. The draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements commit
SEGBA and the Argentine Government to coordinating the expansion of all
electric power entities supplying Greater Buenos Aires and to achieving
the most economic operation of their generating plants.
The Company
13.       Established in 1958 as a successor to the Belgian-oTned
Compania Argentina de Electricidad (CADE) and reorganized at the time of
the Bank's first loan, SEGBA is one of the largest power utilities in
South America. In 1968, it sold 5.4 billion kwnh, supplied 2.1 million
customers, employed 25,000 people and invested $54 million equivalent
in new facilities.
1.       SEGBA is managed by an Executive Committee, consisting of an
Executive Vice President and four department heads. This Committee
constitutes a competent and effective management team. Since the appoint-
ment, three years ago, of the present Executive Vice President, substantial
progress has been achieved towards improving the organization and increasing
its efficiency.
15.       The labor situation, once a thorny issue, has greatly improved
since the Bank made its second loan to SEGBA. Between January 1, 1968
and June 30, 1969, there was a reduction of 1,140 persons on SEGBA's
payroll. This reduction, combined with an annual increase of about 100,000
in the number of customers, demonstrates a significant rise in efficiency.
In the next three years, SEGBA intends to continue reducing its operating
personnel, mainly through retirement and transfer to construction lwork.
Slow but consistent progress has also been made in revising the labor contract
and restoring management authority in labor matters. In its dealings
with the Light and Powler Union, SEGBA has had the Government's support.
16.       SEGBAts concession which, according to the Loan Agreements Eith
the Bank, cannot be changed without the Bank's prior consent, provides
for a level of electricity rates necessary to produce revenues sufficient
to cover operating expenses, including adequate maintenance and deprecia-
tion, and to yield an 8% return on net assets. The present capitalization
of the Company consists three-fourths of equity and one-fourth of debt,
the Bank being by far the largest creditor. SEGBA's debt could be
increased by amounts substantially larger than the proposed loan within
the debt limitation written into the Loan Agreements with the Bank.
SEGBA has undertaken (see Section 5.12 of the Loan Agreement) to use its
best efforts to borrow in the private market in order to prepare itself
to finance expansion without further substantial assistance from the



Bank. SEGBA also intends to start paying cash dividends, as its cash
position allowJs, to conform with the Government's policy, expressed
in the Guarantee Agreements with the Bank, of encouraging a market
for SEGBA's shares, thereby opening a channel for attracting private
equity investment in the expansion of electricity services.
The Project
17.       The project is SEGBA's expansion program for 1970-1972. Its
main features are to build a 120 km. long transmission ring around
Buenos Aires, connect the transmission lines from El Chocon and Atucha,
and further extend and strengthen the distribution network in Greater
Buenos Aires. Investment in generating capacity will be relatively
small. The project thus marks SEGBAMs transformation from a utility
supplying primarily self-generated electricity to a distributor of large
amounts of energy generated by others outside the metropolitan area.
The cost of the project is estimated at the equivalent of $*12h7 million.
The proposed loan will provide $60 million, and the balance wjill be
covered largely out of retained earnings (supplemented by bond issues
and suppliers' credits). The incremental financial. rate of return on
the project is estimated to be in excess of 18%.
18.       The proposed loan w,ould cover (a.) the cost of certain equip-
ment and material purchased abroad and 60% (being the estimated foreign
content) of the cost of certain equipment and materials purchased in
Argentina., (b) the estimated foreign exchange content (17%) of the cost
of civil works and equipment erection, (c) the foreign cost of consulting
services, (d) interest during construction and (e) contingencies.
Procurement
19.       Procurement for public projects of equipment which can be
manufactured in Argentina is normally reserved for local manufacturers,
through a "Buy Argentine" act, and through heavy tariff protection.
Prices paid to local manufacturers under these protective measures have
sometimes been twice the c.i.f. prices of equivalent imports. With
this ba.ckgromd, the Government was under strong pressure to require
SEGBA to reserve part of the procurement for Argentine manufacturers
without limitation as to price, and informed the Bank that it could
not permit SEGBA to subject all purchases to international competition
with a preference to Argentine manufacturers of only 15%.
20.       In these circumstances, attempt was made in the negotiations
to arrange procurement in such a way that local manufacturers iere
induced to bring their prices down. It was eventually agreed that
bidding for two-thirds of the equipment and materials of each category
To1ld be invited on an international basis, wTith Argentine bidders
receiving only a 15% margin of preference. If an Argentine bidder
Tere successful for this two-thirds, he would be invited to supply



- 6 -
the other one-third at the same price. If a foreign bidder vere
awJarded the contract for the tno-thirds, separate bids from Argentine
suppliers for one-third would be opened and nould be awarded to the
lowest bidder if his price were belowr 138% of the c.i.f. price of the
successful foreign bidder for the two-thirds.   However, any domestic
procurement undertaken on this basis would not be eligible for financing
out of the loan. If the Argentine supplier's price were above 138%
and he was unwilling to reduce to that level, the successful foreign
bidder for the two-thirds would be invited also to supply the one-third
at the same unit price. This limit of 138% was suggested by SEGBA in
order to give Argentine industry opportunity to supply some equipment
under the project without unduly increasing its cost.
21.       Civil wporks, except for some works carried out by SEGBA itself,
would be put to international competitive bidding. Small amounts of
generation equipment, not included in the proposed loan, would be financed
with supplier credits.
PART IV - LEGAL INISTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
22.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and SEGBA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between The Argentine Republic and the Bank, the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (III)
of the Articles of Agreement and a draft Resolution are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
23.       The provisions of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements generally
conform to the pattern of Bank power loans and of the two previous loans
to SEGBA. It should be noted that Section 6.oh of the draft Loan Agree-
ment and Section 5.01 of the draft Guarantee Agreement provide that
certain clauses of the agreements for the first and second SEGBA
loans will be amended to read as in the new agreements provided.   The
new clauses include those dealing with consultation on the appointment
of the Executive Vice President (Section 5.04 (e) of draft Loan Agree-
ment, the encouragement of private investment in SEGBA (Section 5.12
of draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.06 of draft Guarantee Agreement),
power rates (Section 5.13 of draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.07 of
the Guarantee Agreement) and the covenant regarding registration of
pledge not to mortgage SEGBA's assets (Section 5.15 of the draft Loan
Agreement).  Also, Section 5.10 of the draft Loan Agreement provides
for consultation with the Bank instead of Bank consent as in the previous
agreements, should SEGBA propose, during the construction of the Project,
to undertake any major expansion. Section 3.09 of the Guarantee Agree-
ment provides that Government will promptly issue any licenses or author-
izations necessary for the acquisition or importation of goods and
services required for the project.



- 7 -
PART V - THE ECONOEY
24.       The report 'Recent Economic Developments and Prospects of
Argentina" (W.H-19la) w-ras distributed to the Executive Directors on
June 3, 1969. The report concluded that in the light of the relatively
favorable longer-term grow..Tth and balance of payments prospects and the
Government's remarkable success in carrying out its program of economic
stabilization and reactivation of the economy, Argentina should be
creditw.worthy for the substantial volume of additional lending it requires.
Economic developments since that time do not call for a modification
of this conclusion.
25.       The student and labor unrest last May, and the ensuing Cabinet
changes, have not had significant effects on the execution of the
Government's 1969 economic program. During the first six months of
the year the gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of more than
7 percent as a result of a sharp rise in private investment, a marked
improvement in agricultural output and exports and a. sustained increase
in industrial production. The rising economic activity was accompanied
by a sha.rp increase in imports - from $537 million in the first seven
months of 1968 to $833 million during the comparable period of 1969.
NTevertheless, while the political events of May and June resulted
in some outflow of capital, gross official gold and foreign exchange
reserves of $797 million at the end of August, were only $8 million
less than at the end of 1968 and constituted the equivalent of about
7 months, imports.
26.       The favorable growth and export performance of the economy
has gone hand in hand mrith satisfactory price developments.  The season-
ally adjusted cost of living index for the first 8 months of 1969 rose
by only 3.6% compared with 5.3, during the comparable period of 1968.
While wholesale prices have increased by 7% up to the end of July, a.
substantially more rapid rate than during the first seven months of
1968, this has primarily reflected a relative improvement of agricul-
tural and livestock prices and a marked rise in import prices, wvhile
domestic non-agricultural prices have shown only a small increase.
27.       During the first 8 months of the year tax receipts exceeded
amounts collected during the corresponding period of 1968 by over 15%
and came close to budget estimates, 4hile the nrse in current expenditure
has been limited to less than 10%. The financial performance of most
state enterprises has continued to improve and - following decisions
taken in early 1969 - public investment has been held about 15% below
the originally budgeted levels. In early September, the Government
enacted a.new railroad enterprise law, giving the railwiays increased
autonomy and setting the stage for a far-rea.ching rationalization and
reequipment program. Public sector savings are apparently financing a
larger proportion of public investment than in 1968 and the budget
deficit has been less than envisaged at the beginning of the year. The
monetary situation has become somewrifhat tighter than had been foreseen



- 8 -
at the beginning of the year since foreign exchange reserves have
not increased, as had been expected. Interest ra.tes in the non-bank
market have hardened and the Government has had to increase the
effective interest rates on domestic Government bonds. The originally
scheduled placement of Government bonds abroad has had to be partially
postponed because of the stringency of international capital markets.
Some of the borrowing carried out thus far - e.g., the 50 million
dollars obtained from a consortium of U.S. banks - has been for a
shorter term (5 years) than the Government had hoped, given its policy
of seeking to lengthen the average maturity of the external debt.
28.       It thus appears that, although some of the original targets
of the stabilization program have had to be modified, the program as
a whole is being continued successfully. Its next test will be the
implementation of 1969 - 1970 incomes policy. As announced at the end
of 1968, the Government set the stage at the beginning of September
for a return to collective wage bargaining. While not relying on
explicit wage and price guidelines, the Government will condition its
approval of wage agreements on their conforming to a set of rules
designed to permit significant wage adjustments within a frameoTork of
relative price stability.  The Government expects iages for 1970 to
rise by 8 - 10% on the average and has announced that it intends to
use its full powers (including its ability to expose industries to
import competition by reducing import duties)   to prevent the emergence
of a new cost-price spiral.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEIENT
29.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply woith the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECORENDATION
30.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
Attachments.                              President
Washington, D.C.
September 24, 1969



