CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 644 AR
Loan Agreement
(Third Buenos Aires Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
SERVICIOS ELECTRICOS DEL GRAN
BUENOS AIRES, S.A.
DATED NOVEMBER 14, 1969


﻿CONFOR1 ED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 644 AR
Loan Agreement
(Third Buenos Aires Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
SERVICIOS ELECTRICOS DEL GRAN
BUENOS AIRES, S.A.
DATED NOVEMBER 14, 1969


﻿TnEan Agremeut
AGREEMENT, dated November 14, 1969, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank) and SERVICIOS ELECTRICOS DEL
GRAx BUENOs AIRES, S.A. (hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 31,
1969, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank being herein-
after called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Loan Agreement
unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) The term "Banco Industrial" means Banco Indus-
trial de la Repiblica Argentina, an autonomous banking
agency of the Guarantor, organized and existing pursuant
to Decree Law No. 13130 of the Guarantor, or any successor
thereof.
(b) The term "Estatutos" means the estatutos of the
Borrower, approved by Resolution of the Minister of Edu-
cation and Justice No. 3259 of December 29, 1961 of the
Guarantor, as amended up to the date of this Agreement.
(c) The term "Concession" means the concession of
February 1, 1962, approved by Decree No. 1247, dated
February 8, 1962, regulating the activity of the Borrower.


﻿4
(d) The terms "First Loan Agreement" and "Second
Loan Agreement" mean the loan agreements between the
Bank and the Borrower, dated January 19, 1962 and
January 25, 1968, respectively, and the term "Prior Loan
Agreements" means both such agreements.
(e) The terms "First Guarantee Agreement" and
"Second Guarantee Agreement" mean the guarantee agree-
ments between the Guarantor and the Bank, dated January
19, 1962 and January 25, 1968, respectively, and the term
"Prior Guarantee Agreements" means both such agree-
ments.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
SECTION 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set
forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixty million dollars ($60,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Bank shall open a Loan Account
on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall credit
to such Account the amount of the Loan.
(b) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account as provided in, and subject to the rights of
cancellation and suspension set forth in, the Loan Agree-
ment and in accordance with the allocation of proceeds of
the Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant to
the provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to
withdraw from the Loan Account in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods or services required for the Project and
to be financed under the Loan Agreement:


﻿5
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, as shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services included
in Categories 1 (b) and 3 of the allocation of pro-
ceeds of the Loan referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
(ii) the equivalent of sixty per cent (60%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, as shall be required to meet payments
to be made) for goods or services included in Cate-
gory 1 (a) of the allocation of proceeds of the Loan
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, ex-
cluding, however, any such goods or services for
the purchase of which contracts have been entered
into with Argentine manufacturers in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 7 of Schedule 4
to this Agreement; and
(iii) the equivalent of seventeen per cent (17%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, as shall be required to me 3t payments
to be made) for goods or services included in
Category 2 of the allocation of proceeds of the Loan
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of such payments for goods or services included in
Category 2 the Bank may by notice to the Borrower adjust
the stated percentage applicable to such Category as re-
quired in order that withdrawals of the amount of the Loan
then allocated to such Category and not withdrawn may
continue pro rata with the payments remaining to be made
for goods or services included in such Category.
(b) The Borrower shall also be entitled to withdraw
from the Loan Account such amounts as shall be required
to meet payments to be made during construction for in-
terest and other charges on the Loan accrued on or before
December 31, 1972 or such other date as shall be agreed
between the Bank and the Borrower.


﻿6
SECTION 2.04. It is hereby agreed, pursuant to Section
5.01 of the General Conditions, that withdrawals from the
Loan Account under Categories 1 (a) and 2 of the allocation
of proceeds of the Loan referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement may be made on account of payments in the
currency of the Guarantor, or for goods produced in, or
services supplied from the territories of the Guarantor.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time from the Loan
Account.
SECTION 2.06. The Borower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven per cent (7%) per annum on the principal amount
of the Loan so withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
SECTION 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be pay-
able semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each
year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds
of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of the Loan
Agreement to expenditures on the Project described in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for


﻿Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits,
published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance
with such other procedures supplementary thereto as are
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement or as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclu-
sively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Bonds
SECTIOx 4.01. If and as the Bank shall from time to time
request, the Borrower shall execute and deliver Bonds
representing the principal amount of the Loan as provided
in Article VIII of the General Conditions.
SECTION 4.02. The Presidente of the Borrower and such
other person or persons as he shall appoint in writing are
designated as authorized representatives of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Particular Covenants
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound engineering, financial and public utility practices.
SECTION 5.02. The Borrower covenants that, to assist it
in the carrying out of such parts of the Project as shall be
agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower, the Bor-
rower shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, at
all times employ competent and experienced consultants
acceptable to, and upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to, the Bank.


﻿8
SECTIoN 5.03. (a) The Borrower shall at all times main-
tain its corporate existence and right to carry on its oper-
ations and shall take all steps necessary to acquire, main-
tain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times manage its affairs,
plan its future investment and maintain its financial posi-
tion, all in accordance with sound business, financial and
public utility principles and practices.
(c) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain
its plants, equipment and property and from time to time
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in ac-
cordance with sound engineering and public utility prin-
ciples and practices.
(d) The Borrower shall at all times be managed by a
qualified, experienced and competent Comit Ejecutivo en-
trusted with such executive functions and duties as are
established in the Estatutos.
(e) Whenever the Borrower, in accordance with its
Estatutos, shall propose to appoint or change its Vice-
presidente Ejecutivo or its Gerente General, the Borrower
shall, prior to any such appointment or change, notify the
Bank of the proposal and give the Bank a reasonable oppor-
tunity to exchange views on such proposal.
SECTION 5.04. The Borrower shall take all possible action
to: (a) coordinate the expansion of its generating, trans-
mission and distribution facilities with other electric utility
entities operating within the Greater Buenos Aires area in
order to prevent waste of energy, duplication of facilities
and unnecessary investment; and (b) obtain and at all times
enforce such agreements with other electric utility entities
interconnected with its system as will permit, by means of
central control, the most economic operation of the gener-
ating plants supplying the Greater Buenos Aires area.


﻿9
SECTION 5.05. (a) Upon request from time to time by
the Bank, the Borrower shall promptly furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Bank the plans, specifications and
work schedules for the Project and any material modifica-
tions subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost there-
of) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial con-
dition of the Borrower.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representa-
tives to inspect the Project, the goods, all other plants,
works, properties and equipment of the Borrower and any
relevant records and documents.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such in-
formation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project,
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and the administration, operations and financial con-
dition of the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower shall have its financial statements
(balance sheet and related statement of earnings and ex-
penses) certified annually by an independent accountant
or accounting firm acceptable to the Bank and shall
promptly after their preparation and not later than four
months after the close of the Borrower's fiscal year trans-
mit to the Bank certified copies of such statements and a
signed copy of the accountant's or accounting firms's
report.
SECTION 5.06. (a) The Bank and the Borrower shall co-
operate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will
be accomplished. To that end, the Bank and the Borrower


﻿10
shall from time to time, at the request of either party, ex-
change views through their representatives with regard to
the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under
the Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Borrower and other matters re-
lating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to inter-
fere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan,
the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under the Loan Agree-
ment.
SECTION 5.07. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be
paid all taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the Guaran-
tor or laws in effect in the territories of the Guarantor on or
in connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registra-
tion of this Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, the
Bonds, or the protocolization, recordation and registration
of the undertaking contained in Section 5.15(a) of this
Agreement, or the payment of principal, interest or other
charges thereunder; provided, however, that the provisions
of this Section shall not apply to taxation of payments
under any Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank
when such Bond is beneficially owned by an individual or
corporate resident of the Guarantor.
SECTION 5.08. The Borrower shall pay or cause to be
paid all taxes, if any, imposed under the laws of the country
or countries in whose currency the Loan and the Bonds are
payable or laws in effect in the territories of such country
or countries on or in connection with the execution, issue,
delivery or registration of this Agreement, the Guarantee
Agreement or the Bonds, or the protocolization, recorda-
tion and registration of the undertaking contained in Sec-
ion 5.15(a) of this Agreement.


﻿11
SECTION 5.09. (a) The Borrower shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers or make other provision
satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound public
utility and business practices.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Borrower undertakes to insure the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against marine,
transit and other hazards incident to acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of storage or of
use or installation and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 5.10. Whenever the Borrower shall propose,
during the period of construction of the Project, to under-
take any major expansion project other than the Project or
make any major addition to its plants and other property,
the Borrower shall, before any action is taken with respect
thereto, afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity for ex-
changing views on such proposal.
For the purposes of this Section, a "major expansion
project" or a "major addition to its plants and other
property" shall be deemed to be a project or an addition
the aggregate estimated cost of either of which shall be in
excess of five million dollars equivalent.
SECTION 5.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall obtain title to all goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan free and clear of all encum-
brances; and (b) the Borrower shall not, without the con-
sent of the Bank, sell or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
carrying on of its business and undertaking, including the


﻿12
Project, unless the Borrower shall first pay or redeem, or
make adequate provision satisfactory to the Bank for pay-
ment or redemption of, all of the Loan and the Bonds which
shall then be outstanding and unpaid.
SECTION 5.12. In pursuance of its corporate purposes,
the Borrower shall use its best efforts to borrow from
private sources, either within or without the territories of
the Guarantor, such amounts as shall be, in accordance with
sound financial and public utility practices, sufficient to
finance a reasonable part of the expansion of its electricity
services.
SECTION 5.13. The Borrower shall from time to time
take all steps which shall be necessary or desirable, as per-
mitted under the Concession, to obtain such adjustments in
its rates for the sale of electricity as may be necessary to
provide revenues sufficient to: (a) cover all operating
expenses including taxes and adequate maintenance, and
provide for straight-line depreciation of assets based on
realistic valuations of such assets and on their estimated
useful lives but in any case at an average rate of not less
than 3o; and (b) provide a reasonable return on the Bor-
rower's net investment.
SECTION 5.14. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt if after the incurrence
of any such debt (i) the net assets of the Borrower would
be less than one and one-half times the total debt of the Bor-
rower, including the debt proposed to be incurred, and (ii)
the net income of the Borrower for the fiscal year next
preceding such incurrence or for a later consecutive twelve-
month period, whichever is the greater, shall be less than
one and three-quarters times the estimated maximum inter-
est payments and other charges for any succeeding fiscal
year on all debt, including the debt proposed to be incurred.


﻿13
For the purposes of this Section:
1. The term "debt" means all debt of the Borrower payable
by its terms on demand or maturing by its terms more than
one year after the date of its incurrence;
2. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the day such debt
becomes outstanding and repayable in accordance with the
loan contract or agreement providing therefor or in the case
of guarantee of debt, on the date of execution and delivery
of the contract providing for such guarantee;
3. The term "net assets" means: (i) net assets in operation
plus (ii) the cost of construction work in progress deter-
mined according to sound accounting practices, the deter-
mination and valuation of such net assets in operation to be
made as provided in the Concession for the purpose of
fixing the rate base (base tarifaria) for the Borrower;
4. The term "net income" shall mean gross income from
all sources, adjusted to take account of electricity rates in
effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though such
rates were not in effect during the fiscal year or twelve-
month period to which such income relates, less all opera-
ting and administrative expenses, including provision for
all taxes other than income taxes and for depreciation of
assets but before provision for interest and other charges
on debt and income taxes; and
5. Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of the currency of the Guaran-
tor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
such debt.
SECTION 5.15. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree: (i) the Borrower shall not voluntarily create or
suffer to be created any mortgage, pledge or other right


﻿14
in rem on any of its assets in favor of third parties unless
the Borrower shall at the same time create, in favor of
the Bank, a mortgage, pledge or other right in rem, satis-
factory to the Bank, which shall have priority and
preference to, and shall rank ahead of, the mortgage, pledge
or other right in rem first above mentioned, and, in the
creation of any such mortgage, pledge or right in rem, the
Borrower shall make express provision for the submission
thereof to the priority, preference and prior rank of the
Bank's rights; and (ii) if any such mortgage, pledge or
other right in rem shall be created by operation of law the
Borrower shall create in favor of the Bank an equivalent
mortgage, pledge or other right in rem satisfactory to the
Bank which shall secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds;
provided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of
the purchase price of such property; or (ii) any lien arising
in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing
a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(b) As soon as practicable after the date of this Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall: (i) in accordance with the laws
of the Guarantor, duly protocolize, record and register, or
at the Bank's request take any action required to enable
the Bank to protocolize, record and register, the under-
taking contained in paragraph (a) of this Section in such
manner and places as may be required under the laws of
the Guarantor to make such undertaking valid and binding
in favor of the Bank and of the holders from time to time
of the Loan and the Bonds and enforceable against the Bor-
rower and all third parties in accordance with its terms;
and (ii) furnish to the Bank an opinion or opinions satis-
factory to the Bank of counsel acceptable to the Bank that
such undertaking has been duly protocolized, recorded and
registered in such manner and places as may be required


﻿15
under the laws of the Guarantor to make such undertaking
valid and binding in favor of the Bank and of the holders
from time to time of the Loan and the Bonds and enforce-
able against the Borrower and all third parties in accord-
ance with its terms.
(c) The Borrower shall pay all reasonable charges, fees
and expenses in connection with the foregoing.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank;
Amendments of Prior Loan Agreements
SECTION 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 6.02 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any,
therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the
continuance thereof, the Bank, at its option, may declare
the principal of the Loan and of all the Bonds then out-
standing to be due and payable immediately, and upon any
such declaration such principal shall become due and pay-
able immediately, anything in this Agreement or in the
Bonds to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) a substantial change in the Estatutos or in the Con-
cession shall have been made, and
(b) a default shall have occurred in the performance of
any covenant or agreement on the part of the Borrower or
the Guarantor (other than a covenant or agreement to pay
monies) under any of the Prior Loan Agreements, any of
the Prior Guarantee Agreements, or the bonds provided
for therein, and such default shall continue for a period of


﻿16
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor.
SECTION 6.03. For the purposes of the Prior Loan Agree-
ments, paragraphs (c) of Section 5.02 of Loan Regulations
No. 4 of the Bank applicable thereto are hereby amended
to read as follows:
"(c) A default shall have occurred in the performance
of any other covenant or agreement on the part of
the Borrower or the Guarantor under the Loan
Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, or the
Bonds, or under the loan agreement dated Novem-
ber 14, 1969, between the Bank and the Borrower,
the guarantee agreement of even date therewith
between the Guarantor and the Bank or the bonds
therein provided for.";
and the term "Loan Regulations" as used for the purposes
of the Prior Loan Agreements shall mean the Loan Regu-
lations No. 4 of the Bank applicable thereto, as modified in
the Prior Loan Agreements and as further amended hereby.
SECTION 6.04. (a) Section 5.04 (c) of the First Loan
Agreement and Section 5.03 (e) of the Second Loan Agree-
ment shall be amended to read as in Section 5.03 (e) of this
Agreement provided.
(b) Sections 5.10 and 5.13 of the Prior Loan Agreements
shall be amended to read, respectively, as in Sections 5.10
and 5.13 of this Agreement provided.
(c) Section 5.15 of the Second Loan Agreement shall be
amended to read as in Section 5.15 of this Agreement pro-
vided.
(d) Section 2.03 of the Second Loan Agreement shall be
amended by the addition of the following sentence at the
end thereof


﻿17
"Notwithstanding any other provision of the Loan
Agreement, the Borrower shall not be entitled to
make any withdrawals in respect of civil works
and erection of equipment (Category A of the
Allocation of Proceeds) after the effective date of
the Loan Agreement dated November 14, 1969."
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 7.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agree-
ment within the meaning of Section 11.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
The Tribunal de Cuentas of the Guarantor has ex-
amined the Guarantee Agreement in acordance with
the laws of the Guarantor and has issued its opinion
thereon without formulating any objection thereto.
SECTION 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 11.02 (c) of the Gen-
eral Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions
to be furnished to the Bank:
That all governmental action necessary has been duly and
validly taken which shall be necessary to enable the Bor-
rower to carry out the Project in accordance with the pro-
visions of this Agreement and to procure the goods and
services required for the Project in accordance with the
procedures for procurement of goods and services provided
for in the Guidelines referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement and in Schedule 4 supplementary thereto.
SECTION 7.03. The date of January 9, 1970 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 11.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿18
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 8.01. The Closing Date shall be September 30,
1973 or such other date as may be agreed between the Bank
and the Borrower.
SECTION 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Servicios Elctricos del Gran Buenos Aires, S.A.
Balcarce 184
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Cable address:
Selbasa
Buenos Aires
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 IH Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Loan Agreement to be signed in their respective names


﻿19
and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
SERVIcIos ELECTRICOS DEL GRAN
BUENos AIRES, S. A.
By /s/ G. MEOLI
B. BRONSTEIN
Authorized Representatives


﻿20
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of the Loan
Amounts Expressed
Category                            in Dollar Equivalent
1. (a) Equipment and materials
produced in Argentina                 3
(b) Equipment and materials
produced outside Argentina
2. Civil works and erection of equipment 16,400,000
3. Consulting services                       1,700,000
4. Interest and other charges during
construction                              5,000,000
5. Unallocated                               2,900,000
Total        $60,000,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the goods and services in-
cluded in auy of the Categories 1 to 4 shall decrease, the
amount of the Loan then allocated to, and no longer re-
quired for, any such Category will be reallocated by the
Bank to Category 5.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the goods and services in-
cluded in any of the Categories 1 to 4 shall increase, an
amount, in the case of Categories 1 (b) or 3, equal to such
increase, if any, to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and, in the case of Category 1 (a) or 2, an amount
equal to 60l or 17%, respectively, of such increase will be
allocated by the Bank, at the request of the Borrower, from
Category 5 to any such Category or Categories, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as deter-
mined by the Bank, in respect of the cost of the goods and
services in the other Categories.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
November 15, 1973                   995,000
May 15, 1974                      1,030,000
November 15, 1974                 1,065,000
May 15, 1975                      1,100,000
November 15, 1975                 1,140,000
May 15, 1976                      11,180,000
November 15, 1976                 1,220,000
May 15, 1977                      1,265,000
November 15, 1977                 1,310,000
May 15, 1978                      1,355,000
November 15, 1978                 1,405,000
May 15, 1979                      1,450,000
November 15, 1979                 1,505,000
May 13, 1980                      1,555,000
November 15, 1980                 1,610,000
May 15, 1981                      1,665,000
November i, 1981                 1,725,000
May 15, 1982                      1,785,000
November 15, 1982                 1,845,000
May 15, 1983                      1,910,000
November 15, 1983                 1,980,000
May 15, 1984                      2,050,000
November 15, 1984                 2,120,000
May 15, 1985                      2,195,000
November 15, 1983                 2,270,000
May 15, 1986                      2,350,000
November 15, 1986                 2,430,000
May 15, 1987                      2,515,000
November 15, 1987                 2,605,000
May 15, 1988                      2,695,000
November 15, 1988                 2,790,000
May 15, 1989                      2,890,000
November 15, 1989                 2,995,000
* To the extent that any part of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in
this column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of
withdrawal.


﻿22
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages3 are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any part
of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section
3.05(b) of the General Conditions or on the redemption of
any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 8.15 of
the General Conditions.
Time of Prepayment or Redemption      Premium
Not more than three years before maturity  17
More than three years but not more than six
years before maturity ................ 2o
More than six years but not more than
eleven years before maturity     ...... 31/470
More than eleven years but not more than
sixteen years before maturity .. ........  5 %
More than sixteen years but not more than
eighteen years before maturity ..........6%
More than eighteen years before maturity ..  7%


﻿23
SCHEDULE 3
Description of the Project
The Project is the Borrower's expansion program during
the poriod 1970 through 1972 and includes the following:
A. Completion of the Borrower's 1967-1970 program, in-
cluding a 250 MW steam turbine base-load unit in the
Puerto Nuevo Station, modification of two boilers in
that station to burn coal, and expansion of 132 kv sub-
stations, transmission lines, and low- and medium-
voltage distribution network;
B. Installation of 90 MW  of gas-turbine generating capa-
city, and minor improvements of existing capacity;
C. Extension of the Borrower's transmission system by con-
struction of two 220 kv substations at Mor6n and Bur-
zaco and 220 kv switching stations at Mariano Moreno
and El Pino; emplacement of a 220 kv overhead double-
circuit transmission line in an are about 120 kilometers
long around the Greater Buenos Aires area; construc-
tion of 132 kv substations at Vicente Lopez, Casanova,
Victoria, Ciudad Universitaria, Independencia, Azcuina-
ga, Miguelete, Barraeas, Lugano and Escobar; exten-
sions to existing 132 kv substations at Malaver, Edison,
Puerto Nuevo, Tolosa, Matanzas Caseros (3 de Febrero),
Costanera, Mor6n, Colegiales and Burzaco; minor works
in other substations; emplacement of about 136 route
kilometers of 132 kv underground cables and overhead
lines; and acquisition and utilization of ancillary equip-
ment;
D. Extension of the Borrower's distribution network by
installation of primary and secondary cables and trans-
formers, low-voltage cables, overhead lines, meters, new
connections and public lighting, and construction of civil
works and installation of ancillary equipment;


﻿24
E. Completion of the Borrower's administration building,
district office buildings and minor expansion of other
buildings;
F. Purchase and utilization of mobile equipment required
for carrying out the foregoing; and
G. Technical assistance by consultants in the planning of
future expansion and to advise on organizational
matters.


﻿25
SCHEDULE 4
Supplementary Procedures for Procurement
1. With respect to contracts for procurement of equip-
ment or materials involving expenditures exceeding the
equivalent of $50,000 and to all contracts for civil works or
erection of equipment involving expenditures exceeding the
equivalent of $200,000, the following will apply:
(a) Invitations to bid, specifications, conditions of con-
tract and all other tender documents will be sub-
mitted to the Bank for review and approval prior to
the issuance of invitations to bid.
(b) After bids have been received and analyzed, the
analysis of the bids, the resulting recommendations
and the Borrower's proposals for awards, together
with the reasons for such proposals will be submitted
to the Bank for review and approval prior to making
any award of contract or issuing any letter of intent.
(c) If the final contract is to differ substantially from the
terms and conditions contained in the respective
documents approved by the Bank under paragraphs
(a) and (b) above, the text of the proposed changes
will be submitted to it for review and approval prior
to the execution and delivery of such contract.
(d) As soon as a letter of intent has been issued or a
contract has been signed a copy thereof will be sent
to the Bank.
2. With respect to all contracts involving expenditures
equivalent to $50,000 or less in the case of purchases of
equipment or materials, or $200,000 or less in the case of
civil works or erection of equipment, copies of the invitation
to tender, the comparison of bids, the proposal for award,
and two copies of the executed contracts will be sent to
the Bank for information as soon as possible and before
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account on account of expenditures on the contract in
question.


﻿26
3. With respect to all contracts for equipment and mate-
rials, bids will be invited for two-thirds of the quantity of
each category of equipment and materials. Simultaneously,
bids for an additional one-third will be requested from
Argentine bidders, these bids to be opened only if necessary
to implement the provisions of paragraph 7 below.
4. In evaluating bids for the purchase of equipment or
materials, the Borrower will compare prices offered by
Argentine manufacturers for two-thirds of the required
quantity and those offered by non-Argentine manufacturers
including in the latter case ocean freight, insurance and
other shipping charges to be paid for delivery in Buenos
Aires, but excluding customs duties and any other similar
taxes on importation. The Borrower may award the con-
tract for such two-thirds to the lowest qualified Argentine
bidder provided that his offered price for delivery to site
of work or Borrower's warehouse does not exceed the aggre-
gate total amount of (i) the price offered by the lowest
qualified non-Argentine bidder, including ocean freight, in-
surance and other shipping charges; (ii) 15% of such price
or the level of customs duties applicable were the Borrower
liable for such duties, whichever is the less; (iii) the cost
of delivering the goods offered by such non-Argentine bid-
der from shipside to site of work or Borrower's warehouse;
and (iv) other necessary costs for services, such as, con-
sular fees, port fees and statistical charges.
5. If a contract is to be awarded to an Argentine bidder
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 above,
such bidder may be awarded the contract for a quantity of
equipment equal to one and a half times the quantity speci-
fied in the invitations to bid at the price bid in accordance
with the provisions of the first sentence of paragraph 3
above.
6. If a contract is to be awarded to a non-Argentine
bidder in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4


﻿27
above, such bidder will be awarded the contract notwith-
standing any Argentine taxes which may be imposed by
reason of such an award.
7. If the contract is awarded to the lowest qualified non-
Argentine bidder in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph 4 above, the bids for the additional one-third will
be opened and evaluated and a contract for up to one-half
of the quantity of the equipment or materials awarded to
the non-Argentine bidder may be entered into with the
lowest of the qualified Argentine bidders who has bid for
such one-third, provided that his price does not exceed
138% of the price, including ocean freight, insurance and
other shipping charges, in the contract awarded to the
non-Argentine bidder, or that he has agreed with the Bor-
rower to reduce his price to that level. If all Argentine bids
for such one-third exceed 138% and no bidder agrees to
reduce his bid to 138%, the lowest qualified non-Argentine
bidder will be given the option to increase by one-half the
quantity under the contract awarded to him at a price not
to exceed that stipulated in his bid.
8. Contracts entered into with Argentine bidders in ac-
cordance with the provisions of paragraph 7 above will not
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


