Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18437
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HYDERABAD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3181/Credit 2115-IN)
SEPTEMBER 21, 1998
Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Rs 16.00 at appraisal (October 1, 1989)
Rs. 1.00 = US50.0625 at appraisal (October 1, 1989)
US$1.00  Rs. 39.50 at closure (March 31, 1998)
Rs. 1.00 = US$0.025 at closure (March 31, 1998)
GOIIGOAP FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m                -       meter (39.37 inches or 3.28 ft)
m2               -       square meter (10.7639 square feet)
km               -       kilometer (0.62 miles)
ha               -       hectare (10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres)
sq. km           -       square kilometer (0.386 square. miles)
I               -        liter (0.22 Imperial gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
lcd              -       liters per capita per day
Rs. I akh        -       Rs. 100,000
Rs. I crore      -       Rs. 10,000,000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DRP              -       Dam Review Panel
ERR              .       Economic Rate of Return
FRR              -       Financial Rate of Retum
FY               -       Fiscal Year
GOAP             -       Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOI              -       Government of India
HMWSSB                   Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board
HWSSP            .       Hyderabad Water Supply and Sanitation Project
ICADD            -       Irrigation and Conmmand Area Development Departnent of GOAP
ICR              -       Implementation Completion Report
IS               -       Information Systems
LCS              -       Low-Cost Sanitation
M&E              -       Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR              -       Mid-Term Review
OAP                      Operational Action Plan
O&M              -       Operation and Maintenance
PSP              -       Private Sector Participation
R&R              -       Resettlement and Rehabilitation
RRP                      Resettlement and Rehabilitation Program
SAR              -       Staff Appraisal Report
SCF              -       Standard Conversion Factor
SOE              -       Statement of Expenditure
s/w              -       Staff-weeks
UFW              -       Unaccounted-for Water
WSS              -       Water Supply and Sanitation
Vice President                    Mieko Nishimizu
Director                          Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager                    Frannie Humplick
Task Leader                       Shyamal Sarkar



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HYDERABAD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3181/CREDIT 2115-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                                                                        i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                            ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                      1
A. Project Objectives                                                          1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives                                           1
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                         7
D. Project Sustainability                                                      8
E. Bank Performance                                                            9
F. Borrower Performance                                                        10
G. Assessment of Outcome                                                       11
H. Future Operations                                                           12
I. Key Lessons Learned                                                         12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                                                14
Table 2: Related Bank Loan/Credits                                             15
Table 3: Project Timetable                                                     17
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulated Estimated and Actual                  17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation                             18
Table 6: Key Indicators of Project Operation                                   19
Table 7: Studies Included in Project                                           20
Table 8A: Project Costs                                                        22
Table 8B: Project Financing                                                    22
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits                                           23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants                                            24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                        26
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                         26
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions                                             27
APPENDICES
A. Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire                                           29
B. Borrower's Evaluation                                                       56
C. The Implementation of the Relocation and Rehabilitation Program             64
Maps: IBRD No. 20971R Water Supply and Transmission System
IBRD No. 29845 HMWSSB - Water Supply System
IBRD No. 29846 HMWSSB - Sewerage System
4
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance,of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HYDERABAD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3181/CREDIT 2115-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Hyderabad Water Supply and
Sanitation Project in India, for which the Loan 3181 -IN in the amount of US$ 10.0 million
equivalent and Credit 2115-IN in the amount of SDR 63.9 million (together, US$89.9 million
equivalent) were approved on March 27, 1990 and made effectiye o,n September 28, 1990.
The Loan amount was canceled in full on December 5, 1991.
The Credit was closed on March 31, 1998, which was the original closing date, and final
disbursement took place on August 24, 1998 at which time there was a US$6.7 million equivalent
Credit balance, which was cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Michael Whitbread (Consultant) under the guidance and supervision
of Mr. Shyamal Sarkar (Task Leader). The ICR was reviewed by Messrs./Mmes. Robert Panfil
(on behalf of Frannie Humplick, Sector Manager, South Asia Region), Agustin Litvak
(Procurement), Salman M.A. Salman (Legal), Williamn B. Marke (Loan), Panneer Selvam
(Envirom-nental), Asger Christensen (Social Development), Hartwin Nickel and Carlo Rietveld
(peer reviewers).
The preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision and completion mission in
March 1998. The ICR is based on the mission's findings which are included as Appendix A to the
ICR, material from project files and discussions with officials of the Bank, Borrower and others
involved with different stages of the project cycle. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by
providing data and views on the project outcome. The Borrower's evaluation is included as
Appendix B.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION LREPORT
INDIA
HYDERABAD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3181/CREDIT 2115-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.  The Hyderabad Water Supply and Sanitation Project was the first Bank-supported urban
water supply and sanitation (WSS) project in Hyderabad, the capital city of the State of Andhra
Pradesh, and one of India's five largest cities. Hyderabad is one of the few cities in India with a
dedicated public utility which provides WSS services. Although there were important physical
investments aimed at improving the supply of water and waste water disposal and other benefits,
much of the project consisted of strengthening policies and institutional arrangements. Given its
prominence, Hyderabad was likely to provide demonstration effects for other Indian cities.
Project Objectives
2.  The major project objectives were to: (a) help Andhra Pradesh in improving, for
Hyderabad, the adequacy and reliability of the water supply, the collection, treatment and
disposal of waste water and the provision of excreta disposal facilities; (b) strengthen the
management and technical capacity of the concerned institutions; and (c) prepare future urban
and water supply and sanitation projects in Andhra Pradesh.
3.    There were six components and several agreed actions to achieve the objectives.
Component 1, the Manjira Phase III Stage II Scheme, was intended to treat, store and pump 135
Mld of water from the Singur Dam reservoir, an irrigation facility located 67 kms from the city
which at the time of appraisal was under construction, and also improve the reliability of supply
thereby addressing the water quantity and quality improvement objectives. Component 2 was
intended to rehabilitate and strengthen the existing water system and Component 3, to
rehabilitate and strengthen the existing sewerage system including the provision of additional
sewage treatment works. Component 4 provided a household latrine (low cost sanitation)
program. Component 5 involved resettlement and rehabilitation of the people involuntarily
displaced by the Singur Dam and reservoir. Component 6, involved institutional strengthening
through technical assistance to, and personnel training in the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water
Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB). Other actions for institutional strengthening were
either covenanted or included in an Operational Action Plan.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Physical achievements of the first five components were mixed, although they have, been
rated as satisfactory overall. Component 1 was implemented promptly and efficiently by the
HMWSSB. However, the benefits of the Component 1 expenditure were not fully realized



iii
during the project due to slow action by the Irrigation and Command Area Development
Department (ICADD) of GOAP, the owners of Singur Dam, in undertaking necessary remedial
works to the dam gates. This failure by ICADD resulted in restrictions in the height to which the
reservoir could be filled and reduced flows of water to Hyderabad compared with appraisal. The
dam gates are under repair at the time of writing and clearance has been given for full reservoir
filling which should occur in 1998. Components 2 and 3 were greatly delayed due to non-
availability of maps which were necessary for the engineering design work and, as a result,
Components 2 and 3 were modified, but within the overall project objectives, at the time of the
Mid-term Review. Component 4 was fully implemented. Component 5 was substantially
completed despite a slow start and difficulties encountered during implementation in resolving
many unforeseen issues.
5.    Institutional strengthening (Component 6) was successful and fully justified the risks
taken by the Bank in supporting HMWSSB, which was a new institution. Achievements
included: successful completion of many important studies, including studies assisting the
preparation of a second project; successful execution of a well-prepared training program;
introduction of advanced procurement procedures; extensive computerization; introduction of
modem financial management systems; and successful commencement of a program of private
sector p-aticnation in the form of O&M contracts. More than these achievemunts, there nas
been an institutional transformation at HMWSSB fiom thce traditional bureau_ratic to a
professional, consumer-orientated, approach to the provision of WSS services.
Assessment
6.    Achievement of development objectives at closing was satisfactory. Implementation was
also rated as satisfactory. The project supported major improvements, but there is a considerable
way to go before HMWSSB could be considered to be a modem WSS public utility.
Key Lessons Learned
7.    Institutional arrangements. Based on the experiences of this project, adoption of the
public utility model for the urban WSS sector would be appropriate for other major cities in India
during their transition to a modem and efficient delivery system.
8.    Ownership of assets. For effective operations, the urban WSS utility should have
ownership of the assets which it uses to supply services.
9..  Improved Financial Management. Major advances in financial management at
HMWSSB were achieved as a result of the appointment of a highly qualified Director of Finance
and other senior Finance and Accounts staff having equal status in the organization as their
Technical and Engineering colleagues. However, although the financial performance of
HMWSSB improved it was adversely affected by infrequency of tariff revisions; a mechanism
needs to be found to overcome the reluctance of the HMWSSB's Board to take unpopular tariff
decisions.



iv
10.   The importance of training. A well worked out Training Plan, produced and
implemented with the assistance of an external training organization, led to increased staff
awareness and upgrading of skills. This exposure has greatly benefited HMWSSB and, through
the experience gained from this program, also the external trainers.
11.   Drafting of the Financial Covenant. Differences arose between the Bank and Borrower
over the definition of technical terms used in the Financial Covenant. The Financial Covenant
should be simple in concept and expressed in unambiguous terminology.
12.   Continuity of key Bank staff. Task Manager continuity from identification through to
the late stages of implementation was warmly welcomed by the Borrower and contributed to the
project's success. In contrast, the Borrower objected to the numerous R&R experts that visited
the project in the early years. The Bank should seek to achieve continuity as far as possible of
Task Managers and membership of preparation and supervision mission teams.
13.   Readiness at Effectiveness. Delays which occurred during implementation with
Components 2 and 3 confirm the des;.ability of curr_n: Bank practice which requires that up to
25 percent of total project cost should be completed to detailed design stage before effectiveness.
14.   Links in the RRP to other Government programs. It was important for the
administration and success of the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Program (RRP) that links were
made to other development programs implemented in the district so as to provide attractive
options for beneficiaries.
15.   Monitoring and Evaluation of the RRP. An independent long-term monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) team was appointed for the duration of implementation of the R&R
component which provided highly beneficial continuity.
16.   Downstream impacts of the Dam. It was discovered after the Singur Dam was filled
that water table changes impacted on at least one village downstream. This village was not
identified during the preparation of the RRP. The coverage of dam-related RRP will need to
consider the possibility of downstream community impacts in addition to those usually
associated with dam filling.
17.   Private Sector Participation (PSP). PSP was limited in this project to contracting out
of the operations and management of certain key facilities. However, the contracting out was
successful and the experience supports the case for extending PSP in future projects.
18.   Summary "Actions" table in Mission Aide-Memoires. The inclusion in Bank Aide-
Memoires of clear summaries of actions agreed with or recommended by each Bank supervision
mission, which were rolled forward from mission to mission as necessary, greatly assisted
dialogue and understanding between Bank and Borrower and project management. In
accordance with current good practice guidance, a summary "Actions" table should be a standard
feature of Aide-Memoires.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPPORT
INDIA
HYDERABAD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3181/CREDIT 2115-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The major project objectives were to:
(a)  help Andhra Pradesh in improving, for Hyderabad, the adequacy and reliability of the
water supply, the collection, treatment and disposal of waste water and the provision of
excreta disposal facilities;
(b) strengthen the management and technical capacity of the concerned institutions; and
(c)  prepare future urban and water supply and sanitation projects in Andhra Pradesh.
2.    The project was consistent with the Bank strategy for urban water supply and sanitation
(WSS). The objectives of the strategy were to: seek efficient utilization of resources through
appropriate technology and sound engineering design and construction; improve institutional
capacity including introduction of efficient management of operation and maintenance;
commercial accounting; adopt pricing policies which encourage water conservation while
rendering services affordable to the poor; and ensure adequate financing of current expenditure
and funds for further investment.
3.    Pre-project physical, institutional and financial conditions in the WSS sector in
Hyderabad were poor by any standards (these conditions are described in full in the SAR).
However, Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) was
established under State legislation in 1989, shortly before the project commenced, to provide
dedicated WSS services in the city which previously had been the responsibility of the Municipal
Corporation of Hyderabad and the Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP). It was the policy of
GOAP, supported by the Bank, to achieve improvements in the sector through this dedicated
utility approach. Responsibility for the achievement of the project objectives was placed largely
in the hands of an untested institution. The objectives were realistic. But there were risks for the
Bank in supporting a new institution and, in the Indian context at that time, an approach based on
an innovative public utility model l/.
B.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    The project had six components.
'/ Urban WSS is mostly a municipal responsibility in India.



2
Component 1: The Manjira Phase III Stage II Scheme (base costs at appraisal, US$34.0
million or 34%). This scheme would transmit, treat, store, and pump 135 Mld of water from the
Singur Dam reservoir, an irrigation facility located 67 kms north-west from Hyderabad. At the
time of appraisal Singur Dam was under construction by the Irrigation and Command Area
Development Department (ICADD) of GOAP. ICADD would retain ownership of the asset. An
agreement governed the quantity of off-take by HMWSSB of bulk supplies, which were
available free of cost to HMWSSB. This Component would increase the normal supply from
72% to 87% of the 1991 demands of the city and also improve reliability of supply thereby
addressing the water quantity and quality improvement objectives.
Component 2: The rehabilitation and strengthening of the existing water system (US$27.2
million, 27%). At appraisal this Component included: distribution reservoirs; trunk distribution
mains; replacement of leaking transmission lines; rehabilitation measures at four existing
treatment plants and several pumping stations; provision of new pumping stations, repair of
reservoirs and other rehabilitation works; provision of bulk flow meters; and provision of leak
detection, laboratory and other equipment to aid O&M.
Component 3: The rehabilitation and strengthening of the existing sewerage system
(US$24.8 million, 25%). At appraisal this Component consisted of: connections to the sewerage
system of drains discharging into the open storm drainage channels; 26 kms of branch sewers; 43
kms of trunk sewers; 4 pumping stations and 4 pumping mains; a sewage treatment plant of 180
Mld capacity; and equipment for the maintenance of the sewerage system.
Component 4: Low cost sanitation (US$2.8 million, 3%). This Component consisted of
construction of about 20,000 pour-flush water-seal household latrines, which would address the
objective of providing safe excreta disposal facilities, mainly to poor households.
Component 5: Resettlement of households which at appraisal were estimated to be 4,120 in
number, whose dwellings would be submerged by the Singur Dam reservoir, and rehabilitation
where required of these households and an estimated firther 2,000 households, parts of whose
lands would be flooded (US$7.4 million, 7%).
Component 6: Institutional strengthening through technical assistance and training (US$3.9
million, 4%).
5.    A number of measures to strengthen institutions and improve project performance were,
covenanted and others were included in an initial operational action plan (OAP) which was
agreed at negot-ations and covered the first two years of the project. The initial OAP was
updated with the agreement of the Bank from time to time for subsequent periods.
Physical Achievements
6.    Component 1 was promptly implemented and completed ahead of schedule by
HMWSSB. However, a Dam Review Panel (DRP) faulted the designs of the dam gates, finding
the gates in need of strengthening in order to safely accommodate the planned full reservoir
level. During project preparation, possible remedial works to the dam gates were considered for



3
inclusion in the project. However, at negotiations it was agreed that the GOAP would finance
these works from its own resources. Despite being outside of the project, the dam gates
obviously affected it since, for safety reasons, filling of the reservoir was restricted to less than
the maximum level while the remedial works remained to be completed. The ICADD of GOAP
failed to respond in a timely manner to the DRP recommendations concerning the dam gates.
The remedial works at the time of writing the ICR are advanced, clearance for full filling of the
reservoir has been obtained and the facility will be fully operational in 1998. Nevertheless, as a
result of this inaction during the project period by ICADD, the supply of water from the reservoir
to the city during the critical summer months was about one-half of that planned; Component 1
project facilities were underutilized and the expected improvements in service were not
achieved. The supply of water to the city remains woefully inadequate, and at closing supplies to
consumers averaged about 1.5 hours availability per day.
7.    Components 2 and 3 were identified for inclusion in the project but the conceptual
design details were left to be prepared during the first few years of project implementation.
Attention during preparation was focused mainly on providing for the urgently required
additional water for the city in Component 1. However, design work for Components 2 and 3
was further and significantly delayed by the non-availability of maps. As a result of the delays,
these two components were redefined at the Mid-Term Review (MTR) by HMWSSB, with the
Bank's agreement, in accordance with the changed relative priority or works, as follows:
a) the emphasis of Component 2 was changed to highlight Unaccounted-for Water Management
(UFW), extensive meter installations for consumers, bulk flow meters, and other actions to
reduce water loss; and
b) the focus of Component 3 was changed to environmental improvement of one of the most
important cultural heritage features of Hyderabad, the historic Hussainsagar Lake located
prominently in the heart of the city.
8.   In US$ expenditure terms, Component 2 was increased at the MTR compared with
appraisal, but Component 3 was scaled down to about one-third the appraisal amount (see Table
8A). All the works for these two Components agreed at the MTR were substantially completed
by closing. Nevertheless, the improvements in water supply services which were expected at
appraisal were not fully achieved at closing.
9.    Component 4 was executed in an efficient and effective manner by HMWSSB and
over 22,000 latrines were installed, exceeding the target. Implementation utilized the services
of eight NGOs who performed the valuable tasks of educating beneficiaries on the value of the
facilities, organizing the collection of beneficiary contributions, undertaking implementation and
generally overseeing the program. Surveys confirm that the latrines are well used and properly
maintained by the beneficiaries.
10.   Component 5 implementation by GOAP was substantially completed by closing,
although it was complicated by many unforeseen difficulties that arose. Data used to
prepare the RRP for appraisal were based on samples of the affected population which were later
found to have been unreliable. The geographical boundary for the RRP was too narrowly
defined because it did not allow for the effects of wave action. Many of the tasks in the RRP in



4
the area of economic rehabilitation were new to the Borrower and difficult to perform. As a
result of these and other problems, the Component got off to a slow start and there were three
substantial revisions to the original RRP. The Bank endeavored to assist the Borrower by
sending several specialist R&R missions to Hyderabad but during 1993 the Borrower
complained to the Bank of inconsistent advice from different Bank specialists on how to proceed
with implementation. The Bank subsequently addressed the issues raised by the Borrower 2/ and
the implementation process improved considerably after 1993 although it remained a difficult
component. Notwithstanding the erratic experience of implementation, this project is likely to
become a practitioners' case study for R&R implementation lessons to be learned since
ultimately the objectives relating to both physical relocation works and the rehabilitation aspects
have been largely achieved, often in innovative ways. The Component was particularly effective
in linking R&R actions to other Government programs to provide attractive options for
beneficiaries. Matters outstanding at closiihg included the resettlement of five remaining
villages, and investigation of the downstream water table effects of the dam which appears to be
causing water logging in one village. These matters are being addressed in the Second Project.
Appendix C of this ICR provides a full account of the implementation of Component 5.
11.   This project was appraised before the appearance of the Bank's Operational Directive
governing its policy on the environment (OD 4.01) and there was, therefore, no environmental
categorization. Nevertheless, the project had significant environmental inputs in relation to
excreta disposal (Components 3 and 4) and the clean-up operations of the Hussainsagar Lake.
Overall, the environmental gains were significant.
12.   The project made important physical advances. Nevertheless, considerably more needs
to be done in the areas of water availability on a continuous basis, unaccounted for water,
effective utilization of staff, sewerage collection, and sewage treatment etc. before HMWSSB
would even begin to have the appearance of a modern and effective WSS public utility.
Institutional Strengthening Achievements
13.   Component 6, consisting of studies and training, was successful. The studies agreed
with the Bank at appraisal and during implementation were all completed, albeit with delay, with
the exception of a few of those concerned with the preparation of the proposed Second Project
which were still underway at closing, although substantially finished (see Table 7). An extensive
Training Plan was produced which was executed in an efficient and effective manner. Based on
the evidence of ex-post evaluation survey results, HMWSSB management and staff regard the
training process as highly beneficial. The external training agency that assisted HMWSSB, the
Regional Center for Urban and Environmental Studies from Osmania University, also benefited
greatly from the experience and is applying its knowledge within utilities elsewhere in India.
14.   These actions started the institutional transformation of the new utility from a
traditional public sector mode of operation to an effective and dedicated organization serving the
2{ The Bank's letter of May 28, 1993 informed the Borrower of the decision to establish the Social Development
Unit at the New Delhi Office, which was expected to improve the advice offered.



5
needs of its consumers. An account of this institutional transformation is provided in Annex 1 of
the Completion mission Aide-Memoire, which appears as Appendix A to this ICR.
15.   Included in the OAP were actions to improve procurement procedures for which there
were major advances which anticipated subsequent Bank guidelines. Computerization is now
extensive within HMWSSB, although there was no comprehensive Information Systems (IS)
master plan and the applications have developed piecemeal within the Engineering and Finance
Departments. Nevertheless, computerization appears to be working well, having been introduced
by knowledgeable senior professional staff with the support of the successive Managing
Directors.
16.   Financial management for the sector greatly improved following the establishment of
HMWSSB due to the appointment of a professionally qualified Finance Director and other senior
staff, and the introduction of moderm computerized procedures. Accounts have been prepared on
an accrual basis since the establishment of HMWSSB and, with one non-material exception,
have been without audit comment ever since. In 1996 the Bank selected HMWSSB because of
its advanced systems to be one of about twenty organizations world-wide for a pilot exercise to
assess the imnplementation potential and difficulties associated with the Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI). Further, HMWSSB won the award for the best presented accounts for
FY96 in its class from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
17.   HMWSSB's financial performance depended to a large extent on the implementation
of timely and appropriate revisions to charges for services. The covenant which required
HMWSSB to implement a sewerage surcharge of 20% on the water tariff was implemented.
Water tariffs were reviewed annually in accordance with the agreements. The annual tariff
review reports provided to the HMWSSB's Board were thorough and well researched. However,
the Board implemented tariff revisions infrequently, as follows: August 1991; April 1993 (gap of
1.7 years); February 1997 (gap of 3.8 years). Largely as a result of the infrequency of revisions,
the target of full cost recovery in the Financial Covenant was not achieved in five of the eight
years of the project. The shortfalls were marginal and, following the substantial February 1997
increase, at closing the Financial Covenant was in full compliance.3/ However, there was a
decline in revenue collection over the last two years and an increase in the months receivables
(Table 5). Covenanting full cost recovery was appropriate to the circumstances of HMWSSB at
the appraisal of the project since traditionally WSS services had been provided well below cost.
Backed by the strength of its financial management, HMWSSB would be able to move to a more
exacting financial covenant in the proposed Second Project.
18.   Staffing problems revolved mainly around reducing staff numbers, and the issue of
deputation of staff. HMWSSB adopted an informal target reduction of 700 staff during the
3/ There was a difference of opinion between Bank and HMWSSB over the definition of terms in the Financial
Covenant which indicates that the legal drafting was unclear. Using HMWSSB's definitions, the percentage cost
recovery achievements of the financial covenant were as follows: 1990/91 (minus 0.50%); 1991/92 (minus 1.65%);
1992/93 (minus 0.90%); 1993/94 (plus 5.25%); 1994/95 (minus 0.39%); 1995/96 (minus 5.16%); 1996/97 (plus
0.38%); 1997/98 (plus 0.59%).



6
project period which would result from natural attrition (retirements, turnover etc.) coupled with
minimal recruitment. The actual reduction was about 450 from the peak. Given the considerable
increase in connections over the period, the staff numbers per connection and per 100,000 people
served declined significantly (Table 5). Staffing levels remain extremely high by international
standards at about 20 staff per 1,000 connections compared with 3-5 in some developing
countries, and less than unity in the best European utilities. Deputation is the system whereby
staff remain with their parent departments as their principal employer but work at HMWSSB.
Deputation causes problems of ambiguous allegiances and reduced work incentives. Some staff
were transferred to HMWSSB but the Engineers continued on deputation until closing.
Accordingly, this difficult issue remained partially unresolved at closing. However, the Board
introduced many incentive schemes and new working procedures which improved effectiveness.
Important in identifying and introducing changes to personnel policy were the decisions by
GOAP to appoint competent officers to the Managing Director's post at HMWSSB and not to
transfer them frequenttly, as is usually the case with civil service appointments in India.
Throughout the project there was considerable widening of the Board's autonomy in matters of
personnel administration.
19.   Private Sector Participation innovations were liinied duiing the project to contracting
out of key O&M. functions, of which the most significant were the iew water treatment plant,
pumping station and other facilities at Peddapur under Component 1 4/ and maintenance of water
meters by the supplier. The private contractors were performing their tasks at Peddapur to a high
standard at the time of the visit of the Bank's completion mission.
Rates of Return
20.   The Economic Rate of Return was calculated in the SAR (Annex 17) to be 11% using
the domestic price numeraire without the application of a Standard Conversion Factor, and 10%
with a SCF of 0.8 5/. The ERRs were re-estimated using similar methodology but with actual
cost and benefit data for the project period, and the results were 4% and 3% respectively (see
Table 9). The principal explanation for the poor result was that measured benefits were far lower
than expected at appraisal. Benefits were lower for two main reasons: (a) the substantially
reduced flow and hence consumption of water from the Singur Dam source; and (b) the tariffs
on which the benefit measure depends were at lower levels throughout the project period.
21.   The Financial Rate of Return was not calculated at appraisal. However, financial
projections were made for HMWSSB and were included in the SAR (Annex 16). The main
differences to be found in the Income Statements between the appraisal projections and outtums
as recorded in supervision mission Aide-Memoires were that actual gross revenues were
significantly lower than forecast. This result reflected the reduced sales of water due to the
4/ GOAP attempted a BOOT scheme for bringing additional water to the city from the Krishna River and
received three proposals. This was innovative as an approach, but none of the proposals were found acceptable.
5/ The methodology relies on tariffs as the measure of benefits. Consumers' surpluses and public health benefits
are not included on the grounds that they are difficult to measure; hence the ERRs are underestimated.



7
failure to fill the Singur Dam, and lower than expected tariff levels 6/. Operating expenses were
broadly similar to the forecasts.
C.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
22.   Delays to the preparation of utility maps which were necessary for design work for
Components 2 and 3 were outside of the Borrower's control although the risks should have been
recognized.(see para 28).- Delays with the maps meant that implementation and strengthening of
water distribution and sewerage could not proceed as planned. However, the revised works
agreed at the MTR to be implemented under these two Components were substantially
completed before closing.
23.   Drought conditions prevailed in the region for several years. However, the drought was
not the reason for the failure to fill the Singur reservoir to the design level. It is certain that the
reservoir would have filled, despite the drought, if remedial works had been undertaken to the
gates. Obviously, timely action by the ICADD on remedial works to the dam gates was a matter
under Government's control. Their lack of response deprived Hyderabad of a significant supply
of water over several years.
24.   Implementation of the RRP was protracted and much delayed. However, this delay
cannot be attributed wholly to GOAP which was responsible for implementation. Data on which
the initial RRP was based were found to be inadequate and the RRP had to be revised. There
was an initial and understandable period of hesitation, given the innovative nature of the
economic rehabilitation program. Further delays arose from many unforeseen difficulties which
appeared during the project, as described in Appendix C. GOAP with Bank support devoted
adequate resources to ensure substantial completion by closing.
25.   Despite major advances being made, the Board of HMWSSB failed to fully achieve all of
its staffing reforms due to resistance by some sections of the staff and reluctance by the GOAP to
approve all the proposed changes. The Board failed to approve timely tariff increases which
were necessary to achieve its financial covenants.
26.   Thus, factors which adversely influenced the rating for the achievement of the project
development objectives, causing the rating to be 'satisfactory' rather than 'highly satisfactory'.
were mostly under the Governnent's control.
6/ Tariffs are well below broadly comparable international levels (for example, as given in the Bank's Water and
Wastewater Utilities - Indicators). For domestic consumers, tariffs are well below the incremental costs of
supplying water. There is extensive cross-subsidization from non-domestic to domestic consumers. Block charging
and difficulties with estimating consumption levels makes accurate estimating impossible, but at appraisal the
average domestic tariff was roughly Rs 1.5 to 2.2/m3, or US$0.10 to 0. 14/m3 at prevailing exchange rates, while at
closing the corresponding figures were Rs 4.62 to 6.60/m3, or US$0.12 to US$0. 1 7/m3.



8
Assessment of Project Risks
27.   Three risks were identified at appraisal:
a) unproven planning and execution capacity of HMWSSB in the areas of water supply, system
rehabilitation and of sanitary sewerage - in the event, these fears were unfounded as
HMWSSB, with the assistance of consultants, executed the Project with efficiency and major
advances were made with procurement procedures and quality of construction (Annex 1 to
the Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire confirms the high standards reached);
b) a possible lack of political will to sustain tariffs at adequate levels - despite annual reviews
which were expertly undertaken, the risk was justified as there was reluctance to implement
tariff revisions in a timely fashion (see para 17);
c) the possibility that farmers affected by land loss at the Singur Dam would not regain their
former standard 6f living - this risk proved unfounded.
28.   Appraisal failed to identify the following as risks:
a) dependence of Components 2 and 3 on the early completion of the utility mapping exercise -
in the event delays with the mapping led to delays in the design and implementation of the
physical works under these Components and eventually to changes at the MTR (see para 7);
b) protracted implementation of the RRP, given the innovative nature of the economic
rehabilitation program and many unforeseen issues which could arise during implementation
- there were extensive delays, and requirements for additional Bank staff resources (see para
34); and
c) the lengthy time required for resolving staffing issues at HMWSSB in the face of staff
resistance to changes in deputation arrangements, which resulted in agreed changes
remaining unfinished at closing (see para 16).
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
29.   It is highly likely that the Borrower will maintain and build upon the Project's
achievements and that the Project is sustainable. Continuing Bank support in the proposed
Second and possible Third Projects7/ will maintain the momentum of improvement and reform
at HMWSSB as the Board's activities expand. However, quite apart from continuing Bank
involvement in the Board's activities, there are good grounds for believing that the Project will
be sustainable on its own account, as follows. There is proven commitment to reform by the
GOAP and management at HMWSSB. The HMWSSB has made major advances in institutional
transformation which it will be difficult to reverse. There is greater technical competence and
much improved financial viability which provide the bases for further development of the
organization. There is a high level of professionalism. The Board is alert to the need for
incentives for improved performance amongst staff, linked to training. Private sector
participation has been accepted as being beneficial, and new applications are being identified.
7/ The proposed Second Project was appraised in March-April 1998. A possible Third Project is under
preparation.



9
Experience has been gained with social provision through the successful execution of the LCS
program and the implementation of the RRP. Overall, the project has supported major
improvements at HMWSSB which are likely to be sustainable but there is still a long way to go
before the organization could be considered to be a modem and an effective WSS public utility.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
30.   A single Bank Task Manager was responsible for this Project from identification through
preparation, appraisal and supervision until a little over two years before closing when he was
replaced by another staff-member, also with long-term involvement with the Project. Continuity
of key Bank staff played a major part in ensuring success.
31.   Identification was highly satisfactory. GOAP was keen to establish HMWSSB as a
dedicated WSS public uitility for Hyderabad. HMWSSB would have a large measure of financial
and technical autonomy in its day-to-day operations, and this approach was consistent with the
Bank's policy at the time. Hyderabad is one of India's five mega-cities and of considerable
economic importance, so the demonstration effect of the Project was likely to be high. Urban
WSS was an infrastructure sector identified for support in the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy.
32.   Preparation was satisfactory. There was a relatively short interval of eight months
between identification and appraisal (see Table 13). However, much of the Project preparation
for the urgent Component 1, to bring additional water to the city, had been completed with the
technical assistance of the Bank-executed Asia Sector Development Project of the United
Nations Development Program. However, Components 2 and 3 involving substantial
expenditure had not been designed by the time of appraisal and subsequent delays led to MTR
changes.
33.   Appraisal was satisfactory. Borrower commitment to the Project objectives and
implementation arrangements were clearly identified. The appraisal mission contained all
relevant specialist skills. Three critical issues arose: R&R at Singur Dam; the Dam Review
Panel to ensure dam safety; and procurement - specifically the need to develop model bid
documents. A substantial period of two years elapsed between appraisal and Board presentation
during which time these important issues were resolved to the Bank's satisfaction. However,
appraisal failed to identify some of the project risks (see para 27). The Bank prepared a
comprehensive SAR containing, inter alia, very detailed and extremely clear cost tables.
34.   Supervision was highly satisfactory. The Bank fielded full supervision missions at an
average interval of 5.7 months until the MTR, and thereafter at an average interval of 7.6
months, which indicates a high level of commitment. Additionally, there were-five missions
which mostly focused on problems being encountered with the implementation of the RRP at
Singur Dam and which were undertaken in order to help move the difficult and innovative
Component 5 forward. The MTR was held about 10 months after the literal mid-term and was
acknowledged at the time as being late, delayed due to elections and the late arrival of a critical
consultants' reports on Components 2 and 3. The MTR involved a comprehensive review of
project performance, and resulted in important and necessary changes in direction for



10
Components 2 and 3. The SAR estimate of supervision inputs was 104 staff-weeks compared
with 163 actual staff-weeks. The increase reflected the attention given to the RRP in Component
5 and the need for the new directions for Components 2 and 3.
35.   One aspect that should have been more firmly dealt with by the Bank during supervision
was the inaction by ICADD of the GOAP on the remedial works to the Singur Dam gates.
Dragging of feet by ICADD on this issue deprived the city of much needed additional water and
substantially reduced proj ect benefits and the Bank should have been more resolute in pursuaing
GOAP to take action.
36.   All supervision missions were appropriately staffed with the requisite range of
.professional skills (see Table 13). Key inputs for R&R, Procurement and Engineering were
provided from the Bank's New Delhi Office during the latter half of project implementation.
There was a high degree of continuity of staffing of the missions, particularly after 1993.
37.   The missions Aide Memoirs were exceptionally fully documented. They each contained
innovative sections listing actions agreed/recommended by the mission which were rolled
forward from mission to mission. The Aide-Memoires also contained comprehensive lists of
documents received and reviewed, and provided helpful technical advice. The Borrower
welcomed the Bank missions as positive contributions to the Project and there was close
Bank/Borrower collaboration throughout. Form 590 (Project Status Report) ratings were
appropriate (see Table 13).
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38.   Preparation. The Borrower's performance was highly satisfactory. HMWSSB was
constituted as a public utility during preparation with appropriate powers, staffing at senior levels
and the benefit of an early tariff revision to move the new entity towards financial viability.
Detailed engineering designs for Component 1 were prepared by appraisal and plans were in
place for all other components, although designs for Components 2 and 3 depended on the
availability of maps which, later, were delayed. The Borrower was committed to LCS provision
for low income households and to the preparation and implementation of an RRP for Singur
Dam. The Borrower was keen to identify, with Bank support, policy and institutional
strengthening changes.
39.  Implementation. The achievement of development objectives was satisfactory as the
institutional capacity of HMWSSB expanded and developed over the Project period.
40.   Physical implementation performance was satisfactory. Component 1 was executed
promptly and ahead of schedule with exemplary planning, procurement and execution. Fault
may be found, however, with the failure by ICADD of GOAP to execute remedial works on the
Singur Dam gates which resulted in the considerably reduced flow of water to the city compared
with appraisal. Components 2 and 3 were delayed, but changes introduced at the MTR were
substantially completed at closing. Component 4 was executed in a professional and resolute
manner, which contrasts with Bank experience elsewhere in urban India as there is often



11
reluctance to implement LCS programs. HMWSSB performance was excellent in the LCS
program in mobilizing support from NGOs. HMWSSB executed the Project with diligence.
41.   The MTR had considerable importance for this project given the need to revise the
priorities in Components 2 and 3. HMWSSB showed initiative in preparing its own MTR report
ahead of the Bank mission. This was an example of the Borrower generally showing
considerable responsiveness in the preparation of reports and providing data. The Quarterly
Progress'Reports were clear, informative and timely.'
42.   GOAP was responsible for Component 5, R&R, which got off to a slow start.
Eventually, GOAP devoted appropriate resources to the task and the Component has become a
success, even though it was not fully completed at closing.
43.   Covenant compliance was generally satisfactory although there were delays of which,
perhaps, the most significant were the tariff revisions which impacted on the financial covenants.
By closing most covenants were in full compliance although a few remained only in partial
compliance including: posts unfilled in the Finance Department; and, aspects of implementation
of the RRP.
44.   The Borrower's performance on institutional development aspects of the project was
good. This institutional development was evidenced by advances in procurement procedures,
financial management, staffing and training. Apart from these individual improvements there
was a cultural shift at HMWSSB away from the earlier traditional bureaucratic approach to one
which was orientated to providing for consumer wants in an efficient and effective manner.
Good as these actions were, they constitute only the first step down the road to sector
modernization and improvements in efficiency.
G.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
45.   Overall the Project outcome has been rated as satisfactory (Table 1). Implementation
status and the achievement of development objectives at closing were both rated as satisfactory.
46.   The implementation of the Project was rated satisfactory due to the mixed performance of
the Components. Some of the physical objectives were achieved to a high standard, such as the
construction quality and operation of the works of Component 1 and, following the MTR, the
works of Components 2 and 3. But failure to implement the recommendations of DRP resulted
in inability to deliver the expected quantity of additional water under Component 1 which was a
serious limiting factor in Project implementation. It is expected that the supply of water will
substantially increase as remedial works to the Dam gates and other measures at Singur are
completed during 1998. Also, there was far less strengthening of the sewerage~ system than was
proposed at appraisal under Component 3 although important environmental upgrading of the
cultural heritage feature of Hussainsagar Lake was substantially completed. The LCS program
of Component 4 was a success. There were many difficulties with the implementation of the
RRP in Component 5 although some arose from the innovative nature of the economic
rehabilitation program and at closing Component objectives were substantially achieved, though
delayed.



12
47.   Partly as a result of the failure to deliver all the expected water, the calculated ERR fell
below the critical ten percent target (see Table 9).
48.   Development objectives were achieved to a satisfactory level as evidenced by the
institutional improvements in the sector brought about by HMWSSB, the new water utility.
There were important investment planning, procurement, staffing, organizational and financial
gains, although these were only a stirt and there continues to be much' further work to be done,
some of which will be addressed by the follow-on Second Project. On the basis of the
institutional strengtheninig achievements of this Project, adoption of the public utility model for
the water supply and sanitation sector would be appropriate for other cities in India during the
transition to a modem and efficient delivery system
H.   FUTURE OPERATIONS
49.   The follow-on proposed Second Project will determine the operation plan for the next
five years and thereafter, and will ensure agreement with the Bank on operation of the created
assets. Estimates of indicators of project operation are provided in Table 6 which will be
monitored by HMWSSB. There are no specific plans for operations other than through the
future project agreements which are continuing to be discussed with the Bank. The dialogue is
continuing with: the Dam remedial measures; completion of the RRP; the determination of tariff
levels and structures; financial covenant performance targets; manning levels, which remain too
high; continuing decentralization; private sector participation; performance indicators and other
aspects of HMWSSB's operations.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
50.  Institutional arrangements. HMWSSB was established as a dedicated public utility
with day-to-day operational independence. On the evidence of this project, adoption of the
public utility model for the water supply and sanitation sector would be appropriate for other
cities in India during the transition to a modem and efficient delivery system.
51.   Ownership of key assets. Had the Singur Dam been under HMWSSB's ownership, the
DRP recommendations for dam gate rectification would have been addressed promptly and the
design quantity of water would have been available to the city. When assets are shared between
agencies project preparation needs to give careful attention to the ownership arrangements that
will ensure realization of project benefits.
52.  Improved Financial Management. Major advances in financial management at
HMWSSB were achieved as a result of the appointment of a highly qualified Director of Finance
and other senior Finance and Accounts staff having equal status in the organization as their
Technical and Engineering colleagues. However, although the financial performance of
HMWSSB improved it was adversely affected by infrequency of tariff revisions; a mechanism
needs to be found to overcome the reluctance of the Board to take unpopular tariff decisions.
53.   The importance of training. A well worked out Training Plan, produced and
implemented with assistance of an external training organization, led to increased staff



13
awareness and upgrading of skills. This exposure has greatly benefited HMWSSB and, through
the experience gained from this program, also the external trainers.
54.   Drafting of the Financial Covenant. The cost recovery Financial Covenant was
appropriate to the circumstances of the sector at the time of appraisal, but there was disagreement
between Bank and Borrower during implementation over the exact definition of the performance
target. The legal drafting was therefore unclear. The Financial Covenant should be simple in
concept and expressed using unambiguous terminology.
55.   Continuity of key Bank staff. The Task Manager remained unchanged from
identification until few months after the MTR. This continuity was warmly welcomed by the
Borrower. In contrast, the Borrower complained about conflicting advise from numerous R&R
specialists used b- the Bank for supervision in the early years. The Bank should seek to achieve
cont;nuity as far as possible of Task Managers and membership of preparation and supervision
mission teams.
56.   Detailed design of Components. The experience of delays which occurred with
Components 2 and 3 confirms the desirability of adopting current Bank practice requiring up to
25 percent of total project cost to be completed to detailed design stage before effectiveness.
This requirement is all the more desirable now that Bank policy is for project implementation
periods of about five years rather than eight years in this case, since the reduced period offers
less scope for change/revision.
57.   Links in the RRP to other Government programs. It was important for the
administration and success of the RRP that links were made to other development programs
implemented in the district so as to provide attractive options for beneficiaries.
58.   Monitoring and Evaluation of the RRP. An independent long-term M&E team was
appointed for the duration of implementation of the R&R component providing highly beneficial
continuity. The team developed the initial base-line survey, provided management with timely
indications of problems and progress and facilitated progressive revisions of the RRP which
were required.
59.   Downstream impacts of the Dam. The RRP for the reservoir was prepared for the
upstream communities affected by flooding, as is the normal case. Subsequently, it was
discovered that the water table variations were inpacting on at least one village downstream of
the dam. Future dam-related RRPs may need to consider the possibility of downstream
community impacts in addition to those usually associated with dam filling.
60.   Private Sector Participation. The extent of PSP was limited in this project to
contracting out of the operations and management of certain key facilities. However, it was
successful and this experience supports the case for extending PSP in future projects.
61.   Summary "Actions" table in Mission Aide-Memoires. The inclusion in Bank mission
Aide-Memoires of clear summaries of actions agreed with or recommended by each supervision
mission, and rolled forward from mission to mission as necessary, greatly assisted dialogue,
understanding and management.



14
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Macro policies- 
Sector policies ^
Financial objectives                                          V
Institutional development 
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                           I
Gender Issues                                                                                    I
Other social objectives                                                                          V
Environmental objectives                    /
Public sector management             -
Private sector development                                                                       /
Identification ^
Preparation assistance 
Appraisal 
Supervision
Preparation (
Implementation 
Covenant compliance 
Operation (if applicable)
E_'i
-h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title            Purpose                                Year of approval     Status      -
Preceding operations                                                                      _
1. Second Madras UTD      Single city IUD project including: development     198i          Closed
Project (Cr.1082-IN)      of plots; slum improvements; provision of buses;
municipal services; and, TA.                        .      _                    i
2. Kanpur UD Project      Project focused mainly on sites and services and    1982         Closed
(Cr. 1185-IN)             slum upgrading; also included infrastructure and
municipal services improvements and TA.
3. Gujarat Water Supply   Water supply to rural communities;                 1983          Closed
and Sanitation Prqj. cct  improvement and extension of water supply and
(Cr 1280-IN)              sewerage services in selected urban centers;
extension and upgradation of sewage collection
and disposal systems in major municipalities;
low-cost sanitation in medium-size towns;
improvement of financial management,
accounting, billing and collection practices, and
introduction of cost recovery targets andl
establishment of training facilities.
4. Third Calcutta UD      Single city IUD project, involving the spreading   1983          Closed
Project (Cr. 1369-N)      of infrastructure and service improvements
outside of metrocore.
5. Madhya Pradesh UD      Project mainly focused on shelter and sanitation   1983          CIosed
|_Project (Ln.2329-lN)_   improvements, in 10 cities.
6. Tamil Nadu WSS         Water Supply to larger urban areas and certain     1984          Closed
Project (Cr. 1454-IN and  smaller towns and to rural areas; low cost
SF-12-IN)                 sanitation to urban communities and
strengthening of institutional, managerial, and
financial practices.
7.Bombay UD Project       Single city IUD project including: land            1985          Closed
(Cr. 15444N)              infrastructure servicing; slum upgrading; local
government finance and administration, and
services; and TA.
8. Kerala W'S Project     Strengthen institutions including financial        1986          Closed
(Cr. 1622-IN)             management and provision of water supply to
rural areas and water distribution in one urban
area; and low-cost sanitation in urban and rural
areas.
9. Gujarat UD Project     Appraised as a state-wide multi-city IUTD project  1986          Closed
(Cr. 1643-IN)             with emphasis on: shelter; infrastructure; slum                                  l
upgrading; solid waste; and, institutional
strengthening. Restructured with large rural WS
component.



16
Loan/credit title            Purpose                              Year of approval      Status
10. Third Bombay WSS      Project involved expansion of WSS facilities in   1987          Closed
Project                   the city; sanitation for urban poor; and,
(Cr. I 7501Ln2769-N)      improvements to implementation capacity.
1 1. Uttar Pradesh UD     State-wide multi-city IUD project with all main   1987          Closed
Project                   sectors included: institutional improvements;
(Cr.1780/Ln.2797-IN)      municipal services; shelter; traffic and transport;
water supply and sanitation. Also support to
Ganga Action Program. Emergency earthquake
reconstruction component added.
12. Madras WSS Project    Ground water supply, distribution and waste       1987          Closed
(Cr. I 822/Ln.2846-IN)    water improvements in city with small LCS
component and institutional improvements.
13. Tamil Nadu UD Project   State-wide capacity for efficient management of  1988         Closed
(Cr. 1923-iN)             urban and economic development; supply of
legal, environmentally acceptable and affordable
private and public serviced lands; and cost-
effective urban road and traffic management
schemes.
Following operations                                                                                     l
1. Second Madras WS       Project includes: major scheme to bring           1995         SPN-Active
Project (Ln.3907-0/6 IN)  additional water to city; distribution and
conservation improvements within city; and, TA.
2. Bombay Sewage          Project included: construction of 2 outfall       1996          SPN-Active
Disposal Project          sewers; pumping facilities; sewage treatment;
(Cr.2763/Ln.3923-IN)      sewerage system improvements and
rehabilitation; and, slum sanitation.
Table 2 lists all urban development and urban water supply and sanitation projects in India for the 10 years
preceding, and the years following HWSSP approval. RIUD indicates an Integrated Urban Development Project,
which may have WSS components.
Year of approval is Bank fiscal year.
Under Status: SPN-Active indicates that the project is being implemented and is under active supervision.



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                       |_Date Planned        [  Date Actual             l
Identification                                                        May 1987
Pre-Appraisal                                                         September 1987
Appraisal (departure)                                                 March 7, 1988
Negotiations                                                          September29, 1989
Board Presentation                                                    March27, 1990
Signing                                                               May 23, 1990
Effectiveness                                    March 15, 1990       September 28, 1990
Mid-Term Review                                  March 1994           Janruary 1995
Credit Closing                                   March 31, 1998       March 31, 1998          l
Table 4: Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY       1990  1 1991    1992    1993  1 1994    19951   1996  ] 1997  1 1998    1999
Estimate
at             4.0     5.7    13.5    24.6    41.0    57.2         75.3    86.5    89.9   89.9
Appraisal/a
Actual         0.0      6.0    20.5    32.3    38.9    40.5        50.7    65.2   75.1   81.9
Actual as
percent of     0.0    105.3   151.9    131.3    94.9    70.8       67.3    75.4    83.5   91.1
Estimate
/a Credit and Loan combined. The Loan amount of US$10.0 million was cancelled in December 1991.



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/                      Actual     Actual   Actual    Actual     Actual    Actual
President's Report/a  ~Unit                   31-Mar-93  31-Mar-94 31-Mar-95 31-Mar-96 31-Mar-97 31-Mar-98
Total staff HMWSSB                           No.             5,246    5,318     5,259     5,191     5,135       5,057
Staff/100,000 people served                  No.            115.45    115.91    110.95    108.44    103.55     98.85
Staff/1,000 connections                      No.            24.99     23.87     22.94     21.55     20.82       19.99
No. staff participating in Training          No.         .      7       172       258-    1,252      1,550      1,6-10
Total staff costs (salary plus benefits)     Rs Million      167.6    205.6    241.6    261.1       291.9       336.2
Pensions sanctioned (< 3 months of retirement)    No.         128       204       283       361       427        509
Revenue billinpg                             Rs Million     401.4    505.3    544.5    562.9    704.6           915.0
Revenue collection                           Rs Million     382.5    456.2    526.3    535.9    600.1          722.0
Collection/Billing                           Percent          95.3     90.3      96. 7     95.2      85.2        78.9
*Consumer rec&ivables        .Rs Milli6n                     208.5    257.6    275.7    302.8    407.3          600.3
Months receivables                           Months           6.23     6.12      6.08      6.45      6.94        7.87
Working ratio                                                0.98       0.9      0.96         1      0.95       0.84
Operating ratio                                               1.01     0.95      1.00      1.05       1.00       0.88
Covenant                                     Percent         - 3.9     26.2      - 2.3    -33.2       3.1         6.2
Covenant as % of Gross Revenues              Percent         - 0.9      5.3      - 0.4     - 5.2      0.4         0.6
Current ratio                                                2.39      2.28      1.73      1.16      0.88       0.89
Cost of water produced                       Rs/m3           3.21      4.81      5.15      5.71      4.01       4.90
Cost of water sold                           Rs/m3           4.15      5.57      6.63      6.90      6.57        8.04
Average tariff - Domestic                    Rs/m3       1 2.04        3.17      3.59      3.28      3.49        5.00
- Non-domestic                   Rs/m3             ...    18.08     16.66     13.74     15.73      22.54
Total Investments - HMWSSB                   Rs Million     519.1    458.8    200.31  501.7    853.5           985.0
Investment in Bank-supported project         Rs Million     384.0    284.3        2.2    264.0    654.0        839.0
No. latrines completed                       No.              354     1,694     4,840    12,572    19,264     22,077
Population served by HMWSSB water supply     Thousand       4,544     4,588     4,740     4,787     4,959      5,1116
Water produced                               Million m3     155.5    126.0    136.4    146.9    231.8          210.1
Water sold - Domestic                        Million m3     120.2      97.4      92.6    104.8    123.0        111.5
- Non-domestic                     Million m3                 11.5      13.4      16.8      18.4       16.6
No. days supply not given                    No.                0         0         0         0         0          0
Av. ao. of supply hours per day              Hr/day             2        1.5      1.5       1.5        1.5        1.5
No. of public standposts                     No.            4,278     4,797     4,811     4,812     4,816      4,819
Total no. of connections - Domestic          No.           199,535   212,134  218,483   231,317   236,503    243,133
Total no. of connections - Non-domestic      No.         110,,425     8,668     8,7171  9,614       9,733      9,868
No. of bulk supplies                         No.               -      2,023     2,030     2,064     2,070      2,121
Domestic connections with working meters     Percent            -      50.6      50.0      50.0      50.0       55.0
Non-domnestic connections with working meters   Percent                  -       60.0      60.0      60.0        70.0
Bulk supplies with working meters            Percent           -       67.4      72.0      75.0      80.0       82.0
Power costs                                  Rs Million      158.5    190.0    209.7    235.4    328.9         388.0
No. of pollution cases                       No.               62       230     1,018       122       133        310
No. of water samples taken                  No.               -    46.525    40,440    2~1,909    16,484      35,437
No. of pollution cases attended              No.               --                  -         -        125        310
ManJ1ira supply interTlptions > 12 hours     No.                          I                  00                    0
/a      No key indicators were provided in the SAR.
Values shown are of the monitoring indicators reported during implementation.



19
Table 6: Key Indicators of Project Operation
Key Implementation Indicators in      ACtual      Estimate     Estimate     Estimate     Estiniated
SAR/ President's Report/a            31-M-98    31-Mar-99    31-Mar-00    31-Mar-0l      31-Mar-02
Percent of bulk connections with working      72          90          92           93            95
meters                                                                    .       _l
Percent of small connections with working     55.         75          80           85            90
meters                                                                                                   I
Non-Revenue Water (Percent of water           44          42          35           30            25
produced)
Water Billed (Million cubic meter)            119         155        166          180           189
Average Water and Sewerage Revenue (1998      7.6         9.0        11.0         13.0          15.0
Rs/m3 billed)              .                               ._l
Cost Coverage Ratio (Percent)                 118         144         175         200           230
Accounts Receivables (Days of billings)       216         140         100          80            70
Self-Financing Ratio (Percent)                14          16          17           17            17
Indicators of Project Operation              Definition
Bulk connections                         =   Connections with consumption more than or equal to 100 m3/day
Small connections                        =   Connections with consumption less than 100 m3/day
Non-Revenue Water (Percent water produced) =   (Water produced - Water billed) / Water produced
Water Billed (Million cubic meter)       =   Volume of water billed based on meter reading or estimated
Average Water and Sewerage Revenues      =   Water and sewerage revenues Rs/m3 billed x deflator index
(1998 Rs/m3 billed)                          between curTent year and 1998
Cost Coverage Ratio (1998 Rs/m3 billed)    =   Operating Revenues / Operating Expenses without depreciation
Accounts Receivables (Days of Billings)  =   (Accounts receivables / billings) x No of days in the period
Self-Financing Ratio                     =   Net Internal Cash Generation / Capital Expenditures
NOTE: No indicators of project operation was given in the SAR/President's Reports. The above is based on the
Key Performance Indicators tentatively agreed with HMWSSB during appraisal of the proposed Second Hyderabad
Water Supply and Sanitation Project.



20
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study              at Appraisal/Redefined           Status            Impact of Study
Survey of infrastructure  Preparation of Component 2     Completed         Essential preliminary for
mapping, detailed water                                                     implementation
distribution analysis, final
concept design
Water conservation,       Preparation of UFW part of     Completed         Essential preliminary for
leakage control and use   Component 2                                      implementation. Enabletl
management studies                                                         HMWSSB to prepare
Action Plan for
unaccounted for water
reduction and control
System operation and      Prepare Operations Manuals and    Completed      In day-to-day use
maintenance               Maintenance Guidelines
LCS studies               Preparation of Component 4     Undertaken in-    Essential preliminary for
house. Completed  implementation
Dam Review Panel for      Undertake inspections and      16 meetings and    GOAP slow to act on
Singur                    propose measures to ensure safety  reports produced   recommendations
R&R program evaluation    Provide information feedback   Continuous        Greatly benefited
planning of future
implementation
Accounting management    Computerized accounting at HQ   Completed         Better management of
information system                                                         F&A operations
Project planning and      Training and software for PERT-   Completed      Slow to be taken up by
control system            based project system linked to                   HMWSSB Engineers
Accounts
Billing and Collection    Software designed and installed  Completed        System installed in about-
system                   for computerized counters                         28 (of 32) counters.
Improved customer
service
Materials management and   Software developed and installed    Completed   Up and running in
stores inventory                                                            HMWSSB's 3 stores
Ex post evaluation of LCS    Not identified at appraisal. Assess   Draft final report   Essential for planning
program                   program and draw out lessons   prepared          future programs
Post project impact study of  Not identified at appraisal. To  Under progress at  Limited so far due to
R&R program               assess impacts on living       closing           early stages, but will be
conditions of PAFs                               essential for assessment
purposes
Environmental monitoring   Not identified at appraisal.  Continuous        Essential for investment
of Hussainsagar Lake      Continuous assessment of water                    impact assessment
and sediment quality of Lake



21
Purpose as Defined
Study              at Appraisal/Redefined           Status            Impact of Study
Detailed engineering and    Not identified at appraisal except   Almost completed  Essential input to project
environmental assessment   in general terms. For bringing 410   at closing  preparation
of Krishna Water Supply   Mid from Krishna River to city
Scheme
Water quality studies     Not identified at appraisal. To  Completed       ditto
ensure Krishna water is fit for
consumption
AP sector strategy study  Not identified at appraisal.    Completed        For GOAP policy
planning purposes
Consultancy to assist     Not identified at appraisal.    Completed        BOOT proposal did not
evaluation and negotiations                                                proceed
for BOOT proposal for
Krishna water scheme
Preparation of PPP and PIP   Not identified at appraisal.  Almost completed  Bank requirements for
for Second Project                                       at closing        Second Project
processing
Socio-econ survey and    Not identified at appraisal.    Almost completed  Bank requirements for
RAP preparation for                                      at closing        Second Project
Second Project                                                             processing
H/hold survey for assessing  Not identified at appraisal.  Almost completed  Bank requirements for
demand for LCS units in                                  at closing        Second Project
surrounding 9                                                              processing
municipalities for Second
Project



22
Table 8A: Project Costs
K             Componerlt                         Rs million                    US$ million
Appraisal       Actual       Appraisal        Actual
I Manjira Phase III Stage 1                    774.8        921.0            44.0          35.9
2 S rengthen Water Systems                     689.7       1313.5            35.9          40.7
3 Strengten Sewerage Systems                   624.4        331.4            33.6           10.0
t4 Low-cost Sanitation                           57.8         61.2             3.2           2.0
5 Resettlemen- and Rehabilitation              146.3        262.8             8.7           9.9
I6 nstitutionai Strengthening                   86.0        180.4             4.8           5.9
Enginleering and Supervision                   182.4        105.1            10.0           3.6
Land                                              9.3         17.3             0.6           0.7
2570.6       3192.7           140.6         108.6
Table 8B: Project Financing
So-aces                           Appraisal                       Actual
US$ million                  US$ million
IDA Credit                                      79.9          56.8           81.9          75.4
IBRD Loar                                       10.0           7.1            0.0           0.0
SUB TOTAL                  89.9          63.9           81.9          75.4
|GOAP Loans to HMWSSB                            41.0          29.2            0.0           0.0
GOAP P Other Contribution                        9.0           6.4           26.3          24.2
Householder Contributions (LCS)                  0.7           0.5            0.4           0.4
TOTAL FINANCING            140.6          100.0         108.6          100.0
The increaso in the Bank's share of financing of total project costs from 56.8% (appraisal) to 75.4% (actual) is
a'tribu.able largely to dhe decision by the Bank to increase its project disbursement percentages in 1991 as a result of
the Gulf War. The changes were: Civil Works - from 61% to 90%; Equipment and Materials local expenditures for
items pro rured locally -- from 65% to 80%. All IDA funds were passed on by GOAP to HMWSSB as loans. The
balance of GOAP funds were assumed, therefore, to have been provided as grants although the precise breakdown
between lbans and grants is uncertain.



23
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Capital and
Incremental     Capital         Incremental         Net operating                       Net Revenues
Water Sold    Expenditures    Operating Costs        Expenditures                    (Revenues less costs)
Rs, Million)      (Rs. ilion)          (Rs. Million)                      (Rs.  ion
Adj.     Net      Including             Adj.     Incremental                Adj.
SCF =     of     Depreciation           SCF =      Revenues                 SCF =
S.No.   Year    Mld  m3 mill Market  0.8  Depreciation     /a      Nominal    0.8      (Rs. Million)   Nominal    0.8
1.  1990-91    0.0    0.0   19.9  21.2        0.0        0.0        19.9      21.2          0.0        -19.9  -21.2
2.   1991-92    0.0    0.0  351.3 375.0       0.0        0.0       351.3     375.0          0.0       -351.3  -375.0
3.  1992-93    0.0    0.0  437.5 467.0        0.0        0.0       437.5     467.0          0.0        437.5  -467.0
4.   1993-94    0.0    0.0  271.5 289.8       0.0        0.0       271.5     289.8          0.0       -271.5  -289.8
5.  1994-95   44.6   16.3  156.2  166.7      38.4       83.8       194.6     207.7         32.9       -161.7  -174.8
6.  1995-96   44.6   16.3    0.0   0.0    43.1          57.1        43.1      46.0         34.1          -9.1  -11.9
7.  1996-97   44.6   16.3    0.0   0.0    60.3          74.3        60.3      64.4    -    42.6         -17.7  -21.8
8.  1997-98  .44.6-   163      0.0   0.0    67.4        81.4        67.4     .71.9         55.3         -12.0  -16.6
9.   1998-99  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0      67.4       81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
10.  1999-00  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
11.  2000-01  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
12.  2001-02  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
13.  2002-03  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
14.  2003-04  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0       67.4       81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
15.  2004-05  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4       67.4       71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
16.  2005-06  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4       67.4       71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
17.  2006-07  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
18.  2007-08  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4       67.4       71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
19.  2008-09  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4       67.4       71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
20.  2009-10  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
21.  2010-11  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
22.  2011-12  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
23.  2012-13  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0       67.4       81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
24.  2013-14  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
25.  2014-15  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
26.  2015-16  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
27.  2016-17  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
28.  2017-18  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
29.  2018-19  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
30.  2019-20  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
31.  2020-21  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
32.  2021-22  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          81.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
33.  2022-23  135.0   49.3    0.0   0.0    67.4          S1.4        67.4      71.9        167.6        100.3   95.7
/a Not used in calculations
1988/89 prices
Present Value for
Discount Rates of
8%   349.7  1030.7 1100.1      554.5      701.6   1585.4    1692.2        1150.4   -435.0        -541.7
10%   268.3  991.6 1058.4       435.6      555.5   1427.2    1523.3         876.7   -550.4       -646.5
12%   210.0  955.0 1019.3       348.9      448.8   1304.0    1391.8         681.6   -622.5       -710.3
14%   167.3  920.5 982.5        284.6      369.2   1205.2    1286.4         539.2   -666.2       -747.3
Results (SAR value in parentheses):
The calculated actual EIRRs are as follows: Nominal -- 4% (11%); SCF = 0.8 -- 3% (10%); SCF = 0.9 -- 3% (n/a).
The calculated average incremental costs of water in Nominal Rs/m3 are as follows: at discount rate = 8% - 4.5
(4.3); at discount rate = 10% -- 5.3 (4.9); at discount rate = 12% -- 6.2 (5.5); and, at discount rate = 14%- 7.2 (6.1).
NOTE: (I) A standard conversion factor of 0.8 was applied to the foreign exchange component of investment costs
(2) Costs and Revenue are in constant 1988-89 Prices



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement Section  Covenant Present   Original   Revised                       Description of                                  Comments
type    status  fulfillment fulfillment                    covenant
date      date
DCA       2.02(b)   01        C                             India to open and maintain a Special Account in the RBI
3.01(a)   03,04,05  C                            India to cause AP and HMWSSB to take all actions
l________                                                   necessary to implement the project
4.01     01        C                             India to ensure records maintained of all SOE's and provide
audit report to IDA within 9 months after the end of each
fiscal year                                        r_:_
4.02     01        C                             India to provide Special Account report to IDA within 6
months of the end of each fiscal year
AP        2.01(a)   03        CP                            AP to provide funds, facilities, services and other resources  tmplementation of DRP recommendations was
required for Part B of the Project (RRP and DRP)   slow and remained incomplete at closing.
2.01(b)   10       C                             AP and HMWSSB to carry out Project substantially in
accordance with an OAP updated from time to time with
Bank agreement
2.02(a)   04       C                             AP to provide funds to HMWSSB to carry out Parts A (i),
(ii), (iii) of Project in accordance with SLA approved by the
Association
2.02(b)   03,04    C                             AP to provide HMWSSB, as a grant, the funds required to
carry out Parts A (iv) and (v) - LCS, TA, Training                                           l
2.05     05        C                             AP to perforn all its obligations under SLA
2.07(a)   07       CP                            AP to carry out RRP in accordance with 3-yr timetable  ERSs have not been completed in the newly
added 5 villages and for the returnees
2.07(b)   07,10    C                             AP to monitor all activities in carrying out RRP through
District Collector Medak
2.07(c)   07,10    C        31 -Mar-90           AP to employ consultants to undertake supplementary
monitoring and evaluation of RRP
2.07(d)   07.09    C                             AP to promptly revise, as necessary, the RRP on basis of
monitoring and evaluation reports, in consultation with
Bank
2.08(a)   10       C                             AP to ensure safety of Singur Dam by maintaining DRP  Implementation of DRP recommendations was
until Dam and remedial work is completed           slow and remained incomplete at closing.
2.08(b)   10       C                             AP to ensure regular inspections and evaluation of Singur
Dam



f Agreement  Section  Covenant Present   Original    Revised                       Description of                                    Commcnts
type     status  fulfillment fulfillment                     covenant
date       date
2.09     05         C                              AP to operate the Singur Dam in accordance with Operating Rules approved. Reservoir filling delayed by
Rules approved by Bank                               spillway gate problems and safety concems
2 10     03,05      CD                             AP to remit to HMWSSB arrears in payment of standpost   Payments were initially insufficient and late.
charges due from MCH in 5 equal annual installments, the   Final payment to discharge debt made by 31-
first before 30-Jun-90                               Mar-95
3.01(a)   01,07     C                              AP to maintain records and accounts for Part B (RRP)  :
3.01(b)   01        C                              AP to provide RRP accounts and audit reports within 9
months of fiscal year end
PA         2.01 (b)   05,10    C                               HMWSSB and AP to carry out project in accordance with
OAP updated from time to time in agreement with Bank
2.04      05        C                              HMWSSB to perform all obligations under SLA
3.03      05        C                       _       HMWSSB to maintain appropriate insurance
3.04     05,10      C                              HMWSSB to maintain Project Cell staffed and organized in
manner satisfactory to the Bank
3.05      05,10     CP                              HMWSSB by 31 -May-90 and thereafter to staff an      Two CA posts and one Intemal Auditor post not         un
organization under its Dir. Finance in a manner satisfactory  filled at closing
to the Bank
4.01      01        C                               HMWSSB to forward the accounts and audit report to the
Bank within 9 months of the end of each fiscal year
4.02(a)   02        C                               HMWSSB to ensure its gross revenues are not less than  Expected to be in compliance for 1997/98, i.e. at
operating expenses plus debt service requirements in excess closure, following tariff revision of 0 1-Feb-97.
of provision for depreciation                        Shortfalls occurred in 1990/91 (1.25%), 1991/92
(1.65%), 1992/93 (0.900/0), 1994/95 (0.39%), and
19.95/96(5.15/6).
4.03      02        C                               HMWSSB to establish sewerage charges not less that 200/%  Sewerage cess levied at 20% on 01-Oct-90;
of water charges payable to all consumers with private  increased to 30% on 29-Mar-93; increased to
connection and access to sewerage services           35% on 01-Feb-97.
Covenant types:                                                                                                       Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                                       8. = Indigenous people                                    C  = covenant complied with
2. = Financial perfornance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting              CD = complied with after delay
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds                 10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9  CP = complied with partially
4. = Counterpart funding                                   11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource  NC = not complied with
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing agency       allocation
6. = Environmental covenants                              12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional    DCA: Development Credit Agreement
7.=  Involuntary resettlement                                    action                                           AP: Andhra Pradesh Agreement
13. = Other                                            PA: Project Agreement



26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                      Planned              Revised              Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks      US$      Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$
Through Appraisal                 n/a       n/a       n/a       n/a       50.7     135,000
Appraisal-Board                   n/a       n/a       n/a       n/a       36.8    107,000
Supervision                      n/a        n/a       n/a       n/a      162.6    456,000
Completion                       12.0     38,000      12.0    38,000      12.0     38,000
TOTAL                                                                L 262.1    736,900
1.    The table indicates n/a where information is not available from the Bank's MIS
2.     Completion Actuals are final estimates
3.     Staff costs includes Labor, Travel and Other costs
4.     Small amounts of Supervision costs include charges to the budgets of a Trust Fund and the UNDP/Bank
Regional Water Supply Group



27
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number   Days in       Specialized    Impleme    Develop-
Stage of       Month/    of        Field       Staff Skills    ntation     ment      Types of Problems
Project Cycle     Year   Persons    (max)       Represented      Status    Objectives
Through Appraisal   May-87                                           _           _        Identification
Sep-97                    .                       _                    Pre-appraisal
Mar-88    7         19        SE(3), FA, R&R,     _           _        Appraisal
Proc., DC
Appraisal through    Dec-88                                          _           _        Review Mission
Board Approval
Jan-90     I        5        R&R                                       Partial Review Mission - R&R
Supervision        Apr-90    6         11       SE(2),FA,Proc,        I           I       Review Mission
Disb,DS
Oct-90    3         14        SE(2), FA,           1           1       #1 (Full): Org. and staffing;
preparation of up-dated OAP; tariff
reviews
Mar-91    4         10       SE, R&R, LCS,         I          1        #2 (Full): CPT5 - RRP behind
HRD                                      schedule. Otherwise, no major
problems
Aug-91    4         11       SE, FA,Disb,          I           1       #3 (Full): CPT5 - RRP catching up.
LCS                                      No major problems
Sep-91    2         5        R&R(2)                I          I        #3a (Partial - R&R)
Jan-92    3         12        SE, FA, R&R          I           1       #4 (Full): Implementation of RRP
again behind schedule esp. econ.
rehabilitation
May-92    5         5         SE(2), FA,           I           I       #5 (Full): Implementation of econ.
HRD, LCS                                 rehabilitation of RRP still slow
Sep-92    5         13       SE(2), FA, R&R,       I           1       #6 (Full): CPTS - RRP now well
LCS                                      behind schedule. Basic data in RRP
found invalid. Tariff increase
overdue. Finance and Accounts Dept
needs strengthening
Jan-93    2         7         SE, R&R              I           I       #7 (Partial - R&R)
Mar-93    3         4         SE(2), R&R           1           1       #8 (Partial - R&R): Project
proceeding well but CPT5 (RRP)
continues to slip.
Apr-93    4         6         SE,ME,FA,R&R                             #9 (Partial - R&R)
Jul-93    2         2         SE(2)                                    #10 (Partial - R&R)
Nov-93    4         11        SE(2), FA,R&R                    I _     #11 (Full): CPT2 and CPT3 pre-
investment design studies behind
schedule. Progress with CPT5 (RRP)
econ rehab still poor and RRP further
revised. CTP6 consultant studies
behind schedule.



28
Performance Rating
Number   Days in    Specialized    Implemen    Develop-
Stage of       Month/      of       Field      Staff Skills   tation        ment      Types of Problems
Project Cycle     Year   Persons    (max)    Represented         Status    Objectives
May-94    6          12       SE(2), FA,         HS           S        #12 (Full): Cm  and CPT3 studies
R&R, HRD,                                delayed.. CPT5 progress much
LCS                                      improved. and revised timeframe
agreed. CPT6 still behind schedule.
Action on Finance and Accounts
staffing delayed.
Jan-95     6         15       SE(2), FA,         HS           S        # 13 (Mid Termn Review): Good
LCS, Proc,                               progress on all components after earlier
R&R                                      delays. 5 "new" R&R villages
identified. One covenant not in
compliance - payment of arrears to
HMWSSB for standpost charges.
Oct-95     5         13       SE(2), FA,         HS           S        #14 (Full): Action on Finance and
R&R, LCS                                 Ac-counts staffing continues to be
delayed.. Delays to completion of
R&R. GOAP tardy in responding to
safety issues and recommnendations
raised by Dam Review Panel.
May-96    4         11        SE(2), R&R,        HS           S  \    #15 (Full): Action on Finance and
LCS                                      Accounts staffing continues to be
delayed. at HMWSSB. Concern over
supervision staff strength for CPT2 and
CPT3 now that implementation is
proceeding. Need for tariff revision to
meet financial covenant. Further delays
to completion of RRP over 5 new
villages. Darn Review Panel
recommendations remain outstanding.
Nov-96    7         7         SE(2), FA(2),       S           S        #16 (Full): Supervision staff strength
R&R, Proc(2),                           for CPT2 and CPT3 inadequate.
LCS                                      Vacant positions persist in Finance and,
Accounts. Tariff revision needed for
financial covenant. Slow response to
Dam Review Panel by GOAP. Further
delays to completion of RRP - need for 
revision to accommodate returnees.
Jun-97     4        8         SE(2), R&R,         S           S        #17 (Full): Continuing slow response
LCS                                     to Dam Review Panel by GOAP. Slow
progress to construct reservoir outlets
(financed outside Project but affecting
storage and capacity utilization)
Completion         Mar-98    4          22       SE, FA, R&R,        S            S       Final Supervision #18 and Completion
Proc                                     Mission: Vacant positions persist in
Finance and Accounts at HMWSSB.
Dam Review Panel recommendations
not addressed by GOAP.
Key to Specialized staff skills: SA - Sanitary Engineer; FA - Financial Analyst (and sometimnes including
Economist); ME - Municipal Engineer; R&R - Relocation and Rehabilitation Specialist; Proc - Procurement
Specialist; Disb - Disbursements Specialist; DS - Dam Safety Specialist; DC - Division Chief and Chief of Mission;
LCS - Low Cost Sanitation Specialist; HRD - Training Specialist.
Number of Persons on missions included attendance of technical staff of the UNDP/World Bank Regional Water
Supply and Sanitation Group based in New Delhi who were not financed from the Supervision Budget of the Bank.
CPT - Component



APPENDIX A
Completion Mission's Aide-Memoire



APPENDIX A
29
INDIA: HYDERABAD WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3181/Credit 2115-IN)
March 05-27, 1998: Final Supervision (No. 18) and Completion Mission
AIDE MEMOIRE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I   INTRODUCTION .....................................2
II   THE PROJECT - PROJECT STATUS OVERVIEW .....................................3
III  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AT CLOSING ...................................-.-.6
Component 1: Manjira Phase IV .................................. 6-
Singur Reservoir Filling and Dam  Review  Panel (DRP) .............                         ...................6
Component 2: Strengthen-Rehabilitate Existing Water System   .......................                         ......................7
Component 3 : Strengthen-Rehabilitate Existing Sewerage System    .................                             .....................8
Component 4: Low-Cost Sanitation ..............................................................9
Component 5 : Resettlement and Rehabilitation Program  (RRP)  .....................                           ......................9
Component 6: Technical Assistance and Training  ............................................................... 1 3
IV     VIEWS ON  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ...............................................................    ]15
Mission's Views ..............................................................                                                15
HMWSSB's Views .............................................................. 16
GoAP's Views ..............................................................                                                   18
V   VIEWS ON FUTURE OPERATION - OPERATIONAL PLAN - SUSTAINABILITY ...... 18
VI    FOLLOW   UP AND  AGREED  ACTIONS ..............................................................1  9
ANNEXES
1      Institutional Transformation at HMWSSB  ..........................                         .....................................4
2   Monitoring Indicators ................................................................1
3      Guidance on the Borrower's Contribution to the ICR  .............................................................1
4      Summary of Significant Actions Recommended by/Agreed with this Mission .......................1
5      List of Key Persons Met ..............................................................1



INDIA: HYDERABAD WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION PROJECT
(Loan 3181/Credit 2115-IN)
March 05-27, 1998: Final (No. 18) Supervision and Completion Mission
AIDE MEMOIRE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01  The Mission. A World Bank mission visited Hyderabad at various times over the
period March 5 and March 27, 1998 for the Final Supervision and Completion of the
Project. The Mission Members were: Messrs. Shyamal Sarkar (Sanitary Engineer &
Mission Leader, Bank's New Delhi Office), from March 5 to 10, and March 25 to 27,
1998; David Marsden (Senior Social Development Officer, SASSD, Bank's Washington
HQ), from March 9 to 20, 1998; S. Krishnan (Procurement Engineer, Bank's New Delhi
Office), March 5 to 7, 1998; and Michael Whitbread (Financial Analyst, Consultant),
from March 9 to 27, 1998.
1.02 Mission objectives. The objectives of the Mission were to: (a) conduct the final
supervision of the Project: (b) assess the views of the Mission, Borrower and
implementing agencies on Project implementation, operations, and future operational
plan; (c) start to document lessons of experience; (d) provide advise and support for the
Borrower's contribution for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
1.03 Mission Tasks. The Mission held discussions with officials of the Government
of Andhra Pradesh (GoAP); senior management and concerned staff of Hyderabad
Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB); Consultants working on
the Project; Regional Centre for Urban and Environmental Studies (RCUES) of Osmania
University who assisted with the Training Plan, and others concerned with
implementation including two former Managing Directors, and two former Chief
Engineers of HMWSSB (Annex 5 lists key persons met). For Component 5,
Resettlement and Rehabilitation Program (RRP), discussions were held with the Village
Level Workers, the deputy Tahsildars, the village headmen and a variety of project
affected persons, and members of the independent monitoring and evaluation team of the
Centre for Economic and Social Studies (CESS), Hyderabad. The mission also held
discussions with the District Collector and Joint Collector of Medak District.
1.04 Field visits were made as follows: Water Treatment Plant at Peddapur and
associated facilities, and the clear water pumping main from Peddapur to the Khanapur
Reservoir (Component 1); the clear water reservoirs in the city at Prashasan Nagar,
Bojagutta, Narayanguda and Chilkalguda and associated facilities, and several bulk flow,
bulk and domestic meters at different locations installed (Component 2); the Sewage
Treatment Plant at Hussainsagar and associated facilities, the duplicate "A" main, and the
stormwater drain interception arrangements at Banjara Nalah and Divya Shakti
(Component 3); the two communities of Pahadi and Hyderguda to inspect low cost
sanitation (LCS) units (Component 4); and, the new resettlement village sites of
Peddareddipet, Lonikhurd, Itkepally, Pulkurthy, and the resettlement villages of



31
Mallikarjunpally, Atmyal and Takkadpally (3 of the 24 resettlement villages), with
members of the Rehabilitation team (Component 5). Overall the Mission was impressed
with the quality of the work which had been undertaken at these places. Facilities, where
commissioned, were functioning as intended.
1.05 Reports Received by the Mission. This Mission was pleased that the HMWSSB
had prepared various data and reports in advance of the Mission's arrival in Hyderabad.
These were: a list of studies under the project; a list and an account of training activities;
data on project costs and financing; HMWSSB accounting statements over the project
life; an economic analysis of Component 1 of the project; a statement of tariffs over the
project life; a status report on superstructures of LCS toilets; and a brief implementation
report for each of the project components with detailed information on procurement.
These data and reports greatly facilitated the task of the Mission in summarizing the
status of the project as it approached closing.
1.06  Ex-post evaluation studies have been undertaken for LCS and Training and the
Mission benefited from receiving reports of the consultants/evaluators, as follows: Low
Cost Sanitation, draft final report dated March 1998 (Consulting Engineering Services,
Calcutta - CES); Training Action Plan, Performance and Impact Analysis dated
November 1997 (RCUES, Osmania University). The mission also received: The 14th
Semi-annual Report on the RRP, for the period March to September 1997 (CESS); and,
the Report of the 16th Meeting of the Dam Review Panel of Singur Dam (23 to 27
February, 1998).
1.07 Wrap-up Meeting. A State level wrap-up meeting was held in Hyderabad on
March 27, 1998, chaired by the Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration and Urban
Development Department of GoAP at which the principal findings and recommendations
of the Mission were reviewed and the future actions were agreed with. The Mission
received assurance that the few works which would remain uncompleted at closing would
be completed and the GoAP/HMWSSB would finance these balance works from their
own sources. However, the GoAP would like to include the remaining works of RRP for
implementation under the upcoming Second Project.
1.08  All Mission Members wish to record their appreciation for the courtesies
extended to them and for the assistance and cooperation of all agencies and individuals
concerned. This Aide Memoire contains the Mission's findings, recommendations and
agreement reached. These are subject to review and confirmation by the management of
the World Bank.
II. THE PROJECT - PROJECT STATUS OVERVIEW
2.01 Disbursements. At March 22, 1998, US$73.2 million equivalent which is 91.6%
of the original principal of the Credit, and 81.8% of the current value of the Credit, had
been disbursed. The Borrower anticipates that about 93% of the current value of the
Credit will have been disbursed by the final reimbursement claim. The estimated Credit
unused is therefore US$5.6 million.



32
2.02  Total Project Costs. The Borrower estimates that the estimated expenditure on
the Project at closing will be Rs 3,145 million, which compares with appraisal estimates
of Rs 2,570 million (US$140.6 million equivalent).
2.03 Implementation progress. Implementation of Component 1 (Manjira Phase IV)
has been completed and commissioned. It is anticipated that except for
(a) Pipeline between Patancheru and Jyoti cinema; (b)'erection of pumping plants at
Shaikpet and Prashasan Nagar; and (c) and remote sensing surveys for municipalities
adjoining Hyderabad, implementation of Component 2 (Strengthening and
Rehabilitation of the Existing Water System) will have been completed by closing.
Completion of these works will need about three/six months more. However, there will
be a small shortfall on the completion of Component 3 (Rehabilitation and Strengthening
of the Existing Sewerage System) as the works for railway crossing and some road
crossings of duplicate "A" main would not be completed fully. Targets for Component
4, Low Cost Sanitation, have been exceeded. Some works such as (a) housing
construction in 5 new villages; (b) economic rehabilitation schemes in the 5 new villages;
and (c) some economic rehabilitation schemes in the other villages under Component 5
(the RRP at Singur) remain to be completed. Under Component 6 (Technical Assistance
and Training), all the studies which were appraised have been completed; studies which,
with the Bank's agreement, were added during implementation have been initiated and
mostly completed (some of the preparation studies for the proposed Second Project are
nearing completion); and the agreed Training Plan has been completed and evaluated.
Accordingly, the Project at closing will have implemented in large measure the six
components which were appraised, or amended with the agreement of the Bank at the
Mid-Term Review and otherwise from time to time.
2.04 The Mission rates the implementation performance as Satisfactory.
2.05  Institutional and policy changes. Most of the institutional and policy changes
discussed and agreed with the Bank and covenanted or included in the Operational
Action Plan, which was updated from time to time, have been implemented. The residual
unfinished items are: three senior postings in the Finance and Accounts Wing of
HMWSSB remain unfilled (see Covenant Compliance below); and, the autonomy of
HMWSSB on staffing matters remains to be resolved given that Engineering staff
continue to be on deputation.
2.06 Critical actions which remain outstanding are:
*  There continues to be an inadequate response from the Irrigation and Command Area
Development Department (ICADD) of GoAP to implement the recommendations of
the Dam Panel Review (DRP).
* Delays in the completion of the reservoir gates, also a matter for the ICADD, have led
to reduced availability of water, and lower reliability of supplies to the city.
Furthermore, as a consequence of this inaction, assets which have been provided



33
under the project are under-utilized because of the reduced availability of water.
The GoAP proposed to include implementation of the DRP recommnendations in as mush
as they are related to Singur Dam in the proposed Second Project. But these works will
be financed entirely from the GoAP sources as the procurement of these works have been
progressed following the ICADD procurement practices which are not consistent with the
Bank procurement guidelines.
2.07 Covenant compliance. Earlier inaction by GoAP to implement tariff increases
requested by HMWSSB in a timely manner led to failure by HMWSSB in some years to
achieve its covenanted financial cost recovery target (PA Sec 4.02(a)). In 1995-96 the
shortfall on the target was 5.15%. This was the only covenant not in compliance at the
time of the previous mission. Following the tariff increase in February 1997, it is
anticipated that the cost recovery covenant will be exceeded in the current fiscal year
ending March 31, 1998 by about 10.7 1% and that accordingly, this covenant is now
regarded as being in compliance.
2.08 Two covenants are in partial compliance: (a) a portion of the RRP has not been
completed as the PAFs did not move to the resettlement villages constructed for them
whereas the Andhra Pradesh Agreement Sec 2.07(a) required that Andhra Pradesh shall
carry out the RRP in accordance a three year timetable; and (b) posts of two Chartered
Accountants and one Internal Auditor which were to be filled as agreed with the Bank
have not been filled in the organization under the Director Finance whereas Project
Agreement Sec 3.05 required that HMWSSB shall staff an organization under its Director
of Finance, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2.09 Quarterly Progress Reports. QPRs have been prepared promptly by HMWSSB
since effectiveness in a format agreed with the Bank. These reports have continued to be
supplied on time, providing systematic record of progress and keeping the Bank and
HMWSSB adequately informed. The last report was for the period to December 31,
1997. The final progress report i.e. covering the period up to March 31, 1998 will be
furnished to the Bank by May 31, 1998.
2.10   Having regard to the foregoing, and to the findings of the Mission recorded
elsewhere in this Aide-Memoire, the Mission rates the achievement of Development
Objectives8/ as Satisfactory.
S/    The development objectives are: (a) an improvement in quantity and reliability of water supply in
Hyderabad; (b) an improvement in the capacity and utilization of existing wastewater collection and
treatment facilities; (c) a reduction in the households not having satisfactory excreta disposal facilities; (d)
the satisfactory resettlement and rehabilitation of those affected by the Singur dam reservoir; (e) the
preparation of future urban and water supply and sanitation projects; and (f) the strengthening of the
management, technical and financial performance of sector institutions.



34
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STATUS AT CLOSING
3.01  The following section provides the details of the Project implementation status at
the time of the Mission, by Component.
Component 1: Manjira Phase IV
3.02 The main objective of the Manjira Phase IV was to improve the water supply by
providing additional 135 Mld of treated water to the Hyderabad water supply system
from Singur dam through the construction and commissioning of works including a raw
water transmission main, a water treatment plant, clear water storage, pumping, a clear
water transmission main, distribution reservoirs and installation of bulk flow meters. The
works were completed before December 1993 and treated water was delivered to
Hyderabad water distribution system in January 1994. The pre-commissioning trial was
conducted smoothly, made possible by the good construction quality.
3.03  The newly built water treatment plant process operation is based partly on
instrumentation control and partly manual control, and has had an operation and
maintenance contract from the beginning. It is working satisfactorily. The operation and
maintenance of the clear water pumps and motors have also been contracted out since
commissioning and these are working satisfactorily.
Singur Reservoir Filling and Dam Review Panel (DRP)
3.04 The Singur Dam was constructed and financed apart from the project by GoAP's
ICADD and its construction was approaching completion at the time of inception of this
project in 1990. Almost a decade has passed since the dam was completed, but the
reservoir could not be filled to the FRL +523.6m (storage at FRL is 29.9 TMC) as all the
remedial works recommended by the Dam Review Panel have not been implemented.
The crucial work which remains and which has affected the filling to FRL is the repairs
and strengthening of the gates. The ICADD has been very slow in procuring a gantry
crane to facilitate the repairs. It is now expected that the crane will be procured in June
1998 and the repairs will be completed in time to fill the reservoir to FRL in monsoon
year 1998. The mission flagged the necessity of DRP's clearance before the reservoir
is filled to FRL.
3.05  Andhra Pradesh and the Bank agreed [AP Agreement Sec 2.08(a)] that the DRP
will be maintained until the dam, including remedial works, is completed. This covenant
is in compliance, but the issue is that the DRP recommendations have not been
implemented. The Bank's concerns on the tardy implementation of the DRP
recommendations are that, having regard to the disastrous consequences of any dam
failure, the issues are not receiving adequate attention. The Sixteenth meeting of the
DRP on February 23-27, 1998, further deliberated on the dam safety measures required.
The Mission suggest that a thorough review of the compliance of the DRP
recommendations should be made and compliance ensured by the GoAP in collaboration
with HMWSSB. The DRP should be continued in the spirit of the project covenant,



35
mentioned above, until such times that all actions related to dam safety are
completed. The GoAP and HMWSSB agreed to the Mission's suggestions.
Component 2: Strengthen-Rehabilitate Existing Water System
3.06  The objective of this component was to improve the reliability of the water supply
by including the means whereby water can be transferred, within the trunk distribution
system, from areas normally supplied by a less drought-vulnerable source to areas served
by a more drought-vulnerable source; and provide equipment to aid effective and
efficient management of operation and maintenance.
3.07  This component included the rehabilitation and strengthening of the existing
water systems including the construction of distribution reservoirs and the rehabilitation
of existing reservoirs; various trunk distribution mains; the replacement of leaking
transmission main; the rehabilitation of existing water treatment plants and existing
pumping stations and the construction of new pumping stations; the rehabilitation and
strengthening of the existing distribution system and service connections and meters; the
provision of bulk flow meters and related equipment to improve system operation and
management; the construction of office space, and the provision of equipment for leak
detection.
3.08  Following the Conceptual Design Report prepared by the Consultant, HMWSSB
attached higher priority to the unaccounted-for water management and control aspects.
The SAR estimates for this component were revised from Rs 689.7 million (US$35.9
million) to Rs 1266.3 million (net of engineering and land). The investment comprised
of: (i) construction of 8 clear water reservoirs (aggregate capacity 101.5 million liters);
(ii) construction of two pump houses and installation of pumps (6 pumps, 670.5 KW);
(iii) inlet and outlet mains for the proposed reservoirs (inlets 400 mm dia to 1200 mm dia,
23.8 km; outlets 900 mm dia to 1200 dia, 7.67 km); (iv) some strengthening works (1200
mm dia, 22.3 km); (v) chlorinators (39 nos.); (vi) unaccounted-for water (UFW)
management and control; (vii) construction of office buildings; and (viii) preparation of
base maps (aerial photography and photogrammetry) for development of water supply
and sewerage system for areas surrounding Hyderabad. The UFW program covered
installation of bulk flow meters, leak detection surveys on old CI distribution mains,
replacement of RCC/AC distribution mains with CI pipes; replacement of GI pipe service
connections with MDPE pipes, replacement of domestic and bulk consumer meters.
3.09  The delays (about 17 months) in completing the Conceptual Design Report by the
consultant affected the implementation schedule. At Mid-Term Review. (January 1995)
no expenditure on civil works was reported. However, HMWSSB was able to complete
most of the works due to its overall sound management ability. A few uncompleted
works are progressing at speed which HMWSSB expects will be substantially completed
by closing. However, the mission observed that (a) Pipeline between Patancheru and
Jyoti cinema; (b) erection of pumping plants at Shaikpet and Prashasan Nagar; and (c)
and remote sensing surveys for municipalities adjoining Hyderabad, may take 3-6 months
longer.



36
3.10  Three of the eight reservoirs have been commissioned and the water tightness
testing for the remaining is ongoing. The schedule for completion of this test was
affected by the drought conditions as it required transportation of water by tankers to fill
the reservoirs. The depletion of production of water due to drought conditions may
prevent immediate commissioning of all the facilities constructed. All these are expected
to be commissioned as soon as the production improves with raw water availability
during the monsoon expected in July.
3.11  The UFW management and control program evolved in the project was
implemented in only 3 (Banjara Hills, Red Hills, and Asmangadh) of the 18 water supply
zones, and a high priority Action Plan has been prepared by HMWSSB to implement the
UFW management and control program in its entire service area in the next 3-4 years
under the proposed Second Hyderabad Urban Water Supply and Sanitation Project.
Component 3: Strengthen-Rehabilitate Existing Sewerage System
3.12 At appraisal this Component was expected to cost Rs 624.4 million (US$33.6
million) and included: connections to the sewerage system of about 20,000 sanitary
building drains; about 26 km of branch sewers to twin or replace existing sewers; about
43 km of trunk sewers, also to twin or replace existing sewers; up to two large and two
small pumping stations; four pumping mains of 925 m length; a sewage treatment plant
(STP) of 180 Mld capacity comprising an anaerobic followed by aerated lagoon system;
and various items of equipment to be used to maintain the sewerage system.
3.13  The Conceptual Design Report brought fresh perspectives to the appropriate
priorities and to relatLed aspects of the configuration of the sewerage system. In
particular, the concentration on pollution abatement in Hussainsagar, which was not only
severely polluted by both domestic and industrial wastes with consequences for health
risks and the environment generally, but this is an important heritage feature which is
badly in need of conservation measures. These investment thus comprised: (i) measures
to abate pollution in Hussainsagar; (ii) some pilot scale Upflow Anaerobic Sludge
Blanket (UASB) sewage treatment works in Amberpet; (iii) sewer house connections;
(iv) sewer maintenance equipment. The SAR estimates for this component was thus
revised from Rs 624.4 million (US$33.5 million) to Rs 433.0 million (net of engineering
and land).
3.14  Although the procurement plans, procurement schedules and cost estimates were
prepared quite promptly, the procurement of the works progressed slower than the works
under Component 2. Successive Bank supervision missions raised with HMWSSB that
the delays in bidding K-5 1 sewers, and the UASB sewage treatment plant might leave
these two works uncompleted at closing. In fact, the K-5 1 sewers were not completed at
the time of mission's visit. However, HMWSSB expects them to be completed by the
Credit closing. The UASB works have not been taken-up as contract award decisions
could not be made by HMWSSB leaving sufficient time in hand for completion.
HMWSSB, therefore, decided in consultation with the Bank to take-up this work under



37
the proposed Second Hyderabad Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Project. These
apart, the construction of duplicate "A" main sewer will remain partly uncompleted
because of the delayed decision regarding the laying of pipes below the railway tracks.
Component 4: Low-Cost Sanitation
3.15  It was proposed at appraisal to construct 20,000 twin pit pour flush water sealed
latrines in Hyderabad and surrounding area. Areas selected are not usually covered by
sewerage facilities and are located where there is no program to lay sewers. The LCS
program has been assisted by NGOs conducting surveys, motivating beneficiaries,
providing health education and the construction of toilets. In all, 8 NGOs assisted.
Beneficiaries' contribution of 20% of cost (in practice between Rs 400 and 500) were
required which were usually given in kind (materials) and sometimes with labor. A total
of about 22,01 1 LCS toilets will have been constructed in 104 settlements by closing.
3.16 Field visits by earlier Missions and by this Mission have given the clear
impression that this program has been successful in achieving its objectives as the units
are fully utilized and are functioning correctly. Data collected by the 8 NGOs confirms
that 88% of toilets are in use of which 67% have permanent super-structures and 33%
temporary super-structures. A more systematic evaluation survey of 2,013 sample toilets
spread over 40 settlements has been undertaken by Consultants whose draft final report
was given to the Mission. The result of this evaluation confirms that only about 6% of
the toilets do not have superstructures, but the beneficiaries have plans to construct them
as soon as they can afford it.
3.17 In conclusion, Component 4 is regarded as having been successful in achieving its
objectives.
Component 5: Revised Resettlement and Rehabilitation Program (RRP)
3.18 A revised (fifth) Resettlement and Rehabilitation Plan was reviewed by the Bank
and approved by the Government of Andhra Pradesh vide Government Order No.93 MA
on March 29, 1997. This was largely an iteration of the fourth revision approved by the
Bank in early 1994 with attempts to quantify outstanding requirements to complete the
RRP for the 5 new resettlement villages. It did not include provision for dealing with
Singur village which is located at the foot of the dam and which suffers from seasonal
waterlogging. An estimate of costs has been prepared although a request from the
villagers to the ICADD for relocation has so far remained unaddressed.
3.19  Economic Rehabilitation. All of the planned Economic Rehabilitation Schemes
(ERSs) in the 24 fully submerged villages have been "grounded"9/ and the only
outstanding schemes are those to be delivered to returnees (those people who, having
earlier left the project area, returned to take up their entitlements as PAFs). All of the
9/    By "grounded" project authorities mean that assets for the Economic Rehabilitation Schemes
(ERSs) have been purchased and transferred to the recipients. It does not imply the success of the scheme.



38
ERSs planned in RRP4 for the 37 partially submerged villages have been grounded.
Current estimates by the project office indicate that 297 schemes (another estimate had
shown it to be 495) remain to be grounded in these two sets of villages, the result of the
establishment of claims by returnees, and those who have taken their cases to court.
3.20   Rehabilitation Action Plans for 2 of the 5 new resettlement sites have been
prepared by the NGOs and the Rehabilitation Office, and have been discussed with the
villagers at Gram Sabhas (village meetings). The plans identify 'awardees' together with
relevant data as to age and caste affiliation. They also contain indications of the choices
that 'awardees' have made for economic rehabilitation packages. The plans remain to be
finalized. A total of 1466 ERSs are planned for these 5 sites once relocation has been
completed. There is an undue focus on risky animal husbandry schemes in the plans
subrmitted to date. Project authorities have given an assurance that, wherever possible,
land-based schemes will be preferred.
3.21   Infrastructure Provision. Project reports indicate that all physical works apart
from the residual provision of electricity connections have now been completed. Public
buildings have been finished to a high standard, drinking water supplies have been
improved and drainage facilities have been completed. There remains the ongoing
problem of maintenance in the older resettlement colonies. As pointed out in previous
mission Aide-Memoires, unless provision is made for maintenance the assets created by
the project are likely to deteriorate rapidly. While assurances have been given to
previous missions by the Collector, Medak district there is little evidence that extra
resources have been made available for this essential work. As long as the panchayats
perceive that the project is available to maintain assets it is unlikely that progress in this
matter can be made. Until systematic efforts are made to generate local revenues this will
remain an important risk to sustainability. Project authorities recognize that communal
buildings, especially those for health centers and veterinary clinics were created without
the participation of the concerned departments, and they consequently remain
understaffed. The provision of water in this drought-prone area remains a seasonal
problem, and is exacerbated by an uncertain electricity supply to the pumps.
3.22 Physical infrastructure facilities in all five 'new' villages have been completed.
Utilities await the relocation of PAFs before they will be made operational. The project
continues to focus on the completion of planned works in the 5 new resettlement sites.
These cannot be completed until the PAFs relocate, when they trigger the disbursement
of the ERSs. The status of housing in these five villages is given below as of February
28, 1998.
Name of     No. of     No. of    No. of    No. of   No. of houses    No. of  No. of
Village   Awardees    plots      plots    houses      under      fiouses    ERSs
made    allotted  sanctioned  construction  completed   planned
Lonikhurd        273       343        164      24        6 (20)        15        150
Peddareddipet    538       214       204       100      59 85)        37         350
Itkepally        330       295        155      79       61 (24)        6         197
Pulkurthy        438       292       269       130     100  (6)        4         324
Bellapur         543       505       447       232       0 (118)       0         445
Total       1  2122   l   1649   l  1239  l   565      226 (253)  l   62    l  1466
(* figures in brackets indicate reported position at June 1997)



39
3.23  It is now apparent that the completion of housing and thus the 'grounding' of
economic rehabilitation schemes in the five new villages will not be completed before
Credit closing. Reasons for variable progress appear to be largely the result of rising
expectations in the minds of the PAFs. Project authorities indicate that, as a result of the
sub-division of households into separate PAF units and recognition of major deperndents
as separate units for the calculation of benefits, 1162 households have been able to claim
entitlement to 1466 ERSs.
3.24 Health issues. A visit was made by the Mission to the Heath Center at Atmakhur
to discuss with the medical professionals based there the possible health implications of
the impoundment of such a large body of water, particularly the incidence of malaria.
There were no apparent changes in the disease pattern and the incidence of malaria
appeared to be low. Such casual observations would need to be substantiated, but
deterioration in health was not mentioned during mission discussions.
3.25  Dealing with Returnees. The names of those who have registered entitlements
to benefits are available with the Collector. As and when appropriate, and subject to
residence in the village, they are provided with their housing entitlements and their
economic rehabilitation benefits. No major effort to search out these people is now being
made, on the assumption that having taken their compensation and moved away, they
have re-established their livelihoods elsewhere. It will be important to ensure that the
post-evaluation study incorporates a sub-set of cases from these emigre awardees.
3.26 Sustainability of Rehabilitation Packages. CESS reports the status of
rehabilitation schemes by tracking their viability over time. These reports indicate that
animal husbandry schemes and small business schemes are among the most risky. An
analysis of the status of these schemes revealed that about 75% of all schemes which
have been grounded to date have been retained. The circumstances surrounding non-
retention have been analyzed by CESS. They vary from outright sale, to re-establishment
outside the village and non-viability.
3.27 Post-project sustainability. Assurances have been received from GoAP that the
36 Village Level Workers and project staff will continue. There is a need to ensure that
the work in the 5 villages continues and all ERSs are not only grounded, but also
monitored to ensure sustainability. Eventual disbursement of the ERSs, together with
support for their proper establishment, will still be necessary.
3.28 Three policy issues are outstanding for Component 5.
(a)   The issue of sustainability of both physical and economic assets. This has
been addressed directly only in the context of insurance schemes for animal assets. For
other assets, responsibility remains with the borrower to ensure sustainability over time
but the Mission believes it is not sufficient to entrust these investments to the day to day
administration of the District, which is known to devote inadequate resources to
maintenance operations. The following Mission concems need to be addressed: how



40
long project affected families will be treated separately; the timing of handing back the
responsibility of the Rehabilitation Office to the normal administration of the District.
The objectives of self-reliant development will not be achieved as long as a dependency
syndrome is perpetuated.
(b)   The temporal boundary which separates earlier from later claimants. PAFs
who took compensation and moved out prior to the ratification of the restructured RRP in
1994 perceive the enhanced benefits being offered to those who remain to be resettled
and rehabilitated as inequitable and quite legitimately question the differential that has
been established between them. Similarly, because of the delay between notification and
eventual relocation minor sons (and daughters) have grown up and query their exclusion
from receipt of benefits, especially in the light of the apparently generous provision being
offered to the inhabitants of the 5 'new' resettlement villages. A cut-off date is required
for receipt of entitlements.
(c)   The geographical boundary which separates those who have assets above and
below the precise contour which determines FRL and, therefore, entitlement. This
boundary sometimes cuts villages and thus communities in half with all the attendant
social complexities that arise. While in some instances this may be deemed to have a
pro-poverty impact, as in Bellapur where the lower caste groups occupy the lower
ground, in other circumstances, the result of the inclusion of some and the exclusion of
others is more divisive. The assumption of a village-wide community of interests is not
tenable for most of the villages in this area which are ridden with caste divisions. A
restoration of the status quo ante is merely a replication of traditional inequities. A pro-
poor stance is likely to exacerbate divisions, as the taken for granted privileges of the
richer members of the village are undermined. The determination of entitlement in terms
of the drawing of an arbitrary line that does not take account of these social networks will
always create such distinctions. This points to the importance of early involvement of
viilagers in the decisions about boundary definitions in order to obtain consensus
wherever possible.
3.29  In order to address these three issues, the Mission recommends:
(a)   The early establishment of regular institutions at village level to take explicit
charge of operation and maintenance. This could emerge from the formnation of
the "habitation committees" under the current Janmabhoomi program.
(b)   In any subsequent programs an accurate , authoritative and agreed base-line
survey is carried out and that the time elapsing between identification of
beneficiaries and the receipt of benefits is minimized.
(c)   In dealing with marginal cases the project management should attempt to be
inclusive, and accede to the demands of those wishing to resettle with their
neighbors wherever possible.
Component 6: Technical Assistance and Training
3.30  Studies. Sixteen studies were identified at appraisal (later grouped into twelve),



41
and eleven more were added during implementation.
3.31  HMWSSB appointed domestic consultants with foreign inputs for two
assignments under Component 2: (a) surveys and infrastructure mapping, and final
design; and (b) water conservation, leakage control and use management. These
assignments have been completed, with delay.
3.32 Under Component 3, HMWSSB commissioned domestic consultants with foreign
inputs to carry out assessment studies of the sewerage system and for producing final
engineering designs. This assignment has been completed, but with delay.
3.33  National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) were
commissioned to carry out in environmental monitoring of the cultural heritage site of
Hussainsagar Lake which is expected to improve slowly, probably over a 5-year period,
as effluents are diverted to the new STP provided under Component 3. The study is
underway and the mission received the first quarterly progress report.
3.34 HMWSSB appointed domestic consultants with foreign inputs to undertake
studies of operations and maintenance. This assigrnent has been completed, without
delay.
3.35 The study for LCS was undertaken in-house by HMWSSB. However, LCS
evaluation studies have been commissioned and a draft final report was presented to the
Mission.
3.36 The concurrent evaluation of the implementation of the RRP for Component 5
was undertaken by Consultants and six monthly reports were produced during the
Project. A post-project impact study is under progress.
3.37 Four major studies were commissioned for Finance and Accounts at HMWSSB
and all have been brought to closure after delays. HMWSSB has implemented the
systems as follows:
* Financial Accounting System, Payroll and MIS: the HQ work is complete.
HMWSSB will turn its attention to extending to the decentralized parts of the
organization during the proposed Second Project.
* Revenue Billing and Collection: the system has been installed at around 28 counters
out of 32, each one covering on average about 8,000 consumers, to issue bills and
receive payments. Implementation is now proceeding towards full cornpletion.
* Stores Management and Inventory Control: the system is up and running at all three
stores.
* Project Management System: although connected to the accounting system, this
system is designed primarily for improving monitoring and management for capital



42
works for HMWSSB engineers. It is operational but has yet to be fully integrated
into the Engineering functions, thereby missing out on both the technical and
accounting benefits.
3.38 Training. An extensive training program was undertaken with the assistance of
RCUES of Osmania University. This program initiated training with an orientation
module designed to increase staff awareness of the HMWSSB's overall operations. Over
385 employees have been covered. The orientation module has been followed by an
Integrated Module to enhance skills. 382 Engineers are expected to be covered by
closing. 31 Finance & Accounts personnel and 40 staff members from Personnel &
Administration have been trained. In addition to the Integrated Module, an Induction
Module was developed to meet the needs of the new promotees, and 85 persons have
been trained under this Module. A select group of Managerial personnel with
responsibilities for training have completed a course in training for trainers.
3.39 Training for support staff for enhancing specific skills in local languages is 60%
completed. This includes 214 employees trained under the literacy improvement
program.
3.40 Construction of a Staff Training Centre has been completed.
3.41 Thus, the training plan agreed under the project was fully implemented. In their
Performance and Impact Analysis, RCUES has completed an extensive analysis and
evaluation of the courses offered. Benefits from the training as far as HMWSSB staff are
concerned are regarded as substantial.
3.42 Follow-on Project Studies. Studies relating to the possible Second Hyderabad
Water Supply and Sanitation Project and other future initiatives and funded under this
Project are in progress and are likely to be completed shortly after March 31, 1998.
These studies include:
*  A conceptual design report, designs, and bid documents for an additional 410 Mld to
be brought from the Krishna River to the city. Environmental assessment studies
have been completed. Detailed engineering studies have been extended to reflect
revised phasing of the scheme.
* A water quality study has been completed.
* A.P. Urban Water Supply structure strategy is underway and the strategy paper is
expected before March 31, 1998.
*  Surveys to determine feasibility of construction of LCS units in the nine adjoining
Municipalities have been given to seven NGOs who were associated with the
implementation of the LCS program under this Project. These studies are in order to
identify households yet to be covered with sanitary latrines, hydrogeological
conditions and other aspects of implementation; this survey is expected to be
completed soon.
* A study to comment on the financial and commercial bids for the BOOT proposal for
bringing water from Krishna river was completed although, in the event, the BOOT



43
process was aborted.
*  Consultants have been appointed to prepare the Project Preparation Plan and Project
Implementation Plan for the proposed Second Project. This study is also underway
and is expected to be completed soon.
*  A survey of the Socio-Economic conditions and Preparation of a RAP for Project
affected persons is underway and is expected to be completed soon.
IV. VIEWS ON PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Mission Views
4.01  From October 1990 to May 1994 Bank supervision missions had classified
implementation performance as Highly Satisfactory. From May 1994 the rating slipped
to Satisfactory. At the closing of the Project, the overall performance has been judged to
be Satisfactory by the Mission. The project failed to achieve the Highly Satisfactory
rating largely because of the delay and difficulties which occurred with certain
components: Component 2 & 3 were delayed largely as a result of difficulties
experienced by consultants undertaking the surveys for mapping purposes. With the
delay in mapping, it was not possible to proceed with design work in accordance with the
original time-table, or with execution of works. Only the comparatively long project
period of 8 years has permitted HMWSSB to (virtually) complete the works in time, or
within reasonable time (3-6 months) beyond closing.
4.02  Component 4 also started slowly but overall the progress was impressive and
implementation, utilizing the services of competent NGOs, has proved to be highly
successful.
4.03 Component 5, the RRP, also had considerable delays. These stemmed from a
variety of circumstances - the changing perception towards rehabilitation issues
generally, the importance attached to the project by the various District authorities, and
the changing perceptions of PAFs during the course of the project.
4.04 Elements of Component 6 were also slow to complete, such as the four studies in
the Finance & Accounts wing. Nevertheless, overall the follow-on actions from the
studies, and the training program, have been implemented to a high standard.
4.05  The quality of project implementation has been good. Physical works in all
components have been planned and constructed to high standards and appear to be
working well. In Component 5, doubt remains over their maintenance.
4.06 In Component 5, once a clear policy and direction was given to the economic
rehabilitation program, it developed some of the more imaginative schemes to be found
in any R&R program in the country. The combination of project and District resources
was of considerable importance in achieving the success in housing and in economic
rehabilitation. It is obvious that some of the rehabilitation schemes were risky, and the
Bank's continuing insistence that land-based schemes are likely to be the most



44
sustainable has been borne out by the results. But the overall success rate of about 75%
is a significant achievement. It is too early to measure the eventual sustainability of these
schemes. While the participation of NGOs was positive, in particular with respect to the
adoption of more consultative and participatory practices, their association was short-
lived and somewhat problematic. Of the 5 NGOs employed, only CESS remained until
the end of the project period. The appointment of an independent monitoring and
evaluation team which was associated with the project for its whole life has been an
important element in ensuring effective monitoring as well as in pointing out problems
and initiating revisions of direction. In contrast to the attention given to many R&R
projects in other parts of the country, the Singur project has not received any sustained
criticism. The project has several important lessons to offer for future similar projects.
HMWSSB's Views
4.07 HMWSSB will provide an assessment in its Borrower Evaluation. The general
feeling amongst senior management during the Mission appeared to be that the project
was Successful.
4.08 Component 1 was implemented successfully and within time and the HMWSSB
experienced no problems with the operation of the facilities.
4.09 Component 2 underwent significant changes compared with SAR at the time of
the Mid-Term Review. This meant delays occurred but the Component has been
completed and is providing substantial benefits, particularly, in the area of Unaccounted-
for Water Management, and the provision of meters to improve management and increase
conservation amongst consumers.
4.10  Component 3 was also delayed due to the late completion of consulting studies.
There were problems arising from delayed road cutting permission from Municipal
Corporation of Hyderabad (MCH) and the traffic police, and sometimes there was
physical resistance from the local population affected by the construction work. Utility
services along the alignment of sewers and drains also caused problems as did: the need
for the controlled blasting; water infiltration; permission from the railway authorities for
laying a major sewer below rail track; and resistance by MCH on the restoration of full
road width when only part of the road had been cut. HMWSSB learned many lessons
from this experience and although utilization of the newly constructed facilities would
not be fully achieved before the Credit closing, substantial work was completed.
Accordingly, benefits will nevertheless be derived particularly in protecting the important
heritage feature of Hussainsagar Lake from pollution.
4.11  Component 4 provided HMWSSB the opportunity to acquire understanding and
competence to undertake the Low Cost Sanitation program. Implementation, with the
encouragement of the Bank, has been effective. In the initial years competence was
created, familiarization of technology was achieved, communities were motivated and the
use of alternative materials to increase quality without increasing cost, was explored.
Another important benefit has been effective quality control. Many lessons have been



45
drawn by HMWSSB Management from the implementation of this Component.
4.12 Component 6 has left a deep impression on the Management of HMWSSB of the
importance of continuing training at all levels. The Training program was widely
regarded as successful.
4.13  Implementation of studies has been of mixed success, though the program was
completed in all major respects. HMWSSB has received exposure to national and
international consultants which has enriched its staff.
4.14  Institutional Transformation. In addition to the implementation of the
individual components, the management at HMWSSB believe that there has been a
"cultural" change in the organization in certain important aspects leading to improved
efficiency and greater responsiveness. HMWSSB management is in broad agreement
with the Mission on this issue (see Annex 1). This cultural change has not yet extended
to the lower grades of the organization. The future training program may lead to its
extension to these groups. However, senior management, and their counterparts in the
GoAP, now believe they have a clearer vision of the direction that the organization
should take. The proposed Second Project provides the opportunity to continue to
implement these substantial, and in the Indian context, often unique innovations.
GoAP Views
4.15  Overall the borrower perceives that the objectives of the project have been
substantially met, despite delays. The lack of an accurate baseline survey resulted in
inadequate planning, cost estimates and several revisions of the RRP. The physical
infrastructure investments in the 24 resettlement villages were completed with minimal
delays by 1993. This led to an imbalance between that component and the Economic
Rehabilitation component. The latter, while initially not clearly defined, gained
considerable momentum under the leadership of a dynamic Joint Collector. Subsequent
progress fluctuated with the attention devoted to it by the District authorities, and the
different interests of the successive Joint Collectors. Greater and earlier attention should
be given in future projects to.the integrated planning of income generation schemes. The
time delay between displacement and rehabilitation resulted in the migration of large
numbers of PAFs. The selection and association of NGOs needs to be given careful
consideration in future projects.
4.16 For various reasons all the recommendations of the DRP could not be
implemented. As a result, the reservoir could not be filled to full supply level.
Implementation of the DRP recommendations will be given high priority by GoAP to
ensure reservoir filling to full level in the forthcoming monsoon year.



46
V. VIEWS ON FUTURE OPERATIONS - OPERATIONAL PLAN -
SUSTAINABILITY
5.01  The additional water made available in 199J through this Project has been
integrated into Hyderabad's water supply system and is being operated satisfactorily by
HMWSSB. However, commissioning of all the facilities constructed under the project is
affected by the reduction in water supply imposed in October 1997 due to insufficient
storage in the impounding reservoirs. HMWSSB has prepared an operational plan and
accordingly will integrate and operate all the water supply facilities as soon as the raw
water availability improves with the arrival of monsoon (1998). The sewage treatment
facility constructed under the project will be put to use with the completion and
commissioning of the influent pipeline.
5.02 The proposed Second Project, for which appraisal is shortly to commence,
provides the opportunity to sustain the investment program and the program of
institutional, policy and operational innovations which the First Project has commenced.
The Bank's continuing involvement in WSS in the city goes a long way to ensure the
sustainability of the First Project over the coming several years.
5.03 Notwithstanding the proposed Second Project, GoAP and the HMWSSB are of
the opinion that the HMWSSB will be successful in obtaining: increased autonomy in its
day to day operations; freedom to conduct its personnel policy in a manner which will
result in efficient and responsive staff at all levels; sufficient resources generated from
within the organization by timely tariff revisions; agreement of the consumers to the
HMWSSB's objective of providing a 24-hours supply of potable water at the earliest
opportunity.
5.04 With continued Bank support, clear objectives of the GoAP and HMWSSB and
sufficient resources to achieve them, there are no reasons for doubting that the assets and
institutional changes provided by this Project are not sustainable.
VI. FOLLOW UP AND AGREED ACTIONS
6.01 Unfinished works in Component 2, 3 will be completed with GoAP/HMWSSB
finance. Unfinished works of Component 5 will be implemented under the proposed
Second Project.
6.02 The Mission reminded the Borrower of the obligations which remain, including
those entering into under the Agreements, during the post-closure period. These are:
(1)  all withdrawal applications to the Bank for eligible expenditures incurred up to
March 31 st, 1998 should be submitted to the Bank by July 31, 1998;
(2)  audits for SOE for the fiscal year 1997/98 should be submitted in accordance with
the Audit Covenant by December 31, 1998;
(3)  HMWSSB's audit entity accounts should be submitted by December 31, 1998;
(4)  GoAP and HMWSSB will continue to assist with the preparation of the ICR in



47
accordance with the timetable agreed with the Mission (see below);
(5)  GoAP & HMWSSB should prepare their own Evaluation of the Project for
inclusion as an Annex to the ICR, and submit it to the Bank as soon as possible
but not later than the May 31, 1998;
(6) HMWSSB to submit final Quarterly Progress Report by May 31, 1998; and,
(7)  in accordance with Agreements the Borrower is obliged to comply with
covenants, as appropriate, during period of the Credit.
6.03  The following program for ICR preparation was agreed.
6.04  The draft of the ICR (Bank portion) including tables, will be forwarded by the
Bank to the Borrower for comment by May 31, 1998, and Borrower comments will be
provided to the Bank by June 30, 1998.
6.05  The Borrower's Evaluation will be sent to the Bank by May 31, 1998.
6.06  Final draft of ICR prepared by the Bank, reflecting the Borrower's and other
reviewers comments, will be sent to the Management of the Bank for approval, by
August 15, 1998. The final version of ICR will be sent to Bank's print shop and
transmitted to the Bank Board by August 31, 1998.
6.07 A list of the agreed actions and recommendations is provided at Annex 4.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
Institutional Transformation at HMWSSB
Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) was
established shortly before the commencement of the Project under the Hyderabad
Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1989. Previously the functions of the new
institution were performed by Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad and the Public Health
Engineering of the Government of Andhra Pradesh (GoAP). The origins were traditional,
public sector styles of operation which were, and continue to be, common throughout
India. These operational styles may be characterized by Engineering professional
domination, heavy emphasis on new construction, extremely weak finances and financial
reporting, total dependence on Government for all decisions of significance, and with
little attention to the needs of consumers.
The advent of the Project seemed to galvanize the organization. Early Aide
Memoires following effectiveness convey the clear impression that this was a new
organization keen to transform itself into an efficient and effective deliverer of services to
the population of the city. HMWSSB was responsive to the needs, requirements and
recommendations of the Bank. It seemed keen to impress by delivering promptly,
efficiently and in a professional manner, data, information, new initiatives and properly
procured contracts.
Illustrative examples of the lack of care and attention to non-engineering matters
prior to formation in 1989, and since changed, are:
(a) The books of accounts had not been audited since 1983. A Director of Finance
was soon appointed after 1990 and audits from 1990 on were submitted on time
and without comment.
(b) There were no formalized procedures for establishing relationships with members
of the public.
(c) There was no involvement of NGOs embracing community participation.
(d)  There was a lack of appreciation of the need for promptness.
(e) There were no regular reviews of tariffs.
(f) Commitment to transparency and accountability was absent.
There were two long serving Managing Directors for much of the project period
who were committed and reformist, and much of the credit to the early transformation of
the organization is due to them. They were willing to accept the challenges standing in
the way of progress. Staff on deputation from the parent departments had either to return,
or stay as HMWSSB staff-membersl'/. These Managing Directors, and their senior
lo/   Engineering staff are still on deputation. This an issue outstanding from the Project, to be carried
over to the Second.



49
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
management colleagues seemed genuinely to believe that the wider public good was a
more important objective than narrow considerations of staffing and procedure which
dominate the affairs of public institutions in India. Credit is also due to Government
which has increasingly assumed a "hands-off' approach in day-to-day operational
matters.
The transformation of the institution involved a change of attitudes and a cultural
shift. Below are some illustrative examples of the impact of this institutional
transformation.
Institute of Chartered Accountants Annual Award 1995-96
A panel of Judges of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India judged
HMWSSB to have prepared the best Annual Report for 1995-96 in India for institutions
in its category. This award reflects the progressive improvement in the presentation of
information about HMWSSB in the Annual Report over the years since formation. The
Board's philosophy is that the Annual Report should provide far more information for
general public consumption than simply a Statement of Accounts. The Annual Report is
seen by HMWSSB as a document which presents the organization in its totality to the
general public. It provides well illustrated and easy-to-read information both in English
and Telugu of HMWSSB's structure, activities in all fields, performance and visions for
the future.
Resettlement and Rehabilitation Program (RRP)
Although the responsibility of GoAP, HMWSSB has played a significant part in
the RRP of relocating and rehabilitating villages displaced by the rising waters of the
Singur Dam. The Project will supply a case study of good practice in R&R planning and
implementation in Bank projects. Pressure brought to bear by HMWSSB on
Government, and its participation in the program to ensure progress, has greatly aided the
successful implementation of this challenging work.
Procurement
This Project is one where procurement was carried out in a planned, effective,
timely and organized manner consistent with Bank guidelines. The Bank and
HMWSSB, after early deliberations, adopted agreed bid documents for use in the Project.
Recognizing the substantial benefits of the Bank documentation, the HMWSSB easily
graduated to the adoption of standard bidding documents as they appeared during the
course of Project implementation. These documents have been accepted for use by
HMWSSB in non-Bank funded projects. The following were noted as providing
particular benefits to the Board:



50
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
*  The provision of detailed qualification criteria to ensure that only the bidder with the
necessary qualification to execute the Contract is selected.
*  Enhanced levels of requirements for quality control in the technical specifications,
resulting in superior quality work.
*  Adoption of the concept of "single responsibility" approach, which has reduced
possible areas of contractual dispute.
*  Provision of a mobilization advance, as well as the stipulation of penal clauses, which
have helped in achieving the result that most works have been completed on time or
even ahead of schedule.
The Importance of Training
At the outset of the Project, training was regarded as of little value by
Management, and for staff as something to be avoided. A well worked out Training Plan
is now an integral part of the organization and is used as a measure to enhance
productivity and effectiveness. Insistence on the participation of staff has paid off
handsomely and there has been widespread upgrading of awareness which has benefited
HMWSSB. Following the induction modules, the next stage of training is to move to
skills enhancement.
Project Planning
An effective Project Planning Cell was established at the outset of the Project
providing a focused approach to the preparation and implementation monitoring of the
contracts as they were executed. Clear demarcation of responsibility appears to have
brought out in the Chief Engineers of HMWSSB and their colleagues, a genuine
professionalism of approach which is not yet widely encountered in the sector in India.
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI)
Recognizing the advances made by HMWSSB in the areas of Project design and
financial management and accountability, the Bank selected the organization as one of
about twenty world-wide to be pilot projects for the Loan Administration Change
Initiative which commenced in 1996. LACI is addressing several fundamental
vulnerabilities in the Bank's current loan administration process and is moving towards a
system whereby loans are disbursed based on information derived from the project's
financial management system based on performance rather than, as now, on Statements
of Expenditure. For LACI to work, the Borrower's Financial Management and
Accounting system has to be advanced, operate on an accruals basis and be able to link
performance to expenditure. It is to the credit of HMWSSB that the LACI tearn regarded
the financial



51
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
management to be fully supportive of LACI and that the new system could be introduced
into the organization without much amendment to the HMWSSB's existing system.
Environmental and Social Cell
The development of this Cell signifies HMWSSB's commitment to wider societal
goals.
Decentralization. An important innovation has been the decentralization of
engineering functions. This has resulted in a desire by the engineers, not earlier
encountered, to take up responsibilities for operations and maintenance activities in the
divisions. O&M now provides responsibilities and a command over the use of resources
and is attractive.
The institutional transformation still has a long way to go. There are important
areas where reforms continue to be required and new approaches adopted. These are the
challenges for the future projects. However, the organization that exists to-day has
moved a long way from the one existing in 1990.



52
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 1
MONITORING INDICATORS
Key Indicators                                 Units               Values
Total staff HM WSSB                            No.                           5460
Staffl100,000 people served                    No.                           107.3
Staff/1,000 connections                        No.                            21.7
Total staff costs (salary plus benefits)       Rs million                     73.7
Amount paid in overtime                         Rs million                     5.3
Pensions sanctioned (< 3 months of retirement)  No.                              0
Revenue billing                                Rs million                    214.0
Revenue collection                             Rs million                    178.3
Collection/Billing'                            Percent                        83.3
Consumer receivables                           Rs million                    249.8
Receivables                                    Months                         5.12
Working ratio                                                                 1.36
Operating ratio                                                               lAl
Cost of water produced                         Rs/m3                          5.53
Cost of water sold                             Rs/m3                          9.06
Average tariff- Domestic                       Rs/rn3                         4.52
- Non-domestic                     Rs/m3                         16.11
No. latrines constructed                       No.                          21136
Population served                              Million                        5.09
Water produced                                 Million m3                    45.35
Water sold - Domestic                          Million m3                    23.08
- Non-domestic                        Million m3                    4.59
No. days supply not given                      Days                             17
Av. no. of supply hours per day                Hours/day                       1.5
No. of public standposts                       No.                           4816
Total no. of connections                       No.                         251,988
- Domestic                           No.                         241,699
- Non-domestic                       No.                           9,832
No. of bulk supplies                           No.                           2,083
Domestic connections with working meters       Percent                          50
Non-domestic connections with working meters    Percent                         60
Bulk supply connections with working meters    Percent                          72
Power costs                                    Rs million                     97.7
No. of water samples taken                     No.                          29,687
No. of pollution cases                         No.                             259
Manjira supply interruptions > 12 hours        No.                               0
Source: December 1997 Quarterly Progress Report prepared by HMWSSB representing
performance during the quarter ending December 1997.



53
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 1
GUIDANCE ON BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1.    The Borrower's evaluation of the project implementation is an important part of an ICR. It
is attached, unedited, to the ICR. It can be selective in its coverage and should address issues and
lessons learned in project implementation, from the borrower's perspective. Topics covered can be
the same as in the ICR, namely, project design and appraisal, implementation, and project results
and sustainability. At each stage of the project the contribution should comment on the
performance of both the Bank\IDA and the implementing agencies, with the observations, where
possible, supported by evidence or reasoned argument.
2.    For project design and appraisal the contribution could address such questions as the
appropriateness of the project's objectives, the size of the project and scope of the investments
proposed, aspects of design leading to easy (or difficult) implementation and the effect on
government institutions and implementing agencies.
3.    Project irnplementation experience should be divided into an assessment of the performance
of the Bank/IDA in supporting and supervising the project and the performances of the
implementing agencies.
4.    Project results and sustainability should include an assessment of the benefits arising from
the project. Since financial and economic re-analysis of the project will be undertaken by the World
Bank mission as part of the ICR, it is suggested that the contribution could most usefully comment
on the effects of the project from the borrower's perspective. Such an analysis would be a most
useful contribution to the ICR.
5.    Based on the foregoing sections, the contribution should list the main lessons learned from
the implementation experience.
6.    If the contribution is more than ten pages, it should include a summary. The latter is
recommended for all but the shortest contributions.



54
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACTIONS AGREED WITH/RECOMMENDED BY
THIS MISSION OR LEFT OVER FROM PREVIOUS MISSIONS
Following is a table providing a list of actions agreed with/recommended by the mission.
NO. ACTION                                                          BY WHO                BYWHEN
I.     Resolve the issues concerning the Staff on deputation       GoAP-HMWSSB
2.     Take decision on ownership of Singur Dam                     GoAP                  Immediate
3.     Continue with the Dam Review Panel until there is compliance  GoAP
with its recommendations.
4.     Take appropriate action to Implement DRP recommendations     GoAP-ID-HMWSSB   Immediate
5.     Complete implementation of housing program in 5 "new"        GoAP-Collector
villages and the other affected villages                    Medak
6.     Develop a viable schedule for the repair and maintenance of  GoAP-Collector
assets in the post-project period                           Medak
7.     Complete 'grounding' of Economic Rehabilitation Schemes in 5    GoAP-Collector
"new" villages and additional ERSs proposed in RRP5 for     Medak
returnees in 64 villages
8.     Retain CESS to monitor R&R progress of work uncompleted at    GoAP-Collector
closing                                                     Medak
9.     Make appointments to senior posts outstanding in the Finance  GoAP-HMWSSB
and Accounts Wing of HMWSSB
10.    Fumish all withdrawal applications to the Bank for eligible  HMWSSB               ASAP but no later than
expenditures incurred up to 31 -Mar-98                                            31-Jul-1998
II.    Audits for SOEs for the fiscal years 1997/98 and 1998/99 should   HMWSSB           31-Dec-98
be submitted in accordance with the Audit Covenant by 31-Dec-
98 and 31-Dec-99 respectively
12.    HMWSSB's audit entity accounts should be submitted by 31 -  HMWSSB                31 -Dec-98
Dec-98 and 31 -Dec-99
13.    GoAP and HMWSSB will continue to assist with the preparation   GoAP and HMWSSB
of the ICR in accordance with the timetable agreed with the
Mission
14.    GoAP & HMWSSB should prepare their own Evaluation of the    GoAP and HMWSSB   31-May-98 at latest
Project for inclusion as an Annex to the ICR, and submit it to the
Bank as soon as possible
15.    Provide the draft ICR including the tables to GoAP & HMWSSB   Bank                 31 -May-98
16.    Provide finalized ICR to GoAP & HMWSSB                      Bank                   30-Sep-98



55
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
LIST OF KEY PERSONS MET
Govt-Andhra Pradesh       Mr. N.S. Hariharan, Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration and Urban Dev.
Hyderabad Metrowater      Mr. L.V. Subrahamanyam, Managing Director
Supply and Sewerage       - Mr. P.V.R. Ravindra, Director (Projects) and Engineer-in-Chief
Board (HMWSSB)            - - Mr. Prabhat Kumar, Chief General Manager (P&M)
- --- Mr. Imtiaz Ahmed, General Manager (UFW)
- - - - Mr. Bapu Reddy, General Manager
----- Mr. K. Waghre, Deputy General Manager
----- Mr. S. Anand Swaroop, Deputy General Manager
- Mr. G. Nageswar Rao, Director, Finance
- - Mr. L. Shivasankar, Chief general Manager (Accounts)
- - - Mr. V. Bhanu Murthy Rao, General Manager (Finance)
- Mr. G.K. Rao, Director, Personnel
Dr. J.C. Mohanty, Former Managing Director
Mr. V. Bhaskar, Former Managing Director
Mr. Venkattapaiah, Former Chief Engineer
Mr. G. Subrahmaniam, Former Director (Projects)
Govt-Andhra Pradesh       Mr. S. Misra, Collector, Medak District
(Re RRP - CPT 5)          - Mr. Yellapa, Joint Collector
- - Mr. Azmat Khan, Rehabilitation Officer
* - Mr. S.P. Venugopal Rao, General Manager, R&R Division's
* - Dr. V.S. Charyulu, Asstt. Director, Animal Husbandry
* - Dr. B. Yadagiri, Asstt. Director, Agriculture
- - Dr. Srinivas Chari, Asstt. Director, Management
CONSULTANTS
Regional Center for Urban    Prof. V. Lakshmipathi
and Env. Studies (RCUES)
Osmania Univ. (re Training)
Admin Staff College, H'bad   Prof. K. Ramesh
(re RRP - CPT 5)
NGOs (re LCS - CPT 4)
Urban Poor Service Syndicate Mr. Chandra Mohan
NGOs (re RRP - CPT 5)
CESS                      Dr. S. Galab, Fellow
CESS                      Dr. G. Gopinath Reddy, Associate Fellow
Actionaid                 Mr. P. Varma



APPENDIX B
Borrower's Evaluation



APPENDIX B
56
HYDERABAD METROPOLITAN WATER SUPPLY AND
SEWERAGE BOARD
HYDIERABAD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(Cr-2 1 15-IN)
BORROWERS EVALUATION
1.0 INTRODUCTION
The Hyderabad Water Supply and Sanitation Project (HWSSP) was the first Bank
supported urban water supply and sanitation (WSS) project in Hyderabad, the capital city
of the State of Andhra Pradesh, India. The Project Cost as per the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), January, 1990, was INR 2570.60 Millions (US$ 140.64 Million) and revised to
INR 3502.61 Millions in July 1997.
2.0   PROJECT OBJECTIVES:
The major project objectives were:
a)   to provide health, economic efficiency and environmental benefits through (i) an
increase in the quantity and an improvement in the reliability of the water supply,
(ii) an improvement in both the capacity and the utilization of facilities for the
collection, treatment and disposal of waste water, and (iii) achieving a major
reduction on the number of households not having safe excreta disposal facilities;
b)    to strengthen the management, technical and financial perfornance of sector
institutions;
c)    ensuring that those people involuntarily displaced by the Singur Dam have a
reasonable opportunity to improve, or at least maintain, their productive base and
income-earning capacity, as members of a socially integrated community having
social, religious and physical infrastructure; and
d)   the preparation of future urban water supply-sanitation projects.
3.0 THE PROJECT:
3.1 The project components were:
Component. 1 The Manjira Phase.IV to provide additional 135 MId water.
Component.2 The Rehabilitation and Strengthening of the existing water supply
system.
Component.3 The Rehabilitation and Strengthening of the existing sewerage system.
Component.4 Low-Cost Sanitation (LCS) Programme.
Component.5 The Resettlement and Rehabilitation of those persons displaced by the
Singur Dam.
Component.6 Institutional Strengthening, Technical Assistance and Training.



57
4.0 ACHIEVEMENTS OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES:
The HMWSSB implemented both water supply and sewerage works in phased manner
and achieved the objectives of each Component of the Project as below:
4.1 Water Supply Sector:
4.1.1  The Component-1 of the project designed to bring an additional 135 Mld of water from
Singur dam was completed three months ahead of schedule and treated water was
continuously delivered to Hyderabad water supply distribution system since January
1994. The additional water has been integrated into the HMWSSB's water supply system
and is being operated, This has helped HMWSSB to meet the water supply requirements
during drought years and improve water supply to surrounding nine municipalities and to
the urban poor.
4.1.2  The objective of the Component.2 was to improve the reliability of the water supply by
including the means whereby water could be transferred, within the trunk distribution
system, from areas normally supplied by a less drought-vulnerable source to areas served
by a more drought-vulnerable source; and provide equipment to aid effective and
efficient management of operation and maintenance. Under this Component, 8 clear
water distribution reservoirs (105 Ml aggregate storage capacity) with inlet and outlet
mains (25.28 Kms inlets and 9.6 Kms outlets), and a 1200 mm dia PSC/MS transmission
main from Saidabad to Sainikpuri of 23.14 Km long, two pump houses were taken up.
The rehabilitation and strengthening of the existing distribution system was taken up by
replacing 138 Km leaking AC/RCC pipelines with CI pipes in three water supply zones
including replacement of service connections and consumer meters (98,100 nos). Bulk
flow meters (73 nos) and bulk consumer meters (1730 nos) were also installed under
Unaccounted for Water (UFW) Management in the entire system.
4.2 Sanitation Sector:
4.2.1  The investment under Component-3 mainly aimed at abatement of pollution of
Hussainsagar. With this aim, diversion units were constructed across the five incoming
nalas into Hussainsagar to divert the dry weather flow away from the lake into sewers.
Trunk sewers such as Duplicate 'A' Main (1800mm /1600 nm dia to a length of 5.15
Kin), K-51 Sewer (450mm to 1600 mm dia to a length of 5.20 KKm), and laying sewers in
the downstream of Banjara nala (300 mm to 600 mm dia to a length of 4.60 Kin) were
taken up. A 20 Mld sewage treatment plant with extended aeration process was
constructed in the reclaimed land of Hussainsagar for treating domestic sewage and to let
out the effluent into Hussainsagar to maintain the hydrology of the lake.
4.2.2  Under Component-4 of the project it was proposed to construct 20,000 twin pit pour flush
water sealed latrines in settlements not covered with sewerage facilities and in areas
where there is no programme to lay sewers. The LCS programme was implemented in
104 settlements and 22011 toilets were constructed. The HMWSSB had set up a separate



58
Field Management Unit consisting of one Dy.General Manager and four Managers and
two Work Inspectors who were responsible for monitoring the construction of toilets and
ensuring the quality aspects besides rendering necessary technical guidance to the NGOs.
The objective of this programme was to achieve a major reduction in the number of
households not having safe excreta disposal facilities and where the sanitary conditions
are very poor. Unlike the engineering components, the implementation of low cost
sanitation programme required a sociological and community based approach. The skills
required to undertake such a programme were not available with the HMWSSB's project
staff and hence services of LCS Advisor and NGOs were obtained to implement the
programme. The LCS programme has been successfully implemented by the NGOs by
conducting surveys, motivating beneficiaries, providing health education, and
constructing toilets. The programme was initially implemented in settlements under
Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad (MCH) area and subsequently extended to the
fringe areas of MCH. The areas were selected based on socio-economic conditions of the
families, lack of sewerage facilities, and willingness of households to contribute 20% cost
of toilet in shape of material.
4.3       The Resettlement and Rehabilitation Programme (RRP) for those Persons
displaced by Singur Dam:
4.3.1  A RRP was prepared for the resettlement and rehabilitation of the persons affected in the
32 villages fully submerged and 37 partly submerged villages and implemented by GoAP
through the District Collector, Medak.
Scheme
i) House Constructions               -     2260 nos
ii) Roads                            -     60.64 Km approach roads
53.95 Km internal roads
iii) Schools & other community structures -  53 nos
iv) Rehabilitation schemes implemented   -  4626 nos
4.3.2  The first RRP was prepared and approved in April 1989 and has been revised five times
based on an independent monitoring and evaluation reports and due to inclusion of five
new villages. A revised (fifth) RRP was reviewed by the Bank and approved by the
GOAP in March 1997. As per original estimation (SAR) 6,120 families were expected to
be affected and as per RRP.5 - 11,633 families are affected out of which 6516 families
required R&R assistance.
4.4       Institutional Strengthening through Technical Assistance:
4.4.1  At appraisal stage sixteen studies were identified which were finally grouped into twelve
(12) studies. Subsequently eleven (I 1) more studies were added during project
implementation period. All these studies have been completed. An extensive training
programme was undertaken with the assistance of Regional Center for Urban
Environment Studies (RCUES), Osmania University.



59
5.0 EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT PREPARATION, APPRAISAL, AND
IMPLEMENTATION:
5.1   Project Preparation and Appraisal:
The HMWSSB completed the preparation work in a short period of 8 months between
Identification and Appraisal Missions. But the conceptual designs for Components-2 & 3 had not
been done by the time of appraisal, as though major items of these Components were identified
based on an earlier feasibility report available with HMWSSB. Much of the details for
Components-2 & 3 had to be worked out after the Conceptual Design Reports for strengthening
and rehabilitation of water supply and sewerage systems were made available by the respective
consultants in the month of January, 1995 & December, 1994 respectively. Due to the time lag in
the identification of works to be implemented, some of the works mainly in the Component-3
could not be fully completed within the Credit closing date. HMWSSB is of the opinion that the
preparation work needs to be completed in a substantial manner by the time the project is
appraised. Even though the complete preparation of work was not ready, the SAR prepared by
the Bank staff in January'90 identified the Components clearly.
Based on the report and recommendations of the water conservation, leakage control and
use management studies, the scope of work related to the Un-accounted For Water
Management (UFW) was increased substantially at Mid-Term Review January, 1995.
The Bank as well as the HMWSSB felt the need to increase the scope of the work under
UFW so that the objective of Component-2 could be achieved to a satisfactory level.
5.2   Project Implementation:
Water Sector:
I
Though the works under the Component-2 were identified with a combined effort of
Borrower as well as Bank in the Mid-Term Review Jan'95, many of the outlets from the
storage reservoirs were not included and those were proposed for financing from some
other projects taken up by HMWSSB. Later, these outlets were included in the World
Bank financed Project for better correlation and completion in time. Hence, the borrower
is of the view that the identification of works should be carried out in such a way that the
results are fully achievable from the assets generated without any time gap.
Sanitation Sector:
A 25 Mld UASB Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) was proposed for construction under the
Component-3 at Amberpet. The hydraulic and structural designs for the plant were done
through the consultants. But, on a suggestion made by the World Bank during one of the
Mission's visit in May 1994, the hydraulic designs were referred to the Netherlands
consultants. The same caused delay as the Netherlands consultants took a lot of time in
offering their views & suggestions on the improvement of hydraulic designs of STP.
Though the bids were invited twice, the first time under the NCB procedure and the



60
second time it was restricted to the firms who have applied for bidding documents in
response to 1st call, the award could not be decided by the borrower due to the
deficiencies in the bids and the work could not be taken up. In this connection the
borrower feels that the Bank should have taken a more positive initiative in guiding the
borrower in taking decisions in such a critical bid evaluation with their world wide
experience. The passive role of the Bank requires a shift.
6.0   PERFORMANCE OF BANK & BORROWER:
The visits by Supervision Missions of the Bank during the entire period of
implementation of the Project were very useful. The missions had high level of
commitment and provided guidance to the borrower (HMWSSB and GoAP) in
implementing,the Project. All the Aide Memoirs of the Bank Mission's were fully
documented-with necessary details and contained a list of agreed/recommended actions.
The borrower also equally responded to the reviews of the various Mission's by taking
follow up actions and by furnishing the Quarterly Progress Reports etc., clearly and
timely.
6.1   A noteworthy change made by the Bank in shifting the supervision responsibility from
the Bank's headquarters in Washington to its field office in New Delhi in 1995 enabled
HMWSSB to remain in contact with the Bank and seek advice on the project
implementation as and when required. HMWSSB highly appreciates the quick, positive
and comprehensive response to its enquiries, received from the Bank since the project
supervision responsibility was moved to the New Delhi office.
6.2   The borrower could satisfy the various Bank Supervision Mission's during their site visits
with the quality control measures adopted in implementing the various works.
7.0   PROJECT RESULTS & SUSTAINABILITY:
Results:
7.1   The successful implementation of Component- I resulted in additional 135 Mld of treated
water into the system from the Singur Reservoir which is a more dependable source when
compared to the two old impounding sources namely; Osmansagar & Himayatsagar. In
the recent years, though the Osmansagar & Himayatsagar reservoirs did not receive
sufficient inflows, the borrower was able to maintain a reasonable water supply in the
system due to this added 135 Mld water from the more reliable source i.e. Singur. Since
the various components under Component- I were implemented under, strict quality
control, the transmission system of Manjira Water Supply Scheme, Phase-IV, stood as a
dependable system transmitting the designed flow of treated water to the city without any
disruptions, leakages or losses.
7.2   The implementation of Component-2 achieved the project objective in improving the
reliability of water supply system by establishing the means whereby water could be
transferred from areas normally supplied by a less drought vulnerable source to areas



61
served by a more drought vulnerable source and in providing equipment to aid effective
and efficient management of operation & maintenance. The UFW management
programme undertaken under this Component by way of installation of bulk flow meters,
leak detection surveys, and replacement of RCC/AC distribution mains with CI pipes,
replacement of GI service connections with MDPE pipes, replacement of domestic and
bulk consumer meters with dependable ISO meters etc., resulted in the reduction of
estimated UFW losses from 35% to 33%.
7.3   The implementation of Component-3 resulted in making a beginning for abatement of
pollution of Hussainsagar by intercepting the entry of pollutants into the lake. The
implementation of the major duplicate sewers like Duplicate 'A' main, K-5 1, and sewers
in Banjara downstream relieved the existing sewers i.e. existing 'A' main, existing K-51
and existing sewerage system in the downstream of Banjara nala areas, from surcharged
flow conditions, chokages and overflows and thus improving the sanitation condition in
the catchment areas of the respective sewers.
7.4   The implementation of Component-4 i.e. Low Cost Sanitation Programme, achieved a
major reduction in the number of households not having the safe excreta disposal
facilities in the MCH limits as well as fringe areas to MCH, and thus achieving better
sanitary conditions. The local leaders and the beneficiaries have expressed that there has
been significant improvement in health in the household members. Another view is that
the rent of houses with LCS toilet is higher than houses without them. Particularly the
women are very happy with the latrines constructed as it has improved sanitation
surrounding their houses and provided privacy and other benefits.
7.5   The implementation of Component-5 i.e. R&R Programme to the extent implemented,
although certain scheme remained incomplete by project closing date and which will be
continued in the forthcoming Second Project, has substantially met the objective of
ensuring that those people involuntarily displaced by the Singur Dam have a reasonable
opportunity to improve, or at least maintain, their productive base and income-earning
capacity, as members of a socially integrated community having social, religious and
physical infrastructure.
7.6   The Technical Assistance under Component-6 obtained from various national and
international consultants has enriched the knowledge of the borrower with the latest
technical know-how particularly the borrower is benefited with the development of
digitized maps of water supply & sewerage system and modernization of financial
accounting and revenue billing systems. The extensive training programme undertaken
with the assistance of RCUES, OU, has increased the awareness of the HMWSSB's
overall operations among the staff and the training for the support staff enhanced their
specific skills. The benefits derived from the training for the borrower's staff are
considered to be substantial.



62
7.7   Sustainability:
The sustainability of the measured benefits from the Project on financial & economic
aspects may prove to be little lower than that expected by the Bank at the time of
appraisal due to two main reasons (a) substantially reduced flows in the impounding
sources and non filling of Singur Reservoir to the FRL, (b) tariffs being at lower levels
throughout the project period.
The facilities constructed have been/are being integrated with the systems in operation.
The borrower is confident that all assets created with the finance from the Bank will be
operated in a sustainable manner and will provide the benefits as intended.
8.0   LESSONS LEARNT BY THE BORROWER:
8.1   Preparation of Components:
The detailed designs and bidding documents shall be ready for at least 25% of total
project cost before appraisal so that the Project could be completed in a shorter time span.
8.2   Adoption of Bank procedures in bid evaluation:
The pre-qualification & post-qualification criteria adopted in entrustment of the various
works in the implementation of the Project were helpful in timely completion of works as
contractors with relevant and required experience and financial resources only were
appointed. The borrower has adopted these procedures in implementation of other
Projects such as Megacity Project being implemented with other than World Bank
fumding. Other sister departments like Public Health Engineering Department, GoAP also
have adopted the World Bank procurement guidelines in calling for bids, evaluation of
bids and entrustment of works.
8.3   Preparation and completion of technical jobs through Consultants provided advantage of
having latest technical expertise adopted in HMWSSB. The close and collaborative
working arrangements with the consultants provided good exposure to the borrower's
engineers on the national & international practices.
8.4   Ownership of Singur Dam:
Due to several reasons the Irrigation and Command Area Development Department
(ICADD) of GoAP could not implement the DRP reconimendations for repair to the
gates of Singur Dam which resulted in not filling up water to FRL and hence the designecd
quantity of water was not available. The HMWSSB has taken up the matter with ICADD
and GoAP for necessary prompt action and to transfer the ownership of Singur Dam to
HMWSSB to give careful attention to the conditions that will ensure realization of
project benefits.



63
8.5   Continuity of Borrower's Kea Staff:
Continuity of borrower's key staff is essential for successful implementation of the Project.
8.6  It is essential for all the utility departments in a city to have a proper co-ordination
arrangements for implementation of various pipelines works to ensure receipt of timely
permissions from appropriate authorities for road excavation etc., to avoid interruption to
the programme of execution of works.
8.7   Sufficient geo-technical survey is needed to minimize the variation in quantities in
execution of works, particularly in items like hard rock excavations, foundations of
structures etc.
9.0   CONCLUSIONS:
9.1   The HMWSSB acknowledges the guidance and support it received from the Bank
Officials and particularly the Task Managers in implementing the Project. The visits by
Bank Officials as a part of 18 missions were very useful to HMWSSB for discussing and
sorting out a number of issues across the table. The HMWSSB appreciates the Bank's
gesture in including the outlet mains of reservoirs (originally included under HUDCO
assisted Mega city project) for financing under the Project. The relations between the
Bank and the borrower were cordial throughout the implementation of the Project.
9.2   The HMWSSB has taken steps to overcome the bottlenecks and to complete the works
with dedicated and sincere efforts. The implementation tearn has worked with full
devotion and monitored the progress constantly and maintained liaison cordially with the
contracting agencies to achieve the targets both physical and financial. Sectoral
efficiencies have improved in both water supply and sanitation sectors. The HMWSSB
has taken measures to further improve its performance.
9.3   The project has been substantially completed with satisfactory implementation progress
and has achieved its development objectives. The HMWSSB thanks the World Bank for
its financial assistance as well as the constant encouragement, technical advice and
support given during implementation of the project and looks forward to continuing the
association for future projects for enhancement of water supply and sanitation service to
the people of twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad. The experience and the success
in implementing this Project has enabled the HMWSSB to plan a much larger future
Project for implementation in a shorter period (Implementation of the Project enabled this
Board to occupy the primary position among fellow water utilities). The Bank has also
enabled the HMWSSB to emerge as a modem utility with accrual accounting. It will not
be an exaggeration to state that the Bank's agenda for reforms in urban water supply and
sanitation in India took a definite shape after its experience with HMWSSB. The Bank
kept the HMWSSB as a flagship in all related matters. The responsibility that this cast on
the HMWSSB to perform explains the many milestones that have been left behind by the
HMWSSB.



APPENDIX C
The Implementation of the Relocation and Rehabilitation Program



APPENDIX C
64
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
HYDERABAD WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3181/CREDIT 2115-IN)
The Implementation of the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Program
I.    Historical Overview
1.    The Singur Dam is an impoundment on the river Manjira some 67 kms. from Hyderabad.
It was. completed by the Irrigation and Command Area Development Department (ICADD) of
the Government of Andhra Pradesh (GoAP) in 1989 and water was impounded behind the dam
from that date. It was intended to provide irrigation water, electric power generation and
drinking water supply for the Manjira Phase III Stages 1 and 2 schemes to supplement the supply
for metropolitan Hyderabad. Once reached, the FRL of the reservoir behind Singur will be 523.6
meters above sea level. This level was supposed to have been reached during the 1990 monsoon,
but has not yet been attained. A dam review panel raised concerns about the dam gates which
have not been addressed by ICADD. In view of the serious safety implications that would result
from failure, there has been only partial filling of the dam. In addition, there has been assurance
that physical relocation of those to be resettled would precede the submergence of their
settlements. So far, partial filling of the reservoir has resulted in the full submergence of 27
villages, involving lands and structures, and the partial submergence of 37 villages involving
only lands.
2.    In 1992, 5 'new' villages were classified as subject to submergence, as flood-water, and
back-water effects were taken into account in fresh calculations of effects of water impoundment
up to full reservoir level. But the particular situation of one village, Singur itself, which lies just
downstream of the dam, was not included in these calculations l '/. The inhabitants of the 27
fully submerged villages have been relocated in 24 new resettlement villages. The inhabitants of
the 5 'new' villages remain to be fully relocated in 5 new adjacent resettlement sites currently
under construction. Compensation for land and structures has been completed in all affected
villages, except where court cases are outstanding. Given the slow filling of the dam and the
slow progress with the execution of RRP, PAFs were given time to adjust to changing
circumstances.
3.    The initial Resettlement and Rehabilitation Plan (RRP) for Project-Affected Families
(PAFs) was completed in March 1989 ahead of loan/Credit effectiveness, with the assistance of
the Centre for Economic and Social Studies (CESS) of Hyderabad. This RRP was approved by
the Bank, and is appended to the SAR of January 1990 as Annex 7. This RRP is subsequently
"/    Singur village is subject to intensive waterlogging as a direct result of the impoundment of water just
upstream. It was not included in the RRP. While it was identified as an issue by the Bank's mission of May 1996,
and a request that the villagers be relocated was made to the ICADD, but no resolution has so far been forthcoming.



65
referred to as RRPI. It envisaged the relocation of 3630 households, out of a total of 6120
affected households. The large majority of PAFs from the 37 partially submerged villages
(PSVs) were not relocated because they only lost land.
4.    The RRP1 identified 4628 PAFs who would require assistance in re-establishing
economic productivity because they had lost their principal means of livelihood. This was 75%
of the total of 6120 PAFs identified. The remaining 25% consisted of absentee and large
landowners, or those whose farms were only marginally affected and were thus not included in
the numbers considered eligible for receipt of Economic Rehabilitation Schemes (ERSs). They
did, of course, receive compensation for the land lost and a house plot. The 4628 PAFs identified
were classified as:
Medium Farmers (holding between 2 and 4 hectares of  1684 (28%)
land)
Small/Marginal Farmers (holding less than 2 hectares)  1794 (29%)
Agricultural Laborers/Landless (SCs/STs)             1150 (18%)
5.    Specific strategies for these 3 categories of PAFs were elaborated in RRP 1. It was agreed
with the Bank that subsequent revisions to the plan would be incorporated on the basis of
periodic monitoring reports received from the independent social research institute appointed for
monitoring and evaluation (see para. 9 of the SAR) 12/. This was of some importance given the
tentative nature of the figures underpinning the plan (CESS had based its projections on a sample
survey, not a fall census). Government undertook to implement RRPl over a 3 year period and
thus completed by April 1992, and this was covenanted. This timetable was not achieved.
Subsequent revisions of the RRP, (RRP2 was produced in April 1992 and RRP3 in July 1993)
were considered inadequate by the Bank and intensive monitoring and support by Bank staff
during 1993 together with the collection of more accurate base-line information by project
authorities resulted in the production of RRP4 which was approved by the Bank in January 1994
- nearly two years after the resettlement and rehabilitation component of the project was due to
have been completed. The Bank subsequently agreed completion dates for the RRP4, of
September 30, 1995 for the physical works, June 30, 1997 for the completion of ERSs in the
Fully Submerged Villages (FSVs) and the Partially Submerged Villages (PSVs), and February
28, 1998 for the completion of the work at the 5 new resettlement sites.
6.    The new data collected in late 1993 resulted in considerable upward revisions of
estimates of PAFs identified, (from 6,120 to 10,910) and the identification/ reclassification of the
5 'new' resettlement villages, as the effects of periodic floods and the back-water effect were
taken into account. The numbers of villages classified as FSVs thus increased to 32, and the
numbers of resettlement villages from 24 to 29. The numbers of villages classified as PSVs
remained at 37. The numbers of planned ERSs increased from 4628 to 5611. This was further
revised upwards to 6516 to take account of 'returnees' claiming entitlements. 4,201 plots were
laid out in the 24 resettlement villages with a 20% surplus to deal with future expansion. All
plots in the 24 resettlement sites have now been allotted. 2328 houses have been sanctioned
under the Weaker Section Housing Program in these villages and all but a very small number
12/   CESS was appointed to carry out this M&E work and has to date produced 14 half yearly reports



66
have been built. Only a handful await completion. Housing construction was the responsibility
of the PAFs with some support from the Rehabilitation Division, Medak.
7.    A solid base for planning and implementation was finally available with RRP4, and a
clearer categorization of PAFs was possible. Mission aide memoires from 1993 indicate that
resettlement and rehabilitation was the only part of the project that was performing poorly.
Intensive attention was given to this component during 1993 and 1994 and special Bank
supervision missions were devoted exclusively to this issue. Notable and speedy improvements
in implementation were forthcoming. Improvements were largely due to sustained and
systematic attention by project management, the strengthened Rehabilitation team at District
headquarters, and the efforts of the Joint Collector of Medak District.
8.    Physical infrastructural work in all the 24 resettlement villages was substantially
completed by the beginning of 1996 13/. Supervision missions by the Bank in May 1996,
November 1996, and May 1997, as well as the twice yearly monitoring reports from CESS,
attested to the adequacy of both the majority of the physical works and to the receipt and
retention of the majority of Economic Rehabilitation Schemes (ERSs) in the villages visited.
CESS reports indicate up to 74.8% of schemes had so far been retained by the recipients (i.e.
they have remained 'intact'). This 'retention rate' was perceived as a crucial measure of the
sustainability of the schemes. The land-based schemes have been notably successful, but non-
land-based schemes have been less so. A significant issue in the calculation of the success of
these schemes is the time required to support their sustainable development. The time elapsed
between the receipt of the schemes may be too short to predict sustainability, and an evaluation
of their viability and their place in the viability of overall family livelihood strategies remains to
be completed. Their sustainability is also linked to the promotion of self-reliance rather than the
perpetuation of dependency.
9.    From January 1994 a much more concerted attempt was made to tackle the difficult
problems of rehabilitation. During the early period of the project the Government's and the
Bank's approach to Resettlement and Rehabilitation was rapidly evolving, given the increased
public scrutiny of these issues both in India and by the international community. Previously the
focus of resettlement had been primarily on compensation for assets lost, and the liberal use of
the powers of eminent domain applied through the Land Acquisition Act. By this time, however,
greater prominence was being given to the interests of those subject to involuntary relocation and
particularly to questions of income restoration.
Situation at Closing (March 1998)
10.   Four distinct groups of villages/villagers with their individual problems for project
implementation and monitoring can be identified for documenting progress and highlighting
obstacles:
1. The 'original' 27 Fully Submerged Villages (FSVs - whose occupants were moved
into the 24 Resettlement sites specifically created to receive them.)
13/   No physical infrastructural works were planned for the 37 PSVs



67
2. The 37 Partially Submerged Villages (PSVs - whose occupants were not relocated,
but who lost land through the filling of the reservoir.)
3. The 5 newly identified FSVs whose occupants are to be relocated in S new
resettlement sites under construction adjacent to the old FSVs.
4. Those aspiring to PAF status through attempts to change the status of their village
classification from PSV to FSV and thus gain the benefits that are deemed to emerge
from any new resettlement sites that might be developed, and others who may have
legitimate claims to entitlement (e.g. non-residents, missing awardees, those who
have taken their cases to court, or the sons of 'awardees' who have reached the age of
18 between identification of PAFs and actual implementation of the RRP).
11.   While a more detailed evaluation of the project remains to be completed by the CESS
within the next six months, preliminary results indicate that infrastructural provision is much
higher than that found elsewhere in the District and that inhabitants are very satisfied with it.
The large majority of PAFs have managed to maintain, and some significantly improve, their
incomes, as a result of the program of economic rehabilitation. 3058 (73%) of all PAFs (4191)
from the 27 FSVs were given houseplots in the 24 resettlement villages. 2225 (53%) have been
able to take advantage of the Weaker Section housing scheme. Benefits under this program have
proportionally accrued to the lower castes. 66% of the Scheduled Caste population, 54% of the
Backward Castes population and 37% of other castes were able to take up this program. The
project has resulted in a significant change in employment characteristics among the PAFs.
Amongst those who did not migrate there has, not surprisingly, been a significant increase in the
number who have no land. The proportion of landless has risen from 37% before the project to
60% after submergence.
12.   To March 1998 substantial progress has been made in 4 of the 5 new resettlement sites,
where completion of all house construction is confidently expected by project authorities within
6 months. The completion of such construction work and the voluntary relocation of all villagers
is a trigger for the 'grounding' of ERSs and until such time as people move, rehabilitation work
will not conmnence. This benchmark was considered to be an important incentive to ensure
relocation. On the 5th site (Bellapur) no construction activity is currently being undertaken
because of a dispute over entitlements with the dominant caste in that village.
13.   The fact that FRL of the reservoir has yet to be reached has provided a 'breathing space'
for project officers to progress with rehabilitation activities, and an opportunity for PAFs to
continue to use submergence lands in their efforts to re-establish livelihoods. But it has also led
to rising expectations among PAFs who remain to be both resettled and rehabilitated, and
amongst PAFs and others who consider that either they were unfairly treated in the past or who
think they may be able to establish future claims to entitlements. These enhanced demands,
fueled by the lack of any apparent threat from rising reservoir levels, as well as-from perceptions
that their entitlements are unlikely to be curtailed, have exacerbated delays and are the major
current obstacles to full completion of the RRP. PAFs in the 27 FSVs agreed to resettlement
with less resistance than those in the 5 new sites. The numbers of 'retumees' claiming
entitlement have increased, and children who were minors at the time of the award of benefits
have now gained adulthood. This is estimated by CESS to be as many as 34% of all PAFs from
the 27 FSVs. The opportunity to maintain residence in acquired structures (because the threat of



68
flooding/submergence is perceived as minimal) and simultaneously gain access to new structures
and facilities, is, naturally, quite attractive to some PAFs. The sub-divisions of households to
increase the numbers of household members who can register as PAFs, has complicated progress
and inflated numbers. 1,162 (approx.) families in the 5 new resettlement sites have secured
entitlements to 1,466 ERSs.
14.   As of March 1998, 1763 (27%) ERSs out of a total of 6516 schemes planned remain to be
'grounded' 14/. But, of this number, 1466 (83%) are to be found in the 5 new resettlement sites.
The remaining 297 schemes still outstanding in the other villages are planned for 'returnees' of
one sort or another and are confidently expected to be completed in the coming 2 months. CESS
reports indicate that in the 24 resettlement villages, all but 6 of the planned 3,514 ERSs have
been grounded. Housing construction remains to be completed in the 5 'new' resettlement sites
(PAF perception that the award of their ERS might be jeopardized if they had not built and
relocated prior to the closing date of the project at the end of March 1998 seems to have spurred
recent activity).
Remaining Concerns at Closing
15.   There is concern about: the viability of some of the ERS schemes; the maintenance of the
assets created under the Resettlement and Rehabilitation component; and the ability to relocate
the villagers from the five re-classified villages to the new resettlement sites. There is also
concern about establishing a cut-off date for those claiming entitlement. Additionally five
partially submerged villages, where not all structures have been acquired, are asking that the
whole of their village be included and that they be re-classified as FSVs. The position of Singur
village itself, just below the dam, which is subject to extensive waterlogging, remains to be
resolved. This village was not included in the RRP.
16.   While all infrastructural provisions (roads, public buildings, electricity and water) in all
29 resettlement sites have been provided, water and electricity connections remain to be
activated in the 5 new resettlement sites, and small deficiencies remain in some resettlement
villages. These have been identified in the regular CESS monitoring reports, and where possible
appear to have been addressed. Other deficiencies are associated with the need for regular
maintenance of assets, now the responsibility of the local Panchayats, inappropriate location of
some public buildings, seasonal fluctuations in the availability of water in this drought-prone
area, and frequent fluctuations in the availability of electricity. These together put the
sustainability of some investments in question. Assurances by the District Administration that
sufficient local resources will be available for regular maintenance have been obtained, but the
lack of a revenue base for these recently created Panchayats means that there are unlikely to be
adequate resources in the future.
14/    By 'grounded' project authorities mean that assets for the Economic Rehabilitation Schemes (ERSs) have
been purchased and transferred to the recipients. It does not imply the success of the scheme.



69
Table 1
Planned and completed activities under the Resettlement & Rehabilitation Plan
Revised                     Cost
Item                              Planned       (MTR)       Currently     Estimate     Cost Actual
(SAR)        RRP4      functioning    Rs Millions    Rs. Millions
INFRASTRUCTURE
Approach roads -formation (kn) i3/      69        65.50         65.50         17.95         38.085
- metalling (hns)           88        66.60         66.60                       .
Intemal roads - formation &              59        69.35         69.35         17.52         45.290
metalling (ksns)
DRINKING WATER                                                                 10.94          9.088
borewells (Nos.)                         89           97            72                              l
piped systems (Nos.) ll                 20           28            21              _       _       l
ELECTRICITY "1/.                                                               2.84           6.709
Electricity powerlines (kms)             34           57
Electricity transforners (Nos.)          14           29                            _
BUILDINGS                                                                     31.31          22.052
School rooms  /                         179           95
Community Halls                          23           27       .                                    l
General purpose buildings 19,            29           23               .                            ll
Primary health centers                    7            8
Veterinary clinics                       16            8
REHABILITATION
Self Employment Schemes 28/            1524        6516        4735           15:76          56.430
Employment training (Families)          270         350                        1.55           0-694
Irrigation Borewells 2,                 315          104            73        23.76          12.420
Housing for SClSTs                     1150        2888           2273        25.03          37.000
1Tousing plots                                         .               .
Land for Housing Plots                                                         4.24           9.043
Resettlement Grants                                                                            9.05
151     Approach roads to 19 resettlement villages have been completed. They were not required for the remaining
I0 of the 29 new settlements
16~   While piped systems have been provided in the 5 'new' resettlement villages they are not yet functional
because PAFs have not relocated.
'7/     Electricity supply is currently operational in 21 of the 24 original resettlement villages. It has not yet been
connected in the 5 new resettlement villages.
Is/     26 school buildings have been constructed in the 29 new settlements
19/     These consist of 19 Gram Panchayat buildings and 4 libraries
20      This includes 4555 ERSs grounded from the year 1994. A balance of 297 schemes remain to be grounded
in the 64 originally identified villages (for non-residents and missing awardees). In the 24 original resettlement
villages 3508 schemes out of a total of 3514 schemes have been grounded. Analysis of schemes in these 24 villages
by CESS indicates that 2628 schemes (75%) remain intact. 1466 schemes are planned, but remain to be grounded in
the 5 new resettlement villages once villagers relocate.
21/      This constructed number is based on an overall retention rate for schemes of 75%, as computed by CESS.
22/      While 151 borewells were eventually drilled for purposes of agricultural intensification only 104 have been
put to use



70
II.   Aspects of the RRP Process in Greater Detail
The Baseline (1989) Survey
17.   The initial Resettlement and Rehabilitation Plan (RRP1) was produced by the CESS in
March 1989. This quantified the requirements for land acquisition and infrastructural
development and set parameters for the proposed economic rehabilitation program, with cosigns.
These became the base for the RRP appended to the SAR of January 1990. Structures up to
level 523.60 meters, which was the full reservoir level for the darn, were to be acquired. The
report noted that this did not include an additional 0.3 meter to take account of wave height, or
another 1 meter for backwater effect. The report remained an incomplete draft and the stratified
random sampling was too small - 1 1% of PAFs from FSVs and only 4% from PSVs were
interviewed.
18.   Relocation began as early as 1986. The submergence area had been neglected for three
decades by development agencies in anticipation of the project. The region is prone to periodic
droughts and there remains a serious shortage of water. While some attempts were made in
RRP1 to quantify existing circumstances in the 27 FSVs these were not well developed.
Illiteracy rates among the sampled population were estimated at 76.5%. Income levels averaged
Rs 10,415 per household, and only 13% of the population had received primary education. At
the time of the survey some 10-15% of villagers in the 27 submergence villages had evacuated
the area. As many as one third saw themselves as eventually leaving agricultural occupations.
Villagers felt that compensation for housing was roughly adequate, but that compensation for
land was grossly inadequate. Compensation for land averaged Rs 8,000 per hectare for dryland,
and Rs 12,000 per hectare for wetland, whereas prices of land in the area had apparently risen to
Rs 37,000 and Rs 49,400 per hectare for dryland and wetland respectively at that time.
19.   While full compensation remained to be received at the time of the 1989 study, the
investigation indicated that, while 60% of compensation received had gone to purchasing
productive assets including land, the amount of replacement land bought was only about 30% of
land acquired by the project. Richer farmers were eager to dispose of their land and move out of
this relatively unproductive area. The draft RRP did not propose to provide help in the
restoration of incomes to large farmers. The worst hit were agricultural laborers, many of whom
had been cultivating government land for which they received no compensation. Village
specialists with no land holdings, but who were essential parts of the village economy, were not
entitled to compensation, other than for the structures in which they lived, as well as an ex-gratia
payment of Rs 1,000.
20.   The 1989 study estimated that there were 1,150 households (10,694 vulnerable
agricultural laborers) in the 27 FSVs, and a further 2,000 households (15,17$ vulnerable
agricultural laborers) in the (then estimated) 42 PSVs who would require economic
rehabilitation. The suggested solution to the problem of income restoration was the
intensification of agricultural production through the development of borewells (315 were
originally proposed) of which 30% would be reserved for SCs/STs. The survey also
recommended the distribution of government land to the landless, and the temporary
employment of villagers on physical infrastructural works associated with the development of
the new resettlement sites, and a Weaker Section housing program. The study also



71
recommended that self-employment schemes for a further 2367 persons using the model
provided by the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) be developed, paralleled by
training for 268 literate beneficiaries. The RRP proposed financing self-employment schemes
through bank loans, part subsidies, and margin money, with the subsidy elemrrent varying
according to the economic status of the beneficiary. This was a point of dispute with the Bank
supervision missions who maintained that an objective of the rehabilitation scheme was to ensure
that PAFs were not to become further indebted. The study suggested that a third of the ERSs be
reserved for SCs/STs and that priority be devoted to those below the poverty line (Rs 6,400 in
1990). There was little thought given to the institutional arrangements for the implementation of
the plan, apart from the fact that it would be administered by the Collector's office in Medak
District, in which all the resettlement was taking place.
The First Phase of Implementation (1990 - 1993)
21.   To speed up land acquisition which was still underway, three land acquisition units were
added to the original one. All'that GoAP committed itself to, in addition to compensation
payments under the land acquisition act, was an ex-gratia cash grant in lieu of rehabilitation.
This was 50% of compensation, or Rs 1,000 (whichever was less) for those losing either house or
land, and 50% of compensation, or Rs 5,000 (whichever was less) for those losing both.
Provisions for basic amenities at new resettlement sites were made in accordance with
Government norms prevalent at the time and the Basic Minimum Needs Program. Neither ex
gratia payments nor basic amenities were at that time forthcoming. Some employment
opportunities on dam related work were to be given to PAFs on a preferential basis.
22.   The GoAP, through the District Administration in Medak, was responsible for
implementation of the RRP. The implementation capacity of Medak district to execute the
agreed RRP was strengthened by the addition of a Rehabilitation Officer with the rank of Deputy
Collector to head a division of 23 persons together with an engineering division responsible for
physical infrastructural works consisting of 51 persons recruited from the Panchayati Raj
Engineering Department. While physical infrastructural provision proceeded relatively
smoothly, (HMWSSB deputed an experienced Engineer of General Manager rank to lead the
infrastructure team at the Resettlement Unit in the District in 1992), little progress was made
with the economic rehabilitation work.
23.   As a result of concerns about slow progress, four Bank missions which focused virtually
exclusively on this component were mounted between January and July 1993. These aimed at
finalizing RRP3 and improving performance. Considerable emphasis in RRPl was given to the
intensification of agricultural production for small farmers through the construction of irrigation
borewells. The assumption was that land-based rehabilitation programs were likely to meet with
greater success. In the event this was only feasible on a much smaller scale than anticipated,
because of the failure to locate adequate groundwater. The missions pointed out the weak
administration of the R&R component of the project. Hardship to the PAFs was avoided during
this period because of delays in filling the reservoir, and because of the availability of work on
infrastructural works, particularly roads.
24.   The supervision mission of March 1993 identified R&R as the 'one really substantive
issue' in the project which did not seem to be receiving the attention that the Bank would have



72
liked. Part of the reason for this was attributed to the separate responsibility given for the
implementation of this component to the Medak District authorities through the State Municipal
Administration & Urban Development Department. Thus, responsibility was not under the
control of the HMWSSB, and the same sense of urgency that infused the progress in other
components of the was not evident. While relocation to the 24 resettlement sites had been
accomplished by April 1992 (the original deadline set in RRP1) development of these sites
remained far from complete. The economic rehabilitation program was being carried out in an
ad-hoc manner, with little purposive direction. The officer-in-charge of the RRP in Medak
District remained at Deputy Collector rank, despite the fact that an officer of the rank of Joint
Collector had been proposed at appraisal and agreed with Government. The Deputy Collector
did not have sufficient authority to mobilize government resources to carry out the IRDP work
envisaged. The Resettlement Division remained understaffed.
RRP4 - Rapid Progress with Implementation from 1994
25.   By January 1994 Medak District Collector's Rehabilitation Division (RD) had, with
informal assistance from HMWSSB, and in consultation with the Bank, made its fourth revision
of the RRP. RRP4 was developed on the basis of much wider consultations and with the help of
a much more solid data base. It was finalized in close collaboration with the Bank.
26.   A new head of the Rehabilitation Office in Sangareddy, Medak District headquarters,
with the rank of Joint Collector, was appointed in June 1993. Her primary responsibility was to
ensure progress of the RRP. She remained in the post until April 1995, and oversaw the
transformation of this component from one which was failing, to one which was in many
respects a remarkable success. The revised baseline data was collected in October/November
1993. Implementation of ERSs proceeded apace during 1994 (1000 schemes were grounded
between June and October of that year alone). Officers with skills in agriculture and animal
husbandry were seconded to the Rehabilitation Office during the latter part of 1993 and a person
with skills in small industrial development was seconded to the program in June 1994 as
Rehabilitation Officer. He remains in charge of the day to day progress of the RRP.
27.   During her tenure the Joint Collector oversaw the completion of infrastructural works in
most of the 24 resettlement villages, and the grounding of the bulk of the ERSs, except those in
the 5 new resettlement sites. From the beginning of 1995 she was gradually drawn into other
duties. There was something of a hiatus during the middle of 1995. She was replaced for a short
time by a Joint Collector who had to divide his time between the project and other District duties.
While he restricted ERSs to land schemes only, running counter to earlier efforts and Bank
recommendations, he did manage to oversee the purchase of 600 acres of land for distribution to
PAFs. He was succeeded in August 1995 by another Joint Collector, who rem.ained in the post
until August 1997. During this time there was much more continuity of Bank R&R specialists.
Since early 1994 there has only been one change in Bank personnel dealing with these issues.
28.   Under RRP4 eligibility criteria were different and there were a number of innovative
elements for economic rehabilitation. These resulted in a six month turn-around in economic
rehabilitation from a project component that could be deemed a failure, to one in which there
was a high likelihood that all beneficiaries would receive high quality productive assets, which



73
they want, and which can be authoritatively demonstrated to have improved their living
standards.
29.   By 1994 the number of PAFs had undergone considerable upward revision. RRP4
covered PAFs in all 69 villages using a maximum 1994 poverty line criteria of Rs 8,500 per
annum. The RRP4's rationale for the Rs 8,500 income criteria was that it would be more
inclusive than that of the original RRP 1. The original RRP envisaged exclusion of landless
PAFs for self-employment schemes. They were to be provided only with housing grants on the
assumption that adequate agricultural employment for them would be generated in the fields of
medium and large farmers due to borewell development. As indicated earlier borewell
development fell short of expectation. Only 79 (of 105 operationalized) are currently functional.
30.   Medium farmers were also excluded from self-employment schemes, regardless of
income. CESS had conducted a sample survey of four villages (Osrikapally, Paladugu, Manthur
and J. Osrikapally) finding 75% with incomes above Rs 10,000 and most with multiple
productive assets in addition to agricultural land. The new criteria would still exclude most
medium farmers from receipt of ERSs but would include any whose income was at or below the
poverty line.
31.  It had earlier been planned to cover PAFs only in those villages where more than 20% of
lands were submerged. The RRP4 proposed covering all fully and partially submerged villages,
because in villages where less than 20% of lands had been submerged, there were PAFs who lost
their entire land.
32.  It was possible for the first time (CESS Report, para. 30 above) to quantify the income of
PAFs. Estimating pre-displacement income was fraught with subjectivity and inaccuracies.
Current income was a-good indication of need for economic rehabilitation. Income criteria would
include all landless PAFs, in addition to SC/STs, for the RRP Weaker Section housing program.
33.   The number of families eligible for the ERSs in RRP1 was 4,628. Using the
comprehensive survey data and a new income eligibility criteria, the number in 1994 rose to
5,611 PAFs. This included the five 'new' FSVs. Total PAFs estimated in 1990 were 6,120; in
1993 this figure had risen to 10,910. Of these, some 3,890 (36%) were not traceable either
through death or migration. Of the remaining 7,020 PAFs still in the area, 3,575 were living in
the 24 resettlement sites, and another 1,399 (later increased to 1466) are to be resettled in the five
new sites, for a total of 4974 resettled PAFs. In response to the new data, the RRP budget was
revised from Rs 161.98 million at the time of appraisal to Rs 264.7 million. This revision was
agreed with the Bank during the supervision mission in early 1994.



74
Table 2
Number of Project Affected Families
Status                           27 Fully Submerged  37 Partially    Five New'        Total
Villages: No. of   Submerged Villages:  Villages: No. of
PAFs          No of PAFs        PAFs.
Total PAFs                            7,396            2,115           1,,399       10,910
Not residing in the villages (migrated)  3,135          755             Nil         3,890
PAFs having annual income above Rs 8,500  1,028         182             199         1,409
Total not requiring assistance:       4,163             937             199         5,200  11
Total requiring assistance (income below Rs
8,500)                                3,233            1,178           1,200        5,611
34.    There were a number of innovative elements to RRP4, some of which were additional to
those agreed with the Bank. These were:
*  NGOs were used in designing and carrying out the program;
*  Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) techniques for consulting with PAFs in
designing the ERSs.
*  NGOs were to adopt villages for long term involvement beyond completion of the
RRP.
* Village Rehabilitation Reports were to be prepared as part of the ERS design process.
* Each household-level ERS was supported by a standard grant of Rs 8,000, and
households were given subsidized Bank loans, as per the Integrated Rural
Development Program (IRDP), for schemes over this amount. 231
SC/ST households received additional subsidies.
Unemployed, educated village youth were to be employed as Village-level Workers
(VLWs) to help implement and monitor the ERSs. These were also ERS
beneficiaries, and were expected to use learned liaison skills to work with the district
government after RRP4 was completed.
* In recognition that lift irrigation from the newly created drinking water reservoir
cannot be used to offset the loss of submerged land, GoAP attempted to strengthen
Village-level resources. This included plans to set up cooperatives and encouraging
entrepreneurs to create village-level enterprises for providing alternative means of
employment and also strengthening household-level income generating schemes by
strengthening backward (resource) and forward (marketing) linkages.
* Innovative deployment of other District resources to support rehabilitation measures,
23/    This was controversial. The World Bank had a number of reservations about the incorporation of loans into
the RRP, since the original RRP was quite explicit that, ...."the total cost of establishing a family in one of the
available occupations will be met by GoAP, and the affected family will not have to becomejindebted in order to re-
establish their livelihood." RRP4 nevertheless instituted this loan program from commercial banks for those PAFs
choosing schemes valued at more than the standard grant of Rs 8,000. The RRP4 document justified these loans on
the grounds that: a) people choosing high cost schemes would otherwise be unfairly subsidized; b) that people would
feel a greater sense of ownership of their assets if they had a personal stake in them; and c) that without a grant limit,
each PAF would choose only the most expensive schemes whether or not these were appropriate for them. From
what subsequent Bank missions can determine in the field, this appears to have been a workable policy decision. So
far it has produced a flexible array of attractive and relatively sustainable options.



75
such as the seeding of the lake with fingerlings, the development of fodder and of
forest cover on the draw-down lands surrounding the reservoir, and the provision of
low cost pit latrines.
35.   GoAP made an effort to fully document the Economic Rehabilitation process. It created
a Management Information System to manage a comprehensive data base and produced
individual reports on each of the village-level schemes. It was also to produce
Completion/Impact Studies of each village where ERSs had been grounded with the help of the
engaged NGOs. These various measures were to provide the documentation base for a final
evaluation report by the M&E agency six months after the RRP4 completion date, then
scheduled for September 1995. The M&E agency, (CESS) took on implementation of the ERSs
in two villages, which lent an added level of authenticity to its evaluation.
Progress with Economic Rehabilitation Schemes.
36.   By January 1995, 2,180 of 5,611 PAFs (39%) in the FSVs and PSVs had received ERSs
(up from 16% reported in the September 1994 Quarterly Report). Nearly 80% of the 4,433 PAFs
from the 32 FSVs (which includes the 5 new resettlement sites) had been relocated in 24
resettlement sites. Of those resettled in those 24 sites 43% had received ERSs. The majority of
the infrastructure for the 24 resettlement villages was in place, and work on the 5 new
resettlement sites was to commence in 1995. This latter was scheduled to be completed within
one year.
37.   ERSs had been grounded in 11 of the 29 resettlement villages (38% coverage). About
60% of ERSs in a further 10 villages had been grounded and this was expected to be completed
by the end of February 1995. The 3 remaining villages had been taken up by one NGO, Youth
for Action, which withdrew unexpectedly without starting the work of grounding the planned
ERSs. Work in these 3 villages was taken up by the Rehabilitation Division, and was expected
to be completed by the end of March 1995. At that time it was confidently expected that ERSs in
the 5 new sites would be completed by the middle of the following year (June 1996) at the latest.
38.   The schemes were chosen through a combination of participatory rural appraisal (PRA)
techniques, assessment of local resources, and economic feasibility studies for each scheme with
the help of NGOs and the Village Level Workers. The procurement process was public and
transparent. Weekly income was being carefully monitored by the 36 Village Level Workers
(VLWs) and their reports indicated a substantial rise in family income for affected households
24/
39.   By September 1995, 51% of beneficiaries eligible for ERSs had been covered, or 2,831
of 5,61 1 eligible PAFs in the 37 PSVs, the 24 resettlement villages, and the 5 new resettlement
sites. The village-wise level of completion in the 24 resettlement villages is given in Table 3.
ERSs had been grounded in 18 of the 24 original resettlements. Substantial numbers of ERSs
24/    Village Level Workers (VLWs) were appointed by the project authorities from among the beneficiaries in
all the 24 resettlement sites and for clusters of the partially submerged villages, to assist the NGOs and to
monitor implementation of the physical infrastructural provisions, house construction, and the ERSs.



76
remained to be grounded in those villages from which the NGO Youth for Action withdrew. No
ERSs had been grounded in the 5 new resettlement sites. All the PAFs in the 24 resettlement
villages had been surveyed for their ERS preference. Given the numbers of returnees, together
with disputed claims to entitlement, it is difficult to obtain a precise figure for additional ERSs
required. Project Officials indicate that, in addition to the 1,466 ERSs whiclh will be required for
the 5 new resettlement sites there were, as of March 1997, 297 outstanding ]_RSs remaining to be
grounded.
III.   Commentary on the RRP Implementation
The work of NGOs
40.   Five NGOs were selected by the RD in 1993 to prepare and implement economic
rehabilitation schemes for 22 villages. If this procedure was found successfilW, the Rehabilitation
Office was prepared to induct more NGOs if necessary. The NGOs would conduct a detailed
survey of the PAFs and village resources and prepare a draft plan for ERSs 'within the framework
of a Village Rehabilitation Report. It was expected that 3 of the NGOs woudd cover 6 villages
each, and the two others would cover 2 villages each, regardless of the numbers of PAFs in each
village. The Resettlement Office itself would cover the remaining villages. CESS, the
monitoring institution undertook to work in two villages, to strengthen its own capacities and
understanding..
41.   Of the NGOs, the Deccan Development Society (DDS) had particularly strong
qualifications because it had worked in Medak District villages for over a decade, including one
of those for whom it took RRP responsibility. Its particular strength had been with the
management of women's sanghams (committees), balwadis (nurseries); non-formal education,
purchasing land, permaculture schemes for rejuvenating marginal land, and managing communal
resources for drought relief among the sangham members. PRERANA was a relatively new
group, made up of primarily young professionals, whose experience in rural development to date
had been in R&R, but not in Medak District. Advanced Rural Technology Hyderabad Inputs
Centre (ARTHIC) was an established NGO, whose membership included retired professionals
and government officials. Youth for Action (YFA) withdrew unexpectedly during
implementation, but later, in the event, all but CESS withdrew. DDS indicated that they had
other work to do and that the constraints of working for government were too great. PRERANA
withdrew after completing its Village Rehabilitation Reports, as did ARTHIC.
42.   DDS had considerable success in organizing villagers to purchase plots of land through
pooling their ERS grants. There was however a tendency to accept whatever ERSs the PAFs
chose without determining feasibility or viability, which led to the establishmuent of too many
schemes of the same type in particular locations. This exceeded demand or absorptive capacity -
particularly for animal husbandry options, and small business options. The NGOs also had
difficulty in meeting the rather rigorous monitoring requirements imposed by the project
authorities, and necessitated by Bank procurement and disbursement rules. They felt that they
should have been given block grants to be used as appropriate. Also, the competition among
Rehabilitation Office staff and NGOs was an inducement for project staff to perform well. The
presence of the NGOs along with Village Level Workers greatly strengthened the monitoring of



77
the procurement as well as the establishment of the various ERSs.
The Role of the Independent Monitoring & Evaluation Team
43.   The CESS has been associated with the project since it carried out the original socio-
economic survey in 1989. They were subsequently employed to provide half yearly supervision,
monitoring and evaluation reports. Their continued association is unique in projects of this type
and their inputs have been important, not only in documenting progress, but also in alerting the
project authorities and the Bank missions to problems of implementation. Their 14 half yearly
reports are an important record of the various dimensions of project implementation and their
role is one that should be emulated in the development of similar projects. They have been
employed to carry out the post-project impact evaluation study which is expected to be
completed by September 1998. The experience with NGO participation was mixed. While
initial enthusiasm for their participation was high, and they achieved early gains, their longer
term association with the project was more problematic as they took on different agendas, or
withdrew their support.
The Role of Government
44.   The Resettlement and Rehabilitation Plan was implemented through the Medak
Collector's office. A major advantage was that, once the authority of the Joint Collector could
be established, the integrated resources of the District could be applied to the project to provide
opportunities and resources that might not otherwise have been available. Deployment of
resources from other departments, such as forestry, fisheries, small industries, agriculture, health,
education, and the District Rural Development Authority, was thus possible. The main
disadvantage of the involvement of the Medak Collector's office was that execution of the
project was somewhat divorced from other components of the project which were implemented
through the HMWSSB. The shortage of skilled administrative capacity within the State is
acknowledged and the temptation to focus on other issues inescapable, but the progress with this
component seems to have been directly proportional to the attention given to it by the Joint
Collector.
45.   Factoring in inflation. The Rs 8,000, available to those entitled for receipt of a
rehabilitation package no longer purchases the same as it could one or two years ago (for
example, Rs 8,000 now buys seven small ruminants, rather than the eleven that it could earlier).
The R&R Action Plan did not factor into account inflation when it determined the level of
benefit to which people were entitled. It is becoming apparent that inflation currently places at
risk the ability to re-establish livelihoods. This is a lesson to be leamed as future projects are
planned. Entitlements should be calculated in terms of assets to be provided rather than in terms
of a fixed amount. While it would be desirable to provide enhanced benefits to those who
received reduced packages, the complexities of retro-fitting at this stage may well outnumber the
advantages. 300 animal husbandry packages may need to be 'topped up' because of inflation, in
the grounding of remaining schemes.
46.   Delivering the outstanding Economic Rehabilitation Packages. The issue of viable
livelihood regeneration is called into question by the continued erosion of the local purchasing



78
power of the Rupee for those remaining to be resettled and rehabilitated. It is understood that,
rather than forcing resettlement as a way of triggering access to economic rehabilitation schemes,
savings accounts are being opened for those who are entitled to benefits but who have not yet
claimed them. The Rs 8,000 deposited will be disbursed at a time convenient to the 'awardee'
after demonstrating willingness to resettle. The joint signatories to the bank account would be
the Collector or his/her representative and the 'awardee'. This has the benefit of allowing
interest to be earned over time and thus is a hedge against further inflation, as well as offering an
incentive to resettle in order to withdraw the entitlement. The assumption behind this practice is
that 'awardees' are currently able to sustain their livelihoods without recourse to external
assistance, and that the 'grounding' of the scheme is not essential for this.
Sustainability of Economic Rehabilitation Schemes (ERSs).
47.   The various schemes aimed at the economic rehabilitation of PAFs are divided between
land-, and non-land-based activities. They are classified as:
*  Agricultural Schemes - purchasing of land for the landless, plough bullocks, carts
and bullocks, pump irrigation.
* Animal Husbandry Schemes - crossbred buffaloes, jersey cows, sheep and goat
units.
*  Industry, Service, Business Schemes - e.g. small tea shops ('hotels'), businesses,
vending.
*  Social Security schemes for the aged and the disabled.
48.   Evidence from the 13th CESS half-yearly report (October 1996 - March 1997) indicated
that 2,501 schemes out of a total of 3,51 1 of these ERSs have 'remained intact' (i.e. they
continue to be operational) in the 24 totally submerged villages. The 14th, and final report
covering the period from April to September 1997, indicates that 2,273 schemes out of a total of
3,494 remain 'intact'. This figure rises further if account is taken of schemes which have
transferred location (some small businesses and shops for example have moved to more
appropriate locations such as cross-roads) or have been replaced through insurance claims.
There are, however, significant variations in sustainability, even after a relatively short period of
three years since the earliest of them were 'grounded', both in terms of schemes and in terms of
villages. Land-based schemes, as expected, have been the most sustainable, whereas the more
risky animal husbandry and small business schemes have been much less successful with less
than a 50% retention rate. Little attention was given to the particular needs of women, and only
725 (or 20%) of the 3,494 schemes were given to women. However, project monitoring does not
systematically desegregate statistics on gender lines. Further details can be found in Table 3
below.



79
Table 3
Status of various Economic Rehabilitation Schemes in 24 resettlement villages
(March 1998)
Type of Scheme            No. of schemes  NoJage of schemes
Grounded     Sustained
Agriculture:              1306 (37.5%)  984 (74.5%)
Land                      583           581 (99.5%)
Plough Bullocks           560           263 (46.9%)
Bullock and Cart          34            16 (47.0%)
Minor Irrigation/Agrl. implements  129  124 (87.3%)
Animal Husbandry          1116 (32.0%)   492 (43.7%)
Milch animal              531           200 (37.5%)
Jersey Cow                31            5  (16.1%)
Sheep                     323           189 (57.3%)
Goats                     180           64 (35.5%)
Fishing Equipment         49            32 (65.5%)
Poultry                   2            2 (100.0%)
Small Industry/Business (ISB)    500 (14.0%)  221 (45.6%)
Kirana (groceriesl provisions  121      63 (49.6%)
Cloth                     85            22 (26.2%)
Tailoring                 24            15 (60.0%)
Others                    270           121 (48.6%)
Social Security Schemes   572 (16.5%)   576 (100%)
|_TOTAL  3494 (100.0%/6)  2273 (65.05%)
49.    The preliminary analysis by CESS of the reasons for the failure of schemes is instructive.
The most common failures are reported from the animal husbandry sector where the death of
animals, their migration in search of fodder, and their sale in order to provide resources to
purchase different assets appear to be the major reasons. If some of these apparent failures are
discounted (because insurance from death though illness provides for replacement, lack of ability
to enumerate does not necessarily mean non-viability, and sales do not appear to be distress
sales), then the proportion of retained schemes rises to about 75%. According to CESS figures,
of 205 schemes which were not retained 146 (71%) were sold. Predictably the most successful of
the ERSs have been the land-based schemes, and project management has indicated that
wherever possible these will be vigorously pursued for the remaining project beneficiaries in the
five 'new' villages. Through tie ups with existing govermment programs for support to the
Scheduled Castes, rehabilitation benefits can be combined to produce a package which will allow
for the purchase of land at market prices.
50.    CESS also investigated the retention of schemes according to sub-sections of the village
populations, and reported that there was a correlation between the position of PAFs in the caste
hierarchy of villages and the retention of schemes; the lower the caste position, the higher the
rate of retention. One interpretation of this might be that the other castes attach less importance
to the schemes because they are less dependent on them for sustaining their economic
livelihoods. It is important to note that these ERSs do not appear to be, in the majority of cases
presented, the only sources of livelihood. Villagers are supplementing their income with other
sources - agricultural wage labor, leasing of land for agricultural production, etc. The economic
rehabilitation schemes offer additional insurance against impoverishment and important
opportunities to diversify household economic portfolios. The post-project evaluation of the



80
economic rehabilitation program should be able to further investigate this and analyze the
processes of economic diversification.
51.    Maintenance of Project assets. While the project reports completion of all physical
works, (apart from the provision of electricity in the new settlement colonies 25/) there remains
the ongoing problem of maintenance in the older resettlement colonies. The maintenance of
physical assets is the responsibility of the local panchayats. These remain weak institutions with
little ability (or incentive, as long as the project will provide) to raise adequate revenues. While
the current "Janmaboomi" program in the state is important in motivating people for self-reliant
development, many activities are one-off events. There is a need to more firmly link them to the
development of systematic revenue generation capacities to ensure that the assets created for the
PAFs and the surrounding populations are not allowed to deteriorate, and adequate resources for
maintenance are locally generated: There is still some concern that health and veterinary
facilities are inadequately staffed for the demand created by the addition of animal husbandry
schemes, and the expansion of the animal population in the project area.
52.    Problems with completion in the 5 'new' villages. The project has now focused
considerable attention on the remaining problems of the completion in the five 'new' villages.
Because of the link being made by the project between resettlement and the availability of the
rehabilitation package, progress in the 'grounding' of schemes has been particularly slow in
these villages. PAFs are reluctant to move because, in a majority of cases, there is no immediate
physical threat of flooding, and also because they perceive that the housing benefits on offer in
the project are inadequate. This is particularly evident when comparisons are made between the
substantial stone-built houses of some awardees with what is affordable currently. This is likely
to remain a stumbling block as inflation erodes the value of the Rs 15,000 available to the SCs
among them who are eligible for the housing grant.
Table 4
Five new resettlement villages: The status of house construction in June 1997 and March
1998 (March 1998 figures are given in brackets)
Name of      No. of    No. of plots No. of plots No. of  No. of houses   No. of  No. of ERSs
Village      Awardees   made      allotted    houses  under        houses      planned in
sanctioned  construction    completed    RRP5
Lonikhurd         273        343       164        24       20 (6)        0 (15)        150
Peddareddipet      538       214       204       100       85 (59)       0 (39)        350
Itkepally         330        295       155        79       24 (61)       O (6)         197
Pulkurthy         438        292       269   130 (129)      O (6)       O (4)          324
Bellapur           543       505       447       232        0 (118) X                  445
Total             2122      1649      1239   565(564)      135 (250)    0 (64).       1466
53.    It is now apparent that the completion of housing and thus the 'grounding' of economic
rehabilitation schemes in the five new villages will not be completed as originally envisaged.
25/    The project office is reluctant to complete electricity connections until there is substantial evidence that
people will move, and to avoid possible theft. Concrete poles and cables have been delivered to the sites where
electrification remains incomplete. While some minor physical works were reported in the latest CESS report in a
small number of villages, the project authorities maintain that these have been dealt with.



81
Progress is varied and house construction work has been abandoned at Bellapur. Substantial
activity is underway in three villages (Peddareddypet, Lonikhurd and Itkepally) and some initial
progress has recently been made in Pulkurthy. 55 houses were completed between June 1997
and March 1998. In Bellapur a small number of Scheduled Caste members began digging
foundations after much persuasion from the project officers, but this has recently been
abandoned, in the face of upper caste opposition. Project management remained confident that
despite resistance to resettlement their completion is possible, but not before the closure of the
project. The slow progress is not the result of lack of action by the project team, but rather by
the resistance of villagers to move through fear, and as a result of the perception that greater
benefits may be forthcoming.
54.   Housing benefits. The inflation in the cost of housing means that those entitled to
housing benefits are having to invest considerably more than the Rs 15,000 obtained through the
Weaker Section housing program in order to build an acceptable house. There is a fear that the
financing of this extra expenditure is driving people into debt and putting their ability to retain
their assets at risk. Nevertheless PAFs seem reluctant to accept cheaper alternatives, preferring
to invest in traditional constructions in the development of an asset which will be of greater value
in the future, to their families and their children. While demonstration models of low cost houses
have been erected they have not been copied, despite the fact that they are available at Rs 20,000
(nearly half the cost of the average price of a traditional house). The post impact study should
reveal whether the extra expenditure on housing has resulted in an unsustainable debt burden.
55.   Dealing with returnees. The names of those who have registered entitlements to
benefits are available with the Collector, and advertisements indicating the availability of
benefits for those who can establish claims have been placed in local newspapers. As and when
appropriate, and subject to residence in the village they will be provided with their housing
entitlements, and their economic rehabilitation benefits. No major effort is now being made to
search these people out, on the assumption that having taken their compensation and moved
away, they have re-established their livelihoods elsewhere. The post impact study will
incorporate a sub-set of cases from these emigre awardees. All additional ERSs planned are for
'returnees'.
56.   Post Project Arrangements. It is important at this stage in the project that continuity of
personnel is maintained to consolidate the considerable advances that have been made over the
past four years, to ensure the sustainability of the schemes, and to focus on the completion of
work in the five remaining villages. This means that arrangements need to be made in the
District to ensure that some staff attached to the office of the Joint Collector should remain in
post. The importance of retaining the services of the Village Development Workers until at least
six months after the close of the project, to assist in the impact study as well as in other
remaining aspects of implementation should be emphasized. If there is a possibility of
incorporating their acquired skills into the on-going development programs of the District, this
should be pursued. They are a valuable asset that appears to have contributed effectively to
enhanced sustainability of investments.



82
Maintenance of Communities
57.   Two of the original objectives of the RRP were to ensure that PAFs are relocated 'in the
village limits, village sections or families in accordance with their preference', and that they be
'fully integrated into the community to which they are resettled'. PAFs have been involved in
extensive discussions about their preferences within the planned resettlement sites. While there
were some internal disagreements about the most appropriate locations there has been no serious
dispute, except perhaps in Bellapur. Where evident these appear to have been internally resolved
in favor of the upper caste groups. Sections and families have been accommodated according to
their choices, and the spatial differentials which separated caste groups, appear to have been
partially reproduced at the new sites. If this traditional arrangement is seen as an integrated
community then the majority of villagers have been reintegrated.
58.   Given the nature of these new sites, and the changing nature of differentiation within the
village and regional economy the new layouts are likely to have enhanced equity. Scheduled and
Backward classes have been given greater opportunities through access to ERSs, and have in
some instances, gained independence from feudal landlords. However the viability of some of
the schemes may well have been threatened by continuing caste divisions and the restrictions on
access imposed by such divisions. For example, schemes run by scheduled caste members will
be restricted to such castes. The spatial differentiation on caste lines within a traditional village
mean that the higher castes were located in the higher physical locations. The latters'
perceptions of threats from submergence might thus be lower than their lower caste neighbors.
The demands for reclassification of PSVs into FSVs may well be fueled by this geographical and
cultural differentiation. The impasse in the village of Bellapur is motivated by the higher castes
on the higher grounds who see no threat of submergence and who are able to exercise control
over the movement of the lower caste groups in the village. The project is presiding over the
dilution of caste divisions and, as such, is likely to invite higher caste opposition. The third of
the original objectives, of fully integrating PAFs into their new communities, may neither be
achievable nor desirable. The structure of rural society is being reconfigured by the project and
the forces at work in the wider society of which the project is a part.



_____________________                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~BRO   2 97
INDIA
-~~~~~~~~ ~~~HYDERABAD WATER SUPPLY AND
10500                                                                                    c-> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                 WATER  ~~~~~~~~~SANITATION PRO-JECT
WAE  UPPLY AND TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS
IDDL-512 2500A01-10C
,,I,DL=517 000 ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~ >7/ 
iA WA  .                                                                                                                                                                              02.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y(  PJPN, WTA oi ONOO000
2000 000011 
40                                           .~~~~~~0      ...0.                                                                                                                                                           o000
Kd0,        0IAESELLMT(PPOIAE
Ms
O 7'20'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1610
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0k
00                                                                             /       0,~~~~~~~0   5
~~0001.,~~~~~~,~~0l00  ____  I   0       /   0     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    -
- -                                                                  o10                000W-ooooo   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 54I
02.00  0010002,1700~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
78 ~~~~~OC                      7W ~~~~Ooc0,0Soooo                                                                 -.000000 1
05  2:000.  000000000000 NO..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  MW 5067.  k0oo~~~~~~~~~ ~~    o    /  0010  010' 0010EFTMBE 1-



_BRD 29845
ALWAL
MUNICIPALfTY
INDIA                                                                                                                                          JEEDMETLA                       GODAVAR
HYDERABAD WATER SUPPLY                                                                                                                                                                               ENTRY POINT
AND SANITATION PROJECT
HMWSSB - WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM                                                                                                        QUT3ULLAPUR                                                                        MALKAJGiRI                          KAPRA
gyde rnogor MUNI[CI PALITY                                                                          MUNIIPALTY                      MUN ICI PALITY
WAsen                                                                                                                                  A                                  -_ulal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-i INRW)
TREATMENT  PUMP               'PE_
PANTS   HUETS RE.ERA.R.S   LI.E
o                o         -     EXISWING WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM                                            Li.TRRpSRRn y       KUKATPALLY
* -            COMPLETEDUNDERTHEAAROEPRROJECT                                                                         LIT)
ROADS
RA LROADS                                                                                                                                           d.dd.    CANTONEMENT /                                                          i (Old)
        CITY ROUNDARY                                                                                                                      PdbS
SERI UNGAMPALLY            *                            RANJARA  HILLS ;                                                                                          ELUGUTrA
MUNIC Y                                                                                               MUNICIPAITY
RAJENDRA NAGAR    TRIOURREam                     l 
MUNICIPALITY           d2                   O AS hAM  DRAYAIsGUTTA
t~~~~~~~~~~~~- X-.6w
5T, Aunds. AAE  d55yolhermh    m AS  ~S SR  5
Xp olayjudEmentoll h lE             SHAIKPF                 1u NAGA
15 SSS R~~~~~~~Y AS ESYSE ESTS WSSSTSSR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ADHHW
AssA. S55yA5SSSRSSS 555 jMA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SASA SEAT~~~~q.
SARSSASSSSSS?RASSSRSSSSSSASS~~
T~~~~~~~A    0                                !Vi,h.li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SETMREIE



IBRD 29846
INDIA                                                                                QUTBULLAPUR                                                                           lIE
HYDERABAD WATER SUPPLY                                                                                   MUNICIPALITY
AND SANITATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                            ,\LKAJGIRI
HMWSSB - SEWERAGE SYSTEM                                                                                                                                                                                         M ONICIPAUTY
5WAGE  SE'WAGE                                                                                                                                                   4       _j:.I
PuwiMNG TRLATMIEh'T w_m   
IVER.O'IS STATIO,15 2LACNS   SEWERS F                                                                                                                                                                                      -
Or       -    LXAS NG SEWERAGE SYSTEM                                   KUKATPALLY            ,,
5        0       7tO   -       COMPLETFD UNIDER THF ABOVE EROJECI
ROADS)
-  RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                         ' X  >AR
CITY BOUNDARY                            ;                                                                                                                                                                            KLPA
--    -       MUNICIPALITY
SERi LINGAMPALLY
MUNICIPALITY                                                                  u
*                                    .           '1-        ,       S                   ;       E          i  ./   ,       OSANA
UN CERS TY
w  _*                                                    o. . _          /4EAldAD    J           . i:              f    /   t                UPPAL
J'.   [-RiELAKT, KAPUIl               ;OMALGUDA  ...                                     MUNICIPALITY
I-^                                            AVIAYNAGAR           ysLr b           -
Il ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    R           ANd      ~                          1        V
I                                                                             EK d NAR
6,                                __,s   ,'        ,       M                1               /                      w. ,    < _,,4~~~~~~~~~~~E T~
T HDRCOUDA                                 ,E l-UA                            .j
g                         _0 -  ~~~~~~          ~         ~     ~~NFHRIJ                                     S  ARCOR 
H                             :  >  ~~~~~~~~~~         ~~ZOOLOGICAL  i                fNAvAR  
&                                                                                                                                 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PR
Miralar 9  \>          Z                 /X/       ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~SAIDIABAC   
*4      N,                                                             E  L.B NAGAR,
+,   ,                   t                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MUNICIPAI.ITY
*                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
RA ENDRA NAGAI?R% -                                                     C 
MUNICIPALITW                       oss                       ; 
4
HOSETRI   S~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETEBR  9
Mh mp o; p d< b; ~is alar eHYTERO TA                            JAG GA                                                                      I
Grsp  mvLrd lbs I 171 hlluSf sny Se-r/orz a                                                                                           I
_   <endoraefor.nt~~ccelm7nenclfiU;nLLordura 



