Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17747
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
3191-HU
May 5, 1998
Private and Financial Sector Development
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 1990)
Currency Unit                Forint (Ft)
I Ft               US$0.016
US$1        =        Ft 63.9
AVERAGE E;XCHANGE RATES
1991      1992      1993      1994       1995       1996       1997
US$1=         74.7      79.0       91.9     105.2      125.7       152.6     186.8
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BB         -    Budapest Bank
CCB        -    Commercial and Credit Bank
CMEA       -    Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
COCOM    -    Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Strategic Export Controls
EFSAL      -    Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EU         -    European Union
FSD        -    Financial Sector Department
GIRO       -    Payment Clearing System
HCB        -    Hungarian Credit Bank (ABN-Amro Bank as of 1997)
IBRD       -    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDP        -    Institutional Development Program
IFC        -    International Finance Corporation
ISAL       -    Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan
ITCB       -    International Training Center for Bankers
MOF        -    Ministry of Finance
NBH        -    National Bank of Hungary
NSB        -    National Savings Bank
SAL        -    Structural Adjustment Loan
SBS        -    State Bank Supervision Agency (now Banking and Capital Market
Supervision) 1/
US         -    United States
1/         For consistency with project documents, the earlier names (HCB and SBS) have
been maintained throughout this report
HUNGARY'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 1
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director: Roger Grawe, ECCO7
Team Leader: Mihaly Kopanyi, ECCHU
Sector Leader: Hennie Van Greuning, ECSPF
Responsible Staff: Rochelle Hilton, Operations Officer, ECSPF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
3191-HU
Contents
Preface ..............................................................i
Evaluation  ............................................................. ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment ..............................................................I
Introduction  .........................................................................1I
A.   Statement of Objectives .............................................................1I
B.  Evaluation  of Objectives ..............................................................2
C.  Achievement of Objectives ..............................................................3
D.  Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............................................................3
E.  Project Sustainability ..............................................................4
F. Bank Performance ..............................................................4
G.  Borrower's Performance ..............................................................5
H.  Assessment of Outcome ..............................................................5
I.   Future Operation ...............................................................8
J.   Lessons Learned ..............................................................8
Part II. Statistical Tables ..............................................................9
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ....................................................................                                             10
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .....................................................................11
TABLE 3:   PROJECT TIMETABLE ....................................................................                                                 12
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ....................................... 13
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................................                            13
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ....................................................................                                13
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ....................................................................                                         14
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS .................................................................... 1 5
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ....................................................................                                                  15
TABLE 9:   ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ....................................................................                                       15
TABLE  10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ....................................................................                                         16
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ............................................................. 17
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ....................................................................                                       17
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ....................................................................                                           18
Appendixes:
A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
3191-HU
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Financial System Modernization
Project in Hungary, for which loan 3191-1HU in the amount of US$66.0 million equivalent was approved
on April 26, 1990, and made effective on September 28, 1990.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1997, compared with the original closing date of June 30, 1995.
At the request of the borrower, US$14 million was canceled on June 30, 1995, US$4 million on
November 30, 1996, and US$6 million on January 1, 1996. Final disbursement took place on July 1,
1997 and the final balance of US$769,436 was then canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Rochelle Hilton, Private and Financial Sector Development Unit of the
Europe and Central Asia Region and reviewed by Roger Grawe (Country Director, ECC07) and Mihaly
Kopanyi and Hiran Herat (ECSPF). The borrower provided comments that are included as appendixes to
the ICR. Comments received from implementing agencies have also been taken into account in the
preparation of the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission, which took place
March 2-7, 1998. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to preparation of
the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and commenting on the draft ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Loan 3191-HU
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    Since lending to Hungary began in 1983, the Bank has provided substantial support for financial
sector development and sector strategy formulation, through both adjustment and investment lending
operations. Six operations are of relevance to this loan: the First and Second Industrial Restructuring
Projects, closed in June and September 1993, respectively, the Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan, closed
in June 1991, the First and Second Structural Adjustment Loans, closed in June 1991 and December
1994, respectively, and the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL), approved in
March 1997 (paras 1-2).
Project Objectives
ii.    The Financial Sector Modernization Project (FSMP) supported government programs that
targeted the modernization and strengthening of the Hungarian financial system, with the objective of
improving its ability to mobilize and allocate financial resources. The FSMP aimed to: (a) provide a
modem legislative, regulatory and supervisory framework for banking and securities markets; (b)
strengthen the operations of the domestic banks by improving their management policies, procedures and
capabilities, as well as their long-term financial viability; (c) develop data processing infrastructure for
the banking system; (d) develop the market for issue and trading of securities; and (e) improve the
transparency and reliability of accounting information of enterprises and financial institutions (para 3).
iii.    Although priorities for the financial sector, changed significantly during project implementation,
the main objectives of the project remained relevant and valid. On the whole, the project was timely and
took into account the state of development of Hungary's financial sector. It rightly focused on the
legislative framework and banking supervision, strengthening of the bank operations and infrastructure.
A major shortcoming was that it overlooked the question of governance, with regard to both ownership
and management. This shortcoming was reflected in the pace and degree of achievement of the project's
objectives and was subsequently addressed under the EFSAL (para 6).
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.    Achievement of Objectives and Sustainability. In spite of the radical changes occurring in the
region and in Hungary between 1989-95, implementation of the FSMP proceeded well and, with some
delay, has been successful in achieving most of its objectives. The loan helped: (a) develop financial
sector legislation and regulations, and enhance accounting standards; (b) enable the State Bank
Supervision Agency to put in place an off-site surveillance system and to begin to develop its on-site
examination capacity;.(c) strengthen policies and procedures in the four large commercial banks, through
the preparation and implementation of institutional development programs (although automation systems
included in these programs were developed in only two of these banks, and the participation of smaller
banks did not materialize); and (d) modernize banking infrastructure. Achievements of the banking
sector infrastructure component, particularly the GIRO payment clearing system, improvements in



iii
legislation and prudential regulations,- and establishing accounting standards have been highly
satisfactory (paras 8-9).
v.    Sustainability: The FSMP can take credit for major institution building and infrastructure
improvements in the banking system. It played a significant role in introducing bankers to modem
banking practices, developing the infrastructure and a functional framework for a modern and
competitive banking system. The FSMP also laid the groundwork for substantial future policy work,
supported by the EFSAL, which resulted in the successful privatization of the Hungarian financial
system. Hungary can now boast of a modem banking system with private participation of above 80
percent, and about 60 percent foreign ownership; an active capital market; and financial sector
regulations that meet international standards (para 13).
vi.    Major Factors Affecting the Project.  Implementation of the FSMP took place during a very
turbulent economic period. The collapse of the CMEA, tightened budget constraints and new regulations
led to widescale bankruptcies, failing enterprises, huge non-performing loan portfolios, and eventually
widescale bank insolvencies. These problems were compounded by weak corporate governance and
frequent changes in bank managements. The project was also affected by the wavering commitment of
the changing management to implementation of the institutional development programs (paras 10-11).
Most of these problems were addressed in the context of the EFSAL and were subsequently resolved
through bank restructuring and privatization (para 12).
vii.   Bank and Borrower Performance.  Bank performance throughout the project cycle was
satisfactory and there were no significant deviations from  Bank policies or procedures during
implementation. Restructuring the banking system in Hungary was a priority for financial sector work in
the region and the Bank was able to mobilize a well-rounded team of high-level specialists from the
Region and FSD, supplemented by consultants. In addition, there was substantial close cooperation and
collaboration with IFC in the preparation of the capital market development component (paras 14-15).
Close collaboration was also maintained with other donors (particularly the US and EU) who provided
extensive complementary support in the areas of banking supervision, development of the Bankers
Training Center and capital market development. The performance of the Borrower and implementing
agencies was also satisfactory throughout preparation, appraisal and supervision, as was compliance with
legal covenants. Cooperation with NBH was excellent and the project benefited from the experience of
NBH in providing oversight and support to the various implementing agencies during project
implementation (para 17).
viii.  Assessment of Project Outcome. Overall, the outcome of the project was satisfactory. In
1990/91, the Hungarian commercial banking system was very young, with few experienced bankers,
poor accounting systems and weak operating procedures and standards. Project implementation was
considerably slower than anticipated and the Bank may have under-estimated the steepness of the
learning curve plus the time required to complete the transformation into a modern and competitive
banking industry (para 18). The FSMP, nevertheless, played a significant catalytic role in establishing
the basic framework for a modern financial system. As a result of the changed strategy for the financial
sector and the availability of grant funding for the International Training Center for Bankers and for the
Securities Market, the project was scaled down with an eventual cancellation of US$24 million. The
loans closed on June 30, 1997, and the remaining undisbursed balance of about US$0.8 million was also
canceled. The outcome of the remaining activities is described below.
ix.    Regulations, Supervision and Accounting Framework. Support provided under this component
was instrumental in helping to develop basic legislation and regulations, inter alia, the Banking Law,



iv
Accounting Law and Securities Law. These Laws, initially tailored to meet the needs of an emerging
financial sector, were subsequently modified as the system and the supervisory capacity improved and
now substantially comply with EU standards. Substantial improvements have also been achieved in off-
site supervision, with support from the FSMP and other donor agencies, and in introducing new
accounting standards through support for designing reporting forms and financial statement formats,
preparing the chart of accounts and a bank accounting handbook (para 19).
x.    Institutional Development. The outcome of this component was satisfactory, on the whole,
although only about 60 percent of the loan amount allocated for this component was used. Institutional
Development Programs (IDPs), completed for BB, CCB, HCB and NSB, were successful in raising
overall awareness of modem and prudent banking practices and were an important element in preparing
the banks for their subsequent privatization. The IDPs were of high quality and were prepared in close
collaboration with counterpart teams in the banks. Changes in bank management (notably in 1992)
reduced, however, the commitment to the speed in adopting previously agreed recommendations. In
addition, the lack of attention to governance issues detracted from the overall effectiveness of the IDPs.
In spite of this shortcoming, the banks implemented most of the consultants' recommendations-(para 20).
xi.    The outcome of the information technology module of this component was only partially
successful and the project was perhaps overly ambitious. Problems encountered reflected the state of the
art and knowledge at that time, as well as procurement issues. Suppliers had little experience with
integrated banking systems in Central/Eastern Europe and the banking software packages purchased
proved inadequate to provide the full range of services required. The automation sub-component,
designed in 1989-90, did not foresee how quickly the industry would evolve following the easing of
COCOM restrictions and consequent improvements in telecommunications in Hungary (para 10).
Banking automation requirements quickly moved closer to those of private sector operations where Bank
procurement guidelines do not match accepted best practices. In addition, in 1993, the financial sector
strategy had turned toward bank restructuring and privatization and large automation investments were
postponed. In the end, only CCB and BB proceeded to automate their core banking systems with
financing from the project. Automation strategies were not agreed for the other two banks, primarily
because of their unwillingness to accept price as the major selection criterion, in accordance with Bank
Guidelines (para 21).
xii.   The Infrastructure Component included the automation of NBH's information and accounting
systems and the development of the GIRO payment clearing system. (a) NBH implemented a mainframe-
based computer system for its information and internal accounting systems, although with some delay.
This system did not satisfy all of NBH's requirements, and, following the restructuring of NBH in 1995,
a correction had to be made, to a new system to carry out all information system functions except for
personnel and staff payments. (b) The design of the GIRO evolved during implementation, reflecting
development of the institutional and IT capacity in the largest commercial banks. Originally envisaged
to carry out both intra- and interbank clearing on a net basis, the GIRO was redesigned and has become a
centralized gross settlement system handling only interbank operations. Since the start, GIRO system
has been operating very successfully and is the heart of the Hungarian financial system. It has reduced
clearing and settlement from around 15 days to 2 days, eliminating the high float that was imposed on
public and private sectors (para 22).
Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
xiii.  The project's main objectives remain relevant. They form an integral part of, and are required
elements for a modern and efficient financial sector. As the major banks supported by the project are



v
now privatized, no special actions or measures are required to be taken by the Government or
implementing agencies. The GIRO provides a valuable service; the ITCB is a model for the region; and,
while the authorities will continue to strengthen banking supervision, the focus will be on harmonizing
this activity with the requirements of the EU and achieving full compliance with EU standards.
xiv.   The main lessons learned are as follows: (a) development of the financial sector is a long-term
process. It was not possible to import wholesale proven Western banking practices into a transition
economy with little banking culture. The banks and supporting institutions needed to move through the
different stages of development to grow into mature institutions; (b) institutional strengthening is an
important element for successful development of the banking sector. However, attention must be paid to
both the institutional and policy environment, including appropriate attention to good governance. The
positive impact of some of the achievements of the FSMP would have been reduced without the parallel
effort to improve the governance and privatization of the banks. Thus the EFSAL played an important
role in complementing the institutional development objectives of the FSMP. The combination of the
two operations resulted in a real synergy for development of the financial sector; (c) delays in project
implementation underscored the complexity of automation components, and the under-estimation of time
required to execute them. Furthermore, it would appear that banking automation is an area not well
suited to Bank lending, particularly as banking automation requirements move closer to those of private
sector operations, Bank procurement guidelines do not match accepted best practices. In addition, a clear
automation strategy, which responds to the business needs of the bank, is also important. For instance,
automation in the face of changing frameworks (such as a shift from a decentralized to a centralized
approach for IT development) is costly; and (d) a staggered approach to implementing a national
payment clearing and settlement system proved to be both feasible and effective, although such an
approach was not originally envisaged. A modern low-cost PC-based solution provided most of the
functionality necessary to improve the quality of the payment system, supplying clearing services for all
financial transactions flowing in the Hungarian financial system. This enabled implementation of an on-
line system to be delayed, after the central bank, the financial institutions, the private sector users of the
services and the population at large were better prepared for and demanding of more sophisticated
financial services (para 25).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
3191-IU
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
INTRODUCTION
1.    In 1987, the Government adopted a medium-term economic stabilization and structural reform
program, the main goal of which was the containment of growth of convertible currency debt while
accelerating structural change. However, the economic situation continued to deteriorate and a new
medium-term reform program was launched in 1990 to maintain Hungary's creditworthiness in
international markets and create the basis for a predominantly private market economy. Concomitant
with the overall program of economic reform, the Government also sought to revamp the financial
sector, the development of which was seen as an important and integral part of overall economic
liberalization. The commercial bank functions of the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) were separated
from its central bank functions in 1987 to establish a two-tier banking system, marking the beginning of
a fundamental change in the financial system. The financial system, by 1990, consisted of a banking
system with a central bank, commercial banks, specialized financial institutions and joint-venture banks;
a nascent securities market; several insurance companies; and the social security system. The prudential
regulatory framework and supervision of banks and securities markets were embryonic; bank policies
and procedures were weak; banking technology and infrastructure were unsatisfactory; the accounting
and auditing framework was poor; and financial skills and training were inadequate.
2.    The Financial System Modernization Project (FSMP) was designed to support the Government's
objectives to strengthen financial sector institutions. It built on technical assistance to the banking
system initiated under two Industrial Restructuring Projects (Loans 2700-HU and 2834-HU). Support for
the Government's medium-term recovery programs was provided by IMF Standby Arrangements in
1988 and 1990, as well as by a Bank-financed Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan (ISAL) in 1988 and the
First and Second Structural Adjustment Loans in 1990 and 1991, respectively. However, the FSMP was
initiated at the start of a very turbulent economic period, with major changes occurring both in Hungary
and the region. These changes, which presented a major challenge, had a substantial impact on the pace
of project implementation and contributed to a continued deterioration in the performance of the
Hungarian banking sector. To address these issues more directly, in 1993, the Bank began a dialogue
with the authorities on a program of policy reforms which culminated in an Enterprise and Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) (see box) and which complemented the institutional development
being supported by the FSMP.
A.    STATEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The objective of the FSMP was to support the modernization and strengthening of the Hungarian
financial system, and thereby improve its ability to mobilize and allocate financial resources efficiently.
To this end, the project aimed to: (a) provide a modern legislative, regulatory and supervisory framework
for the banking and securities markets; (b) strengthen the operations of the domestic banks by improving
their management policies, procedures and capabilities, as well as their long-term financial viability; (c)
develop the data processing infrastructure for the banking system; (d) develop the market for the issue
and trading of securities; and (e) improve the transparency and reliability of accounting information of
enterprises and financial institutions.



2
4.      In line with these objectives, the    -      ,gENTERRI  AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADMENT
project was to  provide  support for: (a)                               :LOAN.
technical assistance for strengthening the
legislative  framework,  regulations  and   tTh:e firstyears of the tra sito nd the. cfolla se_of thecm 
supervision of banking; (b) strengthening of       lne     thethefnancal
secfbItor. The:- Govenmment carrie out a sers of recapitalizations
participating    banks,    through       the    betwe  1991-1994 to aver the risk of a liquidity  is an kto
development   and   implementation   of   maitan  pblic rconidencein-te baning setor. However,these-
institutional  development  programs;  (c)   actions .,w,ere, tkenwthot prllel m            to:  deal w:iWth
development  of  banking  infrastructure,   fundamental gvrac iange the bhio of the ban
including strengthening the data processing    ffectielywith troubedders  As a result, tti          a ha
capabilities  of  NBH,  implementing  a   :f.risao,st'. Inaidditioni tokwe'  governance, the eove nn'ent
national  payments  clearing  center, and   iabilit t.o refor  .th,ebanks s   impair  by". f  n      an
strengthening  the  training   center  for  -01defiieny0 of the supsory anregl atory fr aeork.
bankers;  (d)  technical  assistance  and    .heB.nkinitiated a.dialogue}with thieGovernment-an the i;B
training  for development of a securities   in 1993 to help  prepare a program to im           k   o
market;  and  (e)  modernization  of the   jrefors,l whh in-cluded actionsw t'ofinaizet'hepiv ati'- tion aofthe
accounting and auditing framework.              remmaing steate-owd banks     d dress  te wea nessesin 
-f nanial secto. "This-culminated .n te Ent se and Fi;ancial
B.      EVALUATION   OF  PROJECT    -Se tord                 st         S          qkbursing, p
OBJECTIVES                                      based..... loan- of US2 mii, appr.ved in 1997.
:  ,.;Thexpr'.inciobjetveof the EF     isai to supor Hungay
5.     The FSMP, prepared between 1988-   efflo"rtst' mplement'effeciv 'trefo  of its sentrprise and fnanciAl
90, when the financial system  was still          sfecdtors. The main eements ofthereform progr nclude: (a) an
predominantly state-owned with the original   enepise privization pogamin get         OMingOsubstni le tio
governance and portfolio  structures, was    period; (b) a strong progr  for curtailment   d r        of
designed to cover priority areas during the    enter-prosse;5c) radical im-prvemenbtin bak govrace   i
initial transformation period. The different    he-cntextfapogmiai            privatzing all rangst
elements  of the  financial system   were    .wned.banks .by       ...    ao             tor y-.-
deelpmntinth  anin sectr  Loanipleetiormis
expected to develop over time to allow it to   .tronga.nd sc.ndran -c3e r.las       ..is.expe ..ctbhn 3 ...
operate  efficiently  and  in  an  integrated                          .                           .... .
fashion, with reform of the banking sector
being a key element in the modernization process. The project objectives were designed to complement
this reform and, although ambitious, represented elements essential for building a strong foundation for a
modern and competitive banking system. To achieve these objectives, the FSMP was a complex
operation,; with six primary components and nine different implementing entities.   After initial
consideration and in recognition of the complexity of the project, it was decided that assistance for other
areas of the financial system (such as the insurance sector) would be left for a later operation.
6.      Although priorities for the financial sector, reflecting developments in the economic and political
environment, changed significantly during project implementation (shifting from banking sector reforms
to privatization/portfolio restructuring and consolidation), the main objectives of the project remained
relevant and valid. On the whole, the project was timely, took into account the state of development of
Hungary's financial sector, and rightly focused on the legislative framework, banking supervision,
strengthening of the banks and banking infrastructure. A major shortcoming was that it overlooked the
question of governance, with regard to both ownership and management. The importance of this
shortcoming became evident by 1993 and was reflected in the pace and degree of achievement of the
project's objectives. It was subsequently addressed under the EFSAL (see box).



3
C.   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.     Hungary has come a long way in the development and strengthening of its financial sector since
1990 and the industry has been totally transformed. The FSMP was an important first step in this
process and played a crucial role in the institutional strengthening and modernization of the banking
system. It has been successful in achieving most of its objectives and made a positive contribution to the
transformation by raising the consciousness of owners, regulators, managers and staff and by helping to
change the culture of the banks. While its accomplishments cannot be looked at in isolation of the
EFSAL, it played a catalytic role in creating, from an embryonic banking system, the basic elements of a
modern banking system. The EFSAL, addressed crucial policy and systemic issues, which subsequently
became more evident following the collapse of the CMEA.
8.     Support from the FSMP was instrumental in helping beneficiaries to: (a) put together a number
of laws to establish the framework for the functioning of a modem financial sector; (b) establish the State
Bank Supervision Agency (SBS),I put in place an off-site surveillance system to better monitor the
activities of the commercial banking system and begin to develop its on-site examination capacity; (c)
strengthen policies and procedures, in line with modem banking practices, in the four large commercial
banks--Budapest Bank (BB), Commercial and Credit Bank (CCB), National Savings Bank (NSB) and
Hungarian Credit Bank (HCB)'--through the preparation and implementation of institutional
development programs (IDPs); (d) develop the automation systems for BB and CCB, improving their
efficiency; (e) modernize banking infrastructure, particularly with regard the highly successful
establishment of the interbank payment clearing system (GIRO) and automation of NBH's accounting
and information systems; and (f) transform accounting practices, including the adoption of a new chart of
accounts, moving towards International Accounting Standards (IAS).
9.     Although the institutional development objectives were substantially met for the four large
banks, only two of these implemented the automation programs as recommended in the IDPs, and
participation of smaller banks in this program did not materialize. The achievements relating to capital
market development have been met, very successfully, but IFC, which took the lead for the component,
managed to mobilize support from experts in this field and little support was provided from the project.
D.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
10.    Factors not generally subject to government control: The collapse of CMEA in 1991-92 and the
recession in Western Europe severely affected economic activity in Hungary. These exogenous factors
led to tightened budget constraints, widescale bankruptcies, failing enterprises, together with a drying up
of credit and huge, deteriorating non-performing loan portfolios in the state-owned banks. This resulted
in a series of financial interventions by the Government, accompanied by changes in the management of
all banks, until, in 1993, the widescale insolvency of the banking system became evident. COCOM2
restrictions also constrained improvements in Hungarian telecommunications and prevented access to
state-of-the-art information technology. The relaxation of these restrictions in the early 1990s opened up
new opportunities for technology development.
HCB's name was changed to ABN Amro Bank in 1997, reflecting the new ownership. SBS merged with the Capital
Market Supervision in 1997 and became the Banking and Capital Market Supervision. To maintain consistency with the
Project Documents, the former names of these entities (HCB and SBS) are used in this report.
2   The Committee for Multilateral Strategic Export Controls, set up in 1949, grouped on a voluntary basis NATO countries
(except Iceland) plus Japan and Australia. It aimed to monitor and control the export of strategic goods and technology to
Communist countries.



4
11.   Factors generally subject to government and implementing agency control: The main factors
relevant for the Government and the implementing agencies were the question of corporate governance,
in regard to both ownership and management, and fragmentation of the supervisory and regulatory
framework (a Bank Supervisory Committee was responsible for regulation and enforcement, the SBS
and NBH were, in parallel, responsible for supervision). The implementing agencies were affected by
wavering commitment of management and resistance of staff to change (particularly of IT staff to adopt
new practices and systems), as well as the limited availability of personnel experienced in modern
banking techniques. Furthermore, by 1993 the emphasis had shifted to preparing the banks for
privatization. This contributed to decisions by the banks not to pursue the major automation investments
with financing from this loan and led to the eventual cancellation of about 40 percent of the funds
allocated for this component (para 18).
12.   Several actions were taken during project implementation to address the sources of inefficiency
in the banking system and to develop the building blocks necessary to ensure sound practices in a
competitive and private sector dominated banking system. The FSMP continued to focus on necessary
institutional development and infrastructure modernization. Bank restructuring and privatization were
substantially completed by end- 1997 and resolved most of the above issues.
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
13.   The sustainability of the project can be seen in the contribution it has made to the development
of the financial sector and it can take credit for major institution building and infrastructure
improvements in the banking system. The large banks have incorporated in their normal operations most
elements of the IDPs; the GIRO has matured into an efficient institution and is the heart of the Hungarian
financial system; and banking regulation and supervision is converging to EU standards. The FSMP also
laid the groundwork for substantial future policy work, supported by the EFSAL, which resulted in the
successful privatization of the Hungarian financial system. Hungary now can boast a competitive and
modern banking sector which compares well with international standards. Private participation in the
banking system is above 80 percent, with a 60 percent foreign ownership; there is an active capital
market; financial sector regulations meet international standards; and the vast majority of other financial
institutions are privately owned. Sustaining the reforms will help maintain and strengthen the progress
achieved in developing a modern and competitive financial sector.
F.  BANK PERFORMANCE
14.   The Bank's performance in all aspects of the project cycle was satisfactory. From identification
through appraisal, modernizing the banking system in Hungary was a priority for financial sector work in
the region and the Bank was able to mobilize a well-rounded team of high-level specialists from the
Region and FSD, supplemented by consultants. In addition, there was substantial close cooperation and
collaboration with IFC in the preparation of the capital market development component. An important
feature was the use of different teams to cover specific areas, such as accounting and auditing, capital
market development and the regulatory framework. Extensive preparatory work enabled thorough
appraisal and helped establish an excellent working relationship with the various Hungarian
beneficiaries. Not only did these experts provide a valuable contribution to the operation, the results of
their efforts, with the knowledge, reputation and relations developed, provided a solid foundation for
follow up work in the financial sector.
15.   Supervision was also adequate, despite several changes in task managers, and there were no
significant deviations from Bank policies or procedures during implementation. Initially, there were at
least two supervision missions a year, and at least one a year from 1993 on, by which time the IDPs been
substantially completed and monitoring was carried out on a regular basis by Resident Mission staff.



5
Formal supervision was supplemented by visits from individual staff/consultants, particularly in regard
to accounting and IT, frequently as part of other project and sector work. Although there were no
modifications to the legal agreements, close monitoring by IT and procurement experts facilitated
flexibility in implementation of the IT components, adapting solutions to respond to the evolving needs
and changed business strategies of the banks and the GIRO. In view of the lack of demand for FSMP
funds, which became evident in 1994, the Bank should have taken a closer look at the overall situation
and acted more decisively to close the loan much earlier.
16.   The primary objectives of Bank's assistance program for the period 1998-2000 are to help
Hungary sustain the recent recovery and support the country's efforts to join the EU. This assistance will
complete the public sector reforms initiated in 1995, including supporting implementation of the new
pension system, and helping the Government design and implement health sector and local government
finance reforms. Ongoing and future lending activities are expected for improvements in social and
economic infrastructure, public sector adjustment and municipal development, as well as for health,
education, water supply and specific environmental investments.
G.  BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
17.   The performance of the Borrower and implementing agencies was satisfactory throughout the
project cycle, as was compliance with legal covenants. Cooperation with NBH was excellent throughout
preparation, appraisal and supervision. Without its strong support and extensive experience in Bank
operations, it would not have been possible to design a project with so many related components and
implementing agencies. The project benefited from the experience of NBH in providing oversight and
support to the various implementing agencies during project execution. These agencies were cooperative
and receptive to Bank advice and guidance.
H.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
18.   Overall, the outcome of the project was satisfactory, in spite of the dramatic changes occurring in
the region from 1990-95 and although implementation was slower than anticipated. The FSMP played a
significant role in helping to develop basic legislation and regulations (inter alia, the Banking Law,
Central Bank Law, Accounting Law and Securities Law), internal and external controls, infrastructure
and a functional framework for a modern and competitive banking system. In 1990/91, the Hungarian
commercial banking system was very young, with few experienced bankers. The learning curve needed
to complete the transformation into a modern, competitive banking industry was necessarily very steep
and the Bank may have under-estimated the time required to realize this process. With the changed
environment and shift in strategy to preparing the banks for privatization (para. 6), the banks decided not
to pursue the major automation investments under the project. By 1994, about $35 million of the
original $66 million loan had been disbursed. A review by NBH identified little demand for the loan,
other than for continuing activities relating to the GIRO payment clearing system, delayed by technical
and coordination problems, automation of NBH accounting and information systems, and advisory
services to strengthen banking supervision. However, because NBH was considering more extensive
automation needs and possible support for the program being discussed in the context of the proposed
EFSAL, funds were not canceled at that time. An assessment of the individual components follows.
Regulations/Supervision/Accounting Framework
19.   Achievements under this component to improve legislation and prudential regulations have been
highly satisfactory and substantial improvements have been achieved in off-site supervision, with
support from both the FSMP and other donors. (a) Regulations: A new Banking Law became effective in
December 1991 and Accounting, Bankruptcy and Investment Funds Laws in January 1992. These Laws,



6
initially tailored to meet the needs of an emerging financial sector, were subsequently modified as the
system and the supervisory capacity improved and now substantially comply with EU standards. (b)
Supervision: Assistance was provided to SBS to carry out diagnostic reviews for the four main State-
owned banks, which provided valuable information in the assessment and evaluation of the banks in
accordance with international standards; for drafting prudential regulations (such as liquidity, capital
adequacy, loan classification and income accounting); and in establishing and developing an off-site
surveillance system. Assistance was also provided to NBH to strengthen its supervisory responsibilities
in regard to liquidity and foreign exchange management. In addition, an extensive on-site examination
training program was provided by US supervisory agencies with US financing, in close coordination the
Bank. This was later (in 1995) supplemented with a project-financed adviser to further assist SBS staff
in developing on-site inspection analysis capabilities, training and management support on policy issues.
This final assignment had mixed success, in part because of a change in the structure and management of
the SBS. (c) Introduction new accounting standards: The result of the support provided to SBS for
designing reporting forms and financial statement formats, preparing the chart of accounts and a bank
accounting handbook was highly satisfactory.
Institutional Development
20.    The outcome of this component was satisfactory, on the whole, although only about 60 percent
of the loan amount allocated for this component was used. Institutional Development Programs, looking
at business strategy, organizational structure and human resource management, credit management,
treasury functions, financial planning, internal control and management information systems/information
technology (MIS/IT), were completed for BB, CCB, HCB and NSB. The IDPs were of high quality and
the consultants worked closely with counterpart teams in the banks to prepare action programs to
overcome identified weaknesses. Changes in bank management (notably in 1992) reduced the level of
commitment to and the speed in adopting initially agreed recommendations. The lack of attention to
issues of governance detracted from the overall effectiveness of the IDPs. In spite of this shortcoming,
the banks implemented most of the consultants' recommendations. In all cases, even if recommendations
(such as the business strategy for NSB) were not implemented, the IDPs were successful in raising
overall awareness of modem and prudent banking practices, were an important element in preparing the
banks for their subsequent privatization, and provided a significant and successful training function.
21.   Information technology: This sub-component was partially successful and the project was
perhaps overly ambitious. Problems encountered reflected more the state of the art and knowledge at
that time than difficulties with the design per se, as well as procurement issues. Furthermore, suppliers
had little experience with integrated banking systems in Central/Eastern Europe (nobody had this) and,
as banking services evolved, the banking software packages purchased proved inadequate to provide the
full range of services required.3 There was, however, more to be gained from moving ahead with
imperfect automation solutions than from maintaining the old systems. The automation sub-component,
designed in 1989-90, did not foresee how quickly the industry would evolve following the easing of
COCOM restrictions and consequent improvements in telecommunications in Hungary. Banking
automation requirements quickly moved closer to those of private sector operations where Bank
procurement guidelines do not match accepted best practices, such as strategic alliances between
purchaser and supplier that allow fast response and access to state of the art solutions before they are
released. In addition, when movement towards bank restructuring and privatization emerged in 1993,
large automation investments were postponed, to permit participation of eventual new owners in this
exercise. In spite of considerable advice provided by IT specialists to facilitate procurement, the Bank's
3   Technical depreciation of software is generally about 5 years; thus, as would be expected, some of the software packages
originally purchased are no longer in service. Software still in use, particularly for personnel records and retail banking
accounting, provides satisfactory service.



7
procurement procedures were perceived as being excessively complex and rigid.4 In the end, only CCB
and BB proceeded to automate their core banking systems with financing from the project, with the
largest investments made by BB. Automation strategies were not agreed for the other two banks,
primarily because of their unwillingness to accept price as the major selection criterion, in accordance
with Bank Guidelines. They eventually moved ahead without project financing but, for them, the path to
automation was no easier.
Infrastructure Component
22.    This component included the automation of NBH's information and accounting systems;
development of the GIRO payment clearing system; and strengthening of the Bankers' Training Center.
(a)    NBH  implemented a mainframe-based computer system  for its information and internal
accounting systems, albeit at a slower pace than envisaged. The delay was caused by a variety of
reasons: lack of dedicated staff; unanticipated time needed to address discrepancies between the old and
new accounting systems; a reluctance of existing IT staff to shift to new systems; delays by the
commercial banks in taking over from NBH responsibility for maintaining their own accounts; and
changes in the structure of NBH. Problems were also encountered because the hardware decision made
early in the project cycle failed to anticipate future NBH requirements as it evolved into a true central
bank operation. Consequently, a correction had to be made, following the restructuring of NBH in 1995,
to a new system to carry out all information system functions, except for personnel and staff payments.
(b)    The design of the GIRO evolved during implementation, reflecting the development of the
institutional and IT capacity in the largest commercial banks. Originally envisaged to carry out both
intra- and interbank clearing on a net basis, the GIRO was redesigned and has become a centralized
clearing and gross settlement system handling only interbank operations, following the decision of the
banks to centralize and develop their own in-house clearing capacity. After many delays caused by
indecision on system design, problems with the equipment supply and delays by the major banks in
implementing their own accounting systems, a redesigned, temporary, PC-based, system was approved
and finally rolled out in November 1994. The move to the FSMP-financed middle-range system was
delayed until the supplier improved its performance and users were confident that the service was
reliable. Since the start, GIRO system has been operating very successfully, without any errors that
would delay the clearing and settlement process, and has reduced clearing and settlement from around 15
days to 2 days, eliminating the high float that was imposed on the public and private sectors. In 1997,
GIRO handled an average of 200,000 transactions per day and has the capacity to handle twice this
amount. It also has the capacity to handle real time settlement of large value payments. The GIRO
system has also provided a crucial element of infrastructure to enable the newly established Treasury to
implement its budget execution system, and has improved the efficiency of tax collection through
immediate notification of payments to agencies in charge of collection.
(c)    The International Training Center for Bankers (ITCB) has made outstanding progress in its
mission to train personnel in banking and other financial professions in Hungary to help improve
technical and management skills. Established in 1989, the ITCB immediately began to fulfill a critical
need in providing training in internationally recognized banking techniques to staff of the newly created
banks in Hungary and now offers both a postgraduate banking diploma program and short targeted
seminars. Only a limited number of study tours for the ITCB were financed from the FSMP loan, as
extensive assistance became available from EU-Phare, on a grant basis.
4   For instance, BB switched from a decentralized to a centralized banking system after it had initiated its automation
program. This change, coupled with slow procurement procedures, was costly and problematic for BB.



8
Development of the Securities Market
23.   No project funds were used for this component. IFC took the lead and provided extensive
assistance for the State Securities Supervision and for the Stock Exchange. It successfully mobilized
support from the US for advisory services and the EU financed the design and implementation of the
trading system.
I.    FUTURE OPERATION
24.   The project's main objectives remain relevant. They are required elements for, and form an
integral part of, a modem and efficient financial sector. As the major banks supported by the project are
now privatized, no special actions or measures are required to be taken by the Government or
implementing agencies. The GIRO provides a valuable service; the ITCB is a model for the region; and,
while the authorities continue to strengthen banking supervision, the focus will be on harmonizing this
activity with the requirements of the EU and achieving full compliance with EU standards.
J.    LESSONS LEARNED
25.   Some of the key lessons learned from this project are as follows:
(a) Development of the financial sector is a long-term process. It was not possible to import
wholesale proven Westem banking practices into a transition economy with little banking culture. The
banks and supporting institutions needed to move through the different stages of development to grow
into mature institutions.
(b) The institutional strengthening of the banks is an important element for successful
development of the banking sector. However, attention must be paid to both the institutional and policy
environment, starting with actions to strengthen the institutions and appropriate attention to good
governance. While some of the credit for the successful transformation of the financial sector belongs to
the project, it is impossible to say how much would have been achieved without the parallel effort to
improve the governance and privatization of the banks. Thus the EFSAL played an important role in
complementing the institutional development objectives of the FSMP. The combination of the two
operations resulted in a real synergy for development of the financial sector.
(c) Delays in project implementation underscored the complexity of automation components,
and the under-estimation of time required to execute them. Furthermore, it would appear that banking
automation is an area not well suited to Bank lending, particularly lending to private banks, as Bank
procurement guidelines do not match accepted private sector best practices (para 21). In addition, a clear
automation strategy, prepared to respond to the business needs of the bank is also important. Automation
in the face of changing frameworks proved costly (for instance, the banks realized that the originally
agreed frameworks would result in reduced ability to compete with international banks opening in the
Hungarian market, and they shifted from decentralized to a centralized approach for IT development).
(d) A staggered approach to implementing a national payment clearing and settlement system
proved to be both feasible and effective, although not originally envisaged. A modern low-cost PC-
based solution was able to provide most of the functionality necessary to improve the quality of the
payment system, supplying clearing services for all financial transactions flowing in the Hungarian
financial system, including execution of the budget. This enabled implementation of an on-line system
to be delayed, after the central bank, the financial institutions, the private sector users of the services and
the population at large were better prepared for and demanding of more sophisticated financial services.



9
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



10
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                       al              E                El
Sector Policies                      5                                                   5
Financial Objectives                 a               5                 5
Institutional Development                            L                  i               E
Physical Objectives                 L      a                                            i
Poverty Reduction                    5               5                 5
Gender Issues                        5               5                                   ,
Other Social Objectives              5               a                 5
Environmental Objectives             5               5                 5
Public Sector Management             ,                                 5                 5
Private Sector Development           a               5                 5
Other (specify)                      5               5                 5
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                    Unlikely                  Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                     satisfacto             Satisfactorv               Deficient
Identification                                                                          i:i
Preparation Assistance               5                                                   S
Appraisal                           r                                                   El
Supervision                          5                         ,                         S
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                          5                                                   5
Implementation                       5
Covenant Compliance                  5                                                   5
E. Assessment of Outcome              Hihly                                               H
satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
El               % / 



11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title              Purpose                       Year of approval   Status
Preceding operations
1.   First Industrial       Support for industrial restructuring to    1986        Closed
Restructuring Project   improve international competitiveness                 6/93
and increase convertible currency
exports, plus automation support for
NBH
2.   Second Industrial      Continued support for industrial           1988        Closed
Restructuring Project   restructuring, plus conceptualization of              9/93
a bank clearing network and
development of project appraisal and
supervision capacity
3.  Industrial Sector      Policy-based loan to support               1988         6/90
Adjustment Loan        Government's industrial reform
program
4.   Third Industrial       Further support for restructuring of the   1989        Closed
Restructuring Project   industrial sector to enhance                          6/97
international competitiveness, plus
assistance to banks in the area of small
business credit
Following operations
1.   First Structural       Policy-based loan to support economic      1990        Closed
Adjustment Loan        stabilization and structural reform                    6/91
2.   Second Structural      Policy-based loan to support economic      1991        Closed
Adjustment Loan        stabilization and structural reform                    12/94
3.   Enterprise and         Policy-based loan to support               1997        Ongoing
Financial Sector       Government's efforts to implement
Adjustment Loan        reform of its enterprise and financial
sectors



12
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned           Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                       February 2, 1987
Preparation                                                      20 months
Appraisal                                    April 1989          September 4, 1989
Negotiations                                 March 1990          March 19, 1990
Board Presentation                           April 1990          April 26, 1990
Signing                                      May 1990           June 1, 1990
Effectiveness                                July 1990           September 28, 1990
Project Completion                           June 30, 1995       June 30, 1997
Loan Closing                                 June 30, 1995       June 30, 1997



13
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY91   FY92   FY93    FY94   FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate        14,500  37,300   53,500  62,000  66,000   66,000   66,000   66,000
Actual                     5,010  15,390  29,840  36,230  42,400   45,050   41,540   41,230
Actual as % of estimate    35%     41%      56%      58%     64%      68%       63%      62%
Date of final disbursement   July 1, 1997
(Repayment)
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(No Implementation or Project Operation Indicators were
included in the Staff Appraisal Report)



14
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                         Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined  Status   Impact of study
I. Institutional Develop-  Preparation of programs to address institutional   C  Positive, action
ment Programs for:      deficiencies, focusing on business strategy,        programs
(a) Budapest Bank       organizational structure, human resource           implemented
(b)Hungarian Credit     management, credit management, treasury
Bank                    functions, financial planning, internal audit,
(c) Commercial and      information systems/technology
Credit Bank
(d) National Savings
Bank
2. Special Financial Audits   Special audit to provide an independent  C       Significant
of above 4 banks        assessment of the portfolio quality
C = completed



15
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                           Local costs Foreign   Total   Local costs Foreign   Total
costs                        costs
1.    Legal Framework/banking         0.5      1.4    1.9           0.3     1.5    1.8
supervision
2.    Strengthening of banks         45.7    34.9   80.6            6.4    21.3   27.7
3.    Banking Infrastructure         15.3    19.7   35.0            2.5    18.2   20.7
4.    Securities Market               2.0      2.4    4.4             -      **
Development
5.    Accounting & Auditing           0.1      0.8    0.9             -     0.2    0.2
Contingencies                  13.8     6.8   20.6             -       -       -
Total                                77.4    66.0  143.4            9.2    41.2   50.4
** minimal, study tours only. Management of this component taken over by IFC
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                              Local Foreign     Total       Local Foreign    Total
costs  costs                 costs   costs
1.    IBRD                            -   66.0       66.0           -    41.2     41.2
2.    Participating Institutions    67.4      -      67.4         7.6       -       7.6
3.    Government                     3.4              3.4               -             -
4.    NBH                            6.6      -       6.6         1.6       -       1.6
Total                               77.4   66.0    143.4          9.2    41.2      50.4
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable



16
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Hungary: Financial System Modernization Project
Covenant  Present    Original     Revised
Agreement Section    Type      Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment         Description of Covenant              Comments
Date        Date
GA         Sched.      12     CD        12/31/90                Govt. to present draft Banking Law to    Complied
Parliament.
GA         Sched.       I     C         06/30190                State Bank Supervision agency to carry   Complied
out detailed portfolio audits of BB,
CCB, HCB.
GA         Sched.       5      CD       12/30/90                Government to adopt an action program   Program delayed to
to restore financial viability of the 3  take into account
large banks, following review and   results of 1990 audits,
comment by the Bank.                approved by Council
of Ministers 6/91.
GA         Sched.      12     CD        09/30/90                Government to prepare a draft accounting Law approved by
law, and present it to parliament by  Parliament 5/91,
09/30/90.                            effective 1/1/92.
LA         Sched.       5     NYD                               Eligible banks with subloans over     No large subloans
6, E (2)                                             $300,000, to prepare financial action  made.
plans based on results of audits by 6/30
each year.
LA         Sched.       2     C                                 Giro company to charge fees to cover  Complied
6, D (4)                                             operation costs, capital expenses, and debt
service.
PA(NSB)   3.03         12     C         06/30/90     12/31/90    NSB to complete all actions for      Complied
conversion into ajoint-stock company.
PA(NSB)   3.02          2     C                                 NSB to earn spread of at least 3.0% per    Complied
year on its housing finance operations.
PA         Sched.      12     C                                 Participant Banks to develop actions plans Complied
(BB,CCB,                                                        by 12/31/90 to restore sound financial
HCB)                                                            structure; update plans by 6/30 each year.
PA         Sched.      12     C                                 BB, CCB, NSB to strengthen            Complied
(BB,CCB,                                                        organization, management and operations
iICB)                                                           according to agreed action programs.
Status:
C         -     Complied with                                   GA        -      Guarantee Agreement
CD        -     Compliance after delay                          LA        -      Loan Agreement
NYD       -     Not yet due                                     PA       -       Project Agreement



17
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Not applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of project cycle                 Weeks        US$
'OOOs
Preparation to appraisal                   125.4      307.2
Appraisal                                  51.0       136.3
Negotiations through Board                 32.6        93.0
approval
Supervision                                96.4       297.4
Completion                                  6.6        20.6
Total                              312.0       854.5



18
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Ratings
Stage of project cycle Month/      No. of      Days in   Specialization     Implem   Develop        Types of
Year        Persons       Field'                         status   objectives
Through appraisal      7/88              5         19
10/88             5         11
2/89              3         10
4/89              2         12
4-5/89           10         18
Appraisal through      8/89              1         11
Board approval         9/89             11         18
11/89             1        17
11/89             3         5
2/90              4          8
Supervision           6/90               1         9            F                  I             1
9/90              5         10           F,T                I             1
11/90             3         2           F,T
1/91              1         6            T
5/91              3         12          F,T                 2             1
3/92              5          3           F
6/92              4          6         F,T,O
6/93                                                        2             2
8/93              2          8          F,T
4/94              1          3           T
6/94                                                        S             S
8/94              4          4         F,T,E,P              S             S
2/95              1          3                              S             S
9/25              2          2          T,E                 S             S
9/96              1          4           0                  S             S
7/97                                                        S             S
Completion            3/98               2         5           E,O
F: Financial (includes banking, bank  T: Information technology
supervision, bank trainers, institutional  L: Legal
development)                       E: Economics
P: Payment systems                    0: Operations
Days in field indicates the duration of mission. Not all mission members remained for the entire period and
several missions were combined with other tasks.
2       Where no mission is indicated, ratings are taken from updating summaries. No formal supervision reports
issued for missions where no ratings are indicated.



Appendix A
Page I of 3
HUNGARY
FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT (Loan 3191)
Aide-Memoire of Implementation Completion Report Mission
I.    A Bank mission comprising Mr. Mihaly Kopanyi and Ms. Rochelle Hilton visited Hungary
between March 2-6, 1998, to discuss preparation of the Implementation Completion Report for the
Financial System Modernization Project (FSMP). The mission met with representatives of the National
Bank of Hungary, Interbank Payment Clearing Company (GIRO), Budapest Bank (BB), National
Savings Bank (NSB - OTP), Commercial and Credit Bank (CCB), Hungarian Credit Bank (HCB)(now
the ABN AMRO Bank) and the Hungarian Banking and Capital Markets Supervision (formerly State
Banking Supervision). The mission would like to thank the various Hungarian officials for all the
cooperation and assistance provided. The main findings of this mission are summarized below and are
subject to confirmation by Bank management.
Project Objectives
2.    The FSMP supported the modernization and strengthening of the Hungarian financial system,
with the objective of improving its ability to mobilize and allocated financial resources efficiently. It
aimed to: (a) provide a modern legislative, regulatory and supervisory framework for banking and
securities markets; (b) strengthen the operations of the domestic banks by improving their management
policies, procedures and capabilities, as well as their long-term financial viability; (c) develop data
processing infrastructure for the banking system; (d) develop the market for issue and trading of
securities; and (e) improve the transparency and reliability of accounting information of enterprises and
financial institutions.
3.    To achieve these objectives, the project design included support for the following components:
(a) technical assistance for strengthening the legislative framework, regulations and supervision of
banking; (b) strengthening of participating banks, through the development and implementation of
institutional development programs, including development of automation programs; (c) development of
banking sector infrastructure, including the strengthening of the data processing capabilities of NBH,
implementation of a national payments clearing center, and strengthening of the training center for
bankers; (d) technical assistance and training for development of a securities market; and (e)
modernization of the Hungarian accounting and auditing framework.
Summary Assessment
4.    When the FSMP was appraised (in 1989), the two-tier banking system in Hungary had been set
up for only about two years. Approved in 1990, the project has played an important role in helping in the
development of basic legislation and regulations (such as a Banking Law, Acciunting Law and Securities
Law), internal and external controls, and a functional framework for a modern and competitive banking
system. However, the initiation of the project also saw, with the collapse of the CMEA, the start of a
very turbulent period in Eastern Europe, with major changes occurring both in Hungary and the region
from 1989-95.



Appendix A
Page 2 of 3
5.    These changes presented a major challenge and had a substantial impact on the pace of
implementation. The collapse of the CMEA led to widescale bankruptcies, failing enterprises and a huge
bad loan portfolio in the state-owned banks. In spite of a series of financial interventions by the
Government, serious problems in the banking system (including insolvencies) became evident by 1993.
These problems were compounded by a change in the management of all banks in 1992 and again 2-3
years later.
6.    To address these problems, the Bank worked with the Government on an Enterprise and
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) between 1993-97. This operation was designed to support a
program which included the fundamental restructuring/conciliation and eventual privatization of the
banks and comprehensive regulatory development of the banking sector to enable it to meet international
standards. This effort built on and complemented the institutional development being supported by the
FSMP.
7.    In spite of the above radical changes and problems, implementation of the FSMP proceeded well
and, with some delay, has been largely successful in achieving its main objectives. The loan helped
beneficiaries to: (a) strengthen policies and procedures in the four large commercial banks--BB, CCB,
HCB and NSB--through the preparation and implementation of institutional development plans; (b)
develop the automation systems in BB and CCB, improving their efficiency; (c) develop and improve the
payment clearing system; and (d) enable, through technical assistance and training, the State Banking
Supervision Agency to put in place an off-site surveillance system to better monitor the activities of the
commercial banking system and begin to develop its on-site examination capacity. Achievements of the
banking sector infrastructure component, particularly the payment clearing system and establishing
accounting standards, and improvements in legislation and prudential regulations have been highly
satisfactory.
8.    The project helped the Hungarian financial sector advance along a very steep but necessary
learning curve and played a significant role in introducing bankers to modern banking practices. The
sustainability of the project can be seen in the contribution it has made to the initial development of the
financial sector. Hungary now can boast a competitive and modern banking sector which compares well
with Western Europe. Private participation in the banking system is above 80 percent, with a 60 percent
foreign ownership; financial sector regulations meet international standards; there is an active capital
market; and vaste majority of the other financial institutions are privately owned.
9.    Some elements of the project, such as automation of HCB and NSB and support to smaller
banks, did not materialize. In addition, grant financing became available for the Bankers Training Center
and development of the securities market so only limited funding from the project was provided for these
activities. This scaling down of the project led to a total cancellation of US$24 million. The loan closed
on June 30, 1997, and at that time the remaining undisbursed balance of about US$0.8 million was also
canceled.
Borrower's Evaluation of Project Implementation
10.   The Borrower's responsibilities in the preparation of the ICR are indicated in the Bank's
Operational Manual Statement and Good Practices for ICR Preparation (GP 13.55 of April 1994, paras 4
and 5), which have already been given to NBH.



Appendix A
Page 3 of 3
11.   The Borrower has prepared a draft evaluation of project implementation and prior to the mission
was in contact with the various beneficiary agencies to solicit their inputs.  Given the major
transformation that has taken place in the banking sector over recent years, few people involved with the
earlier preparation of the Institutional Development Plans for the banks are still available and obtaining
information about the implementation of this component has been difficult. However, without exception,
the banks, GIRO, NBH and the Banking and Capital Markets Supervision have confirmed that support
from the project had a significant and positive impact on their development.
12.   To enable a comparison of appraised and actual project costs and financing, NBH will update the
relevant tables.
Operational Plan
13.   The Bank's guidelines for preparation of ICRs (April 1994) require the preparation of an
operational plan by the Borrower and the implementing agencies. This plan should indicate the actions
and measures to be taken by the Borrower, the relevant government agencies and the project entities to
ensure satisfactory future implementation and operations under the project, and the achievement of the
project objectives.
14.   The Borrower (NBH) has already received details of these requirements, in preparation for the
ICR, has reviewed the information required. In effect, no special plan is necessary for this operation.
The project main objectives remain relevant and are required elements for, and form an integral part of, a
modem and efficient financial sector. As the major banks supported by the project are now privatized,
no special actions or measures are required to be taken by the Government or implementing agencies.
Outputs and Schedule
15.   It was agreed that the following timetable would be followed to enable timely completion of the
final ICR:
Bank to send draft ICR to NBH for its review by             March 23, 1998
NBH to provide final version of its implementation evaluation by  April 3, 1998
Final report to Executive Directors                         April 16, 1998
Coordination of ICR Preparation
16.   The following persons will coordinate preparation of the ICR:
For NBH:                   Ms. Eva Tarjan
Ms. Eszter Kovacs
For the World Bank:        Mr. Mihaly Kopanyi
Ms. Rochelle Hilton
Budapest, Hungary
March 6, 1998



Appendix B
page I of 3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HUNGARY
Financial System Modernization Project
(3191-HU)
Evaluation summary
The Borrower's Opinion
1.    Background
The National Bank of Hungary (NBH) received a loan from the World Bank (the Bank)
in the amount of US$66 million equivalent toward the cost of the Financial System
Modernization Project. The loan was signed on June 1, 1990, and became effective in
September 1990.
T'he original closing date was June 30, 1995, which was extended twice, and the final
closing date was June 30, 1997.
The total utilisation from the US$66 million amounts to US$41.2 million, US$18.8
million was cancelled.
2.    Project objectives and components
The project objective was to support the modernisation and strengthening of the
Hungarian financial system. Specifically: (i) to provide a modern legislative, regulatory
and supervisory framework for banking and securities markets; (ii) to strengthen the
operations of the domestic banks by improving their management policies, procedures
and capabilities as well as their long-term financial viability; (iii) to develop the data
processing infrastructure for banking system; (iv) to develop the market for issue and
trading of securities; and (v) to improve the transparency and reliability of accounting
information of enterprises and financial institutions.
Taking into account that the two-tier banking system in Hungary was established only in
1987, the project's objectives became an integral part of the development of the financial
sector. These objectives took into account such goals (e.g. legislation, and regulation)
which later, through the financial sector played a very important role in the economic
reform program too.



Appendix B
page 2 of 3
Major Factors Affecting the Project
During the implementation period of the program, Hungary has undergone a significant
economic transition, characterized by the collapsing of the internal and international
market, followed by a series of bankruptcies and liquidation processes of enterprises.
The project was also effected by the transformation of banks' clientele and risks, as well
as the managerial changes and privatisation.
However, the improved legislative and regulatory framework has promoted a sound and
safe banking system in Hungary with a unified comprehensive framework for banking
and other financial intermediation operation.
Achievement of Project Objectives
Most of the project objectives were met, no amendment of the loan agreement was
necessary. Although the project implementation was slower than anticipated, the overall
outcome of the different project components was satisfactory. The Hungarian financial
system modernisation has been accomplished, the legislative, regulatory and supervisory
framework for banking is in an advanced state.
In the participating commercial banks the institutional development and staff training
program were completed successfully, the information technology subcomponent was
only partially accomplished. This was partly due to the fact that the most advanced IT
strategies developed by foreign consultants could not be implemented at that time,
because of the COCOM list, and the insufficient Hungarian telecommunication
circumstances. However, the majority of the proposals and targets of the consultants'
studies was gradually implemented later, i.e., between 1994-97.
The structural and technical development of the Giro Ltd has been realised, too. The
Inter-bank Giro System introduced complies with the requirements. All transactions have
been processed without error, ever since it has been implemented.
The regulation and supervision subcomponent can be considered very successful.
Assistance provided to SBS strengthened its supervisory capacity considerably. During
this period a series of laws and regulations, including the Banking law and Accounting
law became effective and were updated continuously to harmonise them with EU
regulations.
The development of the issue and trading market of securities was also realised, but from
other financial resources.
The International Training Center for Bankers, founded in November 1988, has also
undergone a rapid and spectacular development. Its present programmes offer degree



Appendix B
page 3 of 3
courses, like Postgraduate Banking Diploma Programme and short targeted seminars
which fulfill the need of the Hungarian banking staff..
A most comprehensive reform of the banking sector has been supported by EFSAL
(4141 -HU) operation which is being successfully implemented
Project Sustainability
The main objective of this project was to provide support for the modernization and
strengthening of the financial system and thereby improve its ability to mobilize and
allocate financial resources efficiently. These objectives were fulfilled completely. The
Hungarian banking system of today is one of the most sophisticated among the former
COMECON countries.
Bank Performance
Bank's performance in all aspects of the project cycle was satisfactory. There was a very
good working relation between the Bank and the Borrower throughout the full
implementation period. The project supervision was adequate, the change of the task
manager did not cause any difficulties either in the implementation of the project, or in
the cooperation between the Bank and the Borrower.
Assessment of Outcome
Major economic changes took place during the implementation period of this program,
which influenced the project. In spite of these changes, the overall outcome of the project
is satisfactory. Most of the project objectives were achieved. The Hungarian financial
system modernisation has been accomplished, the legislative, regulatory and supervisory
framework for banking is in an advanced state. The Hungarian banking system, as well as
the operations and automation of the banks and Giro Ltd. are adequate. The privatisation
of the State-owned banks practically has been completed, the legal and regulatory
framework for the financial system and the banking supervisory capacity is adequate and
continuously updated.



