Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8200-HU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HUNGARY
FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
APRIL 6, 1990
..
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Forint (Ft.)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Forints per US$)
195 1986    1987      19881    1 89     199
(Feb.)
US$1.00 - Ft.     50.1   45.8    47.0       50.4    60.8      63.9
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIOJS
BB          -           Budapest Bank
CCB                      Commercial and Credit Bank
CD                       Certificate of Deposit
CMEA                     Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
EDP                      Electronic Data Processing
HCB                     Hungarian Credit Bank
IDP         -           Institutional Development Program
ITCB        -           International Training Center for Bankers
MOF                      Mi-nistry of:Finance
NBH         -            National Bank of Hungary
NSB         -            National Savings B.-nk
SBS                      State Bank Supervision Agency
SDB         -            State Development Bank
SDI         -            State Developmenc Institute
SFI                      Specialized Financial Institution
SSS         -            State Securities Supervisory Board
STC         -            Securities Trading Committee
HUNGARY - FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................i-iii
I.  INTRODUCTION .................... 1
II.   DEVELOPMENT OF THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM..                              .           2
A. Macro-Economic Context..                                                   2
B. The Financial Sector..                                                     4
1. Reform of the Financial Sector ..                                      4
2. Macro-Financial Policies.                                               7
3. Medium-Term Framework for Financial Sector Development . . .  10
4. The Bank Group's Assistance Strategy    ..11
C. The Banking System  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
1. Reform and Structure of the Banking System   .           .12
2. Legislative Framework, Prudential Regulations
and Supervision  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
3. Operations and Financial Performance of the Banks . .17
4. Institutional Development    ..21
5. Information Technology Development          ..22
6. Supporting Infrastructure    ..23
7. World Bank Support to the Banking System   .            .23
D. The Securities Market               ..24
F. The Accounting and Auditing Framework . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
III. THE PROJECT                .........    ...... . 28
A. Project Objectives and Scope .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement  ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  30
C. Project Description  .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
1. Banking Legislative Framework, Regulations and Supervision .  30
2. Strengthening of Banks ....  .          .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .    .  31
(a) Institutional Development  ... .            .....  .    .  .  .  .    .  32
(b) Information Technology Development ..   . .... .            .  .    .  33
(c) Strengthening of Financial Position   . . .... .            .  .    .  34
3. Supporting Infrastructure of Banks ...  .          .    ..... .    .    .  35
(a) Training Center for Bankers  ...            . .....  .    .  .  .    .  35
(b) National Payments Clearing Center  (GIRO)  .....  .                .  36
(c) Strengthening of NBH Data Processing Capabilities  . . .  37
4. Securities Market Development  ... .           .  .    ......  .   .    .  37
5. Accounting and Auditing .           .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
D. Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Hungary in August/September 1989.  The mission comprised Messrs./Mesdms.
0. de Bruyn Kops (task manager), H. Aghdaey, A. Ahmed, N. Fostvedt, K. Ikramullah,
D. McNaughton, G. Nair, S. Sagari, A. Sheng, and S. Singh (staff), and consultants
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HUNGARY
FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PkOJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONTINUED)
Paze No.
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ONLENDING ARRANGEMENTS  . . . . . . . . 42
A. Project Implementation Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
B. Onlending Arrangements  . . . . . I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
C. Bank Loan Allocation and Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
D. Procurement .46
E. Reporting and Auditing ................... . 47
F.  Project  Supervision  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   48
C. Status of Project Preparation ................ . 49
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND MAIN RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
A.    Project  Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   49
B.   Main   Risks    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  50
VI.  AGREFEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ... . ...... 51
ANNEXES:
1    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File  . . . . 53
2-1  Overview and Structure of the Financial System . . . . . . . . . . 55
2-2  Structure of Incerest Rates  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
2-3 Overview of the Banking System .60
2-4  Legislative and Regulatory Framework of Bank Supervision . . . . . 61
2-5  Details on the Four Major Commercial Banks . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
2-6  Current Status of the Securities Market  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
2-7  Letter on Accounting and Auditing Reform Program . . . . . . . . . 92
3-1  Technical Assistance Program for the Legislative Framework,
Regulations and Supervision of Banks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
3-2  Overview of the Assistance Program for the Major Banks . . . . . . 102
3-3  Medium-Term Automation Concept for the Banks . . . . . . . . . . . 109
3-4  Terms of Reference for Special Financial Audits of the Major Banks 112
3-5  Technical Assistance Program for Bank Training  . . . . . . . . . 118
3-6  Details on the National Payments Clearing Center (GIRO)  . . . . . 123
3-7  Terms of Reference for NBH Payment System and
Automation Strategy Study .                                    128
3-8  Technical Assistance Program for Securities Market Development . . 133
3-9  Detailed Project Cost Estimate .                                 140
4-l  Project Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 141
4-2  Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan . . . . . . . . . . . 142



HUNGARY
FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            National Bank of Hungary (NBH).
;     Guarantor:             Republic of Hungary.
Beneficiaries:       NBH; regulatory and supervisory agencies; participati;ig banks;
*                            training center for bankers; national payments clearing center;
stock exchange; Government.
Amount:               US$66 million equivalent.
Terms:                Fifteen years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:      NBH will onlend US$57.0 million equivalent in Forints to the
participating institutions (including the unallocated part of the
Bank loan) and US$4.0 million equivalent in Forints to the
Government, j: maturities not exceeding 15 years including five
years of grace, at an adjustable rate which is established in
accordance with the principles that guide NBH's refinancing rate.
These principles aim at achieving a positive rate in real terms
and provide for the rate at least to cover NBH's average cost of
funds and the projected differential between domestic and relevant
4                           international inflation rates.  Of the remaining US$5.0 million
equivalent, US$1.0 million equivalent will be used for training
purposes, and US$4.0 million equivalent will be used directly by
NBH. NBH will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives:  The project would support the modernization and strengthening of
the Hungarian financial system, and thereby improve its ability
to mobilize and allocate financial resources efficiently.
Specifically, the project aims to help: (i) provide a mode,rn
legislative, regulatory and supervisory framework for banking and
securities markets; (ii) strengthen the operations of the domestic
banks by improving thei management policies, procedures and
capabilities as well as their long-term financial viability; (iii)
develop the data processing infrastructure for the bar-king system;
(iv) develop the market for issue and trading of securities; and
(v) improve the tranisparency and reliability of accounting
information of enterprises and financial institutions.
41     Proiect DescriRtion: The scope of the proposed project includes:
(a)   Technical assistance for strengthening of the legislative
framework, regulations and supervision of banking, including
support for the State Bank Supervision Agency;
(b)   Strengthening of the participating banks,  through the
development and implementation of institutional development
programs with focus on business strategy, organization



- ii -
structure, policies and procedures, and information systems
development. Three of the major participating banks would
undergo a detailed portfolio audit which would form the
basis   for  the  development  and  implementation,   as
appropriate, of a financial restructuring program;
(c)   Development   of   banking   infrastructure,    including
strengthening of the training center for bankers,
implementation of a national payments clearing center, and
strengthening of the data processing capabilities of the
NBH;
(d)   Technical assistance and training for development of a
securities market, including for strengthening the State
Securities Supervisory Board and the establishment of a
stock exchange; and
(e)   Modernization of the Hungarian accounting and auditing
framework to international standards, and initiation of a
program of professional development.
Project Benefits:    Through  the  improved  operation  of  the  banking  system  and
securities markets, the project would contribute to a better
mobilization of financial resources and higher financial savings
rate, as well as improved allocation of resources to productive
activities along efficiency and profitability criteria ana thus
enhance the restructuring of the real economy.   The stronger
legislative, regulatory and supervisory framework as well as the
institutional development and audits of the banks will help
*instill greater financial discipline and prudence among the banks
and thus protect their solvency as well as the interests of
depositors. The training of financial staff would contribute to
significant skill building and human resource development in the
financial sector.  The improvements in accounting and auditing
will significantly help improve transparency and reliability of
Hungarian financial data, a necessary condition for modern
enterprise and financial sectors.
Project Risks:        The main risk that may affect the strengthening of the financial
system is the uncertainty of the impact of the Government's
ongoing economic reform program on the viability of borrowers and
hence on the future solvency of the banks and the prospects of
a securities market. The improvement of prudential regulations
and the banks' policies, supported by the project, would help
address this risk. Another project implementation risk concerns
the uncertainty about the pace at which thorough institutional
development can be carried out given the unfamiliarity with modern
financial techniques and the shortage of qualified financial
personnel in Hungary.   To this end, the project would support
detailed evaluation of the training needs of the participating
institutions, and the design and implementation of realistic
training programs to meet those needs.  A third risk concerns
possible delays related to procurement of data processing systems
which may require special export licenses from Western export
authorities. To avoid such delays, technical specifications of
such systems will be reviewed for compliance with export



- iii -
requirements, and additional safeguards have been built into
procurement procedures.   Also, delays in procurement of some
items would not delay or otherwise affect the implementation of
the other components. Finally, in the event that procurement of
slightly less-advanced technology becomes necessary, the affected
component of the project would remain viable.  A further risk
that the new Government to be appointed after the March/April 1990
elections may not fully agree with the objectives and scope of
the project is considered to be limited given the general
consensus among the major political parties on the general
direction of economic reform and the non-controversial nature of
the project with its institution building focus.
Project Cost:
Local       Foreign       Total
---- (USS million)-
Lev.-/Reg. Framework
and Supervision of Banks              0.5            1.4         1.9
Strenzthening of Banks                 45.7            34.9        80.6
Banking Infrastructure
Training Center                         0.3             1.9        2.2
Payments Clearing Center                9.7           13.3        23.0
National Bank of Hungary                 5.2           4.1         9.3
Advisory Services                       0.1            0.4         0.5
Securities Market Develorment           2.0            2.4         4.4
Accounting & Auditing 0E1                              0.8         0.9
Base Cost                        63.6           59.2       122.8
Physical Contingencies(l0%)             5.2             5.i       10.3
Price Contingencies                     8.6            1.7        10.3
Total                            77.4           66.0       143.4
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                                  66.0        66.0
Participating Institutions             67.4             -         67.4
Government                              3.4             -          3.4
NBH                                     6.6                        6.6
Total                            77.4           66.0       143.4
Estimated
Disbursements:  IBRD FY             1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
------- (US$ million) ------
Annual             14.5  22.8  16.2   8.5   4.0
Cumulative         14.5  37.3  53.5  62.0  66.0



STAFF APPRAISAL REPOQT
HUNGARY
FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        Since 1986, the Hungarian Government has embarked on a major reform
of financial policies, institutions and instruments as an important integral part
of overall economic liberalization. Reform of the financial system is recognized
as essential to achieve a more efficient channeling of financial resources to
the most productive uses in the economy, and thereby to realize the macro-
economic goals of increased growth and sustainable external equilibrium.
Financial sector reform is thus a logical and necessary complement to the reforms
in the real sector. It would aiso help improve the mobilization of financial
resources in the economy and thus ameliorate the relatively low private savings
rate in Hungary.
1.02        The proposed Financial System Mcdernization Project (the Project)
would focus on:   (i) developing the legislative,  regulatory and supervisory
framework of the Hungarian banking system, (ii) strengthening its institutional
capabilities and financial.viability, and (iii) creating the necessary conditions
for development of the securities market. A separate component of the Project
focuses on the modernization of Hungary's accounting and auditing standards in
order to bring these in line with international standards. This will be of major
importance for the healthy development of the financial sector in Hungary, and
is also a precondition for the successful restructuring of Hungary's economy
towards a market-based and open structure.  The macro-policy framework for th4e
Project has been provided by the earlier Bank-financed Industrial Sector
Adjustment Loan (ISAL, Loan 2965-HU) approved on June 21, 1988, and is being
deepened as part of a proposed structural adjustment loan (SAL), currently under
preparation.   The Project would complement the Bank's support to industrial
restructuring in Hungary--embod;ed in a series of three industrial restructuring
projects and the ISAL--which relies on a strong financial system to allocate
financial resources efficiently to competitive economic activities. The Project
is supported by a Bank loan of US$66 million equivalent to the National Bank of
Hungary (NBH), which would cover about 46% of the estimated financing required.
The remaining financing would be provided by the participating institutions, the
Government, and NBH.
1.03        The proposed Project was appraised by a joint Bank-IFC mission in
August/September 1989, which involved members of the Bank's Industry and Energy
Division, Europe Department, EMENA Region; the Financial Policy and Systems
Division of the Policy, Research and External Affairs Complex; the Information,
Technology and Facilities Department; and IFC's Capital Markets Department; as
well as several consultants.   Background documents concerning the financial
system and the Project are listed in Annex 1 and are available in the Project
File.



- 2 -
II. DEVELOPMENT OF THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
A.    Macro-Economic Context
2.01        Introduction.   Since the mid-1980s Hungary has been faced with
serious internal and external economic disequilibria. The fundamental problems
underlying this poor performance are long standing: an inefficient production
scructure and system of real resource allocation which has caused chronic excess
demand, stagnating output, low productivity, and growing external indebtedness.
In 1987 the Government adopted a three-year program of economic recovery with
the main goal being the containment of growth of convertible currency debt while
accelerating structural change.   The stabilization measures were aimed at
maintaining a competitive exchange rate and tight fiscal and monetary policies,
restraining the growth of consumption, generating higher domestic savings, and
improving the efficiency of investment.  The Government's medium-term program
was supported by a one-year Standby Agreement with the IMF, approved in May 1988,
and by a Bank-supported Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan (ISAL), approved in
June 1988.
2.02        The proeram of structural reforms.  The macroeconomic stabilization
program was accompanied by a series of important structural reforms. The main
thrust of these reforms .,as to increase the role of competitive markets in
mobilizing  and  allocating  resources,  to  increase  mobility  of  factors  of
production, and to improve the ability of the real sector to respond to
competitive market pressures.   Through 1988, these reforms  included,  most
notably, the decentralization of enterprise management (1985), the enactment of
bankruptcy legislation (1986), b0nking system decentralization (1987), and a
maior tax reform involving the introduction of both a personal income tax and
a value-added tax (1988), as well as the progressive liberalizacion of pricing,
wage and foreigrL trade policy each year.  The main reforms in 1989 focused on
the improvement of the corporate framework with the introduction of a Law of
Association, a Company Profit Tax Law, and a Law of Enterprise Transformation.
In the financial system, reforms include the further development of the banking
system and the development of the securities market (see paras 2.34 and 2.59
respectively  for details).   These changes are  intended to accelcrate  the
restructuring of the economy by increasing the flow of capital to viable,
profitable firms and joint ventures.
2.03        Recent economic performance.   Economic performance during 1988-89
was disappointing. GDP fell by almost 2% in 1989, after growing at 0.4% in 1988,
and inflation accelerated to about 18% (from some 15% in 1988), well above the
target of 12-15%. Lax fiscal plicy contributed to a deficit in the consolidated
fiscal balance of Ft 15.5 billion, or 0.9% of GDP, against the targeted surplus
of 0.7% of GDP.   The weakness in fiscal performance was pr4Jmarily due to
overestimated profit tax revenues, the decision to forgive the earnings tax
liabilities of certain illiquid enterprises, and major expenditure overruns for
subsidies, social security transfers, and debt service obligations.   On the
external side, a strong export growth led to an improvement in the convertible
currency trade balance.  However, the current account deficit increased sharply
(from 2.9% of GDP in 1988 to 5.2% in 1989), due primarily to the large outflows
(US$0.5 billion higher than in 1988) on the travel account.   Toward the end of



3 -
1989, the Government acted to halt the deterioration in the fiscal end external
accounts. Foreign exchange allowances for Hungarian tourists abroad were sharply
reduced, the forint was devalued by 10% against the basket of convertible
currencies,  and the NBH refinancing rate was raised from 14% to 17%.   The
external balance is fragile, with total external debt at the end of 1989
estimated at US$20.6 billion, requiring almost 45% of export earnings to service.
2.04        Overall Assessment.  Altho'agh significant policy measures towards
establishing  a market  economy  have  been  taken,  and major  political  and
ideological barriers to economic reform have been overcome, the implementation
of many reform measures has been flawed.  This has been most notable in the
infrequent application of the bankruptcy law to large insolvent enterprises who
have been able to forestall bankruptcy through several channels. These include
Government subsidies and tax forgiveness, the continued availability of credit
for paying wages, and the build up of involuntary inter-enterprise credit. As
a result, the impact of the reform measures on the real economy has been blunted.
The slow progress in effective enterprise restructuring and the continued
pressures for increased subsidization and tax exemptions have also made it
difficult to maintain tight demand management policies.
2.05        Short-term macroeconomic program.   As a result of the fragile
macroeconomic situation, achieving a significant improvement in the convertible
currency current account balance and the fiscal balance is a priority for 1990.
To assist the Government in achieving a fiscal balance for 1990, a one-year
Standby Arrangement was approved by the IMF in March 1990. Key elements of the
program agreed with the IMF include a decrease in the convertible currency
current account deficit from US$1.4 billion to US$550 million, limiting inflation
to 20% in 1990, and containing domestic demand to a level consistent with
external and inflation targets.   The'main instruments to achieving these aims
are a significant improvement in the fiscal balance, limits on the growth of
domestic credit,  adiustments to NBH's refinancing rates, and exchange rate
adjustments.
2.06        The broader aim of the Government's medium term economic Program is
to improve living conditions of the general population without jeopardizing
Hungary's creditworthiness.   This objective will be attained by implementing
comprehensive reforms to transform Hungary into an open market economy.   The
program recognizes that the exercise of effective ownership is necessary for
improving the efficiency of resources. Hence, reform of ownership, which would
allow the State to act decisively to restructure and close down insolvent
enterprises is a key element of the program. Nnother important element of the
program is a multi-year schedule of reductions in enterprise subsidies, a key
to promoting financial disciDline. The import liberalization program, initiated
in 1989, and to be intensified during 1990-92, will increase competition in the
economy and exert strong discipline on the behavior of domestic'firms. Through
the further decontrol of domestic prices, liberalization of the financial system,
and deregulation,  the regulatory role of the State in the economy will be
reduced, while progressive reduction in taxes and Government expenditures
(primarily subsidies) will permit the market to emerge as the principal means
of allocating resources. The Government is also implementing a comprehensive
program to support the development of the private sector, including direct
foreign investment. Further, major reforms in the CMEA trade relationship are



expected to put this trade increasingly on market principles.   The Bank is
currently preparing a structural adjustment loan (SAL) to continue the support
for the implementation of the medium-term program.
2.07        Medium-term nrospects.  The economy's medium-term prospects depend
on the ability and commitment of the Government to implement effectively the
economic stabilization and reform measures described above. Medium-term economic
forecasts indicate that if these conditions are met, GDP would grow strongly (by
about 3% annually) in the medium term and the main targets of the program could
be achieved.   Continued strong export performance and tight domestic demand
management policies would permit current account balance to be realized by 1992.
2.08        Issues  related  to  financial  intermediation.          Despite  many
modifications in the economic management system to help escablish market forces,
the widespread financial intervention of the State has continued.  An important
element of economic reform is to reduce the role of the Government budget in the
intermediation of financial resources, so that the funds can be channeled through
the banking system and the incipient canital market in response to signs of
profitability. The contribution of household savings to the national economy
also has been very modest and stood at about 3.6% of GDP in 1989. The potential
contribution of private savings to productive investment has not been fully
realized since until 1988 the banking system for households was separated from
that for enterprises, barring cormercial banks from mobilizing household
deposits. The imposition in 1989 of a 100% reserve requirement for two months
on household deposits mobilized by commercial banks effectively continued this
discrimination during 1989.   The reform of the financial system should help
improve the mobilization of savings as well as their allocation by increasing
the intermediation of finance through the banking system and capital market to
serve the most profitable investment opportunities economy-wide.
B.    The Financial Sector
1. Reform of the Financial Sector
2.09        Ccncomicant with the overall economic reform of the Hungarian economy
and in line with the objectives of stabilization, adjustment and growth, the
Government has sought to revamp the financial sector. This was done with the
dual objectives of increasing the range of instruments wich which policy makers
could manage the economy and making the existing instruments of macro-economic
policy more effective, and also improving the mobilization and allocation of
financial resources.   As restructuring of the economy continues, the banking
sector is expecced to play an increasingly important role in the strict
entorcement of financial discipline on enterprises. Availability of financing
to enterprises will be based on creditworthiness, and the banks will be expected
to actively pursue recovery of debts, including initiation of liquidation
procedures against delinquent enterprises.   The structure of the Hungarian
financial system started to evolve with the introduction of a number of
specialized financial institutions and the establishment of a bond market in
1983-84. Following the reform of the banking system in 1987, and the licensing
of several more commercial banks in 1988-89, the financial system has changed
significantly, and now more closely resembles that of traditional market



economies.  As of 1990, the financial system consists of a banking system--
comprising  the  central  bank,   commercial  banks,   specialized  financial
institutions, and joint-venture banks with foreign participation--, a nascent
securities market, several insurance companies, and the social security system.
Decails on the overall structure and size of the financial sector are provided
in Annex 2-1.
2.10        The key element of the financial sector reform so far has been the
reform of the banking sector,  On the institutional side, thd at'thorities have
sought to increase efficiency by creating competition, to which end a two-tier
banking system was put in place in January 1987, with the establishment of five
full-service commercial banks. Since then, several more commercial banks have
been created, specialized financial institutions have developed, and a State
Banking Supervision Agency was established in the Ministry of Finance. With the
aim of creating efficient mobilization and allocation of resources, the
authorities are pursuing the integration of the household and enterprise banking
sectors. A new banking law, which will provide a unified comprehensive framework
for banking and other financial intermediation operations, is under preparation
and is expected to be presented to Parliament in the last quarter of 1990. (See
para 2.34 for details of the banking sector reform). The Government has also
begun to decentralize foreign exchange operations (para 2.27).
2.11        A major reform of the system of housing finance was undertaken in
January 1989, when the practice of extending loans at fixed and highly subsidized
interest rates through the banks was ended. Ir. January 1989, the then-existing
stock of housing loans--valued at approximately Ft 280 billion (about US$4.6
billion)--was taken over from the National Savings Bank (NSB) and the Savings
Cooperatives by a newly created Housing Fund, in exchange for bonds of equal
nominal value.  The Housing Fund is reimbursed from the State budget for the
difference between the interest rate on its bonds (17% from January 1989, which
was increased to 22% in December 1989), and the interest rate on the stock of
old housing loans (a fixed rate of 3-3.5% per year for a term of 30 years),
which was estimated as having cost the budget approximately Ft 54 billion in
1989. The interest rate on housing bonds, which constitute the bulk of NSB's
assets, is set by the Government, reviewed infrequently, and is not competitive
with current market rates. Further, new housing loans are now to be extended
only at market interest rates by banks, and may be extended by all commercial
banks. There is. however, an informal ceiling of 25.5% on priority housing loans
(to,  for example,  first-time house buyers).   A shortage of loanable  funds
effectively prevents NSB from making non-priority housing loans which carry
higher rates. This, and the fact that the interest rate on the housing bonds
is controlled by the Ministry of Finance, sharply reduces NSB's autonomy and its
ability to control its own intermediation spread and profitability.
2.12        Given the significant impact of the housing finance system on the
Budget as well as on the financial position of the NSB, a strategy needs to be
developed for continued reform of the system, to operate it in accordance with
market principles and provide for a transparent subsidy mechanism for affected
households.   In the absence of such a strategy, the full integration of the
banking systems for households and enterprises will be jeopardized. As a first
scep in this direction, in January 1990, the Government imposed a tax on
annuities of pre-1989 subsidized housing loans, although only for 1990.  A tax



of 100% of the total monthly mortgage payment was imposed on loans obtained more
than 10 years ago, and a tax of 50% was imposed on loans obtained between 5-10
years ago.  In March 1990, however, the Constitutional Court ruled that this
tax was unconstitutional, and has therefore suspended the tax.
2.13        Besides major developments in the banking sector, progress has also
been made on the development of a securities market, which would help to
diversify the channels of resource mobilization and allocation, and to provide
long-term and risk capital to enterprises. A Securities Trading Committee has
been in operation since 1987 to manage the trading of securities between bank
and non-bank financial institutions, and the establishment of a Stock Exchange
has been approved. The corporate legislation introduced in 1989, as well as the
Securities Market Law which was adopted in January 1990, provide the necessary
legal framework for a fully functionin6 securities market. Although the market
has grown rapidly, it is narrow and illiquid and represents only a small share
of Hungary's  total financial market.   (See para 2.59 for details of the
securities market reform.)
2.14        The Hungarian insurance industry is also being restrtctured and
modernized.   In 1986,  the State Insurance Organization was split into two
companies, Allami Biztosito (AB) and Hungaria Biztosito (HB), and in 1988, two
additional specialist insurance companies, Aclasz and Garancia, were founded.
Subsequently, AB and HB have formed joint ventures with major European insurance
companies, both ventures being majority state owned.   The first independent
insurance company, Providencia, which is 59% foreign owned in partnership with
Postabank, began operations in early 1990, and other ventures are in preparation.
In addition, an Insurance Commissioner has been appointed, a new insurance law
is being drafted, and a regulatory framework is in the process of being developed
which is expected to become effective in 1991:
2.15        The social security system is undergoing major reform.  In January
1989, social security revenues and expenditures were separated from the general
budget in the form of a special fund, and the employer contribution rate was
increased and unified to 43% of the wage bill. In addition, the per'onal income
tax provides for tax credits on individual contributions to a private pension
plan or savings account,  subject to a maximum amount.   The Government is
developing a program of reforms of the social security system to address the need
for cost containment, a viable financing plan, and adequate inflation adjustment
of benefits.   In 1990, the Social Security Fund is to be transformed into an
independent administrative entity accountable to Parliament.   To address the
social costs of the economic reform in Hungary, the Government is continuing to
develop its employment policy, which is currently focused on creating new jobs,
promoting entrepreneurship, and retraining.   To support these measures, tne
budget of the Employment Fund, which also finances unemployment benefits, is
expected to quadruple between 1989 and 1992.
2.16        The role of NBH changed significantly with the introduction of the
two-tier banking system in 1987, when its enterprise lending activities were
transferred to the commercial banks, leaving it free to attend to more
traditional central banking activities. The NBH is involved in the formulation
of economic policy, enforcement of the monetary aspects of national economic
policy, and in maintaining internal and external financial equilibrium.   NBH



now acts as banker only for the State, for banks, and for specialized financial
institutions. Within the new economic and financial environment, NBH's role in
the implementation of monetary policy has changed the most. NBH now relies more
on indirect control of credit, using instruments such as reserve requirements,
open market operations, interest rates, and refinancing limits. NBH's role in
managing foreign exchange operations is also evolving as these operations are
progressively decentralized (para 2.27). It will, however. continue to manage
gold and foreign exchange reserves, and will stay in charge of all international
borrowing activities as well as management of the external debt.  The role of
NBH, including its independence vis-a-vis the Government in formulating monetary
policy, will b3 elaborated in a separate Central Bank Law, expected to be
presented to Parliament in the last quarter of 1990.
2. Macro-Financial Policies
2.17        The  establishment  in 1987  of the  two-tier banking system has
necessitated greater reliance on price rather than non-price instruments of
monetary control to implement the monetary program and manage credit policy.
In addition to credit policy guidelines, the NBH relies on indirect credit
control, including the credit refinancing mechanism, interest rate policy,
reserve requirements, and open market operations. The most important of these
is the control of short-term refinancing of credit.
2.18        Credit policy guidelines.  Each year, the Government outlines its
credit objectives for the year, and the means to achieve them, in its credit
policy guidelines. Although these guidelines were the main instrument of credit
control in the past, with the liberalization of the economic system their role
has changed--less emphasis is being placed on their binding nature, and virtually
no quanticative targets are specified any longer. The aim of the 1990 guidelines
is to continue to reduce regulations and to expand the role of the market by
active use of various instruments of monetary policy.
2.19        Refinancing  of  credit.    Refinancing  credits  are  provided  to
commercial banks under two separate facilities--for short and medium term working
capital loans, and for investment loans (mainly for Bank-financed projects).
Short-term refinancing credit can be obtained through an automatic "overdraft"
facility allocated on the basis of the bank's capital, or through the "liquidity"
facility for banks whose credit needs exceed the established overdraft limits
for longer periods of time. The NBH has sought to control the lending behavior
of the banks by varying the limits for refinancing short-term working capital
credits. In line with the tightening of monetary policy, the limit was halved
between September 1987 and September 1988. In January 1989, automatic overdrafts
were limited to 50% of a bank's share capital, with any remaining credit need
being met through the liquidity facility.   Interest rates on overdraft and
liquidity loans are raised periodically, most recently in December 1989 to 17X
and 21%, respectively.  Medium-term credit, including World Bank credit lines,
is currently being refinanced to commercial banks at the "basic" refinancing rate
of 17%.  The dependence of the banks on the refinancing mechanism is expected
to decrease as integration of the household and enterprise banking sectors
progresses, which would further facilitate acceptance of deposits from, and
issuance of bonds to the household sector by commercial banks. However, so long
as refinancing credit is available at low or negative real interest rates,



- 8 -
commercial banks would have little incentive to compete for household and
enterprise deposits.
2.20         Interest rates.  The interest rate structure has been reformed to
mobilize more resources, and to channel them more efficiently from areas of
surplus to areas of shortage.  This was to be achieved by a deregulation of
interest rates, and by maintaining positive real interest rates.   Annex 2-2
provides an overview of recent lending and deposit rates. In the past, NBH's
refinancing rate has been raised regularly in an attempt to keep it positive in
relation to domestic inflation. Refinancing rates on working capital credit were
raised from 11% which prevailed for much of 1988, to 13% in November 1988, and
to 14% in January 1989. Measured in relation to consumer (17-18% in 1989) or
producer price inflation (14-15% in 1989), however, NBH's refinancing rate lost
its positive real margin during 1989. Also, given the evidence of accumulated,
and mounting, foreign exchange losses at the NBH, the rate was not providing an
adequate margin to cover foreign exchange risk on foreign loans.  To counter
these trends, NBH increased its refinancing rates o-i December 1, 1989, by three
percentage points,   to 17% per year for the basic rate, and 21% for the more
widely used liquiditv rate, thus making rates positive in real terms.  Under
the forthcoming SAL, the Government is expected to commit itself to maintain its
refinancing rates at positive levels in real terms.
2.21        Regarding interest rates to the enterprise sector, since 1987 banks
have been able to establish their own lending and deposit rates. It appears they
have structured their interest rates to tho enterprise sector in accordance not
only with the risks but also with the specitic costs of the sources of funds
involved. As a result, lending rates to final borrowers on long-term investment
funds refinanced through NBH generally are lower than the rates on funds lent
from the banks' other sources.
2.22        Reform of household interest rates has followed more slowly than that
of the enterprise sector.   A major restructuring of the interest rates on
household savings deposits was initiated in October 1987.  By June 1988, the
interest rate on one-year savings notes was raised by the Ministry of Finance
to 14% from just 5.5% a year earlier, resulting in a sharp increase in these
deposits.  Commercial banks also began to issue certificates of deposit (CDs)
ac attractive interest rates, and treasury bills were made accessible to
households. (In 1989, commercial banks began to issue CDs to households for the
first time.) With the reform of the housing finance system in 1989, and with
the unification of retail and enterprise banking in mind, interest rates on
household deposits and credit to households were allowed to increase.   In
addition, new housing loans contain provisions for the use of flexible interest
rates.   In practice, however, to prevent an increase in budgetary expenditure
which would result from increases of the yields on the stock of housing bonds
held by NSB (para 2.11), the Government has discouraged NSB from raising interest
rates on household deposits, and ceilings on household deposit and loan rates
remain, as follows: 22% for deposits with a maturity of less than one year; 26%
for deposits with a maturity between one and three years; and 28% on loans to
households. Further, there remain informal ceilings on the rates of priority
housing loans (para 2.11). To stimulate deposit mobilization, the Government
is expected under the forthcoming SAL to commit itself to maintain household
deposit rates (net of tax) at positive levels in real terms.



-9-
2.23        Subsidized and Directed Credit.  Since the development of the two-
tier banking system in 1987, subsidies for new investment undertakings are
channelled through the State Development Institute (SDI).  At that time, the
State Development Bank (SDB), which had been the financial intermediary for
state-initiated investments, was eliminated, and its assets and liabilities were
transferred to the SDI. At inception, the stock of loans outstanding represented
20% of total net domestic assets of the monetary system. That share has since
remained constant. SDI provides investment finance for three kinds of projects-
Hungary's intergovernmental investment projects, the large central government
investments, and enterprise investments. SDI funds on-lent by commercial banks
to finance enterprise investments (so-called equity allocations), finance a
maximum of 30X of investment cost and are usually for 15 years. Borrowers
currently pay an annuity of 6.7%, while the budget bears the cost of the subsidy.
The annuity is treated as a cost in computing taxable income for enterprises,
providing it with an important advantage over commercial bank investment credits.
Extension of such funds to the domestic economy (i.e. excluding CMEA-related
funds) was approximately Ft 15 billion a year in 1987-88, and was expected to
be the same for 1989. From 1991, as part of increasing the financial discipline
in the economy, the Government plans to eliminate direct financing of new
enterprise investments by means of budgetary transfers, subsidized state loans
and subsidized equity contributions.
2.24        In addition to direct financing of new investments, credit is also
available on preferential terms through SDI to promoce other Government
objectives.   Chief among these is export promotion.   In 1989, NBH refinanced
export credit provided by the commercial banks at rates of 9-12% for medium and
long-term loans. Further, in October 1989, the NBH initiated a scheme to provide
credit at preferential rates (9-10%) for transformation of enterprises into
joint-stock companies.    Credit  to small  and medium  enterprises,  and  for
technologv development activities is also available on preferencial terms.
2.25        Reserve reauirements. Since the introduction of the two-tier banking
system in 1987, NBH has actively used reserve requirements on deposits held by
banks to manage monetary policy. In 1987, differentiated reserve requirements
were imposed on enterprise and household deposits.   With the objective of
promoting competition across financial institutions and instruments through
integration of the household and enterprise banking sectors, the authorities
began unifying reserve requirements in 1989. The new reserve requirement, which
was initially set at 15%, was raised in September 1989 to 18% in order to further
tighten liquidity and offset inflationary pressure. (CDs and bonds are included
in the base for reserve calculations.) These reserves are not remunerated. In
order to protect the NSB's lending base and thereby ensure an adequate flow of
resources into housing, a 100% reserve requirement for two months was levied on
all household deposits raised by commercial banks (excluding NSB and the Savings
Cooperative Bank).  This requirement  proved very effective, and in 1989 CDs,
which are subject only to the normal reserve requirement, became the most popular
means used by the commercial banks to attract household savings. Although this
requirement was eliminated in January 1990, reserve requirements have not yet
been equalized for all types of deposits and all banks.   While NSB and the
Savings Cooperative Bank are subject to the same reserve requirements on their
commercial deposits as are other banks, they are subject only to a 2% reserve



- 10 -
requirement on household deposits, which constitute the vast majority of their
deposits. This provides them with a significant advantage over their competitors
in attracting household deposits.
2.26        Open market operations.  Open market operations were initiated in
Hungary in early 1988 with the introduction of treasury bills.   An auction
system, instituted in December 1988, offers direct access for financial
institutions and enterprises, and indirect, noncompetitive access for the
household sector. Open market operations provide the Government with a policy
instrument that operates through the market, and has the flexibility to be used
for short-term money management, something not afforded by other instruments such
as reserve requirements and refinancing quotas.
2.27        Foreign exchange decentralization.  Since March 1989, the commercial
banks have been permitted to intermediate certain foreign exchange transactions
between domestic customers and the NBH, to take unlimited foreign exchange
positions vis-a-vis NBH, and to establish correspondent banking relationships
with some major international banks.   In September, regulations relating to
requirements to open resident foreign currency deposits with commercial banks,
and limitations on the use of these deposits, were eased substantially. Further
decentralization will affect all foreign exchange activities except foreign
borrowing, which will be retained by NBH. The commercial banks will be able to
make foreign exchange payments, collect deposits in foreign exchange, and extend
credits for activities such as export and small and medium-sized enterprise
projects. Further decentralization of foreign exchange operations is envisaged
for 1990-92, including permission for commercial banks to conduct trade-related
foreign exchange operations and grant foreign exchange loans in 1990.   The
relative inexperience of the commercial banks with foreign exchange operations
is of concern. To strengthen their capabilities in these areas, the banks have
hired new staff including from the foreign exchange department of NBH.   In
addition, the banking training center (para 3.20) is offering training in this
area to the commercial banks. Finally, the Banking Law will develop a framework
for  supervision  of,  and  regulations  for,  foreign  exchange  operations  of
commercial banks.
3. Medium-Term Framework for Financial Sector Development
2.28        The agenda for continued deepening and expansion of the financial
sector involves actions in two broad areas. The first involves policy actions
to improve efficiency of resource mobilization and allocation, through the
continued integration of the household and enterprise banking sectors and the
relaxation of barriers to competition.   This would require action on various
monetary and credit control instruments: the adequacy of refinancing rates, the
allocation of refinancing credits, further equalization of reserve requirements,
and elimination of credit allocation and interest subsidies to enterprises
through  the  refinancing  mechanism  and  SDI.         In  addition,   continued
decentralization of foreign exchange operations through commercial banks,
development of an interbank market, and a review of the housing finance sector
are necessary.  Government review of these and related policv issues, and the
necessary actions to be taken were addressed under the previous Industrial Sector
Adjustment Loan (ISAL) and are being deepened under the proposed SAL. Under the
SAL, the Government is expected to undertake to maintain NBH's refinancing rate



- 11 -
at positive levels in real terms, and to implement measures which would reduce
subsidies on housing finance and allow household deposits (net of tax) to be
maintained at positive levels in real terms. The proposed SAL would provide
further support to the adoption in 1990 of a satisfactory Banking law, including
prudential regulations  (para.  2.39),  and the preparation of a satisfactory
restructuring program for the major Hungarian banks (para. 3.18).
2.29        The  second  area  of  action  concerns  the  modernization  and
strengthening of the regulatory framework and institutions of the financial
system, to help improve the discipline and health of the system. This involves
the establishment and strengthening of prudential regulations and supervision
of the various  components  of the system  (banking,  securities markets and
insurance), strengthening of the financial institutions (e.g., banks and
insurance companies), and development of necessary infrastructure (training,
accounting and audit standards, and data processing).   It is clear that the
modernization of the Hungarian financial system will be a medium-term process
in which various components will evolve with the development of the system. In
line with sequencing of the Government's reform agenda in the financial sector,
the phasing of the modernization program would progress from the banking sector,
to the other areas such as the securities market, housing finance, insurance,
and social security. The proposed Project would support the first phase of the
...edium-term action program in this area (para 3.02).
4. The Bank Group's Assistance Strategv
2.30        Since lending to Hungary began in 1983, the Bank's country assistance
strategy has focussed on supporting Hungary's program of reform and structural
adjustment to make the economy more efficient, flexible, market-oriented and
competitive in convertible currency markets.  In recent years, this strategy has
been implemented mainly through a series of hybrid loans for industrial
restructuring, combining quick disbursing funds to support institutional and
policy reform, and investment funds to support restructuring at the enterprise
and subsector levels.   Investment loans in other sectors have also supported
implementation of the reform, as well as improvement in enterprise efficiency.
Following the adoption by the Government in 1987 of a medium-cerm program of
stabilization and adjustment, the Bank stepped up its support to the reform
through the above mentioned ISAL. That loan, combined with an IMF Standby in
1988, provided crucial external support to strengthen the Government's increased
reform and adjustment efforts.
2.31        The  Bank's  assistance  strategy  will  continue  to  support  the
Government in carrying out its adjustment efforts.  It will address medium to
long term constraints to sustainable growth, assist in developing institutional
capacity in line with systemic reforms and help ensure Hungary's continued access
to external financing. This strategy will be implemented through both adjustment
and investment lending operations. The.adjustment operations will continue to
support both the systemic reform of the economic management system and the
structural reform of the economy. They will broaden the application of systemic
changes to the whole of the economy, and help provide a supportive policy and
institutional environment for the success of investment operations. Investment
lending operations will be concentrated in the productive sectors of agriculture,
industry, energy, and infrastructure.



- 12 -
2.32        Since Hungary joined IFC in 1985, the roles of the Bank and IFC in
Hungary have been complementary and, with regard to financial sector reforms,
collaborative. The Capital Markets Department of IFC was a lead partner in the
creation in 1986 of the joint venture bank UNICBANK, and helped establish a the
Hungary Fund, a country fund to attract foreign investment to Hungary.  IFC's
Investment Department has also participated in the establishment of five joint-
venture companies in Hungary. Both departments are currently involved in the
preparation of an agency line of credit, to be managed by Budapest Bank, to make
investments in private sector projects which are too small for direct IFC
participation.   In the context of the Project, the Bank and IFC have worked
together closely in providing advice on the preparation of the Securities Market
Law, establishing a stock exchange, and developing a technical assistance program
for further development of the securities market.
2.33        Regarding the financial sector, the Bank has helped the Hungarian
authorities to analyze the development constraints and priorities in a
collaborative review of the sector.!/ The preparation of the review formed the
basis for the policy dialogue on the major issues affecting the development of
the banking system and securities market in the context of the policy matrix
agreed under the first and second industrial restructuring projects as well as
the ISAL.   Strengthening of onlending arrangements has been an important
consideration in the Bank supported investment operations in the industrial and
agricultural sectors.   In this context,  these projects included assistance
components for enhancing the appraisal and supervision capabilities of the banks.
The proposed Project would deepen the Bank's assistance to the banking system
and lay the groundwork-for development of other components of the financial
system, particularly the securities market. As such the Project is proposed to
be the first in a series to support the evolving Hungarian financial system.
As mentioned above (para 2.28), the overall policy framework for the financial
sector, in the meantime, is being provided by the recent ISAL and the proposed
SAL.
C.    The Banking System
1. Reform and Structure of the Banking System
2.34        Overview of reform.   The implementation phase of the Hungarian
banking system reform began in January 1987, with the establishment of the two-
tier banking system. At that time the credit functions of NBH were separated
from its central banking operations.   These functions as well as the credit
functions of the State Development Bank (SDB) were entrusted to three newly
created, competitive full-service commercial banks (Budapest Bank, Commercial
and Credit Bank, and Hungarian Credit Bank). Apart from these commercial banks,
the Hungarian Foreign Trade Bank (HFTB) continued to exist, and the General
Banking and Trust Company was also given authorization to become a full-service
Hungary - Development and Reform of Financial Markets (Report No. 6941-
HU, updated August 18, 1989).



13 -
commercial bank.  In addition, as of January 1987 there were three banks with
foreign participation, eleven specialized financial institutions (SFIs), the
National  Savings Bank  (NSB)  and 260 savings cooperatives.    Following the
establishment of the banks in 1987, household and enterprise banking remained
segregated as NSB and the savings cooperatives continued to serve the banking
needs of individuals, while the commercial banks catered to the enterprises.
2.35        As a first step toward the integration of enterprise and household
banking in 1988, commercial banks were permitted to sell bonds to households.
From January 1989, the integration of housing and enterprise banking services
was advanced as individuals were permitted to open accounts in the commercial
banks.   This integration is being accompanied by a gradual harmonization of
interest rates and deposit reserve requirements / for the two groups of banking
clients. Competition in the banking system was encouraged as enterprises were
allowed to open current accounts with more than one commercial bank.   In
addition, from March 1989 commerc:al banks are permitted to buy foreign exchange
from NBH on behalf of their clients. This is envisaged as a first step in the
decentralization of foreign exchange operations which is to be implemented in
the next 1-2 years.
2.36        Structure.   During 1988-89, (i) a major new savings institution--
the Post Bank and Savings Bank Corporation Ltd. --was formed, (ii) the 260 savings
cooperatives combined assets to form the Savings Cooperative commercial bank,
(iii) a number of specialized financial institutions were transformed to full-
service commercial banks, and (iv) there were a number of new entries to the
system.   Currently, there are fifteen full-service commercial banks,  seven
specialized financial institutions (SFIs), and four banks with foreign
participation.  At the end of 1988, in addition to NBH and the State Development
Institute, which accounted for 13.8% and 21.7% of the total assets of the banking
system respectively, commercial banks (including NSB and the savings
cooperatives, which were licensed as commercial banks in 1989) accounted for
61.5%, the SFIs for 1.5%, and the foreign joint-venture banks for 1.5% of the
assets of the banking system.   Table 2.1 provides an overview of Hungarian
banking institutions, while Annex 2-3 provides greater detail on the banking
system.
2/    There remain differences in treatment of reserve requirements on
household deposits between NSB and other commercial banks (para 2.25).



- 14 -
Table 2. 1
Hungary - Structure of the Banking SystemE'
(as of January 1990)
Centrat Bank                            Speciatized Financial Institutions
National Bank of Hungary (NBH)          Central Corp. of Banking Co4rpanties
Industrial Bank
Commerciat Banks                        Industrial Oevetopment Bank
Agrobank                                Innofinance
Budapest Bank (8B)                      Investbank
Commerciat and Credit Bank (CC8)        Investrade
Dunabank                                MerkantiL Bank
General Banking and Trust
General Bank for Venture Financing      Joint-Venture Banks
Hungarian Credit Bank (HCB)             CentraL-European International Bank
Hungarian Foreign Trade Bank            Central-European Credit 8ank
Hungarian Savings Cooperative Bank      Citibank Budapest
Innovation Bank for Const. Ind.        Unicbank
Inter-Europa Bank
Konzumbank
Mezobank
National Savings Bank (NSB)
Post Bank and Savings Bank Corporation
a/ Not including subsidiaries of banks and Hungarian banks abroad.
Source: NBH
2.  Leg_isative Framework. Prudential Regulations and Supervision
2.37         Background.  Responsibility for banking supervision rests with the
Ministry of Finance, which established the State Bank Supervision Agency (SBS)
in 1987 for this purpose.  The chairman of SBS is at deputy ministerial level.
SBS makes decisions in an autonomous fashion, and is financed by the financial
institutions it supervises. SBS has the authority to: (i) license banks; (ii)
determine the activities to be conducted by banking institutions;  (iii) examine
the activities of banks; (iv) receive reports and inspect materials on the
activities  of  banks;  and  (v)  take  enforcement  actions,   including  the
establishment of risk reserves, institution of corrective actions, removal of
senior executives, and withdrawal of banking licenses.
2.38         Currently there is no single piece of legislation that establishes
a comprehensive framework for banking operations or bank supervision in Hungary.
To address this shortcoming, a unified comprehensive framework for banking and
other financial intermediation operations (the Banking Law) is currently under
preparation under the leadership of the SBS.   A draft thesis for the law--
containing basic principles and concepts--was completed in February 1990, and
has been reviewed by the Bank. The draft law is expected to be presented to
Parliament in the last quarter of 1990.   The law is expected to cover the
following topics: (i) licensing powers (entry requirements); (ii) delineation
of banking activities; (iii) prudential requirements; (iv) ownership and control
of financial institutions; (v) powers of supervision and control; (vi)
information and secrecy; (vii) penalties and sanctions; (viii) powers to
restructure ailing institutions (including exit requirements); and (ix)
organizational matters.



- 15 -
2.39        SBS has made progress recently in strengthening the prudential
regulations for banks.   Revised regulations, to be applied in the transitory
period until the new Banking Law is in force, became effective in November 1989.
The new Banking Law would incorporate the prudential regulations. The principal
elements of the existing prudential regulatory framework for banks are: (i) a
licensing system for entty of new banks, including a minimum capital requirement
for different financial institutions; (ii) a minimum capital adequacy (capital
to risk assets ratio) of 5% for banks and 6.67% for specialized financial
institutions;  (iii) general liquidity requirements  (liquid assets to assets
ratio) of 5%, and specific additional liquidity requirements for the case of any
deposit exceeding the bank's capital,  of 50% of the excess;   (iv) a loan
classification system, in accordance to which loans which meet any of the
following criteria should be classified as substandard--(a) loans to borrowers
who have incurred losses in the previous two years; (b) loans to borrowers who
are undergoing liquidation or refloatation procedures; and (c) loans overdue to
the bank for more than 60 days; (v) reduction of the stock of doubtful debt by
10% per year; (vi) limits on credits, including on the size of credits and on
credits to a single borrower; (vii) limits on investments by the banks; and
(viii) extended sanctions by SBS in case of non-compliance with the regulations
by the banks.   Significancly,  however,  at the end of 1989,  there was no
regulation in place requiring commercial banks to set aside a certain amount of
their profits to strengthen provisions for bad and doubtful debts, which is
expected to be rectified starting in 1990 (para 2.42). Details on the current
prudential regulations for banks are provided in Annex 2'-4.
2.40        As  elaborated above,  progress has been made  in  improving  the
regulatory  framework  and  the  supervisory  function  for  banks.    Further
strengthening is expected to take place in the context of the new Banking Law.
In sum, the following areas need attention to foster the development of a strong
and efficient banking sector in Hungary:
(i) Condition of the banks:   Priority must be given to assessing the true
financial' condition of the major banks.   In this respect,  the loan
portfolios of the banks, as well as their operating policies and procedures
should be carefully reviewed and evaluated (para 2.47).   Based on this
review, a clear framework and strategy for financial restructuring of banks
needs to be put in place to permit follow-up to the results of such
portfolio reviews to the extent that the banks' solvency would be affected
(paras 2.49 and 3.18);
(ii) Prudential  regulatory  framework:    In  a  number  of  areas,  further
strengthening of prudential rules will be required. The most important
ones are: (a) rules that would limit the effects of the interlocking
ownership of banks and borrower encerprises as banks are now lending
significant amounts to their shareholders--rules are required to restrict
or eliminate this practice and to require banks to make public their
existing lending to shareholders; (b) the need to raise the minimum capital
adequacy of banks to the internationally accepted level of 8% of total risk
assets, in order to develop a strong capital base; (c) rules on the accrual
of interest, particularly to stop practices of reporting interest income
on overdue loans; (d, improvements in the system of loan classification,
since the current system is simplistic and mechanical--a broader analysis



- 16 -
of the economic performance of borrowers should be included in the system;
(e) improvements in the system of provisioning for doubtful debts, and the
need to link the level of provisions to the classification of loans (the
banks currently are not required to provide for doubtful loans, para 2.39);
(f) the need to phase down concentrated or connected lending, and to set
sectoral exposure limits for the banks; (g) the need to develop clear
prudential rules related to the decentralization of foreign exchange
operations, including the criteria and conditions for allowing banks to
enter into foreign exchange trading and operations; and (h) the need for
banks to undergo annual audits of financial statements, in accordance with
international standards, by qualified independent auditors.
(iii) Bank supervision - institutional arrangements:  SBS is a relatively new
entity and its staff, including the recently appointed head, are new to
supervisory work. Its position and effectiveness are accordingly unsure
and untested. SBS's legal status and authority, as well as its internal
policies and procedures need to be strengthened urgently. In this respect,
immediate attention is needed for development of adequate systems of
surveillance and desk analysis of banking institutions, as well as on-site
examination procedures; elaboration of the corresponding manuals: design
and implementation of a computerized information system; and training of
bank supervision staff.
2.41        The Hungarian authorities are fully aware of the need to address the
issues raised above. In all areas, actions are under way or steps are expected
to be taken over the coming months.   Firstly, regarding the review of the
condition of the banks, detailed portfolio audits will be undertaken in the first
half of 1990, and a framework for restructuring of the banks, to the extent
required, has been agreed upon in the context of the Project (para 3.18).
2.42        Secondly, with regard to the strengthening of prudential regulations,
the Bank has discussed with the authorities its comments on the current
regulations, which have been highlighted above (para 2.40 (ii)). The Government
has agreed to incorporate the above comments and to submit the draft banking law
to Parliament by end-1990. The Project would include technical assistance for
the further preparation of the law (para 3.05).  In some areas, SBS has already
advanced with help of external experts, including a study which would provide
detailed recommendations on an upgraded loan classification system by March 1990.
With respect to the need to build up adequate reserves for loan losses, the
Government is expecced to put in place a regulation for 1990 to require the banks
to make mandatory provisions for doubtful loans until the total of such
provisions reaches 5% of assets. The banks would receive a tax credit on the
amount of write-offs for bad debts.
2.43        Thirdly,  with  respect  to  institutional  strengthening  of  the
supervision function, other components of the technical assistance program have
been developed which focus on organization aspects, policies and procedures of
SBS. In this respect, the possibility of "twinning" SBS with Western regulatory
and supervisory agencies is being explored (para. 3.06).



- 17 -
3.  02erations and Financial Performance of the Banks
2,44        Ownership  and manaLement structure.   Most Hungarian banks are
registered as joint-stock companies. In case of the large commercial banks, the
single largest shareholder is the State which holds up to 52X of share capital
(except NSB which is a state enterprise, and as such does not have a shareholding
structure2t). The remaining shares are held by enterprises. The Hungarian banks
in general follow a Western-style corporate management structure.  The common
management structure is that of a chief executive chairing and reporting to a
Board of Directors, which is drawn from major shareholders. The banks usually
also have a Supervisory Board that reports separately to the General Assembly
of Shareholders.
2.45        usiness orientation.  At the time of their creation in 1987, the
three major commercial banks (BB, CCB, and HCB) inherited their business
portfolios from the commercial banking sections of the NBH.  Until they were
allowed in 1989 to participate in retail banking activities and mobilize
household ceposits, the commercial banks only dealt with state enterprises, local
councils, large cooperatives and other entities in the socialist sector. A few
are now setting up capabilities to service the small business sector. Some of
the large commercial banks have indicated that they intend to develop into
'universal banks', involved in every aspect of retail and commercial banking.
NSB and the savings cooperatives, traditionally involved in retail banking and
housing finance,  have also converted to full-service commercial banks.   A
detailed description of the background, institutional status and financial
*         analysis of the four major banks (BB, CCB, HCB and NSB) is given in Annex 2-5.
The smallest and the most diverse group of financial institutions consists of
the specialized financial institutions (SFIs) which evolved from the innovation
funds set up in the early 1980s. These are full-fledged banks with the exception
that they are not permitted to operate current accounts. They have pioneered
and developed a number of financial services in Hungary, such as leasing, hire
purchase, real estate development financing, and quasi-equity profit-sharing
participation instruments, and deal mostly with small cooperatives, small state
enterprises and private entrepreneurs. Finally, the foreign joint-venture banks
are full-service banks who engage in trade finance and leasing activities for
small enterprises, cooperatives and private sector ventures.
2.46         Financial structure and performance.   Based on their financial
statements and financial indicators shown in tables 2.2 and 2.3, the three major
commercial banks (BB, CCB, and HCB) appear to be in a relatively healthy
financial position.   It should be kept in mind, however, that the financial
results of the banks may be overstated due to the lack of adherence to prudent
policies and procedures regarding loan classification and interest accrual, and
accounting standards which are not in line with internationally acceptable
accou-nting practices (para 2.67).   The financial position of the three banks
is summarized below. (Figures for the banks in the text that follows appear in
the form of ranges).
As of June 30, 1990, NSB is expected to have completed all steps
required on its part for transformation into a joint-stock company (para
3.11).



- 18 -
Table 2.2
Financial Structure of the Three Major Commercial Banks
(as percent of total assets)a/kJ
Is                   CCB                    HCB
1988   1989   chane  1988    1989   chanoc  1988    1989  chanWe
Assets
Deposits and cash   10     8       -8    11       9        5     10    13        40
Other current assets   12    9.    -12    4       4        2      3      1      *51
Short-term loans    30   25        -6   31       32       23    29    22        -11
Long-term loans     35   35        13    4t      42        5     42     35       *6
Other tong-term assets  13   23    18     7      13      129    16    29        107
Liabilities and Equity
Deposits            37   36        8     31      33       25    26    30         32
Short-term refinancing   4  3     -19     6       7       40      7      8       29
Long-term refinancing   29   29    12    40      33       *3    39    33         -4
Other Liabilities   19   23        35     8      12       89     17    17        15
Equity              11     9       -6    15      15       21    12    12         21
Total Assets (Ft. bitlion) 81   90  11   120    143        19    194    221        14
a/   The change column represents % nominal change from 1988 to 1989.
W/   J.nbers for 1989 based on unaudited financiat results.
(i)   Financial Structure.  Total assets of the banks grew by.11-19% in 1989.
This could be attributed mainly to increases in levels of deposits due to
an improved liquidity situation of enterprises and improved fund
mobilization efforts by the banks, as well as increases in the capital
position of the banks. As a result, the assets of the banks are almost
at the same level as in 1987, following a sharp decline in 1988 (4-26%).
The 1988 decline was caused by the reduction in NBH refinancing caused by
the Government's tight monetary policy, as well as the decline in
enterprise deposit levels due to introduction of the new profit tax system
in 1988, and reductions in Government subsidies to enterprises.
(ii)  LiQuiditv.  In 1989, banks improved their liquidity position as measured
by their loan to deposit ratio (net of NBH refinancing). This was due to
larger increases in the levels of deposits than loans.   The liquidity
position of two of the banks (BB and CCB), however, is still not
satisfactory as judged against the desirable international level of 70%
for loan Lo deposit ratio.



- 19 -
Table 2.3
Financial Performance of the Three Major Commercial Banks
(percent)
88            CC8            NCH
t988   1989    1988  1989    1988   199
Liauidity
Loans/Deposits (exct. NBH refinancing)  84.7   81.5   143..   134.3   124.7  71.4
Loan/Deposits + borrowings (incl. refinancing) 80.1   76.8   110.7   101.5   102.8  77.7
Caoitat Adeauacv
Capital/Assets                      9.1    9.3   14.5   14.6    12.0   12.3
Profitability
Return on Average Assets             1.3    2.0    1.4    2.2       1.2   2.0
Return on Average Capital           14.4   20.2   12.9   14.5    11.8   15.8
Internal ManaSemient Ratios
Net nt. Margin/Average Assets       3.9    4.0    3.9    5.0       3.0   4.1
Fee Income/Average Assets           3.0    2.3    1.9    2.3       1.8   2.2
Operating Exp./Average Assets       3.1    2.5    0.9    1.2       0.6   1.2
(iii) Caoital Adequacv. The capital to total assets ratio (net of risk reserves)
continued to improve in 1989 to reach 9.3-14.6%.  Although this number
appears co be above the internationally desirable level of 8% of risk-
weighted assets', it could be overstated due to the lack of a satisfactory
interest  accrual  policy,  and doubts  about  the quality of the loan
portfolio, and therefore the appropriate levels of provisions.
(iv)  Earnings Performance.   Net interest margins grew to 4.1-5.0% of total
average assets in 1989. This increase can be explained by the increased
lending rates of the banks (see also Annex 2-2), and possibly the Eccrual
of interest on substandard loans which would normally include a penalty
rate of 6%. The margin was augmented by high fee incomes of approximately
2-2.5% of total average assets. Operating expenses as a percent of total
average assets grew as competicion among the banks for qualified staff
accelerated, resulting in higher salary levels, and as banks expanded the
scope of their expenditures (marketing, and information systems). Although
these costs are at acceptable levels, they should be monitored very
closely. All banks showed return on assets ratios of approximately 2.0%,
and the return on average equity improved to 14.5-20.2%. However, these
relatively good performance ratios also reflect the fact that. Hungarian
banks were not required to set aside provision for doubtful loans (para
2.39).
2.47        Portfolio situation.  The factor directly affecting the liquidity,
capital adequacy, and earnings performance of the banks is the quality of their
loan portfolios. In this respect the portfolios of the three major commercial
The international ratio recommended by the Basle Committee on Banking
Regulations and Supervisory Practices, concern a capital to risk-
weighted assets ratio, in which off-balance sheet liabilities such as
guarantees and letters of credit also carry a risk weighting.



- 20 -
banks (BB, CCB and HCB) raise concerns. The portfolio situation of the other
banks appears less problematic. NSB's portfolio of housing loans was taken over
by the housing fund in January 1989 (para 2.11), while the loans made by the
smaller banks are too recent to have developed recognizable problems at this
stage. Regarding the three major banks, based on the reported figures at the
end of 1988, the portfolio situation of BB and HCB was slightly better, and CCB
worse than a year earlier. The improvements in the case of HCB and BB seem to
be due to rescheduling and write-offs by the banks.   The quality of the
portfolios is adversely affected by the concentration by borrower and sector,
as well as the practice of connected lending.   In 1988, loans to the top 25
borrowers of each of the three major commercial banks accounted for over 200Z
of their capital.  These borrowers at the same time held 1113% of the share
..ipital of the banks they borrowed. Also important is the concentration of the
loan portfolio in relatively few subsectors; the top three subsectors of each
bank accounted for 48-78X of the loan portfolio in 1988.
2.48        Several practices by the banks lead to inaccurate representation and
is likely to overstate the quality of their portfolios.   As a result, the
profitability and solvency of some of the banks is expected to be less favorable
than currently shown in the books. First, the banks appear to be capitalizine
interest due Ra3ments by extending new loans to permit the servicing of
outstanding debt, which has the effect of underestimating the true proportion
of substandard borrowers and loans. Second, there is currently no regulation
limiting the accrual of interest on non-performing loans.  The banks seem to
continue to accrue interest due long after the loan is overdue.   Accrual is
stopped only when court proceedings are iniciated to liquidate the borrower, a
process  that is invoked very late and infrequently.   Hence,  revenues are
significantly overstated, concealing problems of capital inadequacy and
insufficient reserves.   Third,  the current guidelines for classification of
substandard loans do not adequately assess the financial soundness of borrowers.
Finally, the guidelines for building a reserve fund to provide for doubtful debts
are excessively lenient and do not link to the classification of the loan
portfolio, and, as a result, the banks are not adequately provisioned to deal
with problem loans. At the end of 1988, loan loss reserves accounted for 2.0-
2.8% of total outstanding loan portfolio of the banks.   To address these
shortcomings, strengthening of the prudential regulatory framework to force the
banks to tighten their policy and procedures is underway and will be supported
by the Project (para 3.05).
2.49        There is a need for detailed audics of the commercial banks in order
to examine more carefully their financial situation and the quality of the
portfolio.  Current Hungarian accounting practices are at considerable variance
with internationally accepted standards, being geared more toward providing
information for tax and statistical purposes than to revealing true financial
condition and performance (para 2.67). Also, while in the past the banks have
undergone annual financial audits, these have generally not followed
international audit standards, and have not focused on the quality of the loan
portfolio.  As a result, the available information on the financia  performance
of the banks as well as their borrowers is limited, and possibly conceals
evidence of more serious problems. At negotiations, agreement was reached that
banks participating in the project would undergo detailed financial audits
(commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 1989, for the four major



- 21 -
participating banks--BB, CCB, HCB and NSB), with a view to assessing the true
financial condition of the banks and their portfolios. Under the Project, the
SBS would also carry out special portfolio audits of three major commercial banks
(BB, CCB and HCB) in the first half of 1990, as a basis for developing and
implementing. as appropriate, an action plan to restructure the financial
position of those banks (para 3.18).
4. Institutional Development
2.50       fterating environment.  The ongoing economic reforms and financial
sector liberalization are changing the nature of banking operations in Hungary
by moving away from strictly defined roles and limited products/activities to
a more market competitive environment, with new instruments available to an
increasing number of institutions. This increase in the number of players and
activities is constrained by a shortage of skilled bank staff at all levels.
Complicating the banking environment in Hungary is the adverse effect of the
economic reform on many enterprises, and hence, on the quality of the banks'
portfolios, which increases the banks' need for developing their policies and
procedures. This situation has led to the urgent need for strengthening of the
institutional bas. of the banks.
2.51        Current status and weaknesses.  The common institutional development
deficiencies of the Hungarian banks can be described as follows:
(i) Institutional role and strategy.   Most banks intend to enter into new
activities permitted under the new banking framework. These intentions
however, are not the result of careful analyses and show a lack of focused
approach.   The banks generally have no written strategy statements, or
detailed documents on proposed markets, products and services and resource
requirements to attain these unspecified goals, and there is no assessment
of the benefits and costs associated with the decisions.
(ii) Organization structure. In the absence of coherent strategies, the banks
have developed organizational structures which may not be appropriate for
their future orientation. There is a general lack of clarity of reporting
lines and responsibilities and considerable duplication of functions.
Additional work is necessary, particularly on the reporting lines and
responsibilities of control functions such as credit policv and internal
audit, which are essential to the health of the loan portfolio and the
integrity of bank operations.
(iii) Functional development. As noted above, important functional areas such
as credit policy and internal audit do not appear to have a sufficiently
important position in Hungarian banks. Other functions such as strategic
planning and financial management are not yet well defined.  The major
Hungarian banks aspire to become important universal banks on a Western
European scale. With this objective in mind, the banks should have a clear
plan of functional development (including related skills) to meet their
needs for the next five years.
(iv) Policies and nrocedures.   Formal policies and procedures are necessary
guides for banking operations.  They also serve as a basis for internal



- 22 -
and external audits.   The Hungarian banks have inherited operational
guidelines which are cumbersome, difficult to interpret, and hard to use
for reference or as a basis for internal audit. Though policy guidelines
and operating procedures will be needed for all functional areas, priority
should be given to credit and risk asset management, asset and liability
management, planning and budgeting, and foreign exchange operations.
2.52        Develooment needs.  The Hungarian banking system has been relatively
isolated from recent international developments in banking techniques. Despite
the presence of several well-qualified nationals in banking, the Hungarian banks
would benefit greatly from additional expertise to incorporate the necessary
banking techniques into their system. Institutional development of the banks
should ultimately encompass all staff and line banking functions. However, to
foster effective implementation of the program, initial institutional development
efforts should be devoted to selected priority areas, leaving important but not
immediately essential tasks to a later phase.  The Project would support the
participating banks' efforts to develop and implement such institutional
development programs.
5. Information Technology Development
2 .53       Current status and weaknesses.  Since 1987, the number of accounts,
branch office networks and transactions at the major banks has increased
substantially. The four major banks are utilizing the NBH computing facilities
for inter- and intra-bank settlements and maintenance of accounts.   The NBH
facility is now supporting some 200 branch operations--an increase of 250% over
the 1987 baso--which is estimated to increase to over 300 branches by end-1991.
This increase in workload is severely taxing the NBH data processing facilities
and is adversely affecting the banks' abilities to mobilize and allocate
resources, institute decentralized credit and liquidity management at the
branches,  offer timely clearing of debits and credits, and hence, is adversely
affecting customer service.   The banks have started to operate rudimentary
accounting systems on mini-and micro-computers, or are utilizing service bureau
facilities which are not sufficiently responsive to management planning and
monitoring needs. These individual solutions are expensive and place extensive
demands on the bank staff as the systems were introduced in a reactive
environment without adequate rationalization of data structures, forms and
processes.
2.54        Development stratevv.  The financial institutions are aware of -the
need to establish appropriate management information systems and data processing
facilities to increase customer service levels, permit cost-effective operations,
and foster continued growth.   Each of the major banks has therefore engaged
external consultants to formulate a five-Jear automation strategy, which, based
on the future business orientations of the banks, would design appropriately
focused information systems and configure the related hardware/software
architecture.   The Project would support the banks in the preparation and
implementation of such automation strategies and their information system
programs (para 3.14).



- 23 -
6. Suvporting Infrastructure
2.55        Training facilities for bank staff.   The reorganization of the
Hungarian banking system in January 1987 substantially increased the need for
well-trained financial specialists and bank managers.   Increased demand for
banking skills came principally from two sources: the transition from a single-
tier to a two-tier banking system that brought with it a need for different
skills, and the increase in the number of banking institutions, which resulted
in a demand for more people with the requisite skills. This demand, which could
not immediately be met by the Hungarian education system, pointed out the
necessity for the establishment of a specialized training center for bankers.
To meet this need, the Bank assisted in the establishment of the International
Training Center for Bankers (ITCB) in February 1989, to provide training for
personnel in the banking and other financial professions in Hungary. The Project
would support the development and initial operation of the training center and
its enhancement to meet the needs of the banks as they evolve in their
institutional development (para 3.20).
2.56        Inter-bank pavments clearing.   The two-tier banking system has
resulted in the decentralization of corporate account management and credit
relationships. Account processing, however, is still accomplished on the NBH
central computer which is connected to nineteen regional data collection centers
through an ineffective and low-speed post and telegraph communication network.
This has sometimes necessitated physical transfers of computer files by means
of couriers, and has resulted in delayed computations of inter-bank indebtedness
and indefinite holding of debit transactions pending receipt of clearing credits.
The situation is exacerbated by inadequate NBH computer processing capacity.
The Project would support the establishment of a separate national payments
clearing center to facilitate inter-bank clearing transactions and intra-bank
accounting and management reporting mechanisms (para 3.23).
2.57        NBH data _rocessin   facilities. As mentioned above, the account and
monetary management capacity of NBH is severely restricted by an inadequate data
processing  infrastructure.    Also,  NBH  needs  to  develop  a  comprehensive
information system to monitor liquidity and monetary management, administer
exchange rate policies, and generate information in suppor. of prudential
regulations. The Project would support the development of a responsive payments
system with appropriate technology, suitably integrated with the computer
facilities at NBH as well as the rest of the financial system.
7.  World Bank Suvtort to the Banking System
2.58        In addition to support for policy reforms in the financial sector,
previous Bank operations have included support for the development of the two-
tier banking system in Hungary and the participating banks which have been
involved in the onlending of World Bank loan funds in previous Bank-supported
operations in Hungary. Such support involved technical assistance and support
for information systems development. Under the first Industrial Restructuring
Project (loan 2700-HU), assistance was provided for the initial development of
NBH's  office  automation  and  management  information  systems.    The  Second
Industrial  Restructuring  Project  (loan  2834-HU)  i-ncluded  st'pport  for  the
conceptualization of the banking clearing network, while technical assistance



- 24 .
was provided to the participating banks for the development of their policies
and operating procedures, particularly for appraisal and supervision of Bank-
financed subloans. The Third Industrial Restructuring Project (loan 3020-HU)
extended the assistance to the participating banks in the area of small business
credit training. The proposed Project would deepen the assistance to the banks,
and extend Bank support for the development of other components of the financial
system.
D. The Securities Market
2.59        Introduction.  At the end of 1988 the size of Hungary's securities
market was estimated at Ft 120 billion (about US$2 billion equivalent), of which
about Ft 50 billion represented bonds outstanding, Ft 30 billion money market
instruments (treasury bills, bills of exchange and certificates of deposit) and
about Ft 40 billion shares, although only a very small part of that has ever
traded. The market has grown to this size in just a few years. The issuance
and trading of bonds became possible in 1983; the first treasury bills and
certificates of deposit were issued in 1988; and the Law of Association, which
became effective in January 1989, made possible the creation of joint-stock
companies and the issuance of shares to a wide range of investors, including
individuals. The Law on Foreign Investment which was enacted in December 1988
also encouraged foreign participation in Hungarian enterprises, and more recently
the Law of Transformation, effective in June 1989, has provided the framework
for state-owned enterprises to convert to joint-stock companies. Despite its
relatively rapid growth, the market is very narrow and illiquid and still
represents only a small share of Hungary's total financial market, which
continues  to be dominated by bank credits and savings deposits.   A brief
description of the current size and depth of the market is given in Annex 2-6.
2.60        Legislative and Regulatorv Framework.  The Government has given high
priority to the preparation of the regulatory framework for securities trading,
recognizing that effective regulation to foster investor confidence and improve
efficiency is an integral part of developing a capital market. The Securities
Market Law, which was approved by Parliament in January 1990, provides the basic
regulatory conditions for the issue and trading of securities and the
establishment of a stock exchange. It also provides for the overall supervision
of the securities market by formally establishing the State Securities
Supervisory Board. Technical assistance has been provided by the World Bank/IFC
for the preparation of the new Securities Market Law, in the form of joint
working sessions with the Hungarian authorities.
2.61        Supervision of the Securities Market.  The Government's commitment
to establishing a fully fledged securities supervision entity, has resulted in
the recent establishment of the State Securities Supervisory Board (SSS). The
SSS, whose responsibility and authority is defined in the Securities Market law,
reports to the Minister of Finance, who appoints the SSS chairman.
2.62        Under the Securities Law, the SSS is responsible for: (i) approving
any new issues or public offerings, including prospectuses; it will receive on
an ongoing basis the regular financial reporting information that issuers and
other market participants will be required to submit; (ii) the licensing and



- 25 -
supervision of all intermediaries, including the setting of qualifying
examinations for brokers and dealers; (iii) the supervision of the Stock
Exchange, (although the Exchange will be a self-reg, lating institution, this will
be on the basis of authority delegated from the SSb, which will retain ultimate
authority); and (iv) the enforcement of all regulations as provided in the
Securities Market Law. In this regard, the new law gives the SSS the authority
to impose sanctions (such as fines and licence suspensions) on participants for
infringements of regulations.  The SSS, whose head was appointed in August 1989,
is expected, when fully staffed,  to have a staff of four to six qualified
lawyers, economists and accountants.   Its initial establishment costs will be
met by the Government, although it is expected to be able to finance ongoing
operations through a proposed levy of 0.05% on the value of new security issues.
2.63        The  Securities  Trading  Committee  (STC)  also  plays  a  role  in
supervising securities transactions and the activities of market participants.
The Ethics Committee of the STC, which was formed in 1988, has been more active
to date in supervision than the Ministry of Finance, and has been the main
arbiter of disputes relating to the trading and issue of securities. The STC
plans to strengthen the role of the Ethics Committee when the Stock Exchange is
formally established in 1990, and to transform it into a formal Arbitration
Committee to which all intermediaries and other market participants will have
to submit disputes.
2.64        Securities Trading - The Stock Exchange.  Although Hungary had an
active stock exchange prior to the Second World War, since then and until the
end of 1987 there existed no formal mechanism for the trading of securities.
Trading currently takes place on the basis of an agreement signed at the end of
1987, when the Securities Trading Committee was formed, and which now has some
25 bank and brokerage company signatories. These financial institutions meet
regularly to trade bonds and equities face to face; until recently this was just
once a week, with trading taking place directly between brokers at other times.
However, as part of a planned transition to daily trading, the agreement's
signatories agreed to extend their meetings to twice a week in October 1989, and
now meet three times a week. In this transition period to the formal opening
of the Stock Exchange (expected about mid-1990), the intermediaries designate
those securities in which thev intend to 'make a market' and which are therefore
considered as 'listed' on the Exchange and are traded at the meetings; all other
securities continue to be traded directly by these intermediaries outside the
Exchange.  About half of all outstanding bonds and equities are 'listed' on the
Exchange. As soon as the Stock Exchange is formally established, all securities
that meet listing requirements may.be traded on the Exchange--including bonds,
equities, as well as treasury bills and certificates of deposit.   There is
currently an active inter-corporate bills of exchange market which is expected
to remain outside the Exchange.   It is anticipated that enterprises will
gradually begin to issue commercial paper instead, which will be tradeable on
the Exchange, because of the greater liquidity that market can eventually
provide. The structure of the market and the volume of trading is described in
more detail in Annex 2-6.
2.65        Most of the costs of establishing the Stock Exchange are expected
to be met directly by the Government; a centrally-located building has already
been provided. On-going expenses are expected to be covered by the Exchange's



- 26 -
membership and listing fees, as well as a small share of the trading commission.
The Exchange intends to provide members full facilities for the efficient trading
and settlement of securities. It will also gradually build up its information
base on transactions and issuing companies to encourage analysis and risk
assessment by brokers and investors, recognizing that the quality and quantity
of information available to investors is important if they are to accept risk.
The Exchange will be a self-regulating institution under authority delegated'
from the SSS and, as mentioned above, will also supervise trading and issuance
activity.
2.66        Future Development.  The Government is keen to develop a more active
securities market to support the liberalization and restructuring now taking
place in the economy. Through an active securities market, companies will have
an alternative source of long-term finance and equity capital for investment in
productive activities.  New instruments created and traded on the market are
also expected to offer wider opportunities to institutional and individual
investors,  increasing  long-term  savings  in  financial  instruments.    she
Government's program to develop the securities market is a broad approach on
several fronts, including building up the institutional capacity of the market,
providing the prudential regulatory framework for participants' activities, and
creating the corporate and financial environment that will foster the market's
growth.  The Project would support the Government's efforts in each of these
areas (para 3.27).
E. The Accounting and Auditing Framework
2.67        In the post-war years, Hungarian accounting was oriented strictly
towards the objective of ensuring that the central authorities had full control
over the enterprises' use of resources allocated by the State. Since there were
no ownership interests as such and no capital market, no pressure or incentives
existed for the development of accounting standards. The accounting profession
concentrated on bookkeeping, as the criteria for proper accounting became
synonymous with automatically following detailed rules, with little weight given
to the implementation of accounting principles.   Thus, enterprise accounting
resembled largely that of Government departments; e.g. , with a series of
earmarked funds rather than equity capital. Due to Hungary's economic isolation,
there was also no need to consider accounting issues concerning, e.g., foreign
exchange or financial transactions. In addition, there was no proper auditing
of enterprise accounts; instead, tax authority representatives made bi-annual
inspections to ensure compliance with rules and regulations.
2.68        In recent years, the Government has recognized the importance of
raising accounting and auditing requirements for foreign and local investors,
lending institutions, Government authorities and the development of the domestic
financial system.   With previous Bank assistance,  some improven.nrts in the
accounting system have already been made.   Importantly, a "unified property
account" (in effect, an equity account) was established by merging the various
property funds. Lately, a new basic chart of accounts has been introduced. This
may, with changes in the rules and regulations, permit enterprises to develop
more logical, individual accounting formats. However, there are still a number
of weaknesses in the accounting framework, e.g., in asset valuation and rates



- 27 -
of depreciation,  and the accounting for inventories and receivables    The
accounting for new types of transactions (e.g., foreign exchange gains/losses,
contingent liabilities and leasing) is unclear and often not appropriate. Also,
financial statements are excessively standardized, and are still designed to meet
Government information and taxation requirements more than the needs of managers
and investors. The statements suffer from weaknesses of presentation, such as
the lack of differentiation between cash and non-cash, and between ordinary and
extraordinary items. There has also been little change in auditing requirements,
and the accounting profession is too weak in quantity and quality to meet the
requirements of the developing modern enterprise sector. In view of the above
deficiencies, accounting reform in Hungary is not a question of just improving
the existing rules, but mainly of re-orienting the focus of accounting towards
responsibility for end-prcducts (financial statements) that meet basic criteria
(most importantly true and fair value), while the responsibility of auditors
should be to utilize their own judgment as to whether or not the accounts meet
such principles.
2.69         In order to bring Hungarian accounting and auditing practices to
international standards and address the above deficiencies, the Government is
expected to undertake an ambitious  program to develop standards in Hungary.
Under this program, enterprise accounts would be prepared and presented according
to internationally accepted accounting standards, starting with the accounts for
1991, and all enterprises would be audited by independent, qualified auditors.
Further, a system would be set up so that standards and procedures would be
developed with the involvement of the profession, and would place emphasis on
the proper application of sound international accounting principles, focusing
on the end products rather than on detailed rules and regulations to be followed
to the letter.   Similar development of accounting standards  for financial
institutions has been initiated also.
2.70        The Government's program consists  of concrete  steps  to effect
systemic changes, together with a program to disseminate the new principles and
standards. In order to achieve the systemic changes, the Government has agreed
to prepare a new Accounting Law, and present it to Parliament by September 30,
1990 for adopcion. The law would lay out the general basis for accounting and
auditing, including the establishment of the concepts of "Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles" and "Generally Accepted Auditing Standards" in line with
international standards. This would mean that accounts would be expected to show
a true and fair value, and follow the established international principles of
consistency,  prudence,  matching  and going  concerns.    The  Law would also
explicitly shift the accounting emphasis from "adherence to rules" to
responsibility for end-products that meet the underlying principles established
in the Law. These will be supported by standards and guidelines created in the
form of recommendations from a new Hungarian Accounting Standards Board that will
include representatives of the accounting and auditing profession as well as
important user groups. The minimum initial recommendations would be issued by
December 1990 together with an authoritative Commentary. This Commentary would
serve as a basic textbook for practicing accountants and auditors as well as
students, and would also be translated into English.   Under the program, the
Government would establish a high-level coordinating committee and an executive
authority  to  implement  its  program.    Details  on  the  preparation  of  the
Government's program, including implementation steps. are reflected in a letter



- 28 -
sent by the Minister of Finance to the Bank, and which is shown in Annex 2-7.
At negotiations, the implementation of the program along the lines outlined in
the letter was confirmed by the Government.
III. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Obiectives and Scope
3.01        The Project would support the modernization and strengthening of the
Hungarian financial system, and thereby improve its ability to mobilize and
allocate financial resources efficiently.   Specifically, the Project aims to
help: (i) provide a modern legislative, regulatory and supervisory framework for
banking and securities markets; (ii) strengthen the operations of the domestic
banks by improving their management 2olicies, procedures and capabilities, as
well as their long-term financial viability; (iii) develop the data processing
infrastructure for the banking system; (iv) develop the market for issue and
trading of securities; and (v) improve the transparency and reliability of
accounting information of enterprises and financial institutions. The Project
would provide continuity and would build on the assistance to the banking system
initiated under the three industrial restructuring projects (para 2.58).  The
Project, with its focus on institution building, would also provide the
counterpart to the recent ISAL and the proposed SAL which support continued
macro-policy changes in the financial sector (para 2.28).
3.02        As indicated in the previous chapter,  the modernization of the
Hungarian financial system is expected to be a medium-term process (para 2.29).
During this period, the various components of the system will need to be
developed and strengthened to allow the system to operate efficiently and in an
integrated fashion. The proposed coverage of this first operation in support
of the financial system would be on the priority areas during the initial period,
namely the strengthening of the banking system as well as the establishment of
necessary conditions for the efficient development of the securities market.
As such, the Project would cover the commitment needs in these areas in the
coming two years (mid-1990 to mid-1992). Along these lines, the scope of the
Project, supported by a US$66 million Bank loan, would be as follows:
(a)   technical assist.nce  for strengthening of the  legislative  framework,
regulations and supervision of banking, including support for the State
Banking Supervision Agency;
(b)   strengthening of the participating banks,  through the dsvelopment and
implementation of institutional development programs with focus on business
strategy, organization structure, policies and procedures, and information
systems development. Each of the major participating banks would undergo
a decailed portfolio audit which would form the basis for the development
and implementation, as appropriate, of a financial restructuring program;
(c.)  development of banking infrastructure, including the strengthening of the
training center for bankers, implementation of a national payments clearing
center, and strengthening of the data processing capabilities of the NBH;



- 29 -
(d)   technical assistance and training for development of a securities market,
including for the State Securities Supervisory Board and for the
establishment of a stock exchange; and
(e)   modernization of the Hungarian accounting and auditing framework, and
initiation of a program for professional development.
3.03               The following table provides an overview of the objectives and
components of the Project.
Tabte 3.1
Overvtew of Prolect OblectIves and Comonent5 3
Poiect Obiectives                                   PrImary Comconents                                  Suoooring Component
Provtde modem legislalive. regutatofy 1nd           TA for development of:
supeivisory framework for banktng anC               *anKing iegis.aticn (MOF)
secunties marKets                                    prucePntal regulations (MOF SOS)
b *ankng supervision agency (SBS)
Strengtnen management policies.
procedures and capaDiitlies of the Danks            Strengtnening of banks:
i implementation of institutional
devetopment programs
i implementation of automation                         Strengthening of bankers training center
I   delailed portfolto audits                          (ITC8)
* preparation of financial restructuring
program, as appropnate (participating
Strengthen LT financial vtability of tne               banks)
banks                                               _
EstaDtisnment of national payments
_    clearing center (GIRO)
Oevelop dala procesing infrastructure for
the Danking system                       \Establshment d prolect advisory unit
Strenglhening of data processing
capaoiitlies of NBH
[Develop Intt market for issue and trading             for development f:              |  ' =
of se_un*es                                            secunties market superv sior agency
I.   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(SSS)
*  stock exchange                                      Review of constraints to secunties market
_____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____     deve opment
improve Ite transparancy and reliability of        TA for development of intemallonally
accounting information                              accepted accounting and auditing
standaras (MOIe
Proleet Deneficlantes/lmpiementmng agencies noted in bracbetes.



- 30 -
B.    Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.04        As highlighted earlier, the Bank has played an important role in
identifying, reviewing and addressing "ssues and development needs of the
Hungarian financial sector and specifically of the banking system (para 2.33).
The policy dialogue related to macro-financial sector issues and development of
the banking system and capital markets has been conducted in the context of the
earlier industrial restructuring projects, the ISAL, and will be continued under
the proposed SAL.   This  operation provides  the necessary  assistance  for
legislative, regulatory and institutional development in the financial system
with a specific focus on the strengthening of the banking system, as a
counterpart to the changes at the policy level. The Bank has made considerable
contributions to the preparation of the scope of the new Banking Law--including
the related prudential regulations--, and jointly with IFC, to the new Securities
Market  Law.    It has  contributed  considerably  to  the  development  of  the
supervisory functions of both the banking system and the securities market. The
Bank has also carried out a critical analysis of the institutional capacities
of the banks and their financial strengths on the basis of which cailor-made
action programs have been developed for each bank.   Continued Bank Group
involvement would help ensure the timely implementation of the recommendations,
which would also benefit the onlending of Bank funds in some eleven ongoing Bank
operations in agriculture, industry, and technology development. It would also
help improve the necessary institutional framework to accelerate restructuring
at the enterprise level by inducing financial discipline and making available
investment resources based on stringent economic and financial criteria.
Finally, the Bank has been working actively with the Government in its review
of accounting and auditing practices, and has largely been instrumental in
initiating the important reform program now underway.
C.    Project DescriDtion
1. Banking Lezislative Framework. Regulations and Supervision
3.05        As  mencioned  earlier,  a unified  and comprehensive  legislative
framework for banking and other financial intermediation operations is currently
under preparation under the leadership of the State Bank Supervision Agency
(SBS),  to be presented to Parliament before end-1990 (para 2.38).   A major
component of the new banking law will be the prudential regulations to promote
a sound and safe banking system.  This technical assistance component of the
Project is designed to help further develop the legislative and regulatory
framework for banking.   In addition,  SBS requires extensive assistance in
strengthening its internal organization, procedures, staffing, and information
systems. The Project would help strengthen SBS by covering: (i) the internal
organizational aspects allowing for promptness and efficiency in dealing with
the institutions under supervision, including design of an integrated information
system; (ii) development of procedures and manuals, emphasizing the areas of off-
site surveillance and on-site examination targeted to the most critical areas
of risk assessment; (iii) design and implementation of a training program for
SBS staff;  and (iv) purchase of necessary data processing equipment.   The
technical  assistance  program would also  support  the  execution of special
portfolio audLcs of three of the major commercial banks (BB, CCB, and HCB) in



- 31 -
che first half of 1990, to assess the quality of their portfolio, the adequacy
of provisions, and the potential impact of necessary write-offs on their
financial  condition  (para  3.17).    These  audits  will  be  carried  out  by
international externaL auditing firms under the auspices of SBS, and would be
financed by the Project.
3.06        Details of the technical assistance program are shown in Annex 3-1.
The program would require the involvement of consultants specialized in banking
regulation and supervision.   The possibility of "twinning" SBS with Western
regulatory and supervisory agencies is being explored. It is estimated that the
program would involve a total of about 115 weeks of consultant time.
2. Strengthening of Banks
3.07        One of the main objectives of the Project is the strengthening of
the operations and long-term financial viability of the Hungarian banks, to help
ensure a modern, dynamic and healthv banking svstem. The development needs of
the banks to be supported by the Project are in the three main areas of: (i)
institutional development, (ii) information technology development, and (iii)
financial strengthening. These three elements would be developed and implemented
for each bank that participates in the Project. So far, detailed programs in
the above three areas have been developed for four of the major Hungarian banks
(BB, CCB, HCB, and NSB), which have been appraised by the Bank. Details on the
assistance programs for these four banks are given in Annex 3-2.
3.08        Apart  from  the  four major banks,  the  Project  allows  for  the
participation of other banks on the basis of the following agreed eligibility
criteria: (i) preparation of an institutional development program (IDP) based
on a diagnostic review carried out by qualified banking experts,  including
satisfactory arrangements for implementation of the IDP; (ii) satisfactory
financial performance of the bank, in line with requirements set out in the
prudential regulations; (iii) future management of the bank taking into account
agreed financial performance indicacors; (iv) satisfaccory chree-year financial
projections; and (v) execution of annual external audits of the bank's financial
position along international standards, carried oue by qualified auditors.
Simplified eligibility criteria have been developed for execution of studies by
the banks such as institutional diagnostic studies and automation strategy
studies, for the execution of audits, and for development projects with a foreign
exchange requirement below US$300,000 equivalent.   These simplified criteria
include:   (a) sound financial position; (b) execution of satisfactory annual
external audits; and (c) justification of the proposed measures.   Six of the
smaller banks (Agrobank, General Bank for Venture Finance, Innofinance, Merkantil
Bank, Postabank, and Savings Cooperatives Bank) have indicated that they intend
to participate in the Project on the basis of such eligibility criteria.
3.09        The Projecc would finance the costs associated with the development
programs of the participating banks (including studies, cechnical assistance,
training, and hardware/software purchase). The allocation of the Bank loan for
this purpose has been estimated on the basis of the requirements of the four pre-
appraised banks, as well as the estimated requirements of the additional banks
that intend to participate. While Bank loan funds have been allocated for the
four pre-appraised banks, the additional banks would have access to the Bank loan
-,,



- 32 -
funds on a first-come first-served basis. The Project would also support the
provision by NBH of advisory services, to assist the participating banks in the
critical areas of institutional development and automation (para 4.02).   NBH
plans to obtain assistance from the Hungarian Banking Association in providing
these services. Based on the preparatory work carried out with che four major
banks, details of each of the three development areas--institutional development,
information technology development, and financial strengthening--are described
below.
(a) Inscitutional Development
3.10        The Project would support each of the participating banks in the
formulation and implementation of institutional developmenc programs (IDPs).
These programs would help address the major institutional deficiencies of the
Hungarian banks, which have been highlighted above (para 2.51), and would include
assistance to develop the following areas: (i) institutional role and strategy;
(ii) organization structure; (iii) functional development with special emphasis
on the areas of credit and risk asset management, financial management, and
internal audit; (iv) policies and procedures, particularly in the areas of credit
and risk asset management, asset and liability management, branch operations,
foreign exchange operations, planning and budgeting, and internal audit; and (v)
staffing needs and human resources plan.   The clear definition of the main
components of such IDPs should precede the preparation of the banks' aucomation
strategies and information systems needs (para 3.14).
3.11        The Bank has reviewed the institutional development status of each
of the four major banks (BB, CCB, HCB and NSB), and carried out a diagnostic
review  of  their   institutional   development   needs   covering:   strategy,
organizational structure, credit risk management, asset and liability management,
human resource management, branch management, internal audit, and managemenc
information systems  (MIS).   While  the banks have  alreadv undertaken  some
institutional development efforts, further strengthening is required in most o-
their functional areas.   Based on the diagnostic review,  tailor-made action
programs for strengthening have been developed for each of the major banks.
While the programs for BB, CCB and HCB are more focused on the corporate lending
business, NSB's program would help to develop that bank's retail banking
activities.   In the case of NSB, its program also includes action sceps to
increase its autonomy, and relinquish its dependence on the Government which
stems from the administered rates on NSB's housing finance assets (housing bonds
and loans).   NSB's program therefore emphasizes its conversion into a joint-
stock company, as well as measures to permit NSB to operate its housing finance
business with a satisfactory  intermediation spread.    In this  respect,  at
negotiations, agreement was reached with NSB and the Government, that all actions
required on their parts for conversion of NSB into a joint-stock company would
be completed latest by June 30, 1990, and that NSB would be permitted .o earn
a minimum spread on its housing finance assets (including housing loans and
housing bonds) over its average cost of borrowed funds, of at least 3.0%. Such
minimum spread is estimated to permit NSB to realize a reasonable interest margin
and return on assets on its overall banking operations, if it operates its
business in an efficient manner. A summary of institutional development actions
by the major banks is given in Annex 3-2. Detailed terms of reference for the
related technical assistance are included in the Project File.



- 33 -
3.12        Some of the other Hungarian banks have also initiated institutional
development activities, independently or with foreign consultancs. Based on the
eligibility criteria elaborated above (para 3.08), those banks that intend to
participat3 in the Project with development projects of which the foreign
exchange cost exceeds US$300,000 equivalent, would also need to develop an action
plan  for  institutional  development  on  the basis  of a diagnostic  review.
Development of an institutional development program acceptable to the Bank (wich
specific action steps, dates and technical assistance support) would be a
requirement  for participation  in  the  Project.    Agreement was  reached at
negotiations on the outline of such institutional review and action plan to be
prepared by the banks that intend to participate in the project.
3.13        The Project would support technical assistance and training in this
area for each of the participating banks, including engagemenc of specialized
banking consultants and training experes, and foreign training of Hungarian
banking staff. In view of the importance of the institutional development work
of the banks, the chairman of each of the major banks has been closely involved
in the design of the scope and implementation arrangements of the iJPs.   Lhe
development: of satisfactory arrangements for implementation of their IDPs,
including detailed steps, timing and responsibilities, would be part of the
requirements for participation in the Project. To guide the implementation of
IDPs in the major banks, each bank has established a high-level task force with
direct access to the chairman.
(b) Information Technolog'y Development
3.14        The Project would support the implementation of automated information
systems and decision-making tools as an element of institutional strengthening
and for provision of  improved services  of the participating banks.    The
introduction of automation in the banks would contribute towards their improved
risk management, customer accounting and services, profitability analvses, and
liquidity management. The automation programs would cover a five-vear timeframe
with a phased hardware/software installation and conversion plan. The Project
would finance the first phase of the program, including che introduction of
automation at head offices and a few selected branches. The subsequent phase
would realize the extension of automation to the remote branches for which the
GIRO network would facilitate inter-branch data transfer (para 3.23). An outline
of the medium-term automation development concept of the banks is described in
Annex 3-3.
3.15        The Project would emphasize a rational anid structured planning
process of the banks' automation programs to ensure that investments are
cost-effective and in line with their institutional development programs. To
emphasize this approach, the Bank has worked closely with the four major banks
to formulate the scope of automation strategy studies which, based on the
business functions, products and services of each institution, would recommend
a sound organizational, procedural and data flow framework, and identify
appropriate hardware and software engineering.   For each of the four-banks,
studies carried out by international consultants are under way, or have already
been finalized. On conclusion of these studies, the banks would tender for a
combination of hardware and application software packages.



- 34 -
3.16        The Project would support the procurement of technical assistance,
computer hardware, application software, training and support services in
integrated packages.  The Project would encourage the various banks to employ
compatible software to reduce implementation overheads, and facilitate back-up.
Two major banks have indicated interest in coordinating their automation
programs. Both local and external expertise would be contracted to assist in
the  implementation of  the automation  systems.    The utilization  of  local
consulting specialists would foster the development of counterpart expertise,
promote transfer of technology, and facilitate the continuing support of the
automation programs. Extensive training would be included at the level of each
institution to ensure the proper introduction and operation of automation in the
banks.
(c) Strenathening of Financial Position
3.17        One of the major steps in developing the banks as strong, healthy
institutions would be to enhance their financial position. Firstly, this would
involve the strengthening of the existing loan portfolios of the banks.
Secondly, it would involve greater discipline and prudence in the future
operations of the banks, to ensure continued viability. As explained above (para
2.47), there is considerable uncertainty about the quality of the portfolios of
the major banks, and therefore a need to carry out a careful review of the
existing portfolios of these banks. In this respect, the banks participating
in the Project will be required to undergo detailed annual excernal audits of
their financial position. Such audits should be carried out in accordance with
international standards, and should be conducted by independent firms well
qualified in the auditing of banking institutions. The Bank would review the
terms of reference of' the audits and the selection of the auditors by the
participating banks. Each of the major banks that intends to participate in the
Project has hired an international audit firm to carry out such an audit of its
financial statements for the year ending December 31, 1989. In the meantime,
SBS is also undertaking a special financial audit of three of the major banks
(BB, CCB, and HCB) for the year ending December 31, 1989, to provide an
independent assessment of the portfolio qualitv of these banks. The cerms of
reference for these special audits are shown in Annex 3-4. The external audits
of the major banks would be cacried out in the first quarter of 1990, wnile the
special audit by SBS would be undertaken in the second quarter of 1990.
3.18        Following the completion of the special financial audits, SBS will
assess the extent to which the financial positions of the banks will need to be
adjusted to reflect the results of the audits in accordance with prudential
standards which will be developed in the context of the new Banking Law,
including prudent loan classification standards and provisioning criteria. To
the extent that the prudent capital adequacy of the banks would be affected by
the need for such financial adjustments, the Government has agreed to prepare
an action program for the financial restructuring, including recapitalization
where necessary, of the banks.  The objectives of such action program would be
the folloving:   (i) an adjustment of the banks'  financial position to meet
satisfactory minimum capital adequacy requirements in accordance with standards
to be incorporated in the new Banking Law, which will be in line with
international capital adequacy standards for banks; (ii) development of burden-
sharing arrangements to the extent that exte.rnal funds are required for raising



- 35 -
the capital of the banks, including the role of the Government in such
capitalization of the banks; (ii) definition of a strategy for dealing with
problem borrower enterprises, including the restructuring or liquidation of such
enterprises; and (iv) definition of arrangements for implementation of the action
program, including assignment of responsibility and preparation of a detailed
time schedule for its implementation and completion. The Government will prepare
the above action program in consultation with the Bank, including the Bank's
comments on the results of the special financial audits, and present a draft
thereof to the Bank for review latest by November 15, 1990. The Government will
take comments of the World Bank into account and will finalize the above action
program by December 31; 1990. The Government will initiate implementation of
the action program immediately thereafter to allow its completion in line with
the time schedule mentioned above in (iv).   At negotiations, the Government
agreed to the preparation of the action program and related implementation, along
the lines discussed above.
3.19        In terms of the future operations of the banks,  the prudential
regulations for banks which are expected to be strengthened in the context of
the proposed new Banking Law (para 2.38), together with the strengthening of
supervision of banks carried out by SBS (paras 2.43 and 3.05), will impose
greater financial discipline on the banks and lead to increased emphasis on
prudent operating procedures.   Furthermore,  the banks participating in the
Project would manage their future operations taking into account a set of key
performance indicators to be agreed upon with the Bank. The indicators are based
upon the key areas of bank financial management, namely capital adequacy,
liquidity management, asset quality, and earnings performance. With each of the
four major participating banks (BB, CCB, HCB and NSB), the Bank discussed the
targets for each of these areas, and agreement on appropriate reference levels
for such indicators (shown in Annex 3-2) was reached at negotiations. Each of
the participating banks is also expected to reflect each year the results of its
external audit in its financial position in accordance with the loan
classification and provisioning criteria prevailing in the Hungarian prudential
regulations.
3. Supporting Infrastructure of Banks
(a) Training Center for Bankers
3.20        As explained above, the scarcity of trained banking staff at all
levels is a serious constraint to the further development of the Hungarian
banking system (para 2.55). To help address this constraint; the Project would
support the continued development of the International Training Center for
Bankers (ITCB) to meet the technical and management skills needs of the banking
system. The Center started operations in February 1989, following extensive Bank
assistance in the preparatory stages. It operates as a joint-stock company of
some six Hungarian banks, and has entered into a joint-venture agreement with
the Centre Internationale de Formation de la Profession Bancaire (CIFPB) of
France, which is also a shareholder.   CIFPB prepared a detailed feasibility
study, which forms the basis tor the formation and functioning of the center.
The ongoing training provided by ITCB fills important skill gaps in the financial
sector. The Center has offered some fifty courses in 1989, covering commercial
banking functions such as liquidity management, credit risk management, credit



- 36 -
analysis, corporate finance, trade finance, and monetary control in a two-tier
banking system. In addition, as the banks get involved in new areas of banking
activity--e.g., retail banking and foreign exchange operations--, they will need
to rapidly develop skills in these areas.  ITCB is crucial to meeting this need.
3.21        Most current course offerings of ITCB respond to pressing needs of
Hungary's newly created banking institutions.   However, some courses are too
short to provide participants with the necessary skills to carry out banking
functions, and some important topics are not covered.   Training requires a
tighter link with the institutional development programs of the banks.  Under
the Project, courses already offered by the Center would be amplified and a few
new courses would be added to its curriculum. Topics selected for this specific
program include: financial accounting, credit, planning and financial management,
skills assessment, internal audit techniques, securities markets, foreign
exchange, and specialized training for NBH and NSB staff.  The Project would
support the ITCB in engaging two foreign training experts who could help the
Center in further developing its training program, the hiring of external
training staff, and procurement of training equipment and teaching materials.
Annex 3-5 provides details on the proposed support by the Project for development
of the ITCB, and for development of training programs by the Hungarian banks.
3.22        It is also proposed that ITCB help coordinate  the training of
Hungarian banking staff. ITCB would help to identify the common training needs
of the Hungarian banks, and on that basis make proposals for joint training
programs among banks. It is expected that training of bank staff would take
place in Hungary to the extent possible. This would in most cases be more cost-
efficient than individual training abroad.   Only specialized training would
generally be more suited to training abroad.   ITCB would review individual
requests for foreign training by the banks with a view to advising the banks on
possible alternative approaches to executing their training program in order to
ensure cost efficiency. Finally, it is proposed that the banks provide feedback
to ITCB on the adequacy of completed external training programs so that ITCB can
develop an information base for the banking system on training opportunities
abroad.
(b) National Payments Clearing Center (GIRO)
3.23        The Project would support the implementarion of a national payments
clearing center for the banking system (so-called GIRO center). The GIRO would
provide an electronic communications network for the transmission of financial
transactions, connecting Budapest with the nineteen regional centers. The design
of the GIRO would facilitate daily inter-bank settlements, facilitate
interconnections between headquarters and branches, improve liquidity management,
decrease administrative overheads, and provide a vehicle for enhanced customer
service levels. The GIRO would optionally also accommodate intra-bank financial
messages, internal account turnovers, and foreign exchange dealings. The GIRO
network would also be available in the future for transacting point-of-sale,
automatic teller machine and other electronic money-handling techniques. The
GIRO network would utilize specially conditicned lines of the Hungarian Post.
The GIRO will be operated by an autonomous company (the Center for Settlement
of Financial Operations, Ltd.) and will operate as a cost recovery center. The
company was established in December 1988 with a capital of Ft 504 million --



- 37 -
initially with NBH and eleven financial institutions as eqval shareholders --
and expects to be staffed with 40 professionals by 1993.
3.24        Under the sponsorship of NBH, a comprehensive feasibility study was
prepared by external consultants, including a detailed forecast of daily
transactions. The study contained a comprehensive functional design of the GIRO,
an operational strategy, as well as a financial analysis to establish a cost
recovery mechanism and fee structure. In order to provide for a satisfactory
financial situation of the GIRO, agreement was reached at negotiations that the
GIRO would operate its facilities in an efficient manner, and charge fees for
its services to allow it to generate sufficient funds (in addition to external
loan  and  equity  funds)  to  cover  at  least  its  operating  costs,  capital
expenditures and debt service needs. The Bank loan would finance the purchase
of hardware, custom-designed software, installation, technical assistance,
training, and technical project management until the GIRO commences operations
in a "pilot" mode, which is scheduled for the end of 1991. The GIRO technical
staff would thereafter assume operational responsibilities. During the first
five years of operation, the supplier would provide mai tenance coverage of the
hardware. Details on the GIRO system and the company are provided in
Annex 3-6.
(c) Strengthening of NBH Data Processing Capabilities
3.25        The  Project  would  support  the  development  of  a comprehensive
information system for NBH to enable improved internal operations, and facilitate
monetary policy formulation and management, including supervision of foreign
exchange transactions, liquidity, credit directions, and inter-bank trading.
In addition, the Project would help strengthen NBH data processing facilities
to improve the processing of the accounts of the major banks until they have
effectively implemented their internal automation programs and can relieve NBH
of the processing load.
3.26        The Project includes a strategy study to define the information
requirements, linkages, and data reporting mechanisms of the Hungarian payment
system, and to design a related hardware/software architecture for NBH in the
context of a five-year growth scenario.   The study would be carried out by
external consultants wich the help of NBH staff.   Terms of reference for the
study are shown in Annex 3-7.  Selected NBH staff would also undertake study
tours of comparable central banks prior to the study, to gain an insight into
their information systems. - Subsequent Project activities would include the
procurement of hardware/software, modification of NBH's accounting system to
interface with the commercial bank systems, development of an effective general
ledger and foreign exchange processing capability, and related staff training.
4. Securities Market Development
3.27        During the preparation of the Project, the Bank Group has provided
extensive assistance in the preparation of the Securities Market Law (para 2.60),
which was approved in January 1990.  To help the further development of the
securities market, the Project includes a technical assistance program jointly
developed by the Bank and IFC with the authorities, which will focus on the
following areas: (i) establishment of a supervisory body, the State Securities



- 38 -
Supervisory Board (SSS); (ii) establishment of a stock exchange; and (iii) review
of remaining constraints to securities market development and development of a
program to overcome these constraints, to support development of an active
securities market.
3.28        The Project would help build up the capacity of the new SSS, so that
it can effectively regulate and supervise the market and promote stable growth.
The assistance would fall into the following areas: (i) the detailed regulatory
framework for supervision of the market; (ii) the internal organization, staffing
and procedures of the SSS; (iv) training for its staff; and (v) implementation
of an automated information collection and analysis system. The Project is also
designed to support the development of a stock exchange in Hungary that will
provide the environment necessary for a broad and liquid market.   Technical
assistance will be provided for: (a) the preparation of necessary regulations;
(b) a determi.nation of the Exchange's organization structure, staffing
requirements and internal procedures; (c) the design and implementation of
appropriate information, trading and settlement systems; (d) a feasibility study
for a central deposit facility; and (e) training for stock exchange staff and
education programs for market participants (brokers and dealers).
3.29        The World Bank Group and the authorities remain concerned that the
establishment of a stock exchange, the introduction of regulations, and training
will not in themselves create an active securities market. It is apparent that
a number of institutional, regulatory and fiscal constraints exist to securities
market development in Hungary--for example, the lack of an institutional investor
base, a minimum share denomination that is beyond the reach of many individual
investors, and possible disincentives in the form of the present system of
taxation of financial instruments.  These will continue to depress the demand
and supply of securities even after the basic market infrastructure has been
established.   The Project would include a joint review of the market, to be
undertaken under the auspices of small working group of Hungarians and supported
by World Bank Group staff, focusing on these constraints and the design of a
comprehensive policy framework for the longer tetm development of the market.
The review would be preceded by a consultant study of constraints to capital
markets development, which will be supported by the Project. It is foreseen that
the working group will evolve into a permanent committee to review, guide and
promote the development of the market. The review is expected to focus on areas
such as measures to improve the participation of institutional investors, which
is currently minimal, new instruments such as investment funds, as well as fiscal
and other issues. This joint effort is expected to be undertaken in early 1991,
to enable  a clearer picture  to be obtained of the many reforms  recently
introduced or which are in the process of being introduced.
3.30        Details of the technical assistance program are shown in Annex 3-8.
It is estimated that the overall program will involve about 80 weeks of
consulting  time.    As  with  the  development  of  prudential  regulation  and
supervision of banks (para 3.05), "twinning" arrangements with Western
regulatory/supervisory agencies and stock exchanges is being explored for
strengthening the operations vf the SSS and the Stock Exchange.



- 39 -
5. Accounting and Auditing
3.31          The Project would support the preparation and implementation of
the important reform program to bring Hungarian accounting and auditing to
international  standards  (para  2.69).    It  would  support  the  high-level
coordinating committee and the executive authority, which are in charge of the
program implementation, by financing: (i) a senior accounting/auditing advisor
for the Ministry of Finance; and (ii) qualified consultants to assist in
preparation of the Accounting Law, and undertake specific analyses and
preparatory work in order to help establish new guidelines and requirements for
accounts and audits, and to help prepare the related Commentary.   In order to
firm up the program to prepare and implement the accounting and auditing reform,
the Government has appointed the relevant advisor and consulting firm under terms
of reference approved by the Bank.   The Project would further support the
appointment of consultants to help develop accounting standards for financial
institutions,  including a chart of accounts.   These consultants have been
appointed by the SBS, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and will
have finalized their work by March 31, 1990.
3.32        As part of the preparation and early implementation of the accounting
and auditing reform, the consultants will prepare a detailed draft dissemination
program which would be expected to include conferences and seminars, written and
audio-visual material (in addition to the Commentary) and longer courses oriented
towards practitioners and, in particular, the teaching staff at universities and
colleges.   It is expected that existing institutions in Hungary, such as the
International Management Center, will participate actively in this program. It
is also important to involve the practitioners and user groups from an early
stage, in particular the Hungarian Association of Auditors (the equivalent of
an association of chartered accountants in the UK or the US).
3.33        While the reformed standards would formally be on the books with
effect from financial year 1991, the Government is aware that the practical
implementation will take some time; most importantly, due to the present lack
of qualified Hungarian auditors. In practice, therefore, it is likely that the
auditing requirements will have to be introduced gradually; e.g., starting with
the larger enterprises.   In order to speed up this transition period and to
strengthen and upgrade the accounting and auditing profession, it is important
to address training and certification at various levels, and also to encourage
improvements in cost and management accounting within enterprises (at present,
this is rudimentary in most enterprises). A longer term program, which would
involve several Hungarian authorities and institutions needs to be prepared in
this respect. The preparation of such a program will therefore take some time,
and mtist be seen in the context of the more general reform of higher education
in Hungary, which the Bank will address through a forthcoming human resources
development project.  As a first step, the Government is expected to prepare a
program to introduce appropriate changes in accounting and auditing education
and certification, for review and discussion with-the Bank toward mid-1990.
Consulting services to this end could also be financed under the Project.



- 40 -
D.     Prolect Costs and Financing
3.34           The total financing required for the Project is estimated at
US$143.4 million, of which US$66.0 million (46%) is in foreign exchange, as shown
in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2
Project Cost Estimate
% of
Local  Foreign  Total    Locat  ForeiJqn  Total    Sase Cost
------(Ft miTlion)....    ----(USS-mi lon)a/.-..
Les.4ReQ. Framework
and Supervision of Banks           32.0     89.0  121.0      0.5      1.4     1.9      1.6
Strengthenina of Banks
Pre-appraised banks                2191.8   1693.4 3885.2     34.3    26.5    0.8      49.5
Other banks                         728.5    536.8 1265.3      11.4     8.4    19.8     16.1
Banking Infrastructure
Training Center                      19.2    121.4  140.6      0.3      1.9     2.2      1.S
Payments CLearing Center            619.8    849.9 1469.7      9.7    13.3   23.0       18.7
National Bank of Hungary            332.3    262.0  594.3      5.2     4.1      9.3      7.6
Advisory Services                     6.4     25.6   32.0      0.1      0.4     0.5      0.4
Securities Market Oevelo ne nt
Supervision and Regulations           6.4     25.6   32.0      0.1     0.4      0.5      0.4
Stock Exchange                      121.4    121.4  242.8      1.9      1.9     3.8      3.1
Review                                1.9      6.4    8.3      0.0      0.1     0.1      0.1
Accounting & Auditina                 6.4     51.1   57.5      0.1      0.8     0.9      0.7
Base Cost                       4066.r   3782.6 788.7      63.6   357   122.8    i  f:5
PhysicaL Contingencies              332.3    325.9  658.2      5.2      5.1    10.3      8.4
Price Contingencies                 549.5    108.6  658.1      8.6      1.7   10.3       8.4
Total                           4Z9       7477T 9165 0     77.4    990   143.4    1T6T8
% of TotaL                        54.0     46.0  100.0
a/ Converted at USS1.0  Ft 63.9
3.35           Costs for the Project components shown in table 3.2 include expenses
related to technical assistance, hardware/software procurement, and training.
Detailed cost estimates have been made for each component by participating
institution and by cost category, and are shown in Annex 3-9. In the case of
the component for strengthening of banks, the financing requirements of the four
major banks which have been preappraised has been included, while an additional
estimate has been included for banks that may wish to participate at a later
stage  (para 3.08).   Local cost estimates  include  the cost of local goods and
services, equipment installation, import duties (average 15% on goods financed
under  the  r.oject),  and value-added  tax.   The  base  cost  for  the  Project  is
expressed in end-1989 prices, while physical contingencies (10%) and price



- 41
contingencies (foreign: 3% per year; local: 15% per year) have been added.
Physical and price contingencies have not been added for the credit line
component for non-preappraised banks. Due to the nature of the Project, which
involves little local construction or civil works, the foreign exchange component
of Project cost it relatively high (46%).
3.36        The Project cost would include an estimated US$18.75 million (net
of contingencies) for foreign services, including an estimated US$14.00 million
(about 650 man-months) for consulting services and US$4.75 million for training
(including study tours), in support of the legislative and regulatory framework
and supervision agency for banking (US$1.25 million); institutional and
automation development of participating banks (US$11.20 million); the bankers
training center (US$1.75 million); the national payment clearing center (US$1.5
million); development of NBH information system and data processing capabilities
(US$0.75 million) and advisory services for the banks (US$0.45 million);
securities market development (US$1.05 million); and modernization of the
accounting and auditing framework (US$0.80 million).
3.37        A summary of the financing plan for the Project to meet zhe above
financing requirements is shown in Table 3.3. It is expected that the Bank loan
would finance the total estimated foreign exchar,e requirements of the Project.
For the overall Project, the Bank loan would cc cribute US$66.0 million, or 46%
of the estimated financing required. Local cu: ency financing wouid be arranged
by the participating institutions and agencies. In the case of independently
operating legal entities (banks, bankers training center, and GIRO center), local
financing would be from paid-in capital, internally generated funds, and NBH
refinanced credit.   In the case of the Stock Exchange, its revenues are not
expected to be sufficient to cover local financing needs, and the Government is
expected to provide the necessary funds.  For Government agencies (regulatory
and supervisory agencies, Ministry of Finance), local financing would be made
available from Government sources. As shown in table 3.3, NBH and the Government
are seeking grant financing from different sources to cover part of the technical
assistance requirements developed under the Project. In the event such grants
can be obtained, NBH would request the Bank to allocate the equivalent amount
of the Bank loan for use by eligible (non-preappraised) banks, to the extent
that credit demand has been identified for this purpose. During negotiations,
confirmation was obtained from the Government and NBH that they, as well as the
participating institutions through the Project Agreements and respective
* Subsidiary Loan Agreements with NBH, will promptly provide their share of
financing to carry out and complete the Project.  NBH will make available the
foreign exchange required by Project beneficiaries to complete their Project
activities.



- 42 -
Table 3.3
Project Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Local                 Foreign        Total
Govt.
Part.          Contri-
Entities       bution          I8RO  a/
Leg.Reg. Framework
and Suoervision of Banks                       0.7              1.6 t/        2.3
Strenothenina of Banks
Pre-appraised banks               43.4                           30.0          73.4
Other banks                        11.4                           8.4          19.8
Banking Infrastructure
Training center                    0.3                            2.1 tI        2.4
Paynents Clearing Center           12.3                          15.1          27.4
National Bank of Hungary           6.5            -               4.7          11.2
Advisory Services                  0.1                            0.5 b/        0.6
Securities Market Devetoonent
Supervision and Regulations                      0.1              0.4 b/        0.5
Stock Exchange                                  2.4               2.2 6/        4.6
Review                                          0.1               0.1 b/        0.2
Accounting & Auditing                            0.1              0.9 tI        1.0
Total                          74.0          3.4             66.0          143.4
% of Total                     51.6          2.4             46.0          100.0
a/      Including distribution of unallocated part of Bank loan among various Project components.
b/      NSH and the Goverrnent are seeking potential grant financing sources to cover the foreign exchange
cost in this area. In the event such grants are obtained, N8H woultd request the Bank to allocate the
equivalent amount of the Bank loan for use by eligible (non pre-appraised) banks, to the extent that
credit demand has been identified for this purpose.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ONLENDING ARRANCEMENTS
A.   Project ImRIementation Arrangements
4.01            NBH would be the borrower of the Bank loan,  and would be responsible
for the overall coordination of the Project and for monitoring the use of the
loan.    The  Bank  has  been  closely  involved  in  the  appraisal  of  the  Project
components related to the development of the legislative and regulatory framework
and supervision agencies, as well as the preappraisal of the action programs of
the four major banks (Budapest Bank, Commercial and Credit Bank, Hungarian Credit
Bank and National Savings Bank) and of the infrastructure components (Banking
Training  Center  and  Payments  Clearing  Center-GIRO).    In  the  case  of  the  other
banks that intend to participate in the Project, timing will depend on progress
in each case. The Project design therefore provides for sufficient flexibility



- 43 -
to allow the other banks to participate in the Project on the basis of agreed
eligibility criteria (para 3.08).
4.02        The Project is of a multi-component and complex nature and will
involve important institution-building efforts in the financial institutions.
While NBH will provide the overall coordination of the project, implementation
of the different components will be the responsibility of the concerned
participating institutions. In addition, it was agreed that NBH establish an
on-site advisory capacity for the banks in the areas of institutional development
and automation development to allow access by the participating banks to advisory
services on an ongoing basis. Such services are particularly important for those
banks that intend to participate in the Proiect but which have yet not been
appraised. The advisory services would focus on providing advice to banks in
launching their diagnostic and strategy studies, and are not intended to be a
replacement for the engagement of external consultants for detailed technical
assistance needs. Given the complexity of the Project, close on-site follow-up
of project implementation would also be needed.  To help meet these needs, a
small unit would be established in the Hungarian Banking Association to assist
NBH with such advisory and implementation services. The unit would be staffed
by a project coordinator (appointed in January 1990) and a few (2-3) Hungarian
experts, and would use the services of two foreign banking advisors in
insticutional development and automation for a period of one year with
possibility of extension. The engagement of foreign advisors would be initiated
by NBH, based on terms of reference acceptable to rhe Bank, and would be financed
from the proposed loan.
4.03         Project  implementation  of this  first phase  of  the  program to
modernize the financial system is expected over a four-year period (1990-93).
Procurement activities are expected to be completed between mid-1990 and end-
1991. Completion of equipment delivery/installation would be around end-1992.
Full operation of the automation systems and finalization of technical assistance
and training is expected by 1993. A summary Project implementation schedule is
shown in Annex 4-1.
B. Onlending Arrangements
4.04        The Bank loan would be made to NBH for a period of fifteen years,
including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate. Proceeds of the Bank loan would be relent by NBH for various purposes in
the Forint equivalent of foreign exchange needs covered by the Bank loan. NBH
would carry the foreign exchange risk on Bank funds passed on to the Project
beneficiaries. In the case of ITCB, NBH would make the proceeds of the Bank loan
available through sale of foreign exchange. In order to regulate the flow of
funds from NBH to the beneficiaries, and to set out the obligations of the
various entities, the following agreements would be signed: (i) Loan Agreement
between the Bank and NBH; (ii) Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the
State; (iii) Project Agreements between the Bank and the four major participating
banks (BB, CCB, HCB and NSB); (iv) Subsidiary Loan Agreements between NBH and
the State, each of the participating banks, and the GIRO company; and (v) an
agreement with ITCB to carry out its part of the Project.   Signing of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements between NBH and the State, the four major



- 44 -
participating banks, and the GIRO company, and of the ITCB agreement is proposed
as a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
4.05        NBH  would  make  the  Bank  loan  proceeds  to  the  participating
institutions available through its loan refinancing facility, or as a sale of
foreign exchange in the case of ITCB. Funds would be available to institutions
which have been preappraised by the Bank (i.e., the four major participating
banks, ITCB, and the GIRO company) or to those who prepare suitable programs
and action plans and meet other eligibility criteria agreed with the Bank. The
Bank would review the eligibility of each of the institutions to participate in
the Project.  While the amount of funds available under the Project has been
established for each preappraised institution, funds for onlending to other
participating banks will be available on a first-come first-served basis.
4.06        A maturity of fifteen years, including five years of grace, will be
applied to loan proceeds onlent to the State. Similarly, subsidiary loans made
to participating institutions will have a maximum maturity of fifteen years,
including a maximum five year grace period. NBH will repay the Bank loan on a
fixed amortization schedule. Any surplus in Subsidiary loan repayments over the
Bank loan repayment requirements of NBH will be relent by NBH to the eligible
institutions for financing of activities eligible under the Project.
4.07        NBH has proposed to onlend the Bank loan proceeds to the Government
and the participating institutions at its prevailing refinancing rate (currently
17% per year), which is adjustable to reflect changing economic conditions. As
mentioned above (para 2.20), NBH, pursuant to its credit policy guidelines, has
raised its refinancing rate regularly in the past in an attempt to keep it
positive in relation to inflation.   In accordance with the current policy
practiced by NBH, the refinancing rate is set with a view to achieving a rate
which is positive in real terms, at a level which covers NBH's average cost of
funds and the projected differential between domestic and relevant international
inflation rates. These principles are judged to be satisfactory. It was agreed
at negotiations that the above principles would continue to guide the
establishment of the rate for onlending of Bank loan proceeds under the Project.
It is understood that onlending of the Bank loan would take place at NBH's
prevailing refinancing rate as long as the refinancing rate is set at a level
which can be justified on the basis of the above principles. The maintenance
of a satisfactory refinancing rate which is positive in real terms is also an
important aspect of the agreements to be sought under the proposed SAL. As such,
the adequacy of the rate would be reviewed periodically by the Bank. Refinancing
of local currency expenditures would similarly be at NBH's prevailing refinancing
rate.
C. Bank Loan Allocation and Disbursement
4.08        The estimated allocation of the proposed US$66 million Bank loan is
shown in Table 4.1.



- 45 -
Table 4.1
Allocation of Bank loan
(US$ million equivalent)
Loan Category                                  Amounta/     X Financing
(USS mitl ion)
(1) Government Agencies                          4.0  100X of foreign expenditures
& 100X of tocat expenditures
(State Bank Supervision Agency,                     (ex-factory cost), for goods;
State Securities Supervisory Board,                80X of Locat expenditures for
Ministry of Finance)                               services of consultants
domicited within the territory
(2) NBH                                           4.0  of the Guarantor and 100% of
foreign expenditures for
(3) Particicating Banks.                               services of other consuitants;
(a) Budapest Bank                             4.6  and 1002 of foreign expenditures
(b) Cormercial and Credit Bank                6.6  for training.
(c) Hungarian Credit Bank                     6,7
(d) National Savings Bank                     8.6
(4) Other Part. Financial Institutions
(Eligible Banks, GIRO)                       22j
(5) ITCB                                          1.0 I 100Z of foreign
' expenditures.
(6) UnalLocated
Total                                            66.0
a/    For the purpose of project financing (para 3.37), the unallocated part of the Bank loan has been
distributed among the various project components.
4.09         It is anticipated that the Bank loan would be committed over a two-
year period (mid-1990 to mid-1992) and be disbursed over a five-year period,
which represents the expected implementation period for the first phase of the
modernization program for the financial system.   This disbursement period is
somewhat shorter than the standard six year disbursement profile for Bank loans
supporting DFC/industry sector projects in the EMENA region. Based on the above
disbursement forecast, the Bank loan would be fully disbursed by early 1995.
On that basis, the closing date for the Bank loan is proposed to be June 30,
1995. The estimated disbursement schedule of the Bank loan is shown in Annex
4-2.
4.10         To facilitate disbursements from the Bank loan, NBH would establish
a revolving fund account into which the Bank would make an initial deposit of
US$5.0 million, which is the equivalent of about four months of estimated average
disbursements under the loan. For replenishment of the revolving fund, NBH will
submit withdrawal applications for amounts not less than US$1 million.
Disbursement for-contracts valued at less than US$300,000 equivalent would be
on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) which detail the individual
transactions. The documentation to support these expenditures would be retained
by NBH, audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and made



- 46 
available for review by the Bank upon request.   Applications for withdrawal
against contracts valued at more than Us$300,000 equivalent would be fully
documented.
4.11        A number of institutions are at an advanced stage of project
preparation, and in some cases contracts have already been signed. Expenditures
for such contracts prior to Bank loan signature are estimated to amount to US$2.0
million.   Each of these contracts will be reviewed by the Bank,  to ensure
compliance with Bank procurement guidelines. It is proposed to allow retroactive
financing by the Bank loan for an amount of up to US$5.0 million, which would
represent 7.6X of the Bank loan.
D. Procurement
4.12        Procurement of goods and services woui.d be the responsibility of the
participating institutions and agencies, which may use the services of local
foreign trade companies.   All procurement under the Bank loan will be in
accordance with Bank procurement and consultants guidelines. Under previous Bank
operations, the participating banks and foreign trade companies have built up
considerable expertise in the Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures.
To facilitate procurement, NBH and the foreign trade companies have reviewed and
agreed with the Bank on standardized documents for various types of procurement,
including automation hardware/software.  In preparation and review of technical
specifications of data processing systems, due attention would be paid to
applicable export regulations of exporter countries with a view to avoiding
possible project implementation delays that may be caused by suppliers'
difficulties in obtaining required export licenses.   In addition, for those
elements where such difficulties might be encountered,  a two-stage bidding
procedure has been developed to minimize potential delays; suppliers would be
given six months within which to obtain the necessary export clearances, after
which the contract would be awarded to the next-ranked eligible supplier.
4.13        ICB will be used for all goods packages with an estimated value of
US$300,000 and above.   Hungarian manufacturers competing under ICB will be
eligible for a 15% preference on the CIF value of the bids, or the amount of
customs duties and taxes, whichever is lower. Bid packages with an estimated
value below US$300,000 each may be procured through international shopping, based
on price quotations from at least three suppliers from at least three eligible
source countries.   The aggregate limit for international shopping would not
exceed the equivalent of US$8 million (12% of the Bank loan). Procurement of
goods which are of proprietary nature (including technical licenses), which
require standardization with existing equipment, or for which early delivery is
crucial for expedient project execution, may be carried out through direct
contracting.   Locally financed goods will be procured under prevailing local
procedures which involve competitive bidding and which are judged to be
satisfactory.
4.14        All bid packages for goods estimated to cost US$1 million equivalent
and above, and proposal invitation packages for consulting services would be
subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. It is estimated
that the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation would cover about 65%



- 47 -
of the total estimated value of contracts. The balance of contracts would be
subject to ex-post review by the Bank after contract award. At negotiations,
agreement was reached on the above procurement arrangements.   A summary of
procurement arrangements is given in table 4.2.
Table 4.2
Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million) A/
Procurement Method
Items                              IIS&DP b/    Other /    Total
Equipment                           65.0      18.5         30.0       113.5
(Computer hardware, software,      (39.0)    ( 6.0)       (    )      (45.0)
environmental control equipment)
Technical Assistance and Training   -           -          29.9         29.9
(Studies, Institutional and        (  - )   (  - )        (21.0)      (21.0)
Systems Development)                         _
65.0      18.5        59.9        143.4
(39.0)    ( 6.0)      (21.0)       (66.0)
a/   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
J/  Includes international shopping and direct purchases.
/   Includes services procured under the Bank's consultant guidelines, and goods
and services to be procured locally using local competitive procurement
procedures.
E. ReRorting and Auditing
4.15        The participating institutions and agencies would submit semi-annual
progress reports to NBH, which in turn would consolidate the reports and submit
them to the Bank within 60 days after the end of each semester. Reporting would
cover progress of the activities undertaken under the Project, and for the
participating banks reporting on their overall operations and financial
performance.  Within six months of the closing date of the Bank loan, NBH will
prepare and furnish to the Bank a completion report on the Project, based on
contributions from the participating institutions.
4.16        All Project accounts, the revolving funds, statements of expenditure,
and the financial statements of the participating banks and the GIRO company will
be audited at the end of each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank.   In the case of the Project accounts at participating Government
agencies, the revolving funds, and statements of expenditure, short form annual
audit reports for the preceding fiscal year would be retained by NBH and
available for review by Bank supervision missions no later than the end of May
each year.   In the case of the participating banks, each bank would be required
under the Project to undergo annual financial audits along detailed terms of



- 48 -
reference agreed with the Bank. The aud't reports for the banks would be in long
form and would be submitted to the Bank by the end of May each year for the
preceding year. A few local independent audit companies have been established
recently involving associations with international audit firms, and a number of
internationally renowned audit firms have started operations in Hungary. All
the major participating banks have engaged such international firms for execution
of financial audits as of December 31, 1989. In each case, the Bank would review
the terms of reference for the audits and the qualifications of the audit firms
proposed by the participating institutions to assess their suitability for
carrying  out  satisfactory  external  audits.    As  part  of  its  reporting
requirements, ITCB would also submit annual audit reports on its operations.
The above reporting and auditing arrangements have been confirmed at
negotiations.
F. Proiect Supervision
4.17        Given the multi-component and rather complex nature of the Project,
involving important institution building efforts in the participating
institutions, Project supervision input by Bank staff is expected to be above
average, particularly in the early stage or project implementation. The on-site
Project advisory unit (para 4.02) would facilitate project implementation and
supervision.  In order to ensure a clear understanding of Project objectives and
implementation arrangements as well as effective follow-up of Project
implementation both on the sides of the participatir,g institutions and Bank
staff, a Project supervision plan will be developed and reviewed with Hungarian
counterparts during an early supervision mission. The plan would include: (i)
the schedule of key Bank supervision inputs and the skill-mix required; (ii)
specialist staff input for review of technical assistance components, procurement
documentation, and studies; (iii) aspects of the Project that require special
Bank attention during supervision (e.g., follow-up to institutional development
programs and special diagnostic audits of banks, strengthening of supervisory
agencies, smooth implementation of automation projects); and (iv) the Hungarian
contribution to supervision, including monitoring and reporting and staff
participation in supervision missions.
G. Status of Project Preparation
4.18        Project preparation is well advanced.  The Project scope and its
components have been appraised and agreed with the participating entities and
the authorities.   The technical assistance components for the regulatory and
supervisory agencies were finalized at appraisal. Agreement has been reached
with the Hungarian authorities on the follow-up to the results of the portfolio
audits of the banks and the development of possible restructuring measures for
the banks.   Institutional diagnostic reviews have been prepared for the four
major participating banks on the basis of which institutional action plans have
been dev-eloped and agreed in each case.  Automation strategy studies for the
major banks are well under way and will be reviewed as the basis for hardware
procurement.. Detailed terms of reference for the technical assistance components
have been drafted and have been reviewed and agreed with the participating



- 49 -
institutions.   Standardized procurement documents have been finalized and
procuremint actions have been initiated and in some cases are well advanced.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND MAIN RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.01        The  Project  is  expected  to  contribute - significantly  to  the
development of the Hungarian financial system. While recent economic reforms
facilitate  the  liberalization  of the financial  system,  the  institutional
strengthening and infrastructural arrangements required to allow the system to
benefit from the reforms have been lagging. The Project has been designed to
address these shortcomings.  Through the improved operation of the financial
system, and in particular the banking system, the Project would contribute to
a better mobilization of financial resources, higher financial savings rate,
and an improved allocation of resources to productive activities along efficiency
and profitability criteria. It would thereby help the ongoing restructuring of
the economy by making financial resources available to the most profitable
activities. The development of the Hungarian capital market, facilitated by the
Project, would help diversify the availability of financial instruments and help
create alternative sources of long-term finance (both debt and equity) in the
economy.
5.02        It has been widely recognized that the increasing liberalization of
financial systems places increasing demands on prudential regulations and
supervision. Given the underdeveloped state of these important areas in Hungary,
one of the Project's major achievements would be the strengthening of the
prudential regulatory framework and supervision in banking and the securities
markets.   Such necessary framework in banking would help instill greater
financial discipline and prudence among the banks and help protect the long-term
solvency of the banks as well as the interests of depositors. The authority of
the banking supervisory agency would also be enhanced as a result of the Project.
The adoption by the banks of more stringent operating policies and procedures
would lead to increased scrutiny of borrowers, and thus contribute to
restructuring of enterprises.   Similarly, the development of the regulatory
framework for the securities market would help limit fraud and prevent conflicts
of interest and ensure adequate disclosure, thereby increasing the trust by
savers, who individually are unable to assess the integrity and creditworthiness
of borrowers.   Importantly, the Project would halp build up the supervision
agencies through technical assistance and training and thereby help overcome
the problem of a lack of qualified staff.
5.03        Another major achievement of the Project would be the strengthening
of the banking institutions in Hungary.  The assistance programs developed for
each of the major banks would help to introduce modern banking techniques in
Hungary through technical assistance and staff training. The banks would improve
significantly the operations in their major functional areas,  including the
important area of credit policies and procedures which will help the banks to
become better equipped to assess the quality and risk of borrowers and investment



- 50 -
proposals. These improved procedures as well as the portfolio adjustments of
the banks, based on the detailed audits to be carried out under the Project,
would help improve the long-term financial health of the banks. The improved
procedures and introduction of modern technology as part of the Project would
also help to improve service levels of the banks, contributing to efficiency
improvements in the financial system.
5.04        Finally, the improvements in the accounting and audit framework to
be assisted under the Project are of paramount importance and are indispensable
to the further development of the financial system and the economy as a whole.
The improvements in the framework would help to bring Hungarian standards in
these areas in line with international ones in the coming two years. They would
significantly improve the transparency and reliability of financial data of
Hungarian enterprises and financial institutions, which will be necessary for
enterprise managers as well as to guide decision making by investors.   An
improved framework would also be highly beneficial for promotion of direct
foreign investment in Hungary.
B. Main Risks
5.05        The main risk that may affect the strengthening of the Hungarian
financial system concerns the possibility that the Government's program of
structural adjustment would have a more severe impact on the enterprise sector
than currently expected. The reforms currently being introduced will lead to
an environment of increased financial discipline as well as international and
domestic competition, which is expected to have an important impact on the
viability of enterprises.   A number of enterprises which have been able to
survive in the protected environment of the past are expected to come into
increasing difficulties. The banks should therefore adopt more prudent operating
policies and procedures to reduce their exposure to poorly performing
enterprises, and the Project would assist them in this respect. It is doubtful,
however, whether the recently established banking system could, unassisted,
handle  a  surge  in  enterprise  liquidations  as  a  result  of  continuing
liberalization of the economy, with its related impact on the solvency of the
banks.   The portfolio audits of the banks, undertaken in the context of the
Project, would help to address this risk by assessing the quality of the banks'
borrowers as the basis for formulating an action plan for improving the quality
of the portfolios.   The improved prudential and supervisory framework would
impose greater discipline on the banks in assessing their borrowers.
5.06        A second main risk concerns  the speed at which the financial
institutions can be built up in light of the lack of qualified staff in Hungary
and the time required to implement thorough institutional development programs.
The process of building up the necessary supervisory agencies and the banks will
require financial experts trained in modern financial concepts, currently in
short supply in Hungary.   Furthermore,  the introduction of modern banking
concepts and related technology will test the absorptive capacities of the
institutions involved. In this respect, it should be recognized that institution
building will be a long-t rm process which will require the commitment from both
policy makers and managers of the relevant institutions.   This Project will



- 51 -
provide assistance for the first phase of the modernization program of the
financial system.
5.07        A third risk concerns the possible delays related to the procurement
of relatively sophisticated data processing systems by the participating
institutions which may require special export licenses from Western export
authorities. Two factors mitigate this risk. First, to avoid such delays, the
technical specifications of automation systems will be reviewed to reasonably
assess their compliance with export regulations, while additional safeguards have
been built into the procurement procedures to reduce this risk (para 4.12).
Second, procurement of some items would not delay or otherwise affect the
implementation of the other components.    Finally,  in the event  that the
procurement of slightly less-advanced technology becomes necessary, the affected
element of the project would become operational with a somewhat lowered but still
very acceptable efficiency.
5.08        A further risk is related to the possibility that the new Government
to be appointed after the elections in March/April 1990 mav not fully agree with
the objectives and scope of the Project. This risk is considered to be limiced
given the general consensus among the major political parties about the general
directitn of economic reform, and the non-controversial nature of the Project,
with its focus on institution building.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01        The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between NBH and the
Republic of Hungary, the four major participating banks (BB, CCB, HCB and NSB),
and the GIRO company, and of the ITCB agreement, is proposed as a condition of
Bank loan effectiveness (para 4.04). Furthermore, the signing of a Subsidiarv
Loan Agreement between NBH and each other participating bank is a condition of
disbursement to each such bank.
6.02        At negotiations, agreement has been reached with the Government that
it will:
(i) Finalize a draft Banking Law, including strengthened prudential
regulations, based on guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, and present
it to Parliament by December 31, 1990 (para 2.42);
(ii)  Implement a two-year program to reach international accounting and
auditing standards and practices, including preparation of a draft
Accounting Law, based on guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, and
presentation of the law to Parliament bv September 30, 1990 (para 2.70);
(iii) Take all action required on its part, to enable NSB to convert into a
joint-stock company, and permit NSB to conduct its housing finance
business with a minimum 3.0% intermediation spread (para 3.11);
(iv). Carry out portfolio audits of the three major commercial banks (BB, CCB,
and HCB), and based on the outcome of the audits and guidelines agreed
with the Bank, develop by December 31, 1990, and subsequently implement,



- 52 -
an action plan to enable the banks to achieve capital adequacy (para
3.18); and
(v)     Ensure the prompt availability of funds to complete the Project (para
3.37).
6.03        At negotiations, agreement has been reached with NBH that it will:
(i) Onlend in accordance with agreed eligibility criteria (para 3.08), and
on agreed terms and conditions (paras 4.05-4.07);
(ii) Provide necessary funds to participating institutions to meet subsidiary
loan requirements (para 3.37);
6.04        At negotiations, the following confirmations have been reached with
the four maior oarticipating banks (BB, CCB, HCB and NSB), and with NBH
concerning assurances in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the ITCB Agreement
with the other -articipating institutions, to:
(i) In the case of the banks borrowing US$300,000 equivalent or more
(including the four major banks), implement agreed institutional
development plans (para 3.07), and following completion of external
audits, make necessary adjustments to their loan portfolios and
financial position in accordance with prudent loan classification and
provisioning criteria (para 3.19);
(ii) In the case of NSB, to complete all actions required on its part by June
30, 1990, for conversion into a joint-stock company  and to earn a
spread on its housing finance operations of at least 3.0% per year (para
3.11);
(iii) In the case of the participating banks and the GIRO company, undergo
annual external audits, along terms of reference agreed with the Bank,
to be carried out by qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank (para
3.17); and
(iv) In the case of the GIRO company, charge fees for its services to allow
it to generate sufficient funds (in addition to external loan and equity
funds) to cover its operating costs,  capital expenditures and debt
service payments (para 3.24);
6.06        On  the basis  of  the  staff appraisal  and the above mentioned
agreements, the Project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$66 million
equivalent for fifteen years,  including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate. The establishment of a revolving fund of US$5.0
million (para 4.10), and retroactive financing of up to US$5.0 million (para
4.11), are recommended under the proposed Loan. The Loan will be made to the
National Bank of Hungary and guaranteed by the Government.



- 53 -                                  Annex 1
Page 1
HUNGARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
A. The Financial Sector
A.1   'Hungary - Development and Reform of Financial Markets".  World
Bank Report No. 6941-HU. Washington, D.C., August 1989.
B. Proiect Reports and Studies
B.1   Extract from the Legislation Describing the Authority and
Competence of the State Banking Supervision.
B.2   Measures and Recommendation Concerning the Strengthening of the
Banking Supervision Agency and Banking Regulation.
B.3   Information on the Diagnostics Report of the Budapest Bank Inc.
Prepared for The World Bank.
B.4   Commercial and Credit Bank.  "Diagnostic Assessment and Action
Plan for Future Development", August, 1989.
B.5   Commercial and Credit Bank.  "Reorganization Report", October,
1988.
B.6   "Feasibility Study for the Future EDP System of the Hungarian
Credit Bank, AG, Final Report on EDP Concept", Ronald Berger +
Partner GMBH, Budapest, October 1989.
B.?   National Savings Bank (OTP).  "High Level Strategic Plan. 1989-
1994". Price Waterhouse, April, 1989
B.8   "Feasibility Study for the Setting Up of a Banking School in
Hungary". CIFPB, Paris, 1988.
B.9   1989 Course Catalog of the International Training Center for
Bankers.
B.10 "Feasibility Study for the GIRO System in Hungary". Ernst &
Whinney, 1988.



- 54 -                                  Annex I
Page 2
C. Selected Working Papers
CA   Institutional Diagnostic Review of the Four Major Participating
Banks.
C.2   Implementation Arrangements of the Institutional Development Plan
of the Four Major Participating Banks.
C.3   Detailed Financial Statements of the Four Major Participating
Banks.
C.4   Terms of Reference for Institutional Development Plans of the Four
Major Participating Banks.
C.5   Outline of Detailed Diagnostic Review of the Institutional
Development of Banks.
C.6   Terms of Reference for Training Coordinator and Expert.
C.7   Detailed Financial Projections, GIRO.
C.8   Terms of Reference for Securities Market Technical Assistance
Review.
C.9   Terms of Reference for Review of Constraints of Securities Market
Development.
C.10 Modernization of the Hungarian Accounting and Auditing System,
Terms of Reference for Senior Accounting and Auditing Advisor.
C.ll Modernization of the Hungarian Accounting and Auditing System,
Terms of Reference for Assistance in Developing Accounting and
Auditing Standards.
C.12 Terms of Reference for Project Implementation Advisors.



AnneX 2-1
Page 1
- 5 -
HUNGARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Overview and Structure of the Financial System
*  1.       Structure.  The institutional structure of the Hungarian financial
system started to be diversified with the introduction of a number of specialized
financial institutions (SFIs) and the introduction of the bond market in 1983-
84. The process of structural change led to the reform of the banking system
in January 1987, when a two-tier banking system was established with the creation
of three commercial banks. In the new system, the NBH became the first tier,
retaining the responsibilities of a central bank, with banking services to the
enterprises becoming the domain of the commercial banks, the SFIs, and the
Foreign Trade Bank. Banking services to the household sector continued to be
the exclusive preserve of the NSB and the 260 savings cooperatives until 1989.
During 1988-89, several more commercial banks were licensed and, as the result,
the financial system in Hungary now mo:e closely resembles that of traditional
market economies. During 1989, a major new savings institution--the Post Bank
and Savings Bank Corporation--was formed, the 260 savings cooperatives combined
assets to form the Savings Cooperative commercial bank, and ehe NSB became a
commercial bank. As of end-1989, the financial system consisted of a banking
system--comprising the central bank, 15 full service commercial banks, 7
specialized financial institutions and 4 joint-v,nture banks with foreign
participation--., 4 insurance companies, a nascent securities market, and the
social security system.
Table 1
Financial Institutions in Hungary
(No.)
As at end of         1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Central Bank           1       1        1       1        1       1        1
Commercial Banks       2       2        3       3        6       6   1  15 '
Savings Banks          1       1        1       1        1       1
Savings Coops        263     262      262     262      260     260      260
SFIs                   3       6        8      11       14      16        7
Foreign Banks          1       1        2       3        3       4        4
Insurance Co.          1       1        1       1        2       4        4
Total                272     274      278     282      287     292      291
J For 1989, includes NSB, Savings Cooperative Bank
Source:  NBH
2.          Size.  Total assets of the financial system increased from Ft992
billion in 1985 to Ftl,528 billion at end-1989, as shown in the following table.



AnnexL 21
- 56 -                        Page 2
Table 2
Size of the Hungarian Banking SXstem
(Domestic assets of monetary sector in Ft. billions and percentages)
As at end of          1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
-----------------(Ft. billion)---------------
NBH:
- Central Govt.     291.9   296.6   356.2   397.5   411.5   468.9
- SDI                148.2   149.5   146.6   180.0   208.2   237.9
- Enterprises       299.7   322.5   353.7       2.4     5.3      1.7
Commercial Banks11     8.7    12.3    13.7   365.3   357.4   409.0
NSB/Savings Coops   185.6   211.7   243.0   283.0   321.2   357.6
Otherl                 0 0     0  0     0.0    13.6    15.9    52.9
Total          934.1   992.6  1113.2  1251.8  1319.5  1528.0
-------------(Percentage Shares)-------------
NBH:
- Central Govt.       31.2    29.9    32.0    31.8    31.2    30.7
- SDI                 15.9    15.1    13.2    14.4    15.8    15.6
- Enterprises         32.1    32.5    31.8      0.2     0.4      0.1
Commercial Banks'      0.9     1.2      1.2    30.0    27.1    26.8
NSB/Savings Coops    19.9    21.3    21.8    22.6    24.3    23.4
O)therV                0.0   .0.0       0.0     1.1      1.2     3.4
Total          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   10O.Q
For 1983-84. includ3s Hungarian Foraegn Trade Bank. and Central European Credit Bank; for 1985-
86, includes also Budapest Sank; from 1987, also Commrciajl and Credit Bank. Hungarian Credit
Bank, and General Banking and Trust Co.
For 1987. includes Unicbank, Citibank Budapest. and Bank for Small Ventures. For 1988.
includes also Postabank: for 1989. also Inter-Europa Bank, Arobank, General Bank for Venture
Finance. Innovation Bank. Dunabank, Xonsumbank, and Central European Credit Bank.
Source:  NBH
3.          DeDth of the Financial Sector.   A major objective of financial
sector reform is to deepen the financial system by raising the share of the
financial system in capital accumulation, thereby increasing resource
mobilization.   The share of broad money (M2) in GDP, which is generally
indicative of the absolute size of the financial system, and of the stock of
liquidity available, is generally between 60-75X in higher middle-income
countries.   Despite the presence of several new institutions in the system,
Hungary so far has not been successful in increasing the degree of financial
intermediation in the system. Between 1981 and 1986 in Hungary, the share of
broad money in GDP fluctuated in the 47-51% range, peaking in 1986. Since 1987,
the ratio has been falling, and reached a low of 43.5% in 1988 reflecting some
disintermediation in the system, despite the increased number of institutions
in the system. At the same time, the financial system is shallower than tha.
in other countries at roughly comparable stages of development, as reflected by
higher ratios in other middle income countries such as Greece (67X), Spain



Annex2-1
Page 3
- 57 -
(701), and Yugoslavia (51%).   (A' table comparing financial aggregates for
selected countries is attached.) The further liberalization of financial sector
policies is expected to lead to greater mobilization of resources by the
financial system.
Table 3
Depth of the Financial Sector
(Ft. billion)
As at end of          1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Ml                   207.4   242.0   263.0   306.5   302.0   355.2
Quasi Money          241.8   256.2   275.8   287.6   310.4   343.5
M2                   449.2   498.2   541.8   594.1   612.4   699.0
GDP                  978.4 1,033.7 1,088.8 1,226.4 1,414.7 1,687.3
Ml/GDP(%)             21.2    23.4    24.5    24.9    21.3    21.0
M2/GDP(%)             45.9    48.2    49.8    48.4    43.2    41.4
Source: NBH
4.          Composition of Money Suoolv.    For the period until mid-1987,
liquidity in the financial system gradually increased, reflecting the relaxed
monetary policies followed by the* authorities over that period.   With the
tightening of money and credit policy since the second half of 1987, by the end
of 1988 the share of currency and demand deposits in M2 had dropped to. their
lowest  levels  since  1985.    However,  the  proportion  of  currency  in M2,
approximately 27% in 1988, is much higher in Hungary than in comparable
countries (7% in Austria, 9X in Yugoslavia, 121 in Spain and 14% in Greece).
The high proportion of currency holding in Hungary can be explained by che lack
of the use of cheques.
Table 4
Composition of the Money Supply
As at end of          1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
------(Ft. billion)---------------
Currency             105.4   116.7   130.7   153.7   164.4   181.1
Demand Deposits      102.0   125.3   135.3   152.8   137.6   174.1
Time and Savings    241.8   256.2   275.8   287.6   310 4   343.8
Broad Money (M2)    449.2   498.2   54l.8   594.1   612.4   699.0
-----(percentage shares)------.-------
Currency              23.5    23.4    24.1    25.9    26.8    25.9
Demand Deposits       22.7    25.2    25.0    25.7    22.5    24.9
Time and Savings      53.8    51.4    50.9    48.4    50.7    49.2
Total                100.0   100.0   100.O   100.0   100.0   100.0
Source: NBH



Anex2-1l
Attachment
58
HUNGARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
international Comoarison of Financial Aggregates 1/
(Percentages)
Quasi             Dom.
Currency/   Ml/  Money/       M2/ Credit/ Currency/
GDP     GDP      GDP     GDP      GDP       M2
Hungars  (1988)          11.6    21.3    21.9    43.2   101.4    26.8
Develop,ing Countries
Argentina (1984)          0.8      1.1      2.9     4.0      7.7    19.1
Chile (1984)              2.0      3.6    13.6    17.2    45.8    11.5
Korea                     4.1      9.7    29.4    39.1    53.2    10.4
Malaysia                   9.9    20.6    45.6    66.3    70.2    15.0
Morocco                  14.3    38.9    15.1    54.0    55.1    26.5
Singapore                12.5    25.0    62.5    87.5    72.9    14.3
Tunisia                   9.3    29.1    23.3    52.3    59.3    17.8
Turkey                     3.4    12.0    15.9    27.9    54.8    12.1
Yugoslavia (1986)         4.8    15.1    35.9    51.0    47.8         9.4
Developed Countries
Austria (1987)             6.3    14.4    72.8    87.2   115.7        7.2
Belgium                    7.1    19.6    26.8    46.4    75.0    15.4
Finland (1987)            1.9      7.7    43.2    50.9    66.5        3.6
Greece (1987)             9.4    1S.6    51.6    67.2    68.8    14.0
Norway                    4.8    31.5    32.0    63.5    75.6         7.6
Italy (1987)              5.5    37.6    23.0    60.5    68.7        9.1
Spain                     8.1    26.8    43.2    69.9    97.0    11.6
j/ Figures are for 1988, unless otherwise specified
Source: IMF International Financial Statistics



- 59                                Annex 2.2
=pNGARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Structure of Interest Rates
(Percent)
1987        1288        1989       19-90
6/1         6/1         9/1         1/1
A. DeDosit Rates
Enterorise Sector V
Demand Deposits           0.5          0.5        4-9        20.5
Less than 1 year          4-6          4-8        13-19      20.5
1 year                    9.0          14-16      16.5-19.5 21.5
CDs                                               19.0       23-25
Household Sector (NSB) V
Demand Deposits           2-7          2-11       8.0        8-14
1 year                    6.0          13.5       16.9       23.75
Over 1 year               7-9.5        14-15       17.5-19   24.5-25
Youth Deposits:
-5 years                  8.0          12-18      14.0       22.5
-Over 5 years             9.0          12-18      18.0       27.5
Savings Notes:
-1-6 years                8-10.5       15-17      17.5-20   24.0-25.5
-Over 6 years             10.5         16.5       20.5       26.0
CDs                                                          24.0
B. Credit Rates
NBH Refinance Rates
State Loans               10.0         11.5       11.5       14.5
Commercial Bank Loans:
-Short Term               11.5         11.0       14-18      17-21
-Medium Term              10.5         12.0       14.0       17.0
C. Lending Rates
Enterprise Sector 1
State Loans               12.0         13.5       13.5       16.0
Commercial Bank Loans
-Short Term               13.0         16-20      19-22.5   24.5
-Medium Term              12.0         14-17      16-22      18.0
Household Sector (NSB) ;'
Housing Loans
-NSB (preferential)       3.0          3.0        19.5       25.5
(non-preferential)       .--          ---        22-23      28.0
-Other Banks              8.0          12.0       22-23      n.a.
Hire Purchase 1           5-9          12.0       22.0       30.0
Agriculture               8-9          12.0       19-23      28-29
Small Business            12-13        14-15      20-23      28-29
Consumer Loans s          8-10         15-17      22.0       30.0
I/ Enterprise sector rates reflect rates of the three major co,wercial banks: BB, CCB. HCB.
2/ For 1989 on, NS8 deducts 201 of these gross rates at source.
3/ For 1989. on, lendins rates include 1X annual fee, except as noted.
*/ For 1989 on. lending rates include 2S annual fee.



HUNGARY - fINANCIAL SYSTEM 4WOERNIZATION PROJECT
Overview of the Oankina Sector I/
Total    Share
Assets   Capltal  Nurber of    Nuiber of
--(Ft billion)--    Branches       Staff            Area of Activity
Cosmerclal Banks
Agrobank                                                7.?      1.5       '10          184    Agriculture and food Industry - lending  lease finance
Budapest Sank                                         81.0       6.4        30         1200     All sectors - lending, kessing. etc.
Commercial and Credit Bank                            120.0     10.6        58         2350    All sectors - lending, leasing, etc.
Dunabank                                                3.5      0.5         2           60     All sectors - mainly short-term lending, and equity
General Banking and Trust                               7.0      1.0         3          175      Industry, Trade - equity, short 4 long-term lending -
provides professional services such as auditing.
General Bank for Venture finance                       6.7       2.2         4          100    All sectors   innovation financing, equity & loans
Hungarian Credit Bank                                194.0      14.0       54          3100     All sectors - lending, especially working capital
Hungarian Foreign Trade Bank                         143.5       6.0         4          560    All sectors   trade finance, tending, FX operations
innovation Bank for Construction Industry              2.0       0.9        6            95     Building/Const. Industry - leasing, factoring, lending
Inter-Europa Bank                                      6.6       2.2     none            79    All sectors - trade finance, short * long-term lending
Konsuterbank                                            2.8      1.0      none           41     Small Business - Consuttancy, joint venture  nd lending to
entrepreneurs
Nezobank                                                4.8      1.2        20           145    Agriculture - mainly short-term lending to cooperatives         c
National Savings Bank                                390.0      13.0       627        12000     Retail, Housing                                                 o
Post Sank  nd Savings lank Corporation                 6.2       2.2         6          181     Retail
Savings Coop.                                         40.0       3.0      t700         4500     Retail, Housing
Soecialized financial Institutions
Central Corp. of Bank Companies                         (data not available)
Industrial Bank                                        5.1       1.1         5           50     Industry - lending mainly to Industrial cooperatives
Industrial Development Dank                            6.2       3.2        3            65     Industriat development projects
Inofinance                                             1.2       0.5     none            30     Close cooperation with 04Fl, research and development
Imvestbank                                             2.3       1.2     none            29     Industry (mainly) - venture capital, lending to R&D.
leasing
Investrade                                             (data not available)
Herkantil lank                                          1.0      0.4      none           20    All sectors - leasing, factoring, securities
Joint Venture Banks
Central-European Industrial Bank                        (oft-shore holding company of Central European Credit Bank)
Central-European Credit Bank                            3.0      0.3      rone           20      foreign currency operations - trade, short-term, leasing
Citibank Budapest                                      14.1      0.6     none            46     foreign currency operations   trade, short-term lending
Unicbenk                                                8.3      1.0      rone           60     Corporate all sectors - trade finance, lease finance,
short 4 nediun-terat lending
"Data as of January 1, 1989.
I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



* 61 -                          Annex 2-4
Page 1
HUNGARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Legislative and Regulatory Framework of Bank Supervision
A.    Overview
1.          The basic legal authority for banking operations in Hungary is
contained in a statute that is now more than ten years old. The relevant part
of that statute is principally concerned with the establishment and activities
of financial institutions which are defined to consist of banks, specialized
financial institutions, and insurance organizations. In the light of intervening
developments, the statutory provisions appear outmoded and in need of revision.
The portions of that statute dealing with banking supervision have been
superseded in some respects by the terms of subsequent ministerial decrees.
2.          Under these various legal provisions, responsibility for prudential
banking supervision has been assigned to the Ministry of Finance, which has
established a State Bank Supervision Agency (SBS) to perform the corresponding
duties. SBS, however, has a larger degree of autonomy than ordinary departments
of the Ministry; it makes decisions in its own name, and not in the name of the
Ministry. The current head of banking supervision is a Deputy Finance Minister.
SBS is financed by the financial inscitutions it supervises, which contribute
0.1X of their interest revenues for these purposes.
3.          The authority of the bank supervisory agency comprises:  (i) the
responsibility for the licencing of banks, including the ability to place
operational and geographic restrictions on the exercise of that licence; (ii)
the determination of the proper activities to be conducted by banking
institutions; (iii) the duty to examine on a continuous basis the activities of
banks to assure that they are conducted within the legal requirements and in a
safe and sound manner; (iv) the right to receive reports and to inspect materials
bearing on the activities of banks; (v) the ability to take certain enforcement
actions including the establishment of risk reserves, the institution of
corrective actions, the limitation of specified activities, the removal of senior
executives and their replacemene, and the withdrawal of banking licenses.
B.    Prudential Regulations
4.          The current prudential regulatory framework--including significant
modifications incorporated in October 1189--is based on the following main.
components. These will be further modif4ed and strengthened in the context of
the preparation of the new Banking Law.
(i)  Licensing system.   SBS grants licensee: to qualified banks and
specialized  financial  institutions  (SFIs).    Minimum  capital
requirement for establishment of a bank is Ft I billion, and for a
specialized financial institution, Ft 500 million.



- 62 *                           Annex 2-4
Page 2
(ii)  Cagital adeguacv.  Banks are required to maintain capital, defined
as share capital and reserve capital, equal to 5% of risk assets;
for SFIs, a capital-to-risk assets ratio of 6.67% is required.
(iii)  Liotiiditv reguirements.  Banks are required to maintain a liquidity
reserve of 5% of total assets. The liquidity reserve is to consist
mainly of cash and deposits with the central bank, though recently
part of the reserve was allowed to be kept in government securities.
The liquidity requirement, however, appears to be primarily intended
for monetary control rather than prudential purposes.
(iv)  Large deposit liguidity reauirement.   When a large depositor's
deposit exa..eeds the bank's capital funds, the bank is required to
maintain 50X of the excess in liquid assets.
(v)  Single credit customer limits.   The commitments to or against a
borrower cannot exceed 30% of the bank's capital funds or twice the
capital funds of the borrowers, whichever is smaller.
(vi)  Investment in shares. real estate and plant and equipment.  Long-
term investments in equity, real estate, and plant and machinery
must not exceed the total capital funds of the bank.
(vii)  Limits on investments in_eczuitv and non-banking real estate.  The
total value of long-term investments, in equity and in non-banking
real estate cannot exceed 20% of a bank's capital funds.
(viii)  Single enterDrise equity limits.  A bank is not allowed to invest
in any single enterprise more than 10% of its own capital funds or
more than 25% of the enterprise's capital funds, whichever is
smaller.
(ix)  Limits on large credits.  The amount of large credits, defined as
loans exceeding 20% of the bank's capital funds cannot be more, in
aggregate, than three times the bank's capital funds.
(x) Connected Lending. Loans to management, or to shareholders holding
more than 1% of the bank's capital can be made only with management
approval.
(xi)  Asset classification.   The criteria for classifying loans are as
follows: (a) loans to borrowers who have incurred losses for the
previous two years; (b) loans to borrowers who are undergoing
liquidation or refloatation procedures; (c) loans overdue to the bank
for more than 60 days. All loans classified under any of these three
criteria are termed 'substandard'.
(xii)  Reduction of doubtful debts.  The stock of doubtful debt must be
reduced by 10% of the balance sheet value annually.



63 -Annex 2.4
Page 3
(xiii) Sanctions. Punitive powers of SBS are as follows:
(a)   request compliance by deadlines;
(b)   prescribing deadlines for submission of a plan of action or
implementation;
(c)   impose penalty on the bank or senior management;
(d)   limit or forbid bank maragement to conduct certain banking
activities;
(e)   remove senior bank managers and appoint acting managers to
ensure professional functioning of the bank;
(f)   withdraw permission for a banking activity; and
(g)   prescribe the method of reserve generation



-64 -                                 Annex 2-5
Page 1
HUNGARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT                            '
Details on the Four Major Commercial Banks
I. Budapest Bank
A.    Introducti
1.01        Background.  Budapest Bank (BB), Hungary's third largest commercial
bank, was created on January 1, 1987 by merging the operations of the Budapest
Credit Bank, the State Development Bank and certain lending departments of the
National Bank of Hungary. It is a joint-stock compary whose shareholders are
the Government, enterprises, and institutional investors. At the end of 1989,
the Government held 41.8% of the share capital, with the rest being held by 597
shareholders.
1.02        Business Activity.  At the end of 1989, the bank had 48 branches
and offices throughout the country. The branch offices have major responsibility
for customer relations, disbursement and repayment of loans, and maintaining
deposit accounts.   Head office staff are responsible  for mobilization and
management of resources, planning and budgeting, ana credit administration,
personnel and accounting activities.
1.03        BB has over 6,600 clients, including some 400 large or medium size
companies, cooperatives that are mostly small-scale, and private firms. Thus
far, the client base has proven stable.   Customers include two of Hungary's
largest industrial conglomerates--OKGT (National Gas and Oil Trust) and MVMT
(Hungarian  Electricity  Board).    Although  to  date  the bank has  operated
exclusively as a commercial bank for enterprises, it has recently begun entering
the retail banking and international trade financing fields. Thus far, the bank
has primarily been involved in lending to the mining, chemicals, machinery and
oil subsectors. BB has also been involved in co-financing international business
undertakings in Hungary.   Two recent projects,  to produce float glass and
polystyrene were recently cofinanced, one with a foreign bank, and the other with
the IFC. BB is the leading institutional player among the banks in Hungary's
securities market, accounting for some 40% of total transactions. In 1988, the
bank won a tender issued by the Ministry of Finance to conduct. the issuing,
organization and trading of treasury bills on a nationwide level. Reflecting
the expansion in the bank's activities, BB's staff increased 60% in 1988, to over
1,200, and in 1989, grew further to 1,453.
1.04        Involvement in Bank Group Projects.  Since 1987, BB has been involved
in onlending World Bank funds to the industrial sector under three industrial
restructuring projects, a technology development project, as well as several
projects in the agriculture sector. BB has also served as guarantor in two IFC
projects, and in 1990, is expected to serve as the agency for an IFC line of
credit to finance small and medium-sized projects in the private sector.



65                         =~~~~~~~;ex 2-5
- 65 -                                Page 2
B.    Institutional Asoects
(i)   Institutional Strategy
1.05        BB is currently forming its strategic plan and has drafted a document
outlining its basic objectives, products and markets, strengths and weaknesses,
and development objectives in five key strategic areas. In the meanwhile BB is
taking actions to strengthen its financial position, increase liquidity, improve
the balance sheet, improve its credit portfolio, diversify its customer base,
lend on a more selective basis, and to strengthen other areas. The Bank carried
out a diagnostic review of BB, which highlights the need for BB to identify its
most critical strategies and focus adequate resources on successfully executing
those strategies, build an analytical justification for new markets and products,
and develop a sound financial plan linked to the strategic plan.
(ii) Organization Structure
1.06        BB is headed by a chief executive who also serves as Chairman of
the Board of Directors. The 11-member board of directors represents the major
shareholders of the bank. The Board has sole responsibility for establishing
the business statutes of the bank, and for approving the bank's business rules
and policies.   BB also has a 16-member supervisory committee which oversees
management of the bank and polices violations in the legal provisions and the
charter of the bank.
1.07        BB's organization structure is being modernized in phase with its
strategic plan. It has established an asset/liability management council, added
new functions,  and the six Budapest lending units are being formed into
branch-like units.   However, there is a need to focus its orientation more
clearly on business results rather than activities; to develop operational
policies and procedures, internal controls and standards; to effectively manage
the branch network; and to correctly size each unit to accomplish its required
results.
(ii1) Status of Human Resources
1.08        BB has wide skill development requirements. Actions have been taken
to build recruiting sources, to hire college graduates and to acquire experts
from NBH. A medium and long-term training plan, focusing initially on delivering
basic banking training to young graduates and the majority of existing staff over
the next three years, is being developed. BB is also planning to send people
for training to the International Training Center for Bankers, to organize
language training, to send some staff members to foreign banks for training in
special areas, as well as to conduct internal training. BB needs to fully define
skill requirements and prioritize skills shortfalls so that it can build priority
internal training programs, select external programs, and organize on-the-job
training.



Annex 2-5
- 66 -                             Page 3
(iv) Key Banking Functions
1.09        Credit.  BB is following a selective lending policy, taking active
measures to reduce its proportion of doubtful debts and diversifying its customer
base to reduce the impact of its number of very large customers. A new system
for classifying customers and loans is being implemented and decisions on credit
allocation and follow-up of doubtful debtors are being based on this system.
However, BB still needs to build a comprehensive set of policies and procedures
and to develop effective internal controls. Further, it needs to sharpen its
credit system with respect to assessing and dtealing with credit risk, and
monitoring and following-up on overdue payments and arrears.
1.10        Treasury.  BB's treasury function makes decisions on allocation of
funds, use of excess funds, borrowings, reserves, interest rates, and other
matters. BB is developing procedures, considering establishing a full treasury
group, and planning an automated treasury information system. Until this system
is on line, however, an interim system will be necessary. BB also needs to build
treasury skills among managers and technical staff in the liquidity council and
in the business policy department.
1.11        Planninz. budgeting and oerformance measurement.   BB currently
prepares a one-year plan which is the basis for certain actions of functional
units and for the plans of the branches. The branch-level plans cover deposits,
loans, securities sales, and improvement of the loan portfolio. Branch managers
can earn significant bonuses based on results.   Profitability is monitored
quarterly. Profitability management systems are being developed and applied for
the branches and for several major business areas of the Bank. BB still needs
to develop a planning process, and a budgeting process that fits the planning
process. The process must establish performance measures and goals for the bank
overall, as well as individually by staff and line unit.
1.12        Branch operations.  BB's branch system has expanded rapidly from 18
branches in 1987 to 48 by the end of 1989. Further expansion is planned, based
on market opportunities and budget considerations. BB has developed a model for
a branch and will start to implement it in Budapest.
1.13        Automation.   Automation is required for sound bank management,
competitiveness, and efficiency. The bank has retained outside consultants to
help develop an automation plan which will include general ledger applications,
domestic banking applications, and some international applications. The final
report of the consultants was scheduled to be completed by end march 1990.
1.14        Management information svstems (MIS).  A considerable portion of
its management information is now provided through the NBH computer system.
However, a new and more comprehensive MIS is needed. The Bank is currently
trying to meet some MIS requirements internally, while other information is
being provided by customers, and some MIS requirements will be met through
automation.   Management's needs for information have not yet been clearly
defined. Such definition is a necessary pre-requisite to the development of a
MIS.



- 67 -                    ~~~~~~Arnex 2- 5
- 67 -                               Page 4
1.15        Internal audit.  BB's Auditing Department reports directly to the
Chief Executive and to the Supervisory Committee and checks the books of the
branches at year end. Visits are also made to some branches to check principal
and interest payments. BB needs to build a complete and modern internal audit
function - with skilled auditors to conduct frequent and comprehensive audits
of branches and headquarters units, with sufficient audit tools, and with an
internal environment conducive to effective audits.
C.    Financial Structure and Performance
1.16        The following tables provide an overview of the key elements of BB's
financial structure, and of key indicators of financial performance. (Summary
financial statements and key performance indicators are contained in the
attachment to this annex).Y
Budapest Bank
Chanxes in Financial Position
1987        1988        1989         87 -e       88 - eg
(prol.)       X Chanse    I Change
----------(Ft. Billion)------
Total Assets            84.5         80.9        89.7          -4.2        +10.9
TotaL Loans              53.5        51.9        54.1          -3.0        +4.2
Total Refinancing       31.3         26.9        29.1         -14.0        +8.2
Total Deposits          35.0         29.8        32.2         -15.0        +8.1
Capital                  6.6         8.9          8.4         +35.7        -5.6
Operating Expenses       0.7         2.6          4.0         +263.2       +53.8
Net Income               1.2          1.1         1.8          -4.7        +63.6
Budapest Bank
Financial Performance Indicetors
1987        1988        1989
(preL..)
-------------(Percent)----------------
Loans/Deposits a/                    64.1        84.7        81.5
Loans/Borrowed Funds                 74.7        80.1        76.8
Capital/Assets                       7.0          9.1         9.3
Return on Assets                      1.5         1.3         2.0
Return on Equity                     23.2        14.4        20.2
Net Int. Margin/Avg. Assets           2.7         3.9         4.0
Op. Costs/Avg. Assets                0.9          3.1         2.5
a/ Loans are adjusted for NBI refinancirg.
1.17        Structure.  Total assets of BB grew by 11% in 1989, mainly due to
increases in NBH refinancing and deposit levels which are the principle sources
of funding.  Both increases could point to BB's improved resource mobilization
activities as BB sought more candidates for long-term refinancing--refinanced
loans amounted to Ft29.1 billion, and were predominantly long term- -and increased
its customer base. The 1989 increase more than made up for the decline in assets
in 1988 which was caused mainly by a sharp decrease in short term refinancing
v     It should be noted that the financial statements of Hungarian banks have
not been prepared according to internationally accepted accounting
principles. Also, until a portfolio audit is completed and new
prudential guidelines for loan classification are in place, the correct
level of substandard loans, required provisions, cessation of interest
accrual, and consequentl, valid earnings, are uncertain.



- 68-&e   -
Page 5
resources, reflecting tightening of credit by the monetary authorities, and the
drop in enterprise deposits as the introduction of a profit tax and further
reductions in Government subsidies caused liquidity problems for enterprises.
1.18        Liquidity.  BB's liquidity position improved slightly in 1989, but
has not yet been restored to the desirable level of 70X.   Liquidity had
deteriorated between 1987 and 1988 when deposits fell faster than loans, leading
to a worsening of the loan-deposit ratio, to 851. BB should be able to improve
the situation further with careful monitoring of the situation and assiduous
deposit mobilization.
1.19        Capital Adeauacv.   BB's capital to assets ratioV ratio stayed
virtually the same in 1989 after it improved to 9.11 in 1988, due primarily to
a Ftl.l billion increase in share capital. While this figure appears to exceed
the desirable level of 81, it should be kept in mind that capital may be
significantly overstated since BB is as yet inadequately provisioned against
doubtful debts, and since loan classification standards for doubtful debts, as
well as policies on interest accrual, are weak and arbitrary.
1.20        Earnings Performance.  BB's net interest margin remained almost the
same in 1989 at 4%. This after sharp rise in short-term Lending rates, and
possibly the accrual of penalty interest on substandard loans, helped increase
the net interest margin to 3.9% in 1988.  Also, reduction in BB's volume of
short-term lending decreased commitment fee income substantially. The resulting
decrease in interest and fee incomes were offset by lower operating expenses.
No pretax provisions were made for doubtful loans in 1989. Return on average
assets and average equity grew substantially in 1989 to 2% and 20.21
respectively.
1.21        Loan Portfolio OualitY.  In 1987, when the commercial banks were
created, BB inherited a number of problem loans, the highest among the three
large banks. Bv the end of 1988, the situation had improved, due to a fall in
substandard loans, due in part to write-offs, and a 35X increase in capital.
Since SBS changed the loan classification criteria in 1989, a comparison of
substandard loans between 1988 and 1989 would be difficult. The results of the
special portfolio audit of BB, to be completed in June 1990, however, will
disclose the quality of its portfolio.
1.22        The loan portfolio is potentially further weakened because of the
extent of connected lending and concentration of sectors and borrowers. Poor
performance on the part of these borrowers could therefore have serious
implications for the bank's financial viability.   BB's loans are also heavily
concentrated by sector, making BE vulnerable to downturns in these areas. This
reflects an overall deterioration in the quality of the portfolio due to
increased concentration. Given the ongoing economic restructuring in Hungary,
there is a need for BB to diversify its portfolio rapidly to decrease potential
instability.
L Adjusted to exclude risk reserve.



- 69 -                                 Annex 2-5
Page 6
1.23        Loan Loss Reserves.       BB's loan loss reserves, the "risk reserve
fund" which amounted to Ftl.4 billion in 1988 (2.5% of gross loans) was entirely
exhausted in 1989 by the writing off of bad debts.  Furthermore, BB has not yet
made new provisions in 1989 although it is expected to, following the annual
meeting of shareholders.
1.24        Financial Viability.  The future financial viability of Budapest
Bank will depend upon a number of issues.  First, the true condition of the
loans will be revealed by the forthcoming portfolio audits, both in terms of
arrearages, and in terms of the financial condition of the debtor enterprises.
This, in turn, will provide an indicator as to whether the level of reserves is
adequate, and provide the basis for a potential program to restructure the
portfolio of BB (see SAR, para 3.18). Second, the annual audit will reveal the
extent to which interest is being accrued beyond prudential limits, casting light
on whether the earnings,  reserves,  and capital are real or not.   The new
guidelines and prudential regulations on loan classification and provisioning
that the SBS is expected to put in place under the proposed new Banking Law,
would enhance BB's financial viability in the long run.
II. Commercial and Credit Bank
A.    Introduction
2.01        Backeround. Commercial and Credit Bank (CCB) is Hungary's second
largest commercial bank.   It was created on January 1,  1987  out of the
agricultural and food industry departments of the National Bank of Hungary. It
is a joint-stock company whose shareholders are the Government and enterprises.
At the end of 1988, the Government held 71X of the share capital, with the rest
being held by 1,308 shareholders. By mid-1989, the Government shareholding had
been reduced to 52Z.
2.02        Business Activity.   At the end of 1988, the bank had 58 branches
and offices throughout the country, including the headquarters and two branches
in Budapest.   The branch offices are responsible for appraisal of projects,
disbursement and repayment of loans, administration of deposit accounts, and
branch office accounting. CCB's clients include state farms and cooperatives,
industrial and agro- industrial companies, and trading firms. The bank's customer
base grew from 3,880 clients in 1987 to over 5,500 in 1988. The number of small
enterprise clients grew by 1,100 to 4,100, and net growth in large corporate
customer accounts was 64.   Although until recently the bank has operated
exclusively as a commercial bank for enterprises, it has now begun entering the
retail banking  field.    Thus  far,  lending has  been  concentrated  in  the
agriculture, commerce, and field/forestry subsectors. Reflecting the increase
in the bank's activities, bank staff grew from 1,837 in 1987 to 2,350 in 1988.
Of these, 430 are located in headquarters, and the rest are in the branch
network. In April 1988, CCB established a wholly-owned subsidiary, Xerkantil
Bank, to undertake lease-financing, debt factoring, bond sales, and import
licensing.



- 70 -                                Anex 2-5
Page 7
2.03        Involvement in Bank GrouD Projects.   Since 1987, CCB has been
involved in onlending World Bank funds to the industrial sector under three
industrial restructuring projects, a technology development project, as well as
several projects in the agriculture sector. During 1988, 45X of all investment
loans made, representing Ft2.5 billion, were for Bank-related projects.
B.    Institutional Aspects
(i)   Institutional Strategy
2.04        CCB has made a good start in developing its institutional development
strategy. In June 1988, CCB developed a mission statement, identified strengths
and weaknesses, prepared tentative goals and action plans for both strategy and
institutional development, and assigned responsibilities for completing each task
within targeted deadlines. Since then, target markets and services have been
identified, and the organization, product development, human resources and other
areas have been further developed. The Bank has recently conducted a diagnostic
review of CCB, which highlights the need for CCB to identify its most critical
strategies and focus adequate resources on successfully executing those
strategies, build an analytical justification for new markets and products, and
develop a sound financial projection of the outcomes of the strategic plan.
(ii) Organization Structure
2.05        CCB is headed by a chief executive who also serves as Chairman of
the Board of Directors. The 14-member Board of Directors represents the major
shareholders of the Bank.   CCB also has a 12-member Supervisory Board which
oversees management of the bank. Its day-to-day operations are managed by the
Chairman, assisted by management committees which are composed of the heads of
major departments. The bank underwent a reorganization in March of 1989. Its
new organization structure establishes important new functions, groups its head
office functions into logical clusters for management purposes, clarifies the
role of each department, and generally follows sound organization principles.
However, there is a need to focus the bank's orientation more clearly on business
results and to effectively manage the branch network.
(iii) Status of Human Resources
2.06        CCB has launched several institutional development activities in
the human resources area - in recruiting,  staffing,  training,  performance
appraisal, rewards, and other areas, and its branch rationalization program will
define optimal branch staffing levels.   CCB needs to fully define skill
requirements for each category of job, assess incumbents against skill
requirements, identify and prioritize skill shortfalls, and build the plans and
resources necessary to meet priority skill shortfalls within the quickest
practical time. This will enable .CCB to build internal training programs, select
external programs, and conduct on the job training.



- 71 -                                Annex 2-5
Page 8
(iv) Key Banking Functions
2.07        Credit.  CCB is developing its credit system.  It has prepared a
credit manual, outline credit procedures, developed a client-qualification
system, and developed an extensive base of credit officers. The bank is also
focusing on problem loans and on extending new loans to only the most
creditworthy customers.   CCB needs  to further develop its credit system,
focussing on building internal controls to assess and deal with credit risk and
to classify, monitor and follow up on overdue payments and arrears.   Credit
skills will also need to be developed rapidly to correctly utilize the new
policies and procedures.
2.08        Treasury.  A Liquidity Directorate has been established to manage
the liquidity position, reserves level, borrowings and placings, maturities,
and interest rate risk. However, as automated treasury information will not be
available for another two years, a manual system must be developed for use in
the interim. Sufficient treasury skills must also be developed among managers
and technical staff in the relevant Directorates.
2.09        Plannin2. budzeting and 2erformance measurement.   CCB currently
prepares a one-year plan and a one-year budget. There is an overall bank budget.
In addition, each branch has a budget, and numerous individual categories of head
office expenses are budgeted.   Results against budget in the branches are
measured quarterly against several key performance areas. CCB needs to develop
a suitable planning process at all levels, and a budgeting process that fits the
planning process. It also needs a process that establishes performance measures
and goals for the bank overall, as well as for staff and line units.
2.10        Branch operations.  As part of its branch rationalization program,
CCB is building model branches which will modernize and standardize work
procedures, forms, organization, and job descriptions, and prepare the branch
for automation. After evaluation by senior management, the pilots will be rolled
out to all branches. CCB still needs to improve on the diffused system of branch
management and achieve a greater degree of standardization.
2.11        Automation.    CCB has  retained a data processing  (DP) expert,
organized a DP directorate, prepared an automation plan, and moved ahead in
several areas, which include building infrastructural elements of the DP
directorate, implementing a crash program to become operational in foreign
exchange by year-end, and developing internal systems to meet interim needs that
cannot be handled by the NBH system. Once CCB's strategic plan is finalized,
it needs to review its automation development plan to ensure congruence.
2.12        Management information systems.  CCB is currently thinking through
its MIS requirements. A considerable part of its information is provided through
the NBH system. However, since many areas are not covered at all, a new MIS is
needed. Some MIS requirements will be met internally, and others through the
planned automation program. Management's needs for information have not yet been
clearly defined. Such definition is a necessary pre-requisite to the development
of a MIS.



- 72-                                 Anex 2-5
Page 9
2.13        Internal audit.  CCB has established an independent Internal Control
Department reporting directly to the Chairman. The department plans to conduct
general audits of the branches once every two years and annual audits of head
office operational units. Audit compliance is perceived as being good, managers
are receptive and post-audit follow-up is conducted by the audit team to ensure
correction of deficiencies. An audit manual incorporating sound audit policies,
and practical audit procedures is needed. Also, audit skills need to be upgraded
and expanded.
C.    Financial Structure and Performance
2.14        The following tables provide an overviev of the key elements of
CCB's financial structure, and of key indicators of financial performance.
(Stmmary financial statements and key performance indicators are contained in
the attachment to this annex).
Commercial and Credit lank.
Chanses in Finangial Position
1987        198           989        87 -8e       88 - 89
(prel.)       S Chanse     S Change
------------(Ft. Billion)-------Chthn
Total Assets             160.9       119.8        14Z.7        -25.5        +19.1
total Loans              122.2        94.1        105.7        -23.0       +12.3
Total Refinancing        87.5         55.2         57.0        -37.0        +3.3
Total Deposits           45.6         37.6         46.8        -17.6       +24.5
C&pit4l                   12.9        18.2         22.1        +41.0        +21.4
Operating Expenses        0.7          1.3         1.5         +88.2       +15.4
Not Income                1.9          2.0         2.9         +17.1       +45.0
Comerctil and Credit lank
Financial Perfortancne Indicators
19^         19"          1ses
(prel.)
 e--_----S Percent) 
Loons/Deposits et                     01.0        143.4        134.3
Loens/lorrowed Funds                 93.2         110.7        101.5
Capital/Assets                        8.0          14.5        14.6
Return on Assets                      1.2           1.4         2.2
Return on Capital                     19.1         12.9        14.5
Net Int. Margin/Avg. Assets           2.8          3.9          5.0
Op. Costs/Avg. Assets                 0.5           0.9         1.2
I/ Loans are ad,usted for NJ8 refinancing.
2.15        Structure.  Total assets of CCB increased by 19X in 1989, after.a
25% decline in 1988, which was caused mainly by a sharp decrease in short term
refinancing resources, reflecting tightening of credit by the monetary
authorities, and the drop in enterprise deposits as the introduction of a profit
V     It hould be noted that the financial statements of Hungarian banks have
not been prepared according to internationally accepted accounting
principles. Also, until a portfolio audit is completed and new
prudential guidelines for loan classification are in place, the correct
level of substandard loans, required provisions, cessation of interest
accrual, and consequently, valid earnings, are uncertain.



73 -                                6ez 2-
Page 10
tax and further reductions in Government subsidies caused liquidity problems for
enterprises. The increase in 1989 was mainly due to an increase in the number
of customers of CCB leading to a 25% growth in deposits.
2.16        Liguidity.  CCB's liquidity position improved slightly after having
deteriorated sharply between 1987 and 1988 which was caused by a sharp
deterioration of deposits. The current loan to deposit ratio is 134%. This is
much higher than the desirable level of 70X and CCB needs to take immediate
steps, including assiduous deposit mobilization, to improve the situation.
2.17        Capital Adequacv.   CCB's capital to assets ratioc  was stable at
14.6%, compared to 1988, after a sharp increase in 1988, due primarily to a
Ft3.0 billion increase in share capital.  While this figure apparently exceeds
the desirable level of 8%, it should be kept in mind that capital may be
significantly overstated since CCB is as yet inadequately provisioned against
doubtful debts, and since loan classification standards for doubtful debts, as
well as policies on interest accrual, are weak and arbitrary.W
2.18        Earnings Performance.   CCB's net interest margin to average assets
increased sharply to 5.0% in 1989. A sharp rise in short-term lending, higher
interest rates, and possibly the accrual of penalty interest on substandard
loans, helped increase the net interest margin.   The increase in income was
partially offset by higher operating expenses due to increases in staffing.
Operating expenses  increased,  from  1.31  to  1.5X  of average  assets.    As
competition among the banks accelerates, however, expenditures on staffing and
marketing will increase, and would need to be closely monitored.   No pretax
provisions were made for doubtful loans in 1989. Return on average assets and
on average capital increased to 2.2% and 14.5% respectively.
2.19        Loin Portfolio Oualitv.   In 1987, when the commercial banks were
created,  CCB inherited a number of problem loans.   By the end of 1988,
substandard loans had increased in absolute terms but, due to the large increase
in capital, the ratio of substandard loans to capital improved.   Since SBS
changed the loan classification criteria in 1989, a comparison of substandard
loans between 1988 and 1989 would be difficult.   The results of the special
portfolio audit of CCB, carried out in the second quarter of 1990, will help to
disclose the quality of its portfolio.
2.20        The loan portfolio is potentially further weakened because of the
existence of connected lending, and concentration of sectors and borrowers.
Adjusted to exclude risk reserve fund.
Under the accounting practice followed by CCB, it does not pay taxes or
dividends, nor allocate provisions from gross profits, until the first
quarter of the following year. As a result, the entire figure for gross
profit is shown as retained earnings, which are therefore overstated, as
is net worth. A rough calculation, adjusting for items to be expensed
from gross profits, including taxes, dividends, and other allocations,
yields a capital to assets ratio of 10.5% in 1988 and 13.4% in 1989.



-74-                                  Annex 2-5
Page 11
Poor performance on the part of a few borrowers could therefore have serious
implications for the bank's financial viability. CCB's loans are also heavily
concentrated by sector, making CCB vulnerable to downturns in these areas.
Given the ongoing restructuring in the Hungarian economy, it would be prudent
for CCB to diversify its portfolio to decrease potential instability.
2.21        Loan Loss Reserves.  CCB's loan loss reserves, the "risk reserve
fund", amounted to Ftl.5 billion in 1989,. or 1.41 of gross loans. CCB has not
yet made new provisions for its 1989 results although it was expected to do so,
following the annual meeting of shareholders.
2.22        Financial Viability.  The future financial viability of Commercial
and Credit Bank will depend upon a number of issues. First, the true condition
of the loans will be revealed by the forthcoming portfolio audits, both in terms
of arrearages, and in terms of the financial condition of the debtor enterprises.
This, in turn, will provide an indicator as to whether the level of reserves is
adequate, and provide the basis for a potential program to restructure the
portfolio of CCB (see SAR, para 3.18). Second, the annual audit will reveal the
extent to which interest is being accrued beyond prudential limits, casting light
on whether the earnings,  reserves,  and capital are real or not.   The new
guidelines and prudential regulations on loan classification and provisioning
that the SBS is expected to put in place under the proposed new Banking Law,
would enhance CCB's financial viability in the long run.
III.  Hungarian Credit Bank
A. Introduction
3.01        Dackground.    Hungarian  Credit  Bank  (HCB),  Hungary's  largest
commercial bank, was created on January 1987 from the industrial credit section
of the National Bank of Hungary (NBH).   HCB is a joint-stock company whose
shareholders are the Government of Hungary,  and Hungarian enterprises and
cooperatives.  At the end of 1989, total share capital of the bank was Ft 14.0
billion with the Hungarian state holding 49.4X and the rest held by some 900
enterprises.
3.02        Business activity.  At the end of 1989, the bank had 65 branches
and directorates, a staff of 3,400 of which 20% were college graduates.  It has
6,100 state enterprises and 12,000 small cooperative and private business as its
clients. The total production value of HCB's depositors is approximately 50%
of GDP and 50% of the exports of Hungary. The services of the bank are extended
to non-account owners as well and in 1988, the bank provided services to 1,500
of such clients. Although the bank has operated virtually exclusively as a
commercial bank for enterprises, in 1989 it entered the retail banking market
by offering certificates of deposits to the general population. HCB has been
primarily involved in lending for industrial and infrastructure projects and
beginning 1988, special emphasis has been given to small- and medium-sector of
the economy. HCB has also given special emphasis to encouraging foreign capital



- 75 -                                Annex 2-5
Page 12
investment in Hungary. Some examples of such ventures in which HCB has equity
holdings are: A Soviet-Hungarian trading company involved in trade between the
companies in the two countries, as well as in the developing countries, and the
East-West Real Estate Development Company with the partnership of Swedish Skanska
AB. A pioneer in transforming state enterprises to international shareholding
companies, in 1988 HCB bought most of the shares of Tungsram Co., and with the
assistance of the Austrian Girozentrale A.G., offered and sold 40X of the shares
in West European stock markets. The main competition to HCB is currently from
the other two major banks, but as it moves into the retail mobilization business
it will have to compete with NSB and PostaBank as well.
3.03        Involvement in Bank Group Proiects.   Since 1987, HCB has been
involved in onlending World Bank funds to the industrial sector under three
industrial restructuring projects, and a technology development project, as well
as several projects in the agriculture sector.
B. Institutional Aspects
(i) Institutional Strategy
3.04        HCB's strategy is being developed.  The current strategic situation
focusses on expanding beyond existing products and markets, growing in size, and
improving profitability.   The bank is undertaking considerable growth in its
branch system. Starting with 23 regional directorates and no branches, it now
has 30 regional directorates and 35 branches; 20 additional branches are being
added and more are planned. Retail and international businesses are being built
and foreign exchange, securities and other services are being added.
3.05        In terms of a strategy, further development should focus on building
a strategic plan, i.e., HCB's mission, objectives, strategies and action plans
that will distinguish HCB from other financial institutions and guide its
development over the next few years. The plan should discuss target markets,
products and services, identify how HCB will serve these markets, and how HCB
will maintain or achieve competicive advantage. Moreover, to furnish a credible
basis for specific actions, the plan should be analytically based, i.e.,
quantified.
(ii) Organization Structure
3.06        The chief executive is the chairman of the 10 member board of
directors,  representing the stockholders of the bank.   The board has sole
responsibility for the conduct and monitoring of the ordinary business of the
bank.  A 23-member supervisory committee oversees management compliance with
the charter of the bank as well as policies and legal provisions.



- 76 -                               Anex 2-5
Page 13
3.07        In 1989, HCB implemented a new organization structure to meet its
near term needs. This structure was intended to be transitional until a more
permanent structure can be adopted, along ba'nkholding company lines. Since the
structure was perceived to have some problems, further changes were made in Karch
1990.  The new organization structure is oriented toward enhancing bisiness
results, independent internal control functions, and lead to effective branch
management.
(iii)  Human Resources
3.08        The Personnel Division and line managers of HCB recognize that the
bank faces a major challenge in building the needed scope and depth of skills
across the bank. Actions have been taken to conduct more effective recruiting,
organize and deliver new training programs, and, otherwise, build skill levels.
The bank is moving in the right direction and in further development of its
personnel skill; it must fully define skill requirements, assess incumbents
egainst skill requiremen._s, and identify, prioritize and plan how to meet skill
shortfalls.
(iv) Key Banking Functions
3.09        Credit.  The credit system is being developed by HCB.  The bank is
following a selective lending policy, taking active measures to reduce its
proportion of doubtful debts, and changing its customer mix to build a stronger
loan portfolio. Several tools and techniques are being designed and implemented
to help improve credit decisions and other actions. For example, a new system
for classifying customers and loans has been designed and implemented. Decisions
on credit allocation and follow up of doubtful debtors are being made based in
part on this system. The bank is taking active steps to continue modernizing
and strengthening its credit system. Arrangement has been made to purchase a
financial analysis system for credit purposes.  Experts are studying Western
credit systems for potential adoption. The bank intends to move toward the same
loan appraisal methods and credit risk management system as Western banks.
3.10        Treasurv.   The bank's new organization establishes a Liquidity
Department and a Liquidity Committee to conduct basic treasury functions. The
Liquidity Department is improving its information base and its analytical support
for the Committee.   Plans for further development include establishing an
asset/liability management system, an interest rate system, improving short term
planning and addir.g functions in securities dealing. Special attention should
be given to building treasury skills within the Liquidity Department and the
Liquidity Committee.
3.11        Planning. budgeting and performance measurement.  The bank currently
prepares an annual business plan each year, and a more general three-year plan.
The annual plan becomes the basis for the annual budget.   Each regional
directorate prepares a budget. And, there is an aggregate budget for headquarter
units, wnich focuses on budgeting specific classes of items, such as salaries.
The business plan and budget serve as part of basis for performance requirements
and measurements. Other operational performance measures are monitored regularly
well. The bank is moving towards a system of 'profit centers", within which full



- 77 -                                Annex 2-5
Page 14
income and costs will be allocated to each unit. Further improvements in this
area will be required to develop planning, budgeting and performance measurement
as a basic tool for HCB management.
3.12        Branch o0erations.   HCB is expanding its branch system rapidly.
Starting in 1987 with 23 regional directorates and no branches, HCB now has 30
regional directorates and 35 branches, with 20 more branches being added.
Further expansion is being considered, based on market opportunities, competitive
faccors, and budget considerations. Standards for branch operations need to be
further developed.
3.13        Automation.  Automation is clearly needed for sound bank management,
competitiveness, and efficiency. HCB has retiJned outside consultants to help
develop an automation plan for the bank.   Tiheair draft recommendations were
completed in November 1989, and are being modified to include World Bank
comments. This plan will include basic general ledger applications and customer
accounting, plus some business application in lending, retail and international.
When the Bank's strategic plan is developed, its organization structure
finalized, and its information requirements identified, the automation plan will
need to be reviewed to fully support and fit with these demands.
3.14        Management information system (MIS).  HCB is currently developing
its management information systems requirements. Development of MIS was recently
assigned to the Economics Department.   A considerable portion of current
management information is irovided through the NBH computer system. However,
some important areas are ..ot covered by this system.   In other areas, only
fragmentary information is provided, and some information is redundant. A new
management information system is therefore needed. Some priorities have been
identified but considerable further development must be conducted.
3.15        Internal aud't.  The Internal Audit Unit is not fully independent;
it is combined with other functions and probably too small. The department now
conaucts a series of focused audits in the regional directorates every 6 to 12
months, and regular 'full) audits every three years.   Audit compliance is
considered to be good. In headquarters, periodic audits a.e conducted of certain
areas, e.g., accounting, cash box, the business directorates, inventory, other
valuables and internal investments. The department has regulations that provide
some guidelines for conducting audits. Because there is little tradition of bank
auditing in Hungary, further skills develcpment is needed, and audit policies,
procedures, and techniques should be improved..



- 78 -                               Annex 2-5
Page 15
C. Financial Structure and Performance
3.16        The following tables provide a view of the key elements of HCB's
financial structure and performance.    (Smary financial statements and key
performance indicators are contained in the attachment to the annex).V
Hunxarian Credit Bank
Channe in Financial Position
1987       1988                      87 - 88     as - 89
(prol.)      S Change    S Chngen
------(Ft. Billion)--------------
total Assets            210 3        193.7       220.8        -7.9        14.0
Tota Loans              158.4       137.5        126.3       -13.2        -8.1
Total Reiinsnciza       107.2        88.4         89.5       -17.5         1.2
Total Deposits           66.8 I30.3               66.4       -24.5        32.0
Capital                  16.1        23.9         29.0        48.4        21.3
Operating Expease         1.9         1.3         2.4        -13.3        84.6
Not Incoa                 2.3         2.4          4.2         4.3        75.0
Hungarian Credit Bank
Financial Performance Indicators
1987        1986        1989
(prel.)
-------  ------- (Percent)  --------- ---
Loans/Deposits a/                   98.4         124.7       71.4
Loans/Borrowed Funds                94.7         102.8       77.7
Capital/ls*ts                        7.7          12.0       12.3
Return on Assets                      1.2          1.2        2.0
Return on Equity                    24.1          11.6       15.8
Net Interest Z4argn/Avg. Assets      3.2           3.0        4.1
Op. Costs/Ave. Msts                  0.8           0.6        1.2
j/ Loans are adjusted for NIH refinancing.
3.17        Structure.  Total assets of HCB grew by 14% in 1989.  This was due
mainly to a sharp increase of 32X in total deposits, because of HCB's aggressive
resource mobilization activities. On the assets side the loan portfolio declined
by 8X as HCB improved its liquidity position and increased its investment
activities. The 1989 growth more than made up for the decline in assets in 1988
which was caused mainly by a sharp decrease in short term refinancing resources,
reflecting tightening of credit by the monetary authorities, and the drop in
enterprise deposits as the introduction of a profit tax and further reductions
in Government subsidies caused liquidity problems for enterprises.
3.18        Liguiditv.  According to the unaudited figures for 1989 HCB has
improved its liquidity position significantly. Because of the sharp increase
in the level of deposits and the reduction in tne level of loans, the loan to
deposit ratio improved from to 125% in 1988, to 71X in 1989.
v     It should be noted that the financial statements of the Hungarian banks
have not been prepared according to internationally accepted accounting
principles. Also, until a portfolio audit is completed and tiew
prudential guidelines for loan classification are in place, the correct
level of substandard loans, required provisions, cessation of interest
accrual and consequently, valid earnings, are uncertain.



- 79 -                                Annex 2-5
Page 16
3.19        CaDital adequacy.  The capital (net of risk reserves) to assets
ratio improved slightly to 12.3%1 in 1989, which is substantially above the
desirable level of 8%. Although this figure could be overstated due to the lack
of a satisfactory interest accrual policy, lack of write-offs, and doubts about
the quality of the portfolio, and therefore the appropriate level of
provisioning, it should be noted that share capital represented a healthy 48%
of total capital due to the offering and sale of Ft5 billion of shares in 1988.
No new shares were issued in 1989.
3.20        Earnings performance.  Despite the reduction in the loan portfolio
in 1989, interest revenues grew by 23%. This growth could be explained by the
increase in the lending rates, and possible accrual of interest on substandard
loans which would normally include a penalty rate of 6%. Interest expenses grew
at 18%, leading to an increase in the net interest margin to total average
assets, to 4%. The net interest margin was augmented by the fee income of 2.2%
of average total assets. Operating expenses increased from 0.6% to 1.2% of total
average assets as competition for qualified staff led to higher salaries.
Although the above ratio is bellow acceptable levels, operating costs should be
closely monitored and correctly recorded.  Return on average assets increased
to 2.0% due to reported improve performance but also due to lack of provisioning
for doubtful loans. Return of average equity increased to 15.8% in 1989.
3.21        Portfolio situation.  Based on the reported figures at the end of
1988, the portfolio situation of HCB improved slightly from the previous year.
This decrease is, in turn, due to repayments, as well as active rescheduling
and write-offs. The quality of HCB's loan portfolio, like that of the other
banks, is adversely affected by the concentration by sector and borrower, as
well as connected lending.  A large share of the loan portfolio was concentrated
in a few sectors, making the bank vulnerable to downturns in these areas. Since
SBS changed its loan classification criteria in 1989, a comparison of substandard
loans between 1988 and 1989 would difficult.   The results of the special
port-olio audit of HCB, carried out in the second quarter of 1990, will help to
disclose the quality of its portfolio.
3.22        Loan loss reserve.  The risk reserve at the end of 1989 was Ft2.0
billion (1.6 of outstanding loans). HCB has not yet made new provisions for its
1989 results although it was expected to do so, following the annual meeting of
shareholders.
3.23        Financial viability.  The future financial viability of HCB will
depend on a number of issues. First, the true condition of the loans will be
11    Under the accounting practice followed by HCB, it does not pay taxes or
dividends, nor allocate provisions from gross profits, until the first
quarter of the following year. As a result, the entire figure for gross
profit is shown as retained earnings, which are therefore seriously
overstated, as is net worth. A rough calculation, adjusting for items
to be expensed from gross profits, including taxes, dividends, and other
allocations, yields a capital to assets ratio of 10.4% in 1988 and.10.0%
in 1989.



- 80 -                                Annex 2-5
Page 17
revealed by the forthcoming portfolio audits, both in terms of the quality of
loans and in the financial condition of the debtor enterprises. This, in turn,
will provide an indicator as to whether the level of risk reserves is adeauate,
and provide the basis for a potential program to restructure the portfolio of
HCB (see SAR, para 3.18). Second, the annual audit will reveal the extent to
which interest is being accrued beyond prudential limits, casting lignt on
whether the earnings, reserves, and capital are real or not. The new guidelines
and prudential regulations on loan classification and provisioning that the SBS
is expected to put in place under the proposed new Banking Law, would enhance
HCB's financial viability in the long run.
IV. National Savlngs Bank
A. Introduction
4.01        Background.   National Saving Bank (NSB) was founded in 1949 to
provide banking services to the population and from 1971, to councils and small
ventures. In 1989 with the integration of the consumer and enterprise banking
in Hungary, NSB was given full commercial banking rights and can provide banking
services to the enterprise sector as well. Unlike the other major banks, NSB's
legal status is that of a state enterprise. As such it does not have a share
capital, but an equity fund equal to Ftl6 billion at the end of 1989, and reserve
requirement on its household deposits are 2%, with no reserve requirement on
certificates of deposit (CDs). As a condition of participation in the Project
NSB is to have completed all steps on its part for transforming into a joint-
stock company by June 30, 1990.   This process will be facilitated by the recent
enterprise transformation law.
4.02        Business Activity.  Having had a virtual monopoly in retail banking
until end of 1988, NSB held at the end of 1988, 86% of the household deposits
(about 3 million depositors) and 94% of the credits (some 2 million borrowers).
It has a relatively advanced retail marketing department and a broad network of
627 branches. The main line of lending has been housing loans. Other areas of
lending are quite small in comparison and include small business and consumer
loans with maturities of one to eight years at market rates. NSB supports the
housing industry through direct and indirect involvement in flat construction
(in 1987, 94% of all flat construction in Hungary was carried out with the
financial support of NSB) and runs a profitable lottery business. NSB mobilizes
household deposits by utilizing various traditional instruments, but will need
to modernize them as competition increases.
4.03        CoM2etition.    Prior  to  the  1989  banking  integration,  NSB's
competitors were the savings cooperatives (260) which accounted for 16% of total
household deposits, and which formed the Savings Cooperative Bank in 1989, with
a network of 1,800 branches.   Currently its major competitor is the newly
established PostaBank which has a total capital of Ft2.2 billion, and a network
of 3,200 branches. NSB estimates that it lost some Ft2O billion of its deposits
to PostaBank in 1988 alone.



- 81-                                 Annex 2-5
Page 18
4.04        Major commercial banks such as the Hungarian Credit Bank and the
Commercial and Credit Bank have also started to collect household deposits
through the issuance of CDs, and with the recent removal of the 100l reserve
requirement on household deposits for commercial banks, it is expected that they
would start mobilizing consumer deposits. It is foreseen that in the next few
years, commercial banks will be actively mobilizing long-term household deposits
by issuing CDs and bonds, but would be in a disadvantage due to their lack of
a vast branch network and retail banking skills.
4.05        NSB and Housing finance.  NSB has historically been the instrument
of the Government's housing finance system. A major reform of the system was
undertaken in January 1989, when the practice of extending loans at subsidized
interest rate (3.0-3.5% and maturities of 35 years) through NSB was ended.
Under the new system, housing loans subsidies remain, but are directly and
transparently financed from the State budget.  The existing stock of housing
loans at December 31, 1988, was taken over from NSB (Ft262 billion) and the
saving cooperatives (Ftl6 billion) by a newly created Housing Fund, in exchange
for bonds at equal book value and- variable interest rates.   Currently the
remuneration on these bonds is 23% and NSB receives a 1% administration fee.
Although NSB is now allowed to make housing loans at market interest rates, there
is an informal ceiling on priority loans (to, for example, first time home
buyers) of 24.5% plus 1% administration fee.   A shortage of loanable funds
effectively prevents NSB from granting non-priority housing loans at higher
rates.   This, and the fact that the interest rate on the housing bonds is
controlled by the Ministry of Finance sharply reduces NSB's autonomy and its
ability to raise its profitability. Under the Project, NSB and the Government
have agreed to permit NSB to earn a minimum 3% spread on its housing finance
operations.
4.06        Role of NSB.  In the future, NSB plans to operate as a full retail
bank which also provides housing finance on a profitable basis and is fully
competitive. To this effect, NSB would be transformed into a joint-stock company
and would reorganize it operations leading to the separation of non-banking
activities of NSB such as its lotto and housing construction activities.
4.07        Previous involvement in World Bank Drojects.  NSB has participated
in the small business credit facility of the Third Industrial Restructuring
Project.
B. Institutional Issues
(i) Strategy Development
4.08        NSB  has  recently  done  an  internal  diagnostic  study  of  its
institutional strengths and weaknesses and has worked with a consulting firm to
develop some possible strategic options. Based on this study and a diagnostic
review carried out by the Bank, NSB needs to take further steps to arrive at a
clear and coherent definition of its role in the Hungarian financial syst3m and
should seriously consider to shift its approach from entering into all business



- 82 -                               Annex 2-5
Page 19
lines to focusing on areas where it has a clear competitive advantage. It must
define how its strategies will be implemented and prepare to meet increased
competition in retail banking. Development should focus on building a vision
for the institution, including what business NSB will and will not be iu, how
it will serve its customers and maintain its advantage.   The strategic plan
should be analytically based to furnish a credible basis for specific actions.
(ii) OrQanization Structure
4.09        The managing director of NSB reports directly to the deputy Minister
of Finance.   Three deputy general managers report directly to the managing
director.   Also directly reporting to the general manager are directors of
administration and netwcrk, personnel and labor, and supervision departments as
well as the head of the legal division and directors of 44 regional directorates.
At the end of 1989 NSB had approximately 12,500 employees.
4.10        The current organization structure has a number of weaknesses:  too
many managers report to the managing director, which leads to too much attention
to day-to-day affairs and insufficient focus on developing a strategic direction.
A new organizational structure should be developed which is appropriate to carry
out NSB's strategic  goals.    It should be  designed  to provide  for  the
establishment of functions not currently performed; such as internal audit, and
credit risk management, and to better define line and staff roles and
responsibilities. Furthermore, the excessive number of branch managers directly
reporting to the highest level of management should be reduced.
(iii) Human Resources
4.11        Training and human resource development are crucial to the success
of NSB. Management is required by the Ministry of Finance to spend 1.5X of the
payroll in training, through scholarships, use of university courses and internal
training.  This level is somewhat low by international standards.   To further
develop human resources, jobs throughout the organization need to be redefined
in terms of responsibility for: developing business strategy; defining tactics;
and execution. Personnel department should asses training needs based on the
new job descriptions and, training efforts need to be focused and expanded,
especially, in the areas of business management, techniques of planning,
organizing, implementing, and controlling.
(iv) Key Banking Functions
4.12        Credit. NSB has two sets of credit policy.  Housing credits are
processed based on the Credit Policy Directives issued based on the resolution
of the Council of Ministers, while other credits (consumer loans) are based on
Working Order Rules issued by the bank senior management. Both are in numerous
volumes are cumbersome to use. These credit policies need to be rewritten to
reflect the goals and objectives of the bank (while incorporating those of the
Ministry, where relevant) and procedures need to be simplified to facilitate and
improve credit decisions and actions by staff.



- 83 -                                Annex 2-5
Page 20
4.13        TreasurX.  There is no organizational monitoring or decision making
system for liquidity management in NSB, which is the most problematic area of
the banks operations. The bank's new organization should establish a Liquidity
Department, and special attention should be given to building asset and liability
management techniques in that department. Further policies and procedures need
to be developed in line with diversification of NSB's balance sheet.
4.14        Plannine. budgeting and performance measurement.  Before 1989, NSB's
planning, budgeting and performance measurement was based on: (i) the system of
quantitative quotas and strict legal enforcement of the scope of activities, (ii)
credit and deposit interest rates which bore little relationship with the market,
(iii) profits that were paid into the State budget and retransferred, as NSB
liquidity position required, and (iv) underdeveloped banking techniques duxe to
dependance on the State budget for financing. In 1989 the quota like regulation
of NSB business ceased to exist.   The bank now has more scope to formulate
products and prices, which more realistically reflect market conditions.   In
light of NSB's increasing independence, its planning budgeting and performance
measurement system needs to be further developed.
4.15        Branch operations.  NSB conducts its activities through 645 branches
throughout the country. Of these approximately 200 are lottery and the remaining
445 engage in normal banking activities such as deposit mobilization and loan
processing.  In addition to its own network of branches NSB uses some 3,200 Post
Offices (accounting for 18X of NSB deposits at end 1988) mainly in rural areas,
and 5,000 Mutual Assistance Societies (accounting for less than 1X of NSB
deposits at end 1988) for der,osit mobilization based on a fee. Branch procedures
are cumbersome and involve a great deal of duplication. The procedures manual
c. -sists of 17 volumes of circulars with a legal or compliance orientation.
Strengthening branch procedures is a priority of institutional development for
NSB.
4.16        Management information system and automation.   NSB has retained
outside consultants to help develop an automation plan for the Bank, the results
of this exercise were modified according to discussions with the World Bank and
a short-tarm automation program was developed to be supported by this Project.
dIis entails the installation and operation of the head office and regional
hardware and software to facilitate day to day business. The system will be
further developed and customized based on the Bank's new strategic plan,
organization structure, and information requirement needs.
4.17        Internal audit.  NSB lacks a clear set of internal audit procedures
giving priority to the areas of greatest risk.  The internal audit function
should be staffed with sufficiently experienced professionals, and report
directly to the general manager, to effectively monitor compliance with policies
and procedures.



-  84  -                                             Annex 2-5
Page 21
C. Financial Structure and Performance
4.18             The  following  tables  provide  an  overview  of  the  key  elements  of
NSB's financial structure, and of key indicators of financial performance.
(Summary financial statements and key performance indicators are contained in
the attachment to this annex).V
National Savints Bank
Chanics in Financial Position
im       im               issotpzl          67 - es           8J - as
- -(-t------- . (Ft  BlLion)-
Total Assets                      363.4             380.8            451.3              7.2               15.8
Total Banking Assots               289.0            320.0             302 0            10.7               22.5
Total Housing Loa   /              237.'            282.7             261.4            105                -0.5
Total Loans                       256.4             298.8             354.9            12.2               18.8
Total Deposits                    269.2             293.0             369.5             8.6               26.1
Total Refinancing                   16.6             18.1              14.0             9.0              -22.7
Equity                              11.8             13.0              16.0            10.2               23.1
Operating Expaness                   4.7              6.1               7.3            29.8               19.7
Net Income                           0.7              0.7               7.0             2.0              257.7
a/      The entire portfolio of housing loans was *xchanged With government
housing bonds in 1989.
Includes FT232.4 billion in housing bonds.
National Savings 8ank
Xev Performance Indicators
197              1988              1989
(pral.)
--(-------(Percent)----------------
Loas/Deposits */                                    02.7             95.9              29.4
Loans/Borrowed Funds 9/                             91.6              94.6             30.7
Liquid Assets/Deposits                               5.6               3.2              6.0
Capitol/Assate                                       3.2               3.3              3.6
Return on Aseata                                     0.2               0.5              1.7
Return on Equity                                     o.0              15.9             48.4
Return o_. Equity (from banking operations)          na                0.0             26.0
Not Interest Margin/
Average Assets b/                                    1.4               1.3              3.7
Net Intorest Margin/
Average Banking Assets                               Oa                1.9              4.4
Return from Banking Operation/
Average Banking Assets                               n-                0.0              1.0
Op. Costs/Avg. Assets                                1.*               1.6              1.7
a/ Loans axe adjusted for NBb refinancing. 1987 and 1988 figures include housing bonds.
b/ Interest income includes fees fog administration of housing bonds and loans.
4.19             Structure.   With total assets of Ft45L.3 billion at the end of 1989,
NSB  is  the  largest  banking  institution  in  Hungary.                         Total  assets  grew  by
approximately  15.8  in 1989.   This  increase  is  due  primarily  to a  26X  growth of
deposits  which  is  the  major  source  of  funding  for NSB  (82%  of  tocal  assets  in
1989).  Government housing bonds accounted for Ft232 billion or 51Z of NSB's
total assets at the end of 1989. These bonds are guaranteed by the Government,
and as such, virtually risk-free.
It should be  noted  that  the  financial  statements  of  the Hungarian banks
have not been prepared according to internationally accepted accounting
principles.



- 85 -                                Annex 2-5
Page 22
4.20        Liouitity.  There is an automatic funding arrangement with NBH for
liquidity purposes. Whenever NSB is low in liquidity NBH provides the necessary
refinancing. Conversely, NSB's liquidity situation is reviewed by NBH quarterly,
and in case of excess liquidity, refinancing is withdrawn. NSB's liquid assets
to total assets ratio was 5.3% in 1989.  The liquid assets to deposits which
indicate the ability to quickly react to deposit withdrawals, was a low 5.3% in
1989.
4.21        CaDital adeauacv.  NSB's capital to assets ratio increased slightly
to.3.6% in 1989. It must be noted that this calculation is not based on risk-
weighted assets.
4.22        Earnings performance.  Interest revenues grew by 33.5% in 1989, due
to an increase in the level of lending operations as well as an effective
increase by the Government of NSB's spread on housing finance operations. The
ratio of the net interest margin to average banking assets was estimated at 4.4%
in 1989, resulting in estimated return (from banking operations) on average
banking assets of 1% and on equity of 26%.  Banking operating expenses as a
percentage of average banking assets were 2.1% in 1989, the same as in 1988, but
should be monitored closely as salaries rise.    NSB's income from banking
operations was augmented by income from its housing construction and lottery
operations, resulting in a return on total assets of 1.7%. It is expected that
these operations will be separated from NSB during 1990-91
4.23        Portfolio analysis.  NSB does not incur credit risk on its major
assets, housing bonds, since they are issued and guaranteed by the Government.
In the case of short and medium term loans, arrears are low and affected loans
amount for less than 2% of total loans. Hence, NSB has not been provisioning
for bad or doubtful debt.   The main portfolio problem of the NSB is in its
asset/liability mismatch.  This mismatch is not expected to improve since at
present NSB is obliged to extend housing loans (15 to 25 years maturity, at a
rate of 24.5%) to priority applicants, and there is as yet no secondary market
for housing finance instruments.
4.24        Financial viability.   NSB's financial viability  is potentially
threatened by the pressure on its earnings from the interest rate structure with
which it must contend.  While over the past few years deposit rates have become
increasingly market based, the interest rates on the bulk of its assets are
administered, are not competitive with market rates, and are changed
infrequently.   To permit a satisfactory  financial position  for NSB,  the
Government has agreed to enable NSB to earn a spread of at least 3% on its
housitng finance activities. In addition, on its part, NSB should ensure that
it operates its business activities efficiency, by containing the growth of its
operating costs, and is expected to increasingly diversify into other profitable
banking activities. In the medium term, NSB's financial viability should improve
as the reform of the housing sector would enable yields on NSB's assets to be
increasingly market based.



}JUNGARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Summary Financial Statements of the Four Maior Banks
(Ft. Billion)
Budapest Bank             Commercial and Credit Bank        Hunnarian Credit Bank          National Savinas Bank
BalanceSheeotasoeo             12/31188  12131189  % Chango    12131J88  12131189  % Channe    12/31N88  12/31189  % Change    12131188  12131/89  % Change
(prel)                         (pe)                            (prel.)                        (piel.)
ASSETS
Cash and Deposits                  7.8       7.2      -7.1        22.6      13.3       5.9        202      28.2      39.6         9.9      23.7    139.4
Othe Current Assets                6.7       8.5      27 3         4.9       6.4      30.7         53       2.6    -50.9          6.4       4.1    -35.9
ST Loans                          23.9      22.4      -6 3        37.5      48 0     22.7         553      49.0    -11.4         20.0      43.5    t17.5
M& LT LSdss                       28.0      31.7      132         566       59.7      5.4         822      77.3      -60        278.8    31t.4       11.7
PdlticpalstrwiBwonds               5.8       7.2      25 2         2.7       2.7       1.1         72       12 0     66 7          -        -         -
Other Assels                       8.8      12.7      43 9         56       14 6     161.1        23 5     51.7    120 0         74.7      68.5     -8.3
TOTAL ASSETS                      80.9      89.7      10 9       119.8    142.7      19.1        193.7    220.8      14 0       389.8    451.2       15.8
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Demand Deposit                    20.9      22.0       52         22.9      22 9      -0.1        27.1     37.5      38.4        23.8      44 5      87.0
Time Deposits                      8.0       8.7       1.4         4.2      13.3    214.3         21.0     t4 0      27.3       269.2    325.0       20.7
Tiade Deposits                     0.3       1 5     479 2        10.4      10.6       2.8        12 2      14 9     22.1          -         -        -       co
STRefinancing                      3.2       26      -197          7.5      10.5     40.9         236       175      28.7          -        -         -
LT Refinancing                    23.7      26.5      12 0        47.7      46 5      -2.0        74 8      72.0     -3.7        18.1      14.0    -22.7
Other Liabilities                  15.3     20)0      30 8         8.9      168       89.1        31.1      35.4     13.8        65.9      51.7    -21.5
ShateCapital                       6.4       6.7       40         20.6      22.7      19.9        14.0      24.0      0.0          -         -        -
Reserves                           2.5       1.7    -32 1          7.6       9.4      23.4         99       155      566          13.0     26.0      23.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES ANO EQUITY      80.9      89.7      109        119.5    142.7       19.1       193.7    220.8      14.0    .  389.8    451.2       15.8
Incone Statement for              1988      1989  % Change        1988      1989  * Chanae       1988      1989  % Change        1988      1989 % Change
(plot)                         (prel.)                         (prel.)                        (pltel.)
Intetest Incomsn                    9.4     It 5      22 1        17.0      21.3      25.2        22 5      27.8     23.8         38.8     59.5      53.4
Interes Expense                     62       82       30.1        21.5      14 5      25.7        16 5      19.5     18.2         32.4     43.9      35.5
Provisions                          1.2       -         --          1.7       -        -           20        -         -           -         -        -
Net tnt. Maigin (Attet Prov.)      2.0      3 4      70 8         3.8       88       80.7         4 0       8.3    107.5          6.4     15 6     143.7
Othet Income                        4.6      8 0      74 5          3.t       -        -           58       11.0      89.7        32.6     48 9      50.0
Operating Elxpens"s .               26       40       564           1.3      2.5      15.0         13        2.4      84 6         6.1      72       18.0
Other Expenses                      2.2      37      2101           1.5       -        -           38        80      110.5        30.3     40 9      350
Net Operating icomne                2.8 *    38       34.5         3.9                 -           4 7       8.9     89.4          8.4     16 3      94.0         ID  :s3i
Taxes 11                            1.7      2 0      17 0          2.9       -        -           2.3       4.7    104.3          6.5      93       43.1          t   t3
NETINCOMEAFTERTAX                   1.1      t8       61t3         2.0       2.9      45.0         2.4       42      75.0          2.0      7.0    250.0
t For NSB th4 1988 igure includes taxes withheld on intefost paid on deposits.                                                                                        skn



HIUNOARY - FINANC14!. SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Key Perlormatnce Indicators of the Four Matior llaiiks
(Percent)
Sridr1plqst B.1nto        Commercial and Ctedit Bank          Hungatian Credit Bank             National Savinas Bank
1988       1939                 1988       1989                  1988        1989                   1988       1989
(ps)Co )                       (peel )                           (pool.)                           (peel.)
CAPITAL ADEOU'kCY
Capital/Assets                                      9 1        9 3                 t4.5       14.6                  120         12.3                    3.3        3.6
LIOIiDITY
Loans/DOeposils(exct. estinancing)                84 7        815                 1434       1343                  124.7        55.5                   959        29.4
Liquid Assets/Deposits                            24 8        19 5                33 4        28 3                  40 2        42 5                    3 4        6.0
00
PROFITABILITY                                                                                                                                                                .
Return on Avoerae Absles                            1 3        2 0                  1.4        2.2                   1 2         2 0                   0 5         1.7      I
Retutn on AverdUge CGpital                         14 4       20 2                 12 9       14.5                   9 9        15.8                   15.9       48.4
INTERNAL MANAGEMENT RATIOS
Net Int. Margin/Avereue A61e1s It                  3 9         4 0                 3 9         5 0                   3 0         4.1                    1.3        3.7
Fee IncomoiAvweago Assets                          3 0         2 3                  1 9        2 3                   18          22                     -           -
Opoiatrng Exp /Avoldvje Assets                      3 1        25                   0 9        1.2                   0 6         1 2                    1.6         1.?
Fee Expenso/Avotigu Assots                          t 4        1 4                  1.1        I                    1.1         1.3                   0 2         0.4
1t For NSB, inturwii incomve includes manafornoni lee



- 88 -                              Annex 2-6
Page 1
HUpGARY --FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Current Status of the Securities Market
1.          Recent changes in Government regulations have opened up new avenues
for financial savings. For example, individuals who previously were only able
to place their financial savings with the savings cooperatives or the National
Savings Bank (NSB) now have a relatively wide range of investment opportunities
available, including treasury bills, bonds, certificates of deposit and equities.
As of December 31, 1988, individuals' deposits with NSB totalled Ft 247.1
billion, still dominating the financial market; but they are increasing at a
slower rate than previously, as people gradually become familiar with alternative
investments. The main new instruments now available to investors are briefly
described below:
2.          Treasury Bills: The first primary issue of Government treasury bills
cook place in 1988, for an amount of Ft 1 billion; it has proved very popular,
with some Ft 4.8 billion outstanding at end March 198'. Maturities available
to investors are three, six, or nine months with interest rates (as of March
1990) of 26.25X. p.a.
3.          Certificates of Deposit:  These have been issued to date by about
seven of the larger commercial banks and sold to corporate entities and
individuals. There are currently about Ft 5 billion outstanding with a term of
one to three years.  The commercial 'banks are free to set a market rate of
interest on these instruments but are required to place reserves with the
National  Bank equal to 181 of the deposits.   Annual  interest rates  for
certificates of deposit of up to one year are about 1% to 3% above the official
inflation index.
4.          Bonds:  The recent history of bond financing in Fungary began in
1983, when bonds were reintroduced after a hiatus of over thirty years, first
to finance projects of local administrative councils, and shortly thereafter for
enterprise finance. Initially, bonds could be issued only to enterprises, but
by 1984 sales to households were also permitted.   Bonds have generally been
issued through financial institutions and prior to January 1, 1988 all bonds
issued to individuals were required to be guaranteed by the State.   The
Government has also issued long-term bonds since 1982.   Table 1 shows the
development of the bond market.
5.          As of mid-1989, there were about 350 bonds listed for trading by the
Securities Trading Committee (STC). However, although bonds are freely tradeable
in the secondary market, in which financial, institutions, business units and
individuals may participate, the market has very limited liquidity. As the above
table indicates there was significant issuance activity in 1987 and also active
trading. In 1988 however, the market slumped as investors reacted to fears of
a sudden acceleration in inflation and tax reforms which introduced a new 20X



-89 -                                Annex 2-6
Page 2
Table I
Hungarian Bond Market. 1983-1988
(Ft million)
rStuirt                         Subieribers lb
Total       Central
Year of    Non Govt.    Govt.    Total                 Business Both
tluanee   ffinng L      b ib     L  an"   Household    Units    Sectors
1983          943        2.800    3,743      246         697
1984          871        1,500    2,371      602         269       -
198s        2.289            -    2.289    1.719         570       -
1986        5.707        4,000    9.707    4.275        1.432      -
1987       18.028       10.000   28.028    13.176      4.852       -
1988        Z 163         - --- -            169         5      1 463
Total         QL =1I                                            I9F
La Comprising enterprises (about SO% outstanding value), financial institutions
(abou.t 40%) and local councils.
Lk Subscribers to non-government bonds.
tax on bond income.  At the same time cenitral bank refinancing restrictions
reduced the liquidity of the commercial banks and there was a 4Z increase in the
interest paid on bank deposits. The trading in corporate bonds, for example,
is minimal compared to a value of about Ft 4 billion, or 50X of total
outstandings in the first half of 1988. The commercial banks have also taken
certain measures in an attempt to stabiliZe and restore confidence in the market;
these include paying an additional 1X interest provided the issuer does likewise
(however as most of the bonds outstanding are at an annual 11% fixed rate, the
new annual rate of 13X still does not compare with the yield on other
investments).   The banks are also "making a market" in the bonds they have
respectively sponsored or guaranteed, by publishing sale and purchase prices for
each bond in the weekly stock exchange bulletin.   But demand remains limited
becauss it is generally felt that these prices are still too high. Some of the
banks also offer investors short term repurchase agreements for the bonds, at
effective annual yields of about 30X.
6.          However, it is clear that the market will not be rejuvenated without
some decisive steps, for example that the "market makers" who now hold most of
the bonds outstand!.ng allow the price of bonds in their portfolios to fall to
a market determined level and that more flexible pricing terms be introduced for



90                               Annex 2-6
Page 3
new issues. In 1989, these char-es began to take place, and the few primary bond
issues were priced with a return indexed to the official inflation rate.
7.          Equities.   As of 1989, the STC 'listed'  the shares of some 85
companies as available for trading. Of these, about eleven are banks which were
established as joint- stock companies upon the reorganization of the banking
system in 1987; another ten are new companies created upon the breakup of one
state-owned conglomerate  (Medicor);  and a handful are companies  that have
retained their original (pre-war) structure. The remainder are new companies
established to take advantage of the Law of Association (introduced in 1989),
which permits joint-stock corporations and private shareholdings.  A list of 32
of these companies which have paid dividends is provided in Table 2. Dividends
for most of these companies in 1988 ranged from 8X to 12X.
8.          Because both bearer and registered shares are common in Hungary, it
is not possible to clearly identify the ownership of share companies. However
there are believed to be very few individual equity investors, with most of the
shares being held by financial institutions and other companies.
9.          Trading in equities takes place either through the STC when its
members meet (currently thric-e a week), or else directly between banks and
brokers. The embryo of a stock exchange began to develop in Hungary in December
1987 when 25 banks and financial institutions signed an agreement to coordinate
their trade in securities. The STC was formed at that time as an independent
body, but with its expenses shared equally among the agreement's signatories.
The responsibility of the STC is to organize trade, including the exchange days
where brokers gather to buy and sell, and to collect and publish data. In June
1988 a management body, the Exchange Council, was also established and an "in
house" Ethics Committee, which reports directly to the general meeting of the
signatories to the securities trading agreement.
10.         Trading in the listed shares has been minimal: for the nine month
period  from August 1988 to April 1989, only eight trades took place on the
exchange days; the total value of these trades was about US$370,000 equivalent.
For the same period, another ten trades were reported to the STC, with a value
of about Ft 24 million (about US$462,000 equivalent) and there was also a Ft 280
million (about US$5 milliou equivalent) public issue for Strada-Skala in October
1988.   In the latter part of 1989 there was, however, an increase in share
activity. The STC estimates that for 1989 overall, turnover was Ft 534 million
(about US$9 million), and that there were a total of 126 transactions.
11.         The low volume of trading suggests that there is a very small float
on most of the shares, with the shareholdings of most companies being held by
sponsors or institutions for long-term investment. Trhere also have been as yet
very few public issues.  The first issue in 1989 was a small issue of Ft 200
million for Skala Coop, a trading company with issued capital of Ft 3 billion,
which was launched in May 1989.



91  -                                             Annex 2-6
Page 4
12.              The Government has encouraged the participation of non-bank financial
institutions in the market, and in 1989 three independent brokerage companies
began trading. The volume of activity has begun to show an increase as these
companies, unlike the commercial banks, may not trade on their own account
(because of their small capital base) but rely on generating customers' orders
for business.
Table 2
Joine Stock Com2anies Paving Dividends
Year
Company                                Sector    Established        Capital               Oividands (%1
iQ! 5     Q86    1Q87      q88
Agrobank Rt.                            bank          1987           1500        10.8     11.5    12.44    10.0
Altalanos Ertekforgalmi Bank Rt.   bank               1923           1000          -        -      8.00   n.a.
Altalanos Vallalkozasi Bank Qt.         bank          1985          2200.5        5.67     3.18   9.76    10.0
Budapest Sank Rt.                       bank          1987           5332          -        -     17.0      12.0
Epitoipari Innovacios
Sank Rt.                                bank          1986           1160          -       7.00   3.00   n.a.
Geominco Rt.                            industry      1969            39.5        9.0     19.5    15.2    n.a.
Interbank Rt.                           bank          1987         2175.5          -        -      8.00   n.a.
tparbank Rt.                            bank          1987          1060.7         -        -       -       10.0
Konzumbank Rt.                          bank          1987          1042.4         -        -     11.0      11.0
Magyar Hitel Bank Rt.                   bank          1987         13983.0         -        -     17.0      12.0
Magyar Kulkeresxedelmi Sank Rt          bank          1950          4374.0         -        -     12.0      12.00
Mezobank Rt                             bank          .1988         1166.0         -        -      8.00   n.a.
OKHB Rt.                                bank          1987         10059.0         -        -     12.00    13.00
Novotrade Rt.                           other         19L4           124.5       14.00    14.0    14.0      18.0
Atlas Utazasi Biztosito Rt.             insurance    '988           1000.0         -        -        -      12.00
Bonitas Rt.                             services      !988            36.0         -        -       -       12.00
Co-Nexus Rt.                            misc.         1988            51.3         -        -        _      n.a.
Garancia Biztosito Rt.                  insurance    "988           1050.- -                         -      n.a.
medicor Elektromedikai Ri.              industry      1988           673.0         -        -       -       n.a.
Medicor fovallalkozasi Rt.              services      !988            59.0         -        -       -        3.00
Medicor Kereskedelmi Rt.                services      1988           341.0         -        -       -        8.00
Medicor Maras Sutor Ipari Rt.           industry      1988           190.6         -        -       -       n.a.
redicor Medorg Rt.                      services      1988            13.7         -        -       -       n.a.
Medicor Muszaki Fejleszto Rt.           industry      1988           113.5         -        -       -       n.a.
Medicor Orvosi Muszeripari Rt.          industry      1988           666.0         -        -       -      n.a.
Medicor Respi.-uor Ipari Rt.            industry      1988           215.5         -        -       -        8.00
Medicor Rontgen Rt.                     industry      1988           780.0         -        -       -        3.72
Medicor Szerviz Rt.                     services      19a8            46.2         -        -        -       8.00
Postabank es Takarekpenztar Rt.         bank          1988          2229.5         -        -       -       12.00
Skala Coop Rt.                          services      1988          2268.0         -        -       -       12.00
Sztrada Skala Rt.                       trading       1988           217.5         -        -       -       12.00
Trade-Coop Rt.                          services      1988           714.0         -        -       -       8.00



- 92-                              Annex 2-7
Page 1
HUNGARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Letter-On- Accounting and Auditing Reform Program
Budapest, February 23, 1990
Mr. Willi A. Vapenhans
Vice President
The World Bank
RE: ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING REFORM PROGRAM
(HUNGARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT)
Dear Mr. Wapenhans!
As you know, the Hungarian economy is at present in a state of transition, from
a centralized command economy to a market economy with an enterprise sector with
mixed ownership, and with increasing international economic contacts in the form
of trade, financing and investment. The financial sector is also being developed
rapidly from its rudimentary beginnings. This deep and substantial process of
change requires significant reforms in a number of areas.
In the post-war years, Hungarian accounting and auditing standards and practices
developed as then required to meet the requirements of a centrally planned
economy. With the gradual build up of a market economy and as a part of it, the
rapidly expanding elements of economic competition between enterprises, it is
also vital that Hungary's accounting and auditing requirements are reformed.
This reform process is already under way, e.g., with the introduction in 1988
of the standard chart of accounts. At the same time, the accounting and auditing
profession has been strengthened through the increasing involvement of recognized
international accounting firms.
The need has become increasingly apparent fot systemic changes in Hungarian
accounting and auditing, which was created for vastly different circumstances.
Accordingly, the Government has decided to effect a reform of the accounting
and auditing standards and practices, with a view to bringing these substantially
in line with recognized international standards.
Briefly, the systemic changes will be as follows:
(a) The preparation of a new Law of Accounting. This Law wil.l establish
the general framework for accounting and auditing, including the
establishment of the concepts of "Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles!' (GAAP) and "Generally Accepted Auditing Standards (GAAS);



- 93 -
Annex 2-7
Page 2
(b)   The new Law will also establish legally a "Hungarian Accounting
Standards Board", which will have representation of Government
entities, professional bodies and user groups. We expect that the
existing "Council for Accounting Methodology" may serve as the basis
for this Board. It will be responsible for accounting and auditing
principles and guidelines, in accordance with the Law;
(c)   The Hungarian GAAP will essentially meet international standards,
following the existing standards by the International Accounting
Standards  Committee.    Accordingly,  the  GAAP  will  follow  the
principles of consistency, prudence, matching and going concern.
They will also establish clearly and unambiguously that accountants'
prime responsibility is to present an end product (financial
statements) that adhere to the GAAP, and not to follow specific rules
and regulations, except where explicitly required, mostly for
taxation purposes.
In our intention the Law will establish that all commercial, financial and
industrial enterprises (over a set size) shall be subject to annual audits by
qualified auditors and undertaken in accordance with the GAAS. (For practical
reasons, the Law will have to introduce this requiremet-  in a gradual nanner.)
The GAAS will in important parts follow the existing standards issued by the
International Federation of Accountants.   The auditing principles in the Law
will be supplemented by recommendations and guidelines issued.by the Board. In
addition, it may be necessary for the Ministry of Finance to issue specific
regulations from time to time; these will be prepared on the basis, inter alia,
of the recommendations of the Board.
In order for the Government to be able to make the necessary changes within a
tight time table, consultants have been recruited as follows under terms of
reference that have been agreed with the Bank:
(a)   A senior adviser (name of advisor] to advise the Government through
the Ministry of Finance on accounting and audicing matters,
particularly concerning the reform process; and
(b)   A firm of qualified international consultants (name of consultants],
whose tasks are outlined below.
The accounting consultants will undertake the following main tasks:
(a)   gelp prepare the Accounting Law and the initial GAAP including model
financial statements;
*                (b)   Make recommendations for the GAAS;
(c)   Make recommendations concerning the operations of the Hungarian
Accounting Standards Board;



- 94 -
Annex 2-7
Page 3
(d)   Help prepare a draft Commentary to the Hungarian GAAP and GAAS that
will serve as a guide for accountants and auditors, and that will
be translated into English for international use; and
(e)   Prepare a draft program for the presentation to the accounting and
auditing profession of the reform program, and to prepare material
for the dissemination of the reformed standards.
The Government is aware that it will take some time before the revised standards
and increased requirements of accountants and auditors will have been fully
absorbed, and until the professions have grown sufficiently in quality and
quantity to deliver a consistent product fully in line with the requirements.
It is therefore important that the systemic changes be accompanied by a longer
term program of dissemination and education.  The Government will review and
discuss with the Bank possible ways of introducing appropriate changes in the
education and certification of accountants and auditors. It will also encourage
the improved use of accounting information for economic decisions, in particular
within enterprises.
The Government is intent to effect the systemic changes in accounting and
auditing quickly. To this end, the following program will be followed:
(a)   The senior adviser and the firm of accounting consultants have
already been appointed;
(b)   The draft of the Accounting Law will be prepared and reviewed very
quickly, so that it can be presented to Parliament in time for it
to take its decision by October 1990;
(c)   To this end, the consultants will be expected to present their
reasonably complete recommendations as follows:
- Concerning the Law: Soonest
- Concerning the GAAP and GAAS: By end February 1990.
- Of the training and dissemination program: By end April 1990;
(d)   The initial recommendations to support the GAAP and GAAS, together
with the Commentary, will be published by December 1990;
(e)   The above actions will permit the reformed system to be in place
from fiscal year 1991.
The preparation and implementation of the accoutnting and auditing reform program
will require the concerted effort and support of various Government entities,
as well as close supervision of the consultants and the prompt action on their
recommendations. In order to permit this to take place, the Government has made
the necessary arrangements.



- 95 -
Annex 2-7
Page 4
In conclusion, the Government intends to move very quickly and decisively in
order to bring Hungarian accounting and asditing standards to an international
level within the time table outlined above.
This is important for the successful continuation of the economic reform program,
and in particular for the development of a vibrant private and mixed sector
together with the rationalisation of the public enterprise sector. The World
Bank has been actively involved in the improvements in accounting and auditing
to date. The Government would appreciate the continued involvement and support
of the World Bank in this effort.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely
(Signed)
Laszlo Bekesi
(Minister of Finance)



- 96 -Annex 31
Page 1
HUNGARY * FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIMATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Profram for the
Legislative Framework. Regulations and SuDervijon of Banks
1.          The technical assistance (TA) program is designed to help strengthen
the capacity of the State Bank Supervision Agency (SBS), in what concerns the
legal  and  prudential  regulatory  framework  for  finanwiaal  intermediation
activities, and the corresponding supervision of these activities.
Components
The aspects covered under this program are:
(a)   banking law, including prudential regulations;
(b)   issues related to the forelgn exchange decentralization;
(c)   lnternal organizational aspects;
(d)   procedures and manuals;
(e)   human resource development;
(f)   automation needs; and
(g)   portfolio audits.
A.  Bankine_Law
2.          Currently there is no single piece of legislation that establishes
a comprehensive framework for the operations of financial intermediaries or for
banking supervision. As a first step in the design of such framework, a draft
outline (thesis) has been prepared by SBS identifying the main aspects and
principles to be covered by the banking law. The authorities envisage a law that
would cover the overall framework of operations as well as prudential regulation
and supervisory issues.
3.          Prudential regulation is the set of rules established to prevent
financial intermediaries from exposing themselves to excessive risk that may
endanger their solvency. As mentioned in the main report (para. 2.39), SBS is
in the process of upgrading the prudential regulatory framework. However, some
further modifications will be necessary ir order to promote a sound and safe
financial intermediation system. In particuLar, areas in need of strengthening
are: (i) licensing system, (il) capital adequacy, (iii) lending to related
parties, (iv) liquidity requirements, (v) credit limits, (vi) investment limits,
(vii) provisioning and write-offs of douotful and bad loans, (viii) suspension
of interest accrual, (ix) foreign exchange transactions, (x) clearing system,
(xi) sanctions, (xii) SBS powers.
4.          Financial assistance will be provided under this TA program to cover
the foreign costs of a consultant that would provide suppoxt during preparation
of the law until lts submission to Parliament, which is expected to take place
in the last quarter of 1990.   Issues in foreign exchange regulation will be
covered under component B below. The consultant's assignment in this area cover
the following:-



.97 -                             Annex 3-1
Page 2
(i)   review of the proposed thesis for the law and initial consultation
between Hungarian parties and consultant on basic contents of each
of the chapters of the law;
(ii) after Hungarian counterparts have prepared the draft law, review by
consultant, and preparation of comments and recommendations;
(iii) after review of comments and recommendations by Hungarian
counterparts, consultations to make final decision, and agreement
on the draft law to be presented to Parliament.
B.  Foreign Exchange Decentralization
5.          As part of the banking reform measures, the Hungarian authorities
have started to decentralize foreign exchange operations to the commercial banks,
beginning in January 1990.   SBS, jointly with NBH, has been requested to
determine the criteria, as well as conditions to be imposed, for allowing the
commercial banks to enter into foreign exchange trading and operations.
6.          The primary objectives of prudential regulations on foreign exchange
trading are: (i) to ensure that the banks comply with foreign exchange controls,
rules and regulations; (ii) to ensure that banks have sufficient experience,
management, operating systems and procedures to monitor and control the risks
related to foreign exchange trading; (iii) to ensure that the banks do not engage
in such trading as to endanger their own solvency; ('v) to ensure that the canks
do not engage in foreign exchange operations that are contrary to nationol
policy.
7.          To be able to supervise foreign exchange operations effectively,
SBS must establish its own examination capability to monitor and ensure that
procedures and limits are operating effectively and prudentially to prevent
speculation in foreign exchange, which could not only affect the liquidity of
the banking system, but also its solvency.  The separation of supervision of
the foreign exchange side of the operations of the commercial banks should
normally be divided along the liquidity aspects (under NBH) and the solvency
aspects (under SBS).  This means that the NBH will be responsible for monitoring
on a daily basis the maintenance of operating net positions of the banks in
foreign exchange, while the SBS will conduct regulation examinations to  nsure
that limits and procedures are complied with, such that the solvency of the .anks
are not affected by foreign exchange operations.
8.          This component of the TA program will provide technical assistance
to the NBH/SBS for the formulation of strategies, prudential guidelines and
training on foreign exchange decentralization.  Given the embryonic state of
development of these aspects, and the urgency to proceed with the development
of the foreign exchange markets, assistance under this component has been
initiated in the fourth quarter of 1989.  The consultant's assignment in this
area will cover the following:



- 98 -                             Annex 3-1
Page 3
(i)   initial consultations with Hungarian counterparts on key issues;
(ii) sunport in design and implementation of prudential regulation on
foreign exchange trading, and mechanisms for monitoring.
C. Internal Organizational Aspects
9.          This component of the technical assistance program is targeted to
provide SBS with an organizational structure adequate for fulfilling its
functions satisfactorily, allowing for promptness and efficiency in dealing with
the institutions under supervision. It includes both static and dynamic features
of the organization. From a dynamic perspective, the organizational design must
ensure proper interaction and coordination among. different areas, in particular
in what refers to the flow of information across them.   The consultant's
assignment in this area will cover the following:
(i)   review of the current organizational structure;
(ii) proposal of an upgraded organizational structure, as necessary.
D. Procedures and Manuals
10.         In this area the TA program covers:
(i)   off-site surveillance system.  A system should be adopted for off-
site monitoring of the financial performance and condition of oanks.
This system should be principally based upon enhanced prudential
reporting to SBS. Packages for off-site surveillance have already
been developed and are quite readily available. This sub-component
of the TA program would cover the foreign costs due to the
acquisition of a suitable package, adaptation to and implementation
in SBS, and preparation of the corresponding manual. Assistance will
cover the following stages:   (1) acquisition of software;  (ii)
adaptation to and implementation in SBS; and (iii) preparation of
the corresponding manual
(ii)  on-site bank examination.  Adequate on-site examination procedures:
(i) allow for technically sound bank examinations and consequently
better knowledge of the true financial condition of financial
intermediaries, (ii) provide the banking superintendency with an
appropriate tool for controlling whether the bank under examination
has been complying with all relevant regulations, and (iii) shorten
the time devoted to each bank examination, improving examiners'
efficiency, and allowing for increased frequency in the visits.
Procedures should reflect the needs of the local banking environment
and should emphasize the most critical areas of risk assessment,



- 99 -                             Annex 3-1
Page 4
including the CAMEL' components, and the adequacy of management
systems2 in the institutions themselves.   The standardization of
examination reports both makes examiners' efforts more effective,
and eases SBS's decision-making process. Written procedures for bank
examinations are essential to provide consistency and objectivity
among examiners, to support examination conclusions, and to serve
as learning aids for new and developing staff. Assistance will cover
the following stages: (t) review and upgrading as necessary of on-
site examination procedures; (ii) design of a standard examination
report; and (iii)-preparation of the examination manuals.
E.  Human Resource Develoomen,
11.         Establishing a strong and efficient SBS requires an adequ.ate number
of staff, with specific skills.   SBS has successfully managed to attract a
significant number of new staff members. Currently, there are about 30 staff
members, of which about half are higher-level.
12.         Upgrading and development of skills should be tackled through an
adequately designed training program, which should include both formal training
--in the form of courses and seminars--, and informal training in the form of
working sessions with experienced professionals in the area of bank regulation
and supervision.   In this area,  the TA program covers  the foreign costs
associated to the design and implementation of such program. More specifically
it will cover:
(i)   development of the training program by a bank supervision training
expert;
(ii)  first two years of the implementation of the formal and informal
training programs, with participation of international bank
supervision experts;
(iii) study trips to foreign countries (specifically, attendance by two
SBS staff members, twice a year, to the Federal Reserve System/World
rank seminar for bank supervisors, and visit of selected SBS
officials to neighboring central banks and bank supervision, to
obtain expertise in the methodology and procadures involved in
setting up off-site surveillance mechanism and database).
13.         In what concerns the formal training program, some of the courses
and seminars would cover matters of general interest to all; examples of such
CAMEL is an acronym standing for capital, asset quality, management,
earnings, and liquidity, asset and liability management.
2 The most  importan: management systems  include wricten policies and
procedures, internal and external audit activities, loan review, internal
controls, budgeting, short- and long-range planning, and management information
systems.



- 100 -                            Annex 3-1
Page 5
matters are: introduction to banking supervision, banking laws and regulations.
Financial analysts must be trained to focus their analysis on unveiling the true
financial condition of the banking institutions being studied, and the assessment
of the likely evolution of their liquidity, solvency and profitability. Bank
examiners should be trained essentially in integral financial analysis, risk and
loan portfolio evaluation techniques, and computerized systems auditing. The
basic targets to be achieved by examiners completing the training program are
to: (i) understand the importance of appropriate bank examination objectives,
activities and reports; (ii) be able to perform technically adequate bank
examinations; (iii) be able to produce precise, and technically sound reports;
(iv) have a thorough knowledge and understanding of financial concepts and
analysis, so that they are able to adequately analyze banks' financial condition;
(v) understand the operational structure of a banking institution and how
internal controls and audit procedures protect that structure; (vi) understand
the significance of loan portfolio quality, and loan policies and management;
(vii) be able to analyze the quality of a loan portfolio and the adequacy of the
corresponding provisions; and (viii) be able to evaluate the quality of a bank's
loan management systems.
14.         Following is a tentative list of courses/seminars to be included in
the formal training program:
-     Introduction to bank supervision
-     Banking laws and regulations
-     Bank examination techniques and procedures
e     Risk and loan portfolio evaluation techniques
-     Analysis of earnings and c:apital
-     Analysis of liquidity, asset and liability management
-     Bank management appraisal
-     Internal and external audit and incernal controls
-     Integral off-site financial analysis
-     Overall assessment of financial condition (CAMEL)
-     Basic aspects of dealing with problem banks
*     Foreign exchange operations
-     Computerized systems evaluation and auditing
F. Automation Needs
15.         A strong bank supervisory agency requires a well designed managemer.t
information system and strong technical capacity mainly in terms of data
processing equipment. The SBS Information Department has devised a preliminary
automation strategy based on two key objectives: (i) a unified/shared database
for the agency, covering both the bank and securities markets supervision units;
and (ii) a phased/block building approach using micro-computers for each market
function, to be linked to the central database.
16.         As per this strategy, the bank supervision group would have a total
of fourteen personal computers, with one serving es a server, operating a local
area network (LAN). Standard word-processing, spreadsheet and database software
would be used.



101                      Fo~~~~~Anex 3-1
Page 6
17.         This component of the TA program would cover:
(i)   the foreign costs of expert support  in (a)  the design of the
management information system, and (b) the preparation of the
necessary software programs;
(ii)  the foreign costs of computer equipment, including (a) 10 personal
computers for the bank supervision unit--which has already acquired
4 of the 14 required, and (b) a mainframe which would support bank
supervision, securities supervision, and possibly the stock exchange.
G. Portfolio Audits
18.         SBS has agreed to conduct a special portfolio audit for three
commercial banks as of December 31, 1989, to assess the quality of their asset
portfolio, the adequacy of provisions and the impact on financial condition.
These audits will be carried out by international firms of external auditors;
the corresponding foreign exchange costs will be covered under this components.
Terms of reference for such special audits are in Annex 3-4.
Cost Estimate and Timetable
19.         The above program is estimated to cost US$1.4 million in foreign
exchange and US$0.5 million equivalent in Hungarian Forints. The timetable and
time estimates for consultants (excluding for the portfolio audits) are included
in the following list.
Timetable and Time Estimates
Component                             Date                      Time Estimates
(person-weeks)
(1) Banking Law                       11/90-IV/90                     11
(2) Foreign Exchange Liberalization IV/89-IV/90                       10
(3) Internal Organizational Aspects II/90-IV/90                        2
(4) Procedures and Manuals            II/90-II/91
(a) Off-Site Surveillance
S stems     II/90-III/90                      6
(b) On-Site Examination
Procedures  III/90-III/91                    10
(5) Human Resource Development        II/90-11/92                     55
(6) Automation Needs                  IV/89-I/92                      21
(7) Portfolio Audits                  I/90-II/90                     n.a.
Total Consultant Weeks                                               11



- 102 -
Annex 3-2
Page 1
HUNGARY X F- NNCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Overview of the Assistance Program for the Maior Banks
1.          As described in Chapter III, one of the princiral objectives of the
Project is the strengthening of the operations and the long-term financial
viability of the Hungarians banks. The development needs of the banks, to be
supported by the Project, are in the areas of institutional develogment ,
information technoloev develo2ment, and  ingancial strengthening.  With regard
to financial strengthening, banks are expected to improve the quality of their
portfolio by undergoing annual audits and a special portfolio audit undertaken
by the State Banking Supervision Agency, by adjusting their financial position
to reflect the results of these audits, and by better managing their
institutions, as discussed below. Thus far, detailed programs in the areas of
institutional and information technology development have been developed for four
of the banks -- Budapest Bank (BB), Commercial and Credit Bank (CCB), Hungarian
Credit Bank (HCB), and National Savings Bank (NSB) -- which have been appraised
by the Bank. The scope of the assistance programs for these banks is discussed
in Sections I and II below. In addition, the banks have agreed to implement an
action program, of which the elements are discussed in Section III below.
I.    Institutional Development Program
2.        - The Project is supporting each of the participating banks in the
formulation and development of institutional development programs (IDPs) to help
address their major institutional deficiencies.  Based on a diagnostic review
of the institucional development needs of each bank, it is clear that while each
has undertaken some efforts in this area, further strengthening is required in
most functional areas.  Action programs for each bank have been developed to
fulfill this need. While the programs for BB, CCB and HCB are more focussed on
the corporate lending business, NSB's program would help develop its retail
banking activities, and steps to improve its autonomy from che Governmene.
A.    BB. CCB and HCB
3.          The program would support consulting assistance for each bank, to
help management in building a sound basis for developing a strong bank that can
be responsive to the rapidly evolving economic environment. Specifically, the
assistance would help the banks to:
o     Further develop the strategic plan of the bank.  The plan should
cover the bank's objectives, target markets and services, actions
to be taken to meet objectives, resources requirements, and projected
financial outcomes.
o     Develop an organizational  structure  of headquarters  units  and
branches that will maximize successful implementation of the
strategic plan.



- 103
Page 2
o     Define specific skill reguirements for managcment, specialist and
key clerical positions, assess and prioritize skills shortfalls, and
develop practical plans to meet the shortfalls as quickly as
possible.
o     Expand on the credit management process  to build policies and
procedures required for effective management of all aspects, fror
origination through approval, monitoring, and problem loan
management. Particular attention will be given to building effective
internal controls, to assessing and dealing with credit risk, and
classifying, monitoring, and following up on overdues and arrears.
o     Develop an interim, manual treasury information svstem for use until
an automated system is in place, develop the specifications of an
automated creasury information system, and provide training in core
treasury skills.
o     Develop and docum.ent a suitable planning process at all levels of
the bank, and develop a btudetin.g process to fit the planning
-     process.   Develop a performance measurement svstem for the bank
overall, and for staff and line units, including an effective
monitoring system to ensure goal achievement.
O     Design a management information svstem to meet the needs of senior
headquarters and branch managers.- The system will be designed to
be implemented manually, to the extent possible, until it can be
automated.
O     Develop  the  internal  audit  function  by  preparing  a  manual
incorporating sound audit policies and practical audit procedures
utiliZing, to the extent practical, the bank's existing audit polices
and procedures. Also training programs in core audic skills will
be developed, or provided.
B.    NSB
4.          The assistance program will help NSB to:
o     Take, by June 30, 1990. all measures required on its part to enable
NSB's conversion into a ioint stock companv, and subsequently
relinquish  during  1990-91,  its  non-banking  activities  (e..g.
construction activities and lottery).
O     Update  its  strategic  plan,  which  defines  the  future  business
orientation of NSB, including which lines of business NSB is best
suited to undertake.
o     Develop and implement an appropriate corRorace and institutional
structure relevant to the business in which it is engaged.



- 104 *                            Annex 3-2
Page 3
o     Strengthen ar.d simplify internal controls including development of
procedures for, and staffing of, the internal audit function.
o     Develop asset and liability management techniques,  policies and
procedures, in line with diversification of NSB's balance sheet, and
to develop an interbranch transfer pool mechanism to ensure the
optimal use of funds.
o     Develop a series of pilot proiects at model branches in selected
regions to improve: effectiveness at managing customer relationships,
efficiency in processing transactions and information, and employee
retail banking skills and motivation. Once successful models have
been identified, the pilot projects will be implemented bank-wide.
Areas to be tested include:
-     simplification of operating procedures and preparation of a
procedures manual, to be used as a guide for bank staff, as
a basis for internal audit and as a precursor to the
development of defined requirements for operations automation;
improvement in marketing by developing new retail financial
instruments and services, developing an approach to selling
NSB services, and developing sales training for branch staff;
improvement in personnel management by defining the type of
staff most appropriate to a retail banking environment,
developing performance measurement systems for staff, and
identifying effective performance incentives;
development of a simplified Management Information System (MIS)
to meet the needs of managers in the areas of risk management,
customer segment analysis, earnings and expenses, and
profitability.
O     Develop a business management training program including identifying
basic  courses  in  key  areas,   implementing  training  across
organizational lines and defining increased performance expectations
as a result of training.
II.   Information Technology Development Program
5.          The assistance program would support the implementation of automated
management information systems (MIS) as an element of institutional strengthening
and for provision of improved services by the participating banks. The Bank has
worked closely with the four major banks to formulate the scope of automation
strategy studies which, based on the functions, products and services of each
bank, will recommend a sound organizational, procedural and dataflow framework,
and identify appropriate hardware and software engineering. In the case of three
of the banks, the studies, by international consultants, were finalized in the



-105 -                              Annex 3-2
Page 4
last quarter of 1989, and the study for HCB is expected to be finalized by the
end of the first quarter of 1990. On conclusion of these studies, the banks
will tender for a combination of hardware and application software packages.
The assistance program would support procurement of technical assistance,
computer hardware, application software, training and support services in
integrated packages.  The program would include training for each institution
to ensure proper introduction and operation of automation. The specific program
for each of the major banks is as follows:
A.    BudaRest Bank
6.          The assistance program would support:
o     A consultant study to define the information architecture consonant
with operational requirements and organizational structure, delineate
the hardware and system engineering, estimate investment and
recurrent costs, determine staffing and training requirements, and
recommend a phased implementation plan.
o     The procurement and installation of two mainframe computers (with
relevant application software) in the Budapest head office. This
would enable automation of the general ledger and customer accounting
functions in the head office and, as possible, would support
automation of the operations of a principal branch in the Budapest
area as a pilot exercise.
B.    Commercial and Credit Bank
7.          The assistance program would support
o     The services of consultants  to assist CCB to manage  the data
processing directorate and devise an automation strategy, and to
compile a tender document for hardware, application software,
technical assistance, and training.
o     Installation of two small mainframe computers in the head office to
support  back-office  operations,   and  installation  of  eight
minicomputers in the major regional and county branches, to be
connected to the head office through the Giro net.work.
C.    Hungarian Credit Bank
8.          The assistance program would support:
o     The services of consultants to develop an automation strategy for
a five year period, together with a two-phase implementation plan.
The study would yield a detailed operating schema for processing of
data,   schedule   for  converting  existing  microcomputer-based
applications, define costs and training programs, and identify areas
requiring management interventions.



- 106                              Annex 3-2
Page 5
o     Installation of two mainframe computers in the head office at
Budapest, to be used for customer accounting, retail banking
functions, and, internal administrative, accounting, and personnel
applications. Another minicomputer would be procured to establish
a pilot regional/county operation.
D.    National Savings Bank
9.          The assistance program would support:
o     A study by external consultants to investigate business plans,
current operations, and formulate an automation strategy. The draft
strategy has been prepared and hardware architecture is in the
process of being finalized.
o     Short-term external expertise to prepara the tender document, define
information technology policies, standards, and procedures, and to
assist in evaluating bids.
O     Installation of a network of minicomputers at headquarters and the
nineteen regional offices.   This would promote standard system
engineering and facilitate effective data connectivities.
III. Action Program
10.         Each of the four participating banks has undertaken to:
o     Implement the recommended institutional develoRment program. In this
context,  a detailed  implementation plan  for  execution of  the
programs, including steps, timing and responsibilities, has been
develnDed by each of the four banks.
O     Implement the recommended actions related to information technologv
development.
o     Manage  its  business  in compliance  with  financial  performance
indicators for which annual minimum standards, which are in line with
Hungarian banking prudential regulations, have been agreed with the
Bank. Target indicators for each of the banks are contained in the
attachment to this Annex.
o     Undergo annual external audits, starting from the review of the
financial results of 1989, according to international standards and
in conformity with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
O     Following completion of the external and portfolio audits, develop
necessary action plans by December 31, 1990, to adjust portfolio and
financial position to reflect the results of the audits in the bank's
financial results of 1990. Such adjustments should be carried out
in accordance with the prudential loan classification and
provisioning criteria contained in the new Banking Law.



- 107 -                            Annex 3-2
Page 6
11.          In addition to the above, 4SB would:
o     Finalize all actions on its part for its transformation into a joint-
stock company by June 30, 1990.
O     Be permitted a minimum annual spread of 3% over its average cost of
funds on its housing finance activities.



- 108  -Ane--Z
Attachment
RUNGARY - FINANCZAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Tornet Key Performance Inditators for the Four MHior Banka .
(Fcrcent)
CAPITAL ADEOUACY
Captal/As&*ts*Contia&sat Liabilities                         5.0      5.0          5.0 
LSOUSDSSY
Loans/Deposits (excluding refinancing)                       70.0     70.0         70.0         70.0
Liquid Assets/D,posits                                       25.7     25.0         25.0         25.0
ASSLT OUALIS
Interest colleected/Itereat due                              95.0     95.0         95.0         95.0
Principal collected/Principel due                            95.0     95.0         95.0         95.0
General loan loss provision/Tot4l loans                       1.0       1.0         1.0          0.5
Loan loss provision/Loens in arrears                         25.0     50.0         50.0         50.0
PROFITABILITY
Return an Average Assets                                      1.0       1.0         1.0          1.0
Return on Average Capital                                    15.0      15.0        15.0         15.0
INTERNAL MANAGEMENT RATIOS
Net Interest Mar&Wn/Averg* Assets I                           4.0      4.0          4.0          3.5
Fee Income/Averago  Assets                                    1.5       1.5         1.5           --
Operating Expense/Average Assets                              2.5      2.5          2.5          2.5
Fee Expense/Aversae Assets '                                  1.0       1.2         1.0          0.5
V    To the extent that in the future thesc indicators may ditfer irem those established under the
evolving Hungarian prudential supervisory framework for financial institutions, the letter
would prevail.
V   Calculated on the basis of average banking assets for NSB.



- 109 -                           Annex 3-3
Page 1
HUNGARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Medium-Term Automation Development Concept for the Banks
1.          Back2round.  After January 1, 1987, the Hungarian banking system was
converted to a two-tier environmenc with NBH retaining its role as a central
bank, and the commercial banking activities devolving to three major banks. A
key feature of the existing operational environment is the substantial turnover
of cash with minimal use of paper or electronic financial instruments.   The
banks plan to diversify both their portfolios and their range of products and
services to include retail and corporate banking, trading and distribution of
marketable securities and bonds, treasury operations, foreign exchange trading,
leasing and factoring, venture capital financing, investment financing, and
creation of subsidiaries in the manufacturing and retail service sectors. The
banks have also commenced developing substantial branch networks.   The major
banks now have approximately 200 branches, an increase of 250% over the 1987
base; these are expected to increase to more than 300 branches by end of 1991.
To support these growth objectives. the banks are aware of the importance of
aucomation development to offset the need for increased staffing, and attract
new customers with a range of services.
2.          Phased Project Design. The project design entails a phased approach
for the implementation of the automation development program for each
participating bank with the first phase (1989-1991) proposed to be supported by
the project.  A phased approach is advocated to minimize up-front investments
in hardware/ software and to ensure that the participating banks would absorb
the new technology with minimum disruption in operations.   The first phase
includes an automation strategy study, followed by procurement of appropriacely
engineered mainframe/minicomputer hardware, banking software packages and
supporting equipment in the head offices and major branches. The thrust of the
firs: phase effort would be to automate the back-office functions (including
General Ledger, Customer Information File operations, Interactive Current/
Savings/Deposit Account Processing,   Letters of Credit,  Installment/Mortgage
Loans, Payroll/Personnel, and on-line teller terminal operations). Appropriate
linkage mechanisms would be included in each banks' hardware engineering to
insure data transfers and reconciliations.   The banks would be encouraged co
utilize a common suite of integrated application software on the complete range
of equipment (mainframes, mini- and microcomputers) to minimize maintenance,
operational and staff training overheads. Hardware investments would be
rationalized by the specification of detailed functional requirements and
workload analysis at the processing nodes, and by requesting vendors to configure
the hardware capacities to accommodate the transaction workloads and processing
response times. The major banks have independently financed the hardware and
software required to carry out foreign exchange dealings and communicate with
the foreign markets via Swift.
3.          The second phase of the automation development programs would support
extensive use of microcomputers./minicomputers in branches (depending on
transactional workloads and mode of operation)   to provide a capacity for



- 110 -                          Annex 3-3
Page 2
improved service levels and liquidity management at the regional and branch
levels.    A  number  of banks  have  already  taken  initiatives  to  develop
microcomputer-based customer accounting software. However, the proposed project
would attempt to identify standard packages to avoid incompatibility and
duplication in  system development efforts.  The commencement of the second
phase would depend on the speed with which each institution is able to implement
the information systems both centrally and in the regions.
4.          Hardware Architecture.   Since the requirements of each bank are
different, the project would finance the installation of varied hardware
configurations.  This would be dependant on the desired functionality, mode of
operation (centralized or decentralized credit management and book-keeping), the
distribution of offices, the volume of transactions and accounts, and the
capacity of each bank to finance and maintain sophistica.ed equipment and
software. The various alternatives to hardware architecture would include: (i)
duplexed mainframes at head-office's and perhaps a minicomputer at a major
Budapest branch connected through a dedicated electronic link or via the Giro
network; (ii) a network of minicomputers at each of the regional offices with
distributed customer files and overnight consolidation at the head office
machine; and (iii) local area network of microcomputers at the smaller banks for
which in-house staff could design/program the required software.  In the case
of large computers and centralized customer accounting, the head office main
machine would be complemented by a back-up unit to sustain continuous operations,
allow independent system development efforts, and provide adequate security and
recovery capabilities.
5.          The attached chart represents a possible hardware engineering for
a major Hungarian bank.  The hardware installations are different at various
levels of the branch network, with the smallest branch utilizing a microcomputer
for record-keeping.  At larger branches, the hardware set-up could be either
networked microcomputers or a minicomputer--with a similar configuration at the
regional levels. In the future, each branch would maintain its own accounts and
submit consolidated balances and liquidity status periodically to the head office
computer.  This would be achieved either through existing PTT lines (for in-
city, city to regional, or region to Budapest connections), or through the Giro
network, depending on the cost-effectiveness and service and security levels.
Inter-bank transactions would perforce have to be registered through the Giro
facility. To avoid redundant investments, the project would not support the use
of alternative telecommunication networks for the transmission of inter-bank
settlement transactions. In case the PTT facilities are utilized for intra-bank
transactions and local/regional networks, the banks would be required to finance
the expenditures from their own resources.
6.          Procurement.  Procurement would be along Bank guidelines and would
be carried out using standardized bidding documents.   The mainframes and
minicomputers would be procured from international vendors in possible joint
ventures with either software houses, or consulting groups in case the hardware
vendors' banking software is inadequate or the required data characteristics
cannot be accommodated.  An important element in the evaluation of bids would
be the local presence of maintenance support (in some cases involving the



- 111 -                         Annex .-3
Page 3
stationing of an engineer at the bank premises) and spare parts stocking
policies.  Regarding the procurement of microcomputers, the b,-nks generally
propose to purchase locally assembled equipment and Nouvell communication
networks to reduce foreign exchange expenditures. These microcomputers run MS-
DOS and would allow the application of software procured from abroad.
7.         The participating institutions would be encouraged to enter into
joint ventures with locally based consulting groups to ensure continuity of
technical support, promote transfer of technology, foster the development of the
*         local information technology industry, and strengthen local capacities to assist
in the long-term extension of automation to all branches. To the extent possible,
the banks would be encouraged to collaborate on utilizing standard banking
software to reduce the training and operational overheads, and provide back-up
facilities. In this respect, two of the major banks have decided to coordinate
their automation efforts.
Iflustrptive Phasinif of BRetk Autormation
Aeqion  1      rot,  ~+ 'f
Headquart ers
rL1R
CONTROL
-.-.-.            COMPUTER
.,  ,* , e Ii
PilOt 8ranc1 in -sucapest
Region 2 i
t.   -t4w  '                   lt    ,



- 112 -                          Annex 3-4
Page 1
HUNGARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Sgecial Financial-Audits of the Maior Banks
Introduction
1.          The State Bank Supervision Agency (SBS) of Hungary is the primary
supervisor of banks and financial institutions in Hungary. It seeks the services
of an auditor(s) to provide independent opinions and related reports for
financial statements for the year ended December 31, 1989, for the banks and
financial institutions under its supervision. These reports and opinions are
to be  drawn  in accordance with  the recommendations  of  the  International
Accounting Standards Committee, unless otherwise directed by the SBS.
2.          You are invited to submit a proposal and work plan for conducting
special diagnostic studies of the following institutions:
1.    Budapest Bank
2.    Commercial and Credit Bank
3.    Hungarian Credit Bank
4.    Foreign Trade Bank
3.          Draft reports are to be submitted to the SBS not later than June 30,
1990.
A.    Reports to be Provided bX the Auditor
4.          The following documents constitute the annual financial statements
for the fiscal year to be audited:
(a)   Balance sheet as of December 31, 1989;
(b)   Profit and Loss Statemenc for the year ended December 31,
1989;
(c)   Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity;
(d)   Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds;
(e)   Statement of Provisions for Losses, Write-Offs, and Recoveries;
(f)   Statement of Past Due, Nonperforming, and Renegotiated Loans
and Advances; and
(g)   Statement of Commitments and Contingencies.
5.          Where the bank or financial institution is a subsidiary of another
organization or where it has a controlling interest in any other organization,
consolidated statements should also be audited.



- 113 -                            Ann_ex 3-4
Page 2
6.          The reports to be provided by the auditor(s) to the SBS should
consist of the following documents:
(a)   The annual financial statements  referred to above,  after
appropriate adjustments;
(b)   The basic audit opinion rendered of the financial statements;
(c)   A Statement of the Effects of Non-Application of any IFAC
Auditing Standards by the auditors;
(d)   An evaluation of the quality of assets. This evaluation should
identify problem assets and classify them according to criteria
for substandard, doubtful, and loss categories (or other
criteria acceptable to the Central Bank)."' Assets which are
classified should be identified as to state or private
ownership.   Actual and potential losses should be clearly
identified;
(e)   An opinion on the adequacy of the reserve for loan losses and
other  valuation  reserves.    The  auditor  should  clearly
demonstrate the methodologies used to determine the level of
reserves considered as adequate, including the amounts set
aside as specific reserves and general reserves;
(f)   An enumeration and quantification of all adjustments necessary
to fairly present the financial statements.  These adjustments
may include additional provisions to the loan loss and other
valuation reserves, the suspension of interest accrual on loans
and advances which are judged to be non-performing, assets
which are to be written-off, foreign exchange losses, income
sihich is to be restated, or any other adjustments which
materially affect the financial statements;
(g)   The identification and quantification of concentrations of
credit representing 5% or more of capital, with particular
emphasis placed on credit extended co connected borrowers or
major economic sectors. (Connection implies the ability to
exert control or influence policy and decision-making.)
Connected parties or firms typically include a firm's parent,
major shareholders, subsidiaries, affiliated companies,
directors, and executive officers;
(h)   The  identification,  quantification,  and status  of credit
extended to insiders of the bank or financial institution and
their related interests. Insiders typically include directors,
l/ Suggested standards on treatment of non-accrued interest and
definitions of substandard, doubtful, and loss assets, are provided along with
these Terms of Reference.



- 114 -
Page 3
executive officers, major shareholders and their related
interest;
(i)   D.ring the audit of the profit and loss account, the auditor
should suggest areas and manners in which greater efficiencies
in costs and expenditures may be achieved;
(j)   An opinion on internal controls and procedures in place,
including written policies and procedures, accounting and
administrative controls, budgeting, internal audit, and
management information systems. To the extent that weaknesses
are detected, appropriate recommendations should be made to
strengthen or correct them;
(k)   An evaluation of foreign exchange risk.  The auditor should
determine the extent of actual and potentia't foreign exchange
losses and assess the controls and procedures in place to
manage foreign exchange risk;
(1)   An evaluation of liquidity, asset and liability management
risks.   The auditor should reporc significant exposures to
changes in interest rates and comment upon procedures and
controls in place to manage interest rate risk. The auditor
should also comment if liquidity support is being provided by
any organization, such as a state enterprise, another bank or
financial institution, or the Government;
(m)   An opinion as to the adequacy of capital.  To the extent that
capital is inadequate to support present and future operations,
the auditor should recommend the amount of additional capital
which is adequate;
(n)   An evaluation of compliance with banking laws, rules, and
regulations and covenants of significant legal agreements;
and
(o)   Any other views or results from the audit as to the future
prospects of the bank or financial institution to continue
and compete as a viable on-going concern.
B.    Scoge and Detail of the Diagnostic Study
7.          The diagnostic studies should be carried out in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards of field work and reporting. You should
indicate: (i) the extent that you could not conform to the standards; (ii) the
extent that the standards you propose to use do not conform to the auditing
standards of the International Federation of Accountants; and (ii4) any
alternative standards to which you propose to conform.



- 115
Annex 3-4
Page 4
8.          You should comment on the accouy'ting principles adopted by the bank
or financial institution, particularly to confirm, or otherwise, whether and to
what extent generally accepted accounting principles and accounting standards
have been and are being consistently applied, and to indicate specifically the
adopcion of any other principles and their effect on the annual financial
statements.
9.          You are required to plan and conduct your work on the basis of an
audit program sufficiently expansive in covering the bank or financial
institution's activities to enable you to sign the opinions and reports you are
required to provide.
10.         In devising the diagnostic study, you are required to take into
consideration the effectiveness and reliability of the accounting and
adminis.rative procedures, as well as the financial aud administrative internal
controls and checks.   You should determine that assets are being adequatelv
safeguarded, that transactions have been executed in accordance with policy, and
that transactions have been adequately recorded to permit timely preparation cf
financial statement in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Systems of internal controls and checks, including internal audit, should be    k
reviewed and evaluated in order to determine the degree of reliance that can be
placed upon them, and the extent of testing and verification that needs to be
performed by yourself.
11.         You are to assess the quality of assets.  In making your assessment,
you should consider: (i) the level, distribution, and severity of classified
assets; (ii) the level and composition of non-accruing, non-performing, and
reduced rate assets; (iii) the adequacy of valuation reserves, (iv) management's
ability to administer and collect problem assets; (v) undue concentrations of
credit; and (vi) adequacy, effectiveness, and adherence to lending policies and
credit administration procedures.
12.         In assessing the quality of assets, you are to ensure not less than
seventy percent coverage of the portfolio of loans and advances. Typically, you
will examine and appraise all loans and advances to a single obligor or related
group of obligors which exceed a cutoff amount equal to one-hal. of one percent
of paid-up capital and retained earnings.    Past due  loans and advances,
renegotiated loans and advances, internally identified problem loans and
ad-.ances, loans and advance to insiders and their related interest, investments,
equity participation, foreclosed or repossessed properties, contingent
liabilities and guarantees, and miscellaneous assets should also be appraised.
In addition, a  sample of loans and advances below the cut-off amount, not
otherwise selected for review, should be appraised. In assessing the quality
of assets, primary emphasis should be placed upon the borrower's ability to
repay. Collateral support should normally be of secondary importance.
13.         You are  required  to  appraise  the  adequacy,  effectiveness  and
application of policies and procedures for: (i) the granting of credit, including
procedures for approving credit, establishing and enforcing repayment programs.
collecting past due loans, provisioning for actual and potential losses, writing-
off of bad assets, debt recovery, and management reporting; (ii) managing foreign



* 116                             Annex 3-4
Page 5
exchange risk, including trading limits, the segregation of duties, accounting
and revaluation procedures, and management reporting requirements; and (iii)
asset and liability management, including procedures for managing exposure to
changes in interest rates. Where deficiencies have been identified, you should
propose recommendations for strengthening or correcting the weaknesses.
14.         You should satisfy yourself as to the fairness and accuracy of the
financial statements provided. Where the financial statements are inaccurate
or unfairly represent the condition of the bank or financial institution, you
are required to itemize and quantify the necessary adjustment. Special emphasis
should be placed upon: (i) the adequacy of provisions for losses and adjustment
necessary to bring valuation reserves to adequate levels; (ii) adjustment to the
profit and loss statement for interest taken into income on non-performing
assets; and (iii) adjustment to the profit and loss statement for past due
interest which has been capitalized, renegotiate, or refinanced.
15.         You should identify, quantify, and appraise concentrations of credit
with particular emphasis on credit extended to: (i) insiders and their related
interests; (ii) connected parties; and (iii) major economic sectors. For the
purpose of these diagnostic studies, concentrations are defined as any credit
or conzbination of credit representing 5% or more of capital.
16.         You should assess  the quality of earnings,  giving appropriate
consideration to: (i) the accuracy of reported earnings; (ii) the level quality
and composition of income and expense components; (iii) earnings trends; and (iv)
dividend payout and earnings retention.
17.         You should comment on liquidity, asset and liability management
risks, giving appropriate consideration to: (i) the volatility of deposits; (ii)
the frequency and level of borrowings; (iii) the reliance placed on interest-
sensitive funds; (iv) access to money markets or other ready sources of cash;
(v) the ability to readily convert assecs into cash; (vi) the capacity to meet
unexpected deposit withdrawals and other demands for payment; (vii) the ability
to readily fill reasonable credit demands; (viii) the overall adequacy,
effectiveness, and compliance with liquidity, asset and liability management
policies; and (ix) the nature, volume, and anticipated usage of credit
commitments, contingent liabilities, and guarantees.
18.         You should determine solvency and assess the adequacy of capital.
You should give appropriate consideration to: (i) the volume of risk assets;
(ii) the volume and severity of marginal and inferior quality assets; (iii)
growth experience, plans, and prospects; (iv) management's strength in relation
to the above; (v) earnings retention; and (vi) access to capital and financial
assistance. If you determine that capital is inadequate or that the bank or
financial institution is technically insolvent, you should estimate the amount
of capital necessary to absorb losses, bri-2g capital to an adequate level, and
ensure its ongoing viability.
19.         You should make an assessment of the institution's overall condition,
viability, and future prospects. To the extent that serious shortcomings exist,
you should recommend appropriate corrective action, or, in your opinion, the



- 117 -
,anngx 3-4
Page 6
institution is not viable in its present condition, you should clearly state the
circumstance under which its viability m..y be reasonable assured or that the
institution is beyond reasonable assistance and should be closed.
C.    Independence and Impartiality
20.         At the time of submission of a proposal and work plan to carry ouc
the diagnostic studies, your firm must be independent of any member of the board
of directors, executive officer, or senior manager of the bank or financial
institution.   Independence implies that the senior managing partner, and any
partner or staff member who would be involved in the diagnostic study, is neither
serving as a director of the bank or financial institution, nor has any personal,
financial, or close business relationship except as an independent professional
adviser during the course of an audit.
D.    Authority to Practice in Hungary
21.         Your firm should be authorized to practice in Hungarv and be capable
of using procedures and methods that conform with generally accepted auditing
practices. Your firm should employ adequate staff with appropriate professional
qualifications and suitable experience, including experience in assessing credit
quality and in auditing the accounts of entities comparable in nature, size, and
complexity.
22.         Curriculum vitae (CVs) should be pro,rided by the principals of your
firm who would be responsible for providing the opinions and reports, together
with the CVs of managers, supervisors, and kev personnel likely to be employed
in the diagnostic studies. CVs should include details on audits carried ouc by
these scaff. including ongoing assignmencs.
E.    Other Matters
23.   The following additional matters should be noted:
(a)   These diagnostic studies are to be prepared for use by the
SBS and the World Bank. The results are not for public
disclosure, but may be publicly disclosed by the bank or
financial institution at its discretion. All results are to
be used for bank supervision purposes and are to be treated
in a confidential manner;
(b)   The SBS may request supplemental  information or targeted
examinations of specific areas on an ad hoc basis if such
information is necessary for the performance of its supervisory
role; and
(c)   The auditors will present and discuss the results and contents
of the diagnostic studies with the SBS only.



- 118 -                             Annex 3-5
Page 1
HUNCARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program for Bank Training
A.    Need for training
1.          Following the establishment of the two-cier banking system in 1987,
commercial banks are expected to make lending decisions based on the analysis
of credit and project risk, and to assume responsibility for any resulting
losses. This implies a need for strong credit analysis, project appraisal and
oan administration capabilities.  Moreover, given the recent creation of new
banks and the desire to modernize Hungarian banking institutions to conform more
closely to European standards, bank management training is essential. Based on
diagnostic studies of the development needs and strategic plans of the large
banks, it is clear that technical and management skills need to be further
developed in the areas of credit, asset and liability management, foreign
exchange dealing and management, planning and financial management, human
resource management, retail banking, and management information systems. Details
of these diagnostic analyses are provided in Annex 2-5.
2.          To train their staff, the banks are currently utilizing the services
of the International Training Center for Bankers (ITCB) and have stepped up
internal training and educational activities. The banking system is expanding
and staff turnover is relatively high, at about 15X. Of necessity, emphasis is
placed on the preparation of staff to carry out the day-to-day basic banking
activities.   The banks also send staff members for training and periods of
secondment abroad in an effort to raise their awareness of modern banking methods
and to develop skills in selected disciplines. However, these newly-initiated
training activities are not sufficiently coordinated and training is not
specifically related to precisely defined skills requirements, and requires more
focus. On the other hand, courses at the Center are too short to provide for
true skills building.
B.    International Training Center for Bankers (ITCB)
3.          Background.  The reorganization of the Hungarian banking system in
January 1987 substantially increased the need for well-trained financial
specialists and bank managers.   Increased demand for banking skills came
principally from two sources: the transition from a single-tier to a two-tier
banking system that brought with it a need for different skills, and the increase
in the number of banking institutions, which resulted in a demand for more people
with the requisite skills. This demand, which could not immediately be met by
the Hungarian education system, pointed out the necessity for the establishment
of a specialized training center for bankers.   To meet this need, the Bank
assisted in the establishment of the ITCB, to provide tiaining foi personnel in
the banking and other financial professions in Hungary.



- 119 -                            Annex 3-5
Page 2
4.          Ogerations.   The Center started operations in February 1989, and
has engaged in a joint venture agreement with the Paris-based Centre
Internationala de Formation de la Profession Bancaire (CIFPB). It operates as
a non-profit, joint-stock company, and has an initial capital of Ftl30 million.
Six founding institutions--the National Bank of Hungary (NBH), Budapest Bank,
Commercial and Credit Bank, Hungarian Credit Bank, Hungarian Foreign Trade Bank,
and the National Savings Bank--own 10.4% of the share capital each, and the
Savings Cooperative Bank owns  10%.   The remaining shares are held by 22
shareholders, mostly from the financial sector in Hungary, and CIFPB, which holds
3.5% of ITCB's capital. The basis for the formation and functioning of the ITCB
is a detailed feasibility study prepared by CIFPB.
5.          Structure.   ITCB is managed by a Managing Director, and a Deputy
Managing Director who is also in charge of educational programs. The Managing
Director reports to and sits on, a Board of Directors, composed of
representatives of ITCB's largest shareholders. The two co-Chairpersons of the
Board are currently nominated by NBH and CIFPB. In 1989, ITCB had a teaching
staff of four full-time instructors, and drew on some 40 part-time instructors,
many of whom come from the staff of the founding banks.
6.          Financial Aspects of ITCB.  ITCB was established as a non-profit
institution.   It is not expected to pay dividends; any operat-Ing surplus is
expected to be used to keep costs down. ITCB is expected to cover its operating
costs thr-ough its course fees, while capital costs, including teaching premises,
the cost of teaching materials, and some fees payable to CIFPB, are to be covered
by the share capital of Ftl3O million. ITCB is still refining its course costs,
based on its early months of operation. For 1989, it charged an average of about
FtlO-12,000 per person for the one-week courses, and approximately Ftl8-20,000
for two-week courses.   These costs are reasonable given the alternative of
sending staff overseas for training. Details of ITCB's financial statements are
contained in the Project File.
C.    Proposed Assistance Prozram
7.          It is clear that a comprehensive approach to the training of bankers
to meet the needs of a modern, technically-qualified, well-managed banking system
in the most cost-effective manner is necessary in Hungary.  The Project will
assist the banks in establishing an approach to the definition of skills needs,
the identification of immediate priorities for training and the financing of a
two year time slice of training resources. Although training is needed at all
levels of the Hungarian banking system--entry-level personnel, back-office
operations staff, accountants and bookkeepers, technical staff, and managers--
the Project will focus primarily on the training needs for specialist technical
staff an' managers which are the areas of greatest skills gaps within the
Hungarian banking system.  In particular, the Project will provide assistance
to enable participating institutions to improve their skills and management
capacity in various banking disciplines with particular emphasis on credit,
marketing, financial management, and planning.  As part of the institutional
development programs financed under the loan (Annex 3-2), assistance will also



- 120 -                               Annex 3-5
Page 3
be provided to guide the banks in determining their skills requirements. This
should provide a basis for a comprehensive training program at the institutional
level, some of which would be satisfied by the ITCB.
8.          ITCB's courses are aimed at the middle-management level in the banks
and other financial institutions. It ultimately aims to provide a mix of four
types of courses: short (1-2 week) courses focusing on a specific topic, longer
(8-12 week) courses focusing on a wide range of topics, language courses
(principally English) and, seminars and conferences. ITCB has a basic service
agreement with CIFPB, under which CIFPB is developing a series of teaching
modules for ITCB's core curriculum. The core modules are: liquidity management,
money and capital markets, corporate finance, retail banking, foreign exchange
operations, management information systems, project finance and branch office
management. In 1989, ITCB offered some 50 courses covering a variety of topics
relevant to the banking environment in Hungary. Half of these were 15 days in
duration, and some 10-15 lasted 6-10 days.   By 1991, ITCB expects to offer
approximately 115 courses a year. (ITCB's 1989 course catalog is contained in
the Project Files.) Most courses are taught in Hungarian.
9.          Under the Project, courses already offered by the ITCB would be
amplified and a few new courses would be added to its curriculum.   Topics
selected for this specific program include: financial accounting, credit,
planning and financial management, skills assessment, internal audit techniques,
securities markets, foreign exchange, and specialized training for NSB and NBH
staff. The Project would support the ITCB in: engaging two expatriate training
advisors who would help the ITCB in further development of its training program,
the hiring of external training staff, and the procurement of training equipment
and teaching materials. The Project would also support the ongoing program of
the ITCB. Details of certain elements of the assistance program follow.
10.         Training Advisors.   In order to assist the Hungarian banks in
determining training needs and devising effective means of meeting those needs,
the Project would finance two expatriate training advisors with broad
international experience to be attached to the ITCB for a period of one year.
A banking professional experienced in establishing training programs for junior
professional, mid- and senior-level bank managers would serve as a catalyst for
the program. The expert would coordinate the definition of skills needs, provide
advice on appropriate forms of training to meet the skills requirements and
advise on alternatives such as the development of courses in Hungary and training
abroad.   A second professional would develop the materials for the expa:ded
credit officer training course and other courses as needed.
11.         Credit.  The Project will assist ITCB with the elaboration of a full
credit officer training program. This program would provide lending staff of
the commercial banks with the skills necessary to make sound lending decisions
for the extension of working capital loans, term loans for projects, loans to
small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), and an understanding of the components
of a prudent credit risk management process. It would be taught over a period
of approximately six months. Although at first training would draw on existing
teaching materials, the training firm would be committed to cooperate in the



- 121 -                                Annex 3-5
Page 4
development of case materials based on Hungarian banking and accounting
practices. A program for foreign exchange operations has been completed and che
Project would support revision and expansion of the course if necessary.
12.         Planning.   The banks need to refine  their skills  in planning.
Although they have strategic objectives, they have developed neither the
analytical bases to choose among strategic options, nor a methodology for
transferring strategic objectives into action-oriented plans. Training in the
methods of strategic, tactical and financial planning must therefore be given
priority. The strategic planning course taught at the ITCB would be expanded
to link strategy formulation to analytical support covering the translation of
scrategic objectives into time-bound action plans and financial plans.   In
addition, it would be desirable to hold a two-day seminar with the participatior.
of approximately three very senior international bankers and the managing
directors of the Hungarian banks to discuss bank management in a rapidly changing
environment.
13.         Securities Markets.  A course will be taught at the Center to prepare
for the establishment of a securities market in Hungary. It would be a 5 to 10
day general purpose seminar covering portfolio management, financial instrumencs,
and market ethics. (See also Annex 3-8).
14.         Internal Audit Techniques.  A course is required in internal audit
techniques and management of the internal audit function, particularly in view
of the enhanced risks of the banks in the areas of: credit, foreign exchange,
international banking, and branch banking.
15.         Soecialized Training Needs.   Assistance would be provided to the
NBH to send staff to external institutions (e.g., the IMF Institute) for
specialized training in Central Banking topics. Trained staff could then conduct
courses internally.



- 122 -                            Annex 3-5
Page 5
16.         The estimated costs of the proposed assistance program for ITCB are
as follows:
Foreign Exchanze Costs:
Ongoing Program:                                                 USS
Computer Hardware and Software                                 120,000
Overseas Training for ITCB Trainers                            300,000
Course Materials from CIFPB and other sources                  770.000
Subtotal                                              1,190,000
New Activities:
Credit Modules                                                 150,000
Expatriate Training Expert and Coordinator                     200,000
Strategic Planning Course                                       25,000
Skills Assessment Course                                        15,000
Two Day Senior Bankers Conference                               30,000
Securities Course                                              137,000
Enhancement of Foreign Exchange, Liquidity Mgt. Courses         50,000
Internal Audit                                                  25,000
Financial Management                                            25.000
Subtotal                                                657,000
Total                                                 1.847.000
Local Costs:                                                   (USS Eguivalent)
Per diem expenses associated with the foreign consultants
involved in the technical assistance program                 235,000
Import duties and VAT on purchase of computing equipment        27.000
Total                    262.000



- 123 -                            Annex 3-6
Page 1
HUNGARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNLLATION PROJECT
Details on the National Payments Clearing Center (GIRO)
1.          Need for Giro.  The introduction of management information systems
(MIS) and automation in the major banks in Hungary necessitates the development
of a centralized system through which data necessary to facilitate the operation
of, and monitoring of the banking system can be processed. The existing Giro
system, located at the NBH, was developed to service the needs of a single-tier
banking system and can no longer satisfy the demands placed on it, and is instead
a constraint on the further development of the banking system.   Account
processing at the NBH currently results in delays of 3-5 days before information
is  available.    As branch networks  expand,  and  the  number  of  financial
institutions and instruments multiply and services become more complex, the need
for rapid exchange of data between and within institutions intensifies. As a
result of the lack of an effective telecommunications infrastructure, the
superimposition of a more sophisticated message switching and transfer medium
utilizing existing telephone lines and a private network becomes necessary. The
National Payments Clearing Center (the "Giro system") has been established co
meet these and other needs of the Hungarian banking system.
2.          Functions and Services.   The Giro would provide an electronic
communications network for the transmission of financial transactions, connecting
Budapest with the nineteen regional centers. The Giro, which would be introduced
concurrently with the automation program in the banks, would be used for the
transmission of inter-bank clearings, for the calculation and reporting of
inter-bank indebtedness, and for finapcial reporting to assist the NBH and other
bodies with their supervision and regulatory functions. On an optional basis,
the Giro would also accommodate transmission of intra-bank (branch-branch or
branch-head office) financial messages, and internal account turnovers. As the
decentralization of foreign exchange operations proceeds in Hungary, and the need
for the NBH and SBS to monitor foreign exchange dealings increases, the Giro
network could be used to meet this need as well.   The banks have expressed
interest in employing the Giro for these additional transactions depending on
the  cost-effectiveness  of  the  service  offered.    In  the  future,  as  the
sophistication of the financial sector increases, the Giro network would also
be available for transacting point-of-sale, automatic teller machine and other
electronic money handling applications.   A schematic of the interconnection
between the Giro and the banking system is attached.
3.          Technical Aspects.  Under the sponsorship of NBH, a comprehensive
feasibility study, financed by an ongoing Bank-financed project, was prepared
by external consultants.  The study, which included a detailed forecast of daily
transactions, resulted in a functional design of the Giro, an operational
strategy, as well as a financial analysis to establish a cost recovery mechanism
and fee structure.  The design of the Giro would facilitate daily inter-bank
settlements, and interconnections between banks' headquarters and branches,
improve liquidity management, decrease administrative overheads, and provide a
vehicle for enhanced customers service levels.   The Giro's design would, of



- 124 -                        Annex 3-6
Page 2
necessity, incorporate "fail-safe" and backup features, potentially including
dual processors, mirror-imaged drives, and stand-by generators. The design would
also incorporate strict security measures to ensure confidentiality of financial
transactions and the database. Physical security safeguards will also be put
in place to minimize sabotage and unauthorized access to the Giro center. The
Giro network would utilize specialy conditioned lines of the Hungarian Post,
Telephone and Telegraph Service (PTT).
4.          The Project would support the purchase of hardware, custom-designed
software, and installation. Specifically, the Project would finance a mainframe
computer, Giro interface devices, telecommunications drivers, and operating and
applications software. The supplier would install the hardware and software,
maintain the equipment, and operate it for the one year warranty period and a
subsequent year to ensure adequate service levels.   The supplier would also
provide maintenance coverage of the hardware for the first six years of
operation, and would provide on-the-job training to Giro center staff.   In
addition, the Project would support the "environmental facilities" for the Giro.
This includes an air-conditioning system, uninterrupted power supply system, and
backup power supply and security systems.   The Project would also directly
support technical assistance and training to Giro center staff.   This would
include, for example, the opportunity to visit Giro operations in other
countries, access to training courses overseas, and language training.
5.          Appropriate safeguards have been built in the procurement procedure
(eg. two-stage bidding) to ensure that hardware, software, and telecommunication
drivers proposed by vendors would fulfill the functional requiremencs and the
necessary licenses to export the equipment to Hungary would be obtained. The
basic Giro capability provided through the Project could be enhanced
subsequently, in accord with traffic volumes, desired functionality, cost
effectiveness, client satisfaction, and demand.
6.          The Giro supplier is expected to be selected by April 1990, and
start-up of the system is expected latest by September 1992.  The system is
expected to be functioning at 60% of capacity by September 1993, and at 100%
(equivalent to 400 nodes) by a year later. In 1992-93, the Giro company plans
to finance an expansion of the project (not financed under this Project) by
another 200 nodes, to be completed by 1995.
7.         O0erations.  The Giro will be operated by an autonomous company--
Center for Settlement of Financial Operations Ltd. -- in which NBH and eleven
financial institutions are equal shareholders. The company was established in
December 1988 with a capital of Ft.504 million.  Shareholders include the NBH
and eleven other banks and specialized financial intermediaries. Although each
was an equal shareholder initially, several of the smaller shareholders have
recently diluted or liquidated their shareholding in favor of the larger banking
institutions. The company is managed by a Managing Director who is part of the
nine-member Board of Directors.   Board members are drawn from the larger
institutions among the Giro company's shareholders. A five-member Supervisory
Committee oversees the running of the company. The Giro company had a staff of
twelve in 1989, and expects to be staffed by 40 professionals by 1993. The Giro



- 125 -                              Annex 3-C
izge 3
company will operate as a cost recovery center, and estimates an operational
budget of Ft.650 million by 1994.
8.          Volume of Operations. According to a 1989 study of inter- and intra-
bank message traffic under the existing Giro system, an average of 200,000
transactions take place each day in Hungary.   An estimated 65% of these
transactions are inter-bank transactions.   Staff of the existing NBH network
estimate a volume of 100-400,000  transeactions per day for all  types of
transactions  in 1989.   In preparing its projections,, the Giro company is
forecasting that its system will reach daily message volumes of 800,000 by 1992,
and 1.2 million by 1995. The increase in traffic is expected to come from three
sources. First, the figures for current message traffic are understated in that
today, due to bunching of messages, a single transaction may comprise as many
as 15 items in the provinces, while under the new system, each item of data would
comprise a single message. Second, as a result of the reform of the industrial
and financial sectors in Hungary, intermediation through the financial system,
and hence the message traffic, should increase.   Third, the current traffic
figures exclude most retail banking transactions. The National Savings Bank is
expected to connect at least 70 branches to the Giro system. As a result, the
projected increase in volume figures may well be reached.
9.          CaD ital Costs. In addition to the estimated foreign exchange capital
costs of $15.1 million financed by the Bank loan, the Giro company is expected
to spend Ft300 million on a building to house the facilities, and FtlOO million
on telecommunication lines. Local expenditures are expected to be financed from
the capital of the Giro company.
10.         The estimated foreign exchange and local costs of the Giro are as
follows:
Foreizn       Local      Total
---(USS million equivalent)---
Hardware/Software 1/                11.81          --        11.81
Installation Z/                       --          7.28        7.28
Implementation TA/Training 2/        1.52        0.14         1.66
Duties                                --          1.43        1.43
VAT                                   --          0.71        0.71
Contingencies                        1.77         2.60        4 37
Total            15.10        12.16       27.26
1/ Includes foreign exchange costs for "environmentatl facitities;
2I Local costs are for building and tetecommunications lines.
3/ Foreign exchange costs are for TA and training from supplier; also includes foreign exchange
training costs financed directly by the Bank Loan.



- 126 -                                Annex 3.6
Page 4
11.         ODerating Results.  Currently, the NBH Giro system charges banks a
flat percentage of the total value of the transaction processed, rather than on
a per-message basis. No clear information is available on the current average
cost per transaction to the banks. Under an agreement with its shareholders,
the Giro company is planning to charge approximately FtlO per transaction.
Operating expenses would be financed from the revenues of the center. For the
two years prior to commencement of operations, operating costs would be financed
from interest on capital.   An agreement by shareholders provides  for any
shortfall in the early years of the Giro's operation to be covered by additional
shareholder contributions.
12.         Based on the projected pricing,  volume and cost assumptions as
discussed above, the internal rate of return on the project is acceptable. At
a cost of FtlO per message the estimated financial rate of return (FRR) on the
Ciro project is 70%.   At a price of Ft5 per message,  the FRR would be 26%.
These apparently high rates of return must be viewed with caution, since at this
time operating costs of the project are not well known, principally because
details of the current NBH system are lacking. Hence, operating costs may be
understated. It should also be borne in mind that the costs and benefits of the
project that have been used for the FRR calculation are for the entire Giro
project, i.e. the bank financed project as well as the proposed 1992 expansion.
Sensitivity analyses suggest however, that even with a doubling of operating
expenses, the FRR would be acceptable, provided the price per message exceeds
Ft7. Lower than expected message volume does not have a significant impact on
the FRR. The prrecise pricing mechanism, and charge per message will be finalized
once the Giro begins  operations.   Agreement was reached with  the NBH ac
negotiations that the subsidiary loan agreement with the Ciro company contain
a provision whereby the Giro would charge fees for its services which would
allow it to generate sufficient funds (in addition to equity and loan funds) to
cover at least its operating costs, capital expenditures, and debt service
payments. Details of the financial analysis are contained in the Project File.



- 127 -                                Annex 3-6
At tachm.ent
HUNGARY:  FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Overview of Giro Operations
Headquarters In Budapest
NIIVa~tmEI'.8gg [6mnm  o1A                 1                 Wr        "   o
Large/Small Branches in Region I
NATIONAL
TNWW.w                                  ~~~~~~~~GIRO
Xe;ton       NETWORK
SaMtC
Small Branches In Region 2
r b
Bar* S
Sat- C  AlOA 



- 128 -                              Page_. 1
HUNGARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for NBH Payment System and Automation Stratey Setudy
A. Background
1.          Prior to 1987, the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) functioned both
as the sole commercial bank and central bank. Hence, its automation strategy
and processing capability was built around its own needs.   When the three
commercial banks were created from the commercial banking activities of NBH in
1987, the National Bank continued to maintain the accounting functions of the
three banks, as well as that of the National Savings Bank (NSB), including the
maintenance of general ledger accounts, branch accounting, credit and deposit
operations, as well as intra-barnk settlements. As commercial banking expanded
their operations, the present out-moded NBH computing facilities could not cope
with the needs of the commercial banks, nor its own operational and information
processing requirements. The NBH facilities is currently processing some 200
branch operations, an increase of 250Z over 1987 base, with an anticipated
increase to 300 by the end of 1991. Accounts processing is achieved on an old
central computer, which is connecced to 19 regional data collection centers
through a low-speed post and telegraph communication network. The delays in
processing of basic accounts is clearly adversely affecting not only customer
service, the ability of the commercial banks to respond to market changes, but
also the NBH's own operational monicoring and policy making efficiency. In 1989,
NBH established an Information Department specifically to co-ordinate and
streamline informational flows within NBH.
2.          Consequently, the commercial banks are proceeding with the rapid
automation of their own operations and accounting.   At the same time,  the
commercial banks, together with the NBH, have also decided to establish a
national payments clearing center (so-called GIRO center). The GIRO would be
used for the transmission of inter-bank clearings, and for possible intra-bank
settlemeats of debts, and financial reporting to NBH and the State Bank
Supervision Agency.
3.          Moreover, consumer demand and market competition is pushing for che
establishment of automated teller machines (ATM), and automated point of sale
(EFTPOS)  facilities.    The  NBH has  already  commissioned  an  international
consulting firm to conduct a feasibility study of the future of a "cashless"
system in Hungary.
4.          The design and implementation of the NBH automation system and
facilities will therefore have to take into consideration not only the efficiency
of bank automation, but also prudential-settlement integrity, consumer protection
and other issues, as well as its in-house needs. The in-house central banking
needs would include generation of a data-base for economic and statistical
research, monitoring of prudential performance of commercial banks, such as
liquidity, credit behavior, compliance with statutory reserves, capital adequacy
and credit allocation policies, money and foreign exchange markee management,



- 129 -                              Anne  32-7
Page 2
internal accounting and budgeting, foreign exchange reserves management and
accounting, and cheque and payments system clearing and settlements.
B.    Scope of Work
(a)  ga=ments System
5:          The Consultants will be expected to review the existing information
flows and reporting mechanisms within the context of the present and future
automation plans of the Hungarian banking system as a whole, with specific
reference to the efficiency and cost effectiveness of the payments mechanism.
The Consultants will comment specifically on the adequacies of NBH's present and
projected needs, particularly with respect to the following system-wide issues:
(i)  Harmonization of standards and protocols (such as EFT card standards,
standardization of input forms, documentation and procedures, etc);
(ii)  Inter-connectibility of different systems, and flexibility in design
for future growth, such as provision for gateways/switches, which
will allow future development of EFTPOS, GIRO, ecc., to be connected
smoothly;
(iii) Prudential-sectlemenc integrity - to ensure that settlement failures
-                     by one party in the clearing mechanism does not lead to systemic
problems;
(iv)  Integrity and security of data required - safeguards, frequencies
of submission, responsibilities, gateways for receipts, contents,
formats, media, etc.;
(v) Competition and costs - pollcy and standards on EFT, ATM, GIRO and
EFTPOS; and
(vi)  Consumer issues - protection of consumers in an automatic payments
environment.
(b) NBH Information Needs
6.          Taking into consideration the above factors, the Consultants should
comment and make recommendations on the internal information needs of NBH,
particularly with respect to:
(i) Economic research and statistics database (including monetary
budgeting,   econometric  analysis,   financial   forecasting  and
projections);
(ii)  Bank  prudential  and  monetary  management  compliance  analysis
(monitoring commercial bank compliance with statutory reserves,
interest rates, liquidity, solvency, exchange control, etc.);



- 130 -                              Annex 3-7
Page 3
(iii) Money market and foreign exchange market dealing ano accounting,
including inter-bank clearing and settlements; and
(iv) Foreign debt, reserves management and accounting.
(c) Automation Strategy
7.          Based on the recommendations emanating from the above Payments System
and Information System study, the consultants should:
(i) Investigate in brief the application systems (particularly the
General Ledger) in operation on the existing mainframe and
minicomputers to assess their functionality, constraints, and degree
of user satisfaction.   The output of this activity should be a
documented recommendation on which system needs to be replaced,
enhanced or continued over the next five year timeframe.
(ii) Define a schedule and the tasks to be undertaken in the transition
of the commercial banks' accounting and database maintenance
processes, presently effected on the NBH computers, to the individual
bank's  data  processing  centers.    Also  identify  the  Customer
Accounting services which NBH will need to continue to provide to
other institutions which do not plan to have an in-house data
processing infrastructure.
(iii) Evaluate the planned and actual utilization of the installed-office
automation networked microcomputers. Based on the findings and on
the defined needs, recommend either an extension of the network, or
an alternative capability to promote inter-office communications and
data sharing, and facilitate research activities in the appropriate
organizational units.
(iv) Briefly assess and evaluate the functionality, utilization and
effectiveness of the installed mainframe and minicomputer hardware
and networked microcomputers in operation a: tlBH.   The hardware
workload, constraints and mode of operation should be documenced and
a rationale provided to justify either enhancements to, or
replacements of, che existing equipment.
(v) Confirm the information requirements for monitoring of liquidity,
foreign exchange, and domestic interest rates, etc., and compliance
with prudential regulations. Recommend appropriate software package
or software development methodology that could cover an effective
reporting framework and standards which should include: (a) the data
elements to be captured, (b) the responsibilities and mechanisms,
and (c) the linkages and modalities between NBH, the Giro comruter,
financial institutions and regulatory bodies.



- 131 -                           Annex 3-7
Page 4
(vi) Investigate and conceptually define the main components of an
internal MIS required at a minimum to support:
Monetary planning and control (including interest and exchange
rates, credit allocations, liquidity management, direction of
lending,  inter-bank  market  and  settlement/stock  market
operations, etc.) as defined in the Payments System study.
*  .  Cheque and payments clearing and settlement arrangements
Monetary budgeting
Domestic and foreign exchange accounting
Internal NBH integrated budgeting and accounting
Accounts payable and receivable
Personnel and payroll management
Fixed assets
Economic analysis and research
Systems for other NBH functions
The conceptual elaboration of the components should include key data
element structures and volumes to enable NBH to evaluate available
application software packages.
(vii) Investigate the requirement for a more sophisticated foreign exchange
dealing, monitoring, settlements and (Swift/forex) payment capability
in view of the decentralization of foreign exchange dealings to
commercial banks. If additional equipment and software is necessary,
concepcually configure the combination, and indicate its modus
operandi and linkage with the NBH central mainframe hardware.
(viii) Review the results of the consultant's study on the introduction of
ATM/POS's and progress towards an electronic payments society, and
incorporate appropriate findings and recommendations in the NBH
automation strategy.
(ix) In light of the NBH information processing requirements, develop an
overview schedule for the implementation of the various systems,
activities and components of the automation program.
(x)  Delineate hardware, peripheral, software and equipment requirements
necessary to sustain current operations and provide acceptable
service levels and "job turnaround" during the interim period until
the four major commercial banks establish their account processing
capabilities.



- 132 -                           Annex 3-7
Page 5
(xi) Compile a generic NBH hardware and software architecture and system
engineering taking into account its present equipment and
interconnection requisites, and the findings and recommendations
emanating from the study.
(xii) Estimate the foreign exchange and local currency resources required
t- implement the major components of the automation program. These
estimates should be phased in accordance with the recommended
implementation strategy.
(xiii)  Indicate the staffing and training plan to be adopted by NBH in
support of the automation prograw.
C. Outputs and Reports
8.          The Consultant(s) shall produce an interim report midway through
the study to highlight the study progress and developments, report on findings,
indicate constraints and problems, and document issues requiring NBH management
discussion, intervention or resolution.
9.          The Consultant(s) should produce two final documents -- first in
draft form for review and approval -- as study outputs. These are:
(i) A document demarcating the modalities of the enhanced Payments
Systems and NBH Information Needs, its operation and data framework,
and,. outlines of computer generated policy, planning and control
reports; and
(ii) A document defining the recommended NBH Automacion Strategy, and
elaborating on the study activities in paragraph 7.
D. Expected Consulting Efforts
10.         The consultancy efforts for the accomplishment of the various tasks
and production of the reports, for the Payments System and NBH Informacion Needs
and Automation Strategy studies, are estimated to be 2-4 and 3-5 consultant
months, respectively. Both studies should be completed within three months from
contract signature date.



- 133 -                             Annex 3-8
Page 1
HUNGARY --FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program for Securities Market Development
A.  Legislative and Re-ulatory Framework
1.          Technical assistance has been provided by the World Bank/IFC for
preparation of the new Securities Law. Under the Project, similar assistance
will be extended for preparation of the legislation which is a necessary adjunct
to establishing the Stock Exchange and the State Securities Supervision Board,
as described below, as well as for the preparation of legislation as new
instruments and activities such as mutual funds, and investment advisors, are
introduced into the market. An important goal of this assistance will be to help
the Government create the right balance in the regulation between the rules
necessary for prudent behavior on the part of participants and not stifling the
appetite or incentive of participants, be they issuers, intermediaries or
investors, to take part in the market.
B. State Securities Supervisorv Board
2.          The Project is designed to build up the capacity of the -new State
Securities Supervisory Board (SSS), so that it can effectively regulate and
supervise the market and promote stable growth.          The Project's technical
assistance component will help the authorities establish the SSS, define the
scope of its responsibilities and begin implementation of its regular supervision
*         procedures.  The assistance to be provided will fall into the following areas:
(i) the legal and regulatory framework for supervision of the market; (ii) the
internal organization, staffing and procedures of the SSS; (iii) training for
its staff; and (iv) computerization of the information collection and analysis
system.
3.          Regulatorv  Framework.   Although  the Securities  Market Law was
approved in January 1990, the detailed regulations that are a necessary adjunct
of the basic framework established by the law have not yet been prepared. The
SSS will be responsible for issuing detailed regulations that will guide market
participants on specific aspects of the market, for example on new issues and
the contents of a prospectus.  The SSS will also be responsible for approving
the regulations prepared by the Stock Exchange for its own members and
procedures.   Under the Project, advice on the content and adequacy of these
regulations will be orovided to the SSS during their drafting and before their
finalization.
4.          Internal Organization.  While initially the SSS will be a small unit
without the need for a large staff or structure, the project will help with its
initial structuring to achieve maximum efficiency and responsiveness vis-a-vis
*          the market, as well as with the design of a longer term program that will allow
different specialist functions to be created as the market develops. Over time
this would probably lead to the formation of separate departments responsible,
for example, for new issues, the ongoing relationship with issuers, the oversight



- 134 -                           Annex 3-8
Page 2
of the Stock Exchange and its operations, the licensing and supervision of
intermediaries and the regulation of disputes. This component of the Project
will also assist with the preparation --including the drafting of manuals-- of
the Supervision's internal procedures and staff guidelines for its various
activities.
5.          Training.   Because securities markets and their supervision are
relatively new areas of activity in Hungary, training will be critical to
developing the expertise necessary to their effective functioning. Because of
the complexity of legal and financial issues that can arise, the SSS will need
to have a well qualified and trained staff. Staff, perhaps in small teams will
need to be able to institute regular (but random) spot checks of che system as
well as to monitor participants and activities on a regular ongoing basis.  The
Projec-: will provide assistance both in:  the assessment of the current and
longer term needs  for different types  of staff;  and  in  the design and
implementation of a training program that will help staff attain the desired
level of expertise and experience.  Assistance will also be given in the design
and  preparation  of  a  syllabus  and  examination  for  the  licensing  of
intermediaries, for which the SSS will be responsible.
6.          To the extent possible training will be provided in Hungary, with
the help of visiting foreign trainers, and using the facilities of existing
educational establishments such as the International Bankers Training Center (see
Annex 3-5). The Project may also, when appropriate, finance courses overseas,
although foreign sponsorship will be sought whenever available, to enable staff
of the SSS to spend periods of six months in a comparable overseas institution.
Short-term foreign study tours may also be arranged for senior staff to study
particular areas of interest to the Hungarian environment. Terms of reference
for the training component of the Project are contained in the Project File.
7.          Information Systems.  To be fully effective the SSS will need to have
a strong technical capacity in the collection, storage and analysis of the data
which will be submitted by issuers when, for inscance, a company makes a public
offering or subsequently files required information. As the market grows in size
and complexity the SSS's ability to supervise the market efficiently and
unobtrusively will depend to a great extent on its capacity to effectively cross
reference and analyze the information submitted to it. The Project will assist
in the design and implementation of the system for data collection, storage and
analysis, and the acquisition of equipment to computerize appropriate parts of
that system.
C. Stock Exchange
8.          The market for trading in securities  is still very small and
illiquid. The Project is designed to support the development of a fully fledged
stock exchange in Hungary that will provide the environment necessary for a broad
and liquid market.   Technical assistance will be provided for:   (i)  the
preparation *of necessary  regulations,  (ii)  a determination of the Stock
Exchange's organizational structure, staffing requirements and internal
procedures, (iii) the design and implementation of appropriate information,



- 135 -                             Annex 3-8
Page 3
trading and settlement systems (computerized or otherwise), (iv) a feasibility
study for the establishment of a central deposit facility, and (v) training for
staff and members and education programs for the public.
9.          Regulations.   The Stock Exchange will be a self-regulating body,
under authority delegated by the State Securities Supervisory Board (SSS). To
discharge this responsibility for the orderly functioning of the trading markets
it will need to publish clear guidelines for all participants and each type of
transaction. The Project will support a foreign advisor to review and comment
on the Stock  Exchange  regulations  before  they  are  finalized.    Technical
assistance will also be provided to help transform the existing Ethics Committee
into a more effective and independent vehicle for the resolution of disputes and
the promotion of fair market practices.
10.         Oreanization and Automation.  The Project wLll provide finance for
the planning, staffing and structuring of the Stock Exchange, as well as the
design and implementation of its trading, settlement and informacion systems.
Assistance in these areas will be preceded by an assessment of specific needs,
undertaken in conjunction with a foreign expert.   The Exchange will begin to
introduce computer-assisted trading once it moves into its permanent headquarters
in 1990, and a network of computers is expected to be able to access information
from the Stock Exchange. In the longer term, however, the Exchange is expected
to need fully automated systems and the Project will assist in their selection
and acquisition. Feasibility studies will be undertaken before the purchase of
any equipment.
11.         Training and Public Education.  The Project will finance the design
and preparation of training programs for the Exchange's own staff and of
comprehensive coursework for professional brokers and dealers leading to the
licensing examination that will be a requirement for trading.   As with the
training program to be designed for the SSS, it is expected that most of the
training will be provided in Hungary with the help of visiting foreign trainers
and  professionals   and  using  the   facilities   of  existing  educational
establishments. 'Where appropriate however, short-term foreign study tours may
also be arranged for senior staff to studv particular areas of interest to the
Hungarian situation.
12.         The Project will also help the Stock Exchange expand its current
program of lectures and seminars for the general public; chese are designed to
inform potential issuers of securities and investors of the opportunities offered
by a securities market. In addition, the technical assistance under the Project
is expected to identify improvements to general education programs that will
support capital markets development, including the strengthening of the curricula
and facilities for economics and finance training at academic institutions.
Financing of any such broader training programs that may be recommended would
however lie outside the scope of the Project.
13.         The terms of reference for the training and education components of
the Project are contained in the Project File.



-136 -                               Annex 3-8
Page 4
D. Market Develooment
14.         The World Bank Group and its Hungarian counterparts remain concerned
that the establishment of a stock exchange, the introduction of regulation and
provision of training will not in themselves create an active securities market.
Developing the market is likely to be particularly difficult in Hungary because
of the economic and inflationary situation, the negative image of securities
markets during mosr of the post-war period and the recent economic reforms which
give investors opportunities to hold a range of Lttractive alternatives to bonds
and equities,  including real estate and foreign currency deposits.   These
development difficulties are exacerbated by the general absence of accurate
financial statements and other quality sources of information on issuing
companies, that prevents potential investors in securities actively analyzing
and assessing the risks involved.
15.         Crucial to market development is the creation of a level playing
field that does not'discriminate against the issue of or investment in long-term
risk capital; this will encourage an increase in the supply and demand for long
term securities in accordance with market forces. This would normally mean that
a rational financial return structure (with respect to risk, maturity and
liquidity) exists across the full range of investment instruments available to
investors; that the financial and other costs of issuing capital are not too
onerous for companies in comparison to bank financing; and that a commercial
environment is encouraged to promote the emergence of brokers and other
intermediaries who have a strong interest in the buying and selling of securities
at the grass roots level.   It is apparent that a number of institutional,
regulatory and fiscal constraints do exist to securities market development in
Hungary -- for example, the lack of an institutional investor base; a minimum
share denomination that is beyond the reach of many individual investors; and
possible disincentives from the present taxation of financial instruments. These
will continue to depress the demand and supply of securities even after the basic
market infrastructure has been established.
16.         The Project will include a joint market review, to be undertaken by
a small working group of Hungarians and supported by World Bank Group staff,
focusing on these constraints and the design of a comprehensive policy framework
for the longer term development of the market. The review would be preceded by
a consultant study of constraints to capital markets development, to be supported
by the Project and for which terms of reference are contained in the Project
Files. This working group is expected to include representatives of different
interests and sectors to obtain as objective a view as possible. It is expected
that the working group will evolve into a permanent securities committee to
review, guide and promote the development of the securities market. The review
is expected to focus on areas such as measures to improve the participation of
institutional investors, which is currently minimal, new instruments such as
investment funds, as well as fiscal and other issues.  The consultant review
would also identify the market potential for various capital market institutions
once some of the major constraints are removed. This could in turn favor new
investment in such institutions including possible joint ventures with foreign
investors. This joint effort is expected to be undertaken in the first half of
1991, to enable a clearer picture to be obtained of the many reforms recently
introduced or in the process of introduction.



&
IWARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM NoDtRMIZATIfl5PgJECT
tedhicSl Assistace for Securities Market Devwlpnent
A. Servision- State Securities S>LervisionAncaxy (SSS)
CleWt pbt libctiv                                           Date            COrJTn Sttsu                            Kley InterimSteps
1. Regulation                 SAublt to Courcil of               6/01/90          Basic outline has been                 (a)   SSS to prepar, dreft regulations by
Ministers                                           established in the                           4/1590. nd bsiAit an Enltish
Securities Market Low                       dreft to 9ank#Consultent by 4/30/90
2. Orgnilation Wn              Inplep entatlon of an             7/31/90           The supervision is begiming           (a)   SSS to prepare droft Ter& of
Internel procedires        organization plan end                               to recruit Its first staff                   leference for foreign assistance
detailed procsdures                                 *ebers.                                      coiwrwont of procedures and
organization to be submitted by
4/30/90
(b)   foreign consultant to prepare
detailed organliational plan by
6/30/90
(c)   foreign consultant to prepare
auals etc. for staff  perating
guidance, by 9/30/90
3. Inforsation system:         b ple nt system                    12/31/90         All infor_stion currently             (a)   SSS to submit draft TCo  for foreign
computer assisted                                                              stored *-ully                                assistance en  sicbit to Sank by
storag* retrleval and                                                                                                       6/30/90
analysis of date
(b)   Foreign consultant pr epare
easibilitty  tudy by 9130/90
(C)   Selection of equipment stunitted to
Bank for apoval by 11/30/90
4. Training                    Tralning proqrm  for               9/30/90          No specific courses available         (a)   SSS to submit TOR to Sank for
supervision staff                                   In Nungary                                   foreign technical assistance by
4/30/90
(b)   Consultant to coaplete assesstent
of stftf needs  nd proposed progrm
by 7/31/90
tD  Ot
cl



HUNGARY FINANCIAL SYStEM NOOERNIZATIOW PROJECt
Technical AsSistance for Securities market Deveto0rnt
H. Stock Exchange
Cmponent                       Objective                       Date                 Current Status                                 Key Interim Step
1. Stock Exchane               Stiit to Cocil of                  6/01/90           Oasic outline established in          (a)   Securities Trading Committee to
Reguwition                 Ministers                                            proposed Securities Law                       greptre draft regulations by
(b)   SIC to stimit English draft to 9an*
vAd Consultant for comment by.
03131/90
(c)   craft to be s*tmitted to SiC
bera  In Nao 1990  nd to  be
adopted alter the new Stock
Exchangte opens in mid-1990
2. Organization and           lptlemetaeton of                                     Current procedures reed to be          (1)   SIC to prrc Term  of Reference
Internal Procedures         organizational plan ad                              strengthened to allow efficient               for foreign assistance c'nent of
detailed procedores                                 ftuctIoning of the Exchange at                procedures wnd organization  to be
a higher volLta  of business                  uaLaitted to the Sank by 31/iJ90
(2)   foreign consultant to prepare
detailed plan. by 9/1S/90
3. AutAted systems:
a)   trading                Introductiun of auttmated          6/30/90          Stock Exchange has partially             )   STC to prepare letr   of Reteremce
settlement and        system  Ix                                           autowted some system  but                     for  edliut-term automation strategy
information                                                                needs technical *ssistence to                 study for review bv  *ark by
systems                                                                    assess current nd future needs                11/30/90
and to select appropriate long-
term systems                          (b)   foreign corultant to prepare                   0
mwdiau-ters autmation study by
11/30/90
*                                                                                         (c)   final selection of equipment to be
s&*m3it ted for 9* approval by
1/31/91
b)   Central deposit        feasibility studt  an              6/30/91                                                 (1)   Stock Exchange to prepare and
facility               Introckction of system                                                                            submit ler-s of Referenme for Study
by 1/31/91
(2)    Foreign consultant to prepare
feasibility study by 6/30/91
4. training for                a) Program of courses for           9/30/90          Training courses currently run         (l)   Terms of Referetme for foreign
Securities Market              intermedieries                                   on an ad hoc basis by the Stock               technical assistance submitted to
Professional*s  /                                                                Exchange, 9eners Training                    Sank for review by 4/30/90                        >
Center  nd other institutions                                                                    5
(b)   foreign consultant to caaplete the            go 
assessment of needs and basic                      t
course design by 7/31/90
03 c
/ the studios on organization nW internal procedures.         on trading  settlement  nd Inforation
systems  are expected to be comb n        ds 
if introductlon gf automated systems Is expected in tuo stoges. A small systemt  involving existing hardware snd purchose of software.
would be put In place by October 1W0.  In the heintixe, a stutdy  ilt be carried out to determine medium-term autonation needs
j/ Execution of training progroms will be carried out by the international Training enter for Bankers (IECI).
*                                                                                                                                 r  



- 139 -                            Annex 3-8
Attachment 2
HUNGARY - FINANCIAL SYSTEM MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Securities Market Development
Cost and Time Estimates
Estimated Costs
Las         Fri
(US$ '000 Equivalent)
Securities SuDervison
1.    Regulations                                  7.5          25.0
2.    Organization & Procedures                   15.0          50.0
3.    Information System
-feasibility study                          5.0           13.0
-acquisition                                  -          150.0
-implementation                            45.5           75.0
4.    Training of supervision staff               11.5           56.0
Stock Exchange
1.    Regulations                                  7.5          37.0
2.    Organization & Procedures                   22.5          75.0
3.    Automated Systems (trading,
settlement and information)
-feasibility study                            -           75.0
-acquisition/implementation             1,560.0        1,425.0
4.    Central deposit facility
-feasibility study                          5.0           13.0
5.    Training of stock exchange staff             8.0          68.0
6.    Professional Courses                        20.0         137.0
Training/Education
1.    Consultant Review                           20.0         82.0
General Market Develogment
1.    Future Regulations                          11.0         35.0
2.    Market Review and Program                   12.5         45.0
TOTAL                                    1.751.0      2.361.0
9- excluding duties and taxes.



HUNGARY  - FINANCIAI. SYSTEM MODERNIZATION  PROJECT
Detailed Pro1ecr Cost Estimates
(US$ million)
Local                                        foreign                                    Total
Institut.   Automation  Hardware/   laxes and       Institut.  Automation  Nardwarel
Development      VA        Software     Duties      Development       IA       Software        Local       ioreign      Total
Leg./JReg. Framework
and Supervision of Banks               0.44        0.05         0.01        0.04            1.17        0.09        0.15           0.54         1.41        1.95
Strengthening of Banks:
Pre- appraised banks:
(a) Budapest Bank                     0.27           -        2.90         0.77           1.27         0.59        2.71           3.94         4.51        6.51
(b) Coamercial and Credit Bank        0.22        0.35         5.75        1.08            1.04        0.88        4.72           7.40         6.64       14.04
(c) Hungarian Credit Sank             0.24        2.51         S.S0        1.06           1.11         1.40        4.20           9.31         6.71       16.02    .Z
(d) National Savings Bank             0.3S        0.,3        11.33        1.46           1.57         0.64        6.41          13.67         8.62       22.29    'D
Other banks                            0.33        1.13         8.51        1.46            1.58        1.11        5.72           11.44        8.41       19.85
Banking Infrastructure:
Training Center                        0.24           -                     0.02            1.75           -        0.12           0.26         1.87        2.13
Payments Clearing Center                  *        0.11         7.28        2.26               -        1.52       11.81           9.6S        13.35       22.98
National Bank of Hungary                           0.15         4.20        0.83                        0.75        3.35           5.18         4.10        9.28
Advisory Services                      0.07           *                        -           0.45            -           -           0.07         0.45        0.52
Securities market Development:
Supervision and Regulations            0.05        0.05         0.00        0.04           0.16         0.09        0.15           0.14         0.40        0.54
Stock Exchangf                         0.08        0.07         1.49        0.24           0.40         0.36        1.15           1.88         1.91        3.79
Review                                 0.01                        -           -           0.05            -                       0.01         0.05        0.06
Accounting & Auditing                    0.12           -                                    0.78            -           -           0.12         O.78        0.90
........   ............. ... ..... . .  ........  .......  ........... .........  .......  ..........  ..... .. . . .. .......  ..........  .......
Base Cost                        2.42        4.95       46.97         9.26          11.33         7.43       40.49          63.61       59.25       122.86
Physical Contingencies(10X)                                                                                                          5.21         5.07       10.28
Price Contingencies                                                                                                                  8.60         1.68       10.28
Total.                                                                                                                      77.42       66.00       143.42



-  141  -                                           Annex  4 -I
HUNGARY  - INANCIAL  SYSTEM .MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Project  Implementacion  Schedule
4,.................................................................................................................
ICoavonents                   M Major Activities                  19            1990       i 1991       1992
I                                                              I |1   2  3  4   1 2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1 2  3  4
---------------.-----......
|Legislative,           ITA for Banking Legistation and
iRegutatory. and        I Prudential Regulations                           I |  xxxxxxxxx             I
ISupervisory Framework  |TA for Banking Supervision Agency  I           .xAxzxxxxxIxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxzxxlx
IStrengthening of       linstitutional Diagnostics           I      xxxxxxjxxxxxxxxxxxxlxxxxxx
|Sanks                  |Automation Strategy Studies         I       XXxxxAxlxxxxxxxxxx1xxxxxx        j
I                       JPortfotio Audits                    I                 xxx
I                       linstitutional Development           I             I  xxxxxxxix xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
I                       |Procurement of Hardware/Software   I              |;;xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx       I            I
I                       ITraining                            I             I       xxxxxjxxxxxxxxxxxxI             I
I                        liaptementation of systems at NQ    I             I           x|xxxxxxxxxxxxlxxxxxxxxxxxxj
I                       lExtension of Systems to Branches   I                            I                   xxxxxx|
lSanking Training       ISetection of Training Coordinator  I                  xxx 
|Center Assistance      |ongoing Course Program              |xxxxxxxxxxxx|xxxxxxxxxxxxIXXXXXxXXXXxxx|xxxxxxxxxxI
I                       |Procurement of Hardware             I                   xxxxxxlxxxxxxxxxxxxi              I
I                       I                                    I             I            I             I            I
jDevetopment of         IFeasibility Study                   lxx           j
iPayments Ctearing      iStudy Tours/Training                I         xxxlxxxxxxxxx   }              I
[Center                 jProcurement of Goods/Services       I        xxxxlxxxxxx       I             i            I
I                       linstallation of System              IIxxxxxxxxxxxxl
ITurnkey management                  I     I                    I  xxxxxxxxxlxxxxxx        I
lOperatwonal Status                  I                          I            I xxxxxxxxxx
!                 {~~                                        ~      ~ I  I        I             I            I
IN3H Data Processing    [Feasibility Study                   I             I      xxxxxx|
ISysrem                 lProcurement of Hardware/Software   I              I            jxxxxxx       I
jTraining/Study Tours                             j I    xxxxxxlxxxxxx
limp.ementation of Systems                       I             lxxx*xxxxxxxxlxxxxxxxxxxxxj
II                                                I             I            I             I
ISecurities and         ITA for market Supervision           i                    xxxxxxl             I            I
jStock Market           ITA for Stock Market                               I I    xxxxxx|xxxzxx x
1Development            llnstallation of Hardware/Software  I              I         xxx jxxxxx xxxxlxxx
I                       iTraining                            I             I            jxxxxxxxxxxxxi
s                       I*tOperation of Systems              I             I            I      xxxxxxlxxxxxxxxxxxxl
I                                    I            I             I            I             I
lAccounting and         ITA to Ministry of Finance           I             I  xxxxxxxxxlxxxxxxxxxxxx
IAuditing Standards    I                                    I             I            I             I
I                       I                                    I             I            I             i            I
IProject Advisory Unit  IOn-site Advisory Services           I             I
I                       lAssistance                          I             I      xx xxxxxixxxxxx jxxxxxxxxxxxxI
.................................................................................................................



- 142 -
Annex 4-2
HUNGARY   FINANC!AL SYSTEYt MODEMNIZTTION PROJECT                      b
:stimated Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
Estimated Schedule
Cumulative      % of
Calendar Year            Fiscal Year        Amount       Amount       Total
and Semester             and Semester
--- (US$ million) ..
1990   II                FY91    1          5.5          5.5          8.3
1991    I                FY91   II          9.0         14.5         22.0
II                FY92    I         10.5         25.0         37.9
1992    I                FY92   II         12.3         37.3         56.5
1I                FY93    I         10.0         47.3         71.1
1993    I                FY93   II          6.2         53.5         81.1
II                FY94    1          5.0         58.5         88.6
1994    1                FY94  I1           3.5         62.0         93.9
II                FY95    1          3.0         65.0         98.5
1995    1                FY95   II          1.0         66.0        100.0
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



