Page  1
September 27, 1990
Mr. Tarafas Imre
First Deputy President
National Bank of Hungary
Department for International
     Development Institutions
H-1850 Budapest
Szabadsag ter 8-9
Mr. Laszlo Tisza
General Manager
National Savings Bank
H-1876 Budapest
Nador U.16.
               Re:  Loan No. 3191 HU
                    Financial System Modernization Project
                    Amendment to NSB Project Agreement
Gentlemen:
          I refer to Section 4.02 of the Guarantee Agreement dated
June 1, 1990 between the Republic of Hungary (the Guarantor) and the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) for
the above-captioned Project, and to Section 3.03 of the NSB Project
Agreement of same date between the Bank and the National Savings
Bank (NSB) for said Project, pursuant to which the Guarantor and NSB
are required to take certain steps to transform NSB into a joint
stock company. I further refer to recent correspondence from the
National Bank of Hungary (the Borrower) and the Guarantor to the
Bank explaining difficulties experienced by the government of the
Guarantor in completing the transformation of NSB and proposing
December, 1990 as a later date for completion of such transformation
and the Bank's telex of September 26, 1990 agreeing to such later
date.
          I wish to confirm the Bank's agreement to amend the date
set forth in Section 3.03 of the NSB Project Agreement so that said
Section now reads as follows:
          "Section 3.03. The Participating Bank shall take, not
          later than December 31, 1990, all action required on its
          part to reconstitute itself as a joint-stock company
          under the Guarantor's Law on Companies No. VI of 1988."
          Section 4.02 of the Guarantee Agreement remains
unchanged.
          Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by
signing the form of confirmation on the line provided below and
returning this letter to the Bank.
                              Very truly yours,
                            /s/  Eugenio F. Lari
                                  Director
                           Country Department IV
                    Europe, Middle East and North Africa
REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY
NATIONAL SAVINGS BANK
