                                   Documentof
                                The World Bank


                                                          .z%eP

                                                   ReportNo.: 29581




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                     GHANA

               PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                   CR. 2508-GH


          BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                   CR. 2885-GH




                                    July 1,2004




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation
Operations Evaluation Department

CurrencyEquivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit = Cedis

1994                     US$1.oo                c.   957
1995                     US$l.oo               c. 1,200
1996                     US$l.oo               c. 1,637
1997                     US$1.oo                c. 2,050
1998                     US$1.oo                c. 2,314
1999                     US$l.oo                c. 2,669
2000                     US$l.oo                c. 5,445
2001                     US$l.oo                c. 7,171
2002                     US$l.OO                c. 7,933

Abbreviations andAcronyms

BESIP            Basic Education School Improvement Program
CEDEP            Center for the Development o fPeople
DFID             Department for InternationalDevelopment (UK)
EdSAC            Education Sector Adjustment Credit
EdSEP            Education Sector Project
EFA              EducationFor All
EMIS             EducationManagement Information System
FCUBE            Free, compulsory universal basic education
FTI              Fast Track Initiative
GES              Ghana Education Service
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IEPS             Internal Initial Executive Project Summary
MOEYS            MinistryofEducation, Youth and Sports
MTR              MidtermReview
OED              Operations EvaluationDepartment
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PSDP             Primary School Development Project
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
PTA              Parent-Teacher Association
QUIPS            Quality Improvement inSchools
SIF              Schooling Improvement Fund



Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1-December 31


Director-General, Operations Evaluation                 : Mr.GregoryK.Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department              : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation         : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                            : Mr.HowardWhite

                                                            i


  OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopment effectivenessthrough excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
     The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bankfor two
purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank'swork is
producingthe expected results, and second,to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough
the dissemination of lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As partof this work, OED annuallyassessesabout 25 percentof
the Bank's lendingoperations.Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento those that are
innovative,large, or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudiesor country evaluations;those for which
ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.The projects,topics,and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
studies.
     A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
Report(a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department)and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPARthereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
     Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally,the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Boardof Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the OED Rating System
     The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methodsoffer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibilityto adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Followingis
the definitionand rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
     RelevanceofObjectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
     Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
     Efficiency:The extent to which the project achieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Susfainability:The resilience to risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
     lnstitutional DevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improvesthe ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
betterdefinition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignmentof the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate,which derives from these
institutionalarrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevantobjectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     BankPerformance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operationof the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance:The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
qualityof preparationand implementation, and compliedwith covenants and agreements, towards the
achievementof development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                    ...
                                                                    111



Contents


PrincipalRatings          ................................................................................................................    v

Key Staff Responsible             ........................................................................................................    v

Preface  ..............................................................................................................................        ..
                                                                                                                                             v11

Summary     ...........................................................................................................................       ix

1 Background
 .                     ...................................................................................................................     1

2.  Projectactivities,outputs andoutcomes                               ....................................................................   3

        Primary School Development Project .....................................................................                               3
        Basic Education Sector Improvement Program (BESIP) ........................................                                            6

3 ImplementationIssues
 .                                        .................................................................................................    9

        Disbursement Lags and Restructuring.....................................................................                               9
        Project Design and Implementation .....................................................................                              -10
        TheFailure of Donor Co-ordination .....................................................................                              11
        Community Involvement.........................................................................................                       12
4 Ratings
 .             ........................................................................................................................      14

5 FindingsandLessons
 .                                     .................................................................................................      16

Annex A   .BasicData            Sheet      ..............................................................................................    19


Tables

Table 2.1:Allocation ofresources under PSDP .................................................................                                  3
Table 2.2: PSDP outputs: planned and actual.....................................................................
Table 2.3: Allocation of BESIPresources ..........................................................................                             5
                                                                                                                                               7
Table 4.1: Performance ratings.........................................................................................                       14


Figures

Figure3.1: Disbursementprofiles.....................................................................................                          10




This reportwas preparedbyHowardWhite. who assessedthe projectinMay2003.The reportwas edited
by WilliamHurlbut.and Soon-WonPakprovidedadministrative support.


                                                             V



PrincipalRatings
                                 Primary School DeVelORment
                              ICR Review*                  PPAR             1I Basic Education Sector Improvement
                                                                                  /CRReview*                     PPAR
Outcome                      Unsatisfactory             Moderately                 Moderately                  Moderately
                                                      unsatisfactory               Satisfactory               satisfactory
Sustainability                  Uncertain                   Likely                    Likely                     Likely
Institutional                     Modest                  Modest                    Modest                      Modest
Development Impact
Bank Performance               Satisfactory            Satisfactory                Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Borrower                     Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Performance
* The ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsibleoperational division of the Bank. The ICR
Reviewis an intermediate Operations EvaluationDepartment(OED) productthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the
ICR.



Key StaffResponsible
Project                Task ManagedLeader                       Division Chief/                     Country Director
                                                                Sector Director
Primary School Development
 Appraisal                Nicholas Bennett                          Ian Porter                         Edwin R. Lim
 Completion               JosephineWoo                            Helena Ribe                          Peter Harrold
Basic Education Sector Improvement
 Appraisal                JosephineWoo                              Ian Porter                      Olivier Lafourcade
 Completion        EuniceYaa Brimfah Dapaah                  AlexandreAbrantes                         Mats Karlsson


                                            vii


Preface

       This project perfonnance assessmentreport (PPAR) covers two operations in
Ghana:

    0  The Primary SchoolDevelopmentProject(PSDP, Credit 2508) for SDR 46.9
       million, approved on June 10, 1993. The project closed on June 30, 1997.

    0  The BasicEducationSector ImprovementProgram(BESIP, Credit 2885) for
       SDR 34.7 million approved on June 18, 1996. The project closed on December
       31,2002.

       The PPARwas prepared bythe Operations EvaluationDepartment (OED), based
upon Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs), project documents, and interviews
with government officials andBank staffwith experience o fthe projects. It also draws on
the OED impact study Books, Buildings, and Learning Outcomes:An Impact Evaluation
of Bank Support to Basic Education in Ghana, including the fieldwork for that study
which took place inSeptember 2002 andJanuary-March 2003. The collaborationofBank
operational staff, govemment officials, civil society and community representatives who
assisted the two missions are gratefully acknowledged.

       Following standardOED procedures, the draft o f this PPAR was sent to the
borrower for comments before finalization, but none were received.


                                              ix


Summary

        The Bank's involvement inthe education sector inGhanabeganas support for
two sector adjustment credits - EdSAC I(1986-91) andI1(1990-94) - which
successfully supported a restructuring o fthe sector, reducingthe lengtho fpre-university
education from 17 to 12years and introducing greater cost recovery for the secondary
and tertiary cycles. One objective o f the reforms was to expandprimary education. The
concept o f Free Compulsory Universal Basic Education (FCUBE) was enshrined inthe
1992 constitution and became the name o fthe government's sector strategy.

        The two projects under review were investment projects aimed at improving the
quality o f school infrastructure andimplementingchanges inschool management to
improve learning outcomes. The Primary School Development Project (PSDP) was an
interim measure to improve quality o f the most disadvantaged schools while preparations
were under way for the broader sector program which became the Bank's Basic Sector
Improvement Project (BESIP).

       Under PSDP pavilion classroom blocks were provided to 2,178 schools andjust
under 1,000 others benefitedfrom re-roofing o f classrooms. Houses for headteachers
were also provided. School management focused on the role o f the head teacher and
supervisory staff. Although the number o f visits by circuit supervisors increased andhead
teachers adopted some changes inschool practices, many policy reforms were not filly
implemented. Adoption o f the longer school day was poorly enforced, and community
involvement inschool management remained negligible. Hence the main achievement o f
the project was the establishment o fphysical infrastructure, with civil works accounting
for 86 percent of the use o f funds. This focus was unchanged by the restructuring at mid-
term review (MTR), which added some institutional development components but also
expanded the civil works, so that there was not a substantial change inbudget allocations.

       BESIP was intended to be the Bank's contribution to a multi-donor program o f
the same name, the whole o fwhich was situated with the government's FCUBE strategy.
Inthe event, the other major donors (the U.S.andU.K.)didnotjoin the programbut
financed their own basic education activities. One third o fBESIP resources were usedfor
civil works and one third for textbooks; just under 10percent were spent on each of
teaching materials and school furniture. So, as with PSDP, improving the quality o f
school infrastructure and availability of materials was a main achievement o f the project.
BESIPhadmany other components, butwas simplified considerably at MidtermReview
(MTR)restructuring. After restructuring, efforts at institutional development focused on
the EducationManagement Information System (EMIS). EMIShas become a valuable
tool ineducational planning, though local capacity for managemento f the system is not
deep.

       That bothprojects required restructuring at the MTR stage raises questions about
design -thoughinbothcases restructuring was informal with the objectives remaining
unchanged. Both, but inparticular BESIP, had too many components, including some
that proved difficult to implement inthe changing context. The main feature o f changing
context was a lack o f continuity inproject staff on boththe government and the Bank
sides, which underminedunderstanding of, and commitment, to the projects. Government

                                              A




capacity was also weakened byhaving to manage a number o f different donor projects.
The Bank hadmade a genuine effort to facilitate a coordinated donor program. That it did
not come o f f can be attributed to donor competition, with this problem being exacerbated
byhigh-level changes inthe ministrycoming atjust the wrong time.

        The main output o fthe projects hasbeenbetter school infrastructure. The recent
OED impact study o f Bank support to basic education inGhana shows that these
investments have had a discernible impact on both enrollments and student learning
outcomes. But the institutional impact o fthe two projects has been less positive. They
have not affected the central ministry- other than EMIS - andplayed a limitedrole at
local level. Moreover, the projects failed to mobilize communities insupport o f school
building. And, importantly, manyhoped-for changes inthe classroom, interms o fbetter
management of teaching and improved teaching methods, have not taken place.

   The main findings and lessons learned are

   0    Over-ambitious project design results inslow implementation, andnecessitates
        restructuring.

   0    A lack o fstaffcontinuity, onthe side o fboththe Bank andthe borrower, can
        undermine successful project implementation.

   0    Donor coordination i s desirable, but this fact is insufficient to ensure that it will
        happen. A serious degree o f commitment to a sector approach is required from
        both government and all important donors to ensure it happens. Project design
        should not be based on a sector approach untilthere i s a clear indication that such
        an approach will actually be adopted.

   0    Attempts at community mobilization failed as the approach adopted fostered an
        insufficient sense o f ownership inthe community. This experience contrasts with
        that insome other African countries inwhich social funds have successfully
        mobilized communities to contribute to school construction andthen maintain
        them.

   0    However, community financing for school facilities can create disparities inthe
        quality o f schooling - and has already done so inGhana. Suchbiases need to be
        offset by direct support from the government.




                                                                            Gregory K.Ingram
                                                                             Director-General
                                                                         Operations Evaluation

                                                        1


1.        Background

1.1       Following independence in 1957Ghana's education system expanded and became
established as one o fthe best in sub-Saharan Africa. However, the economic downturn that
began inthe 1970sadversely affected the quality o f schooling and parents' willingness and
ability to sendchildren to school. Absolute enrollments inbasic education beganto decline
inthemid-1970s.'Government spendingoneducationdroppedfrom 6.4percent ofGDP in
1976tojust 1.5 percent by 1984.By the early 1980s school buildingswere dilapidated and
it was not uncommon for classrooms to have few ifany desks andonly one textbook to be
shared by the whole class. The system was also beset with inefficiency. Boththe school year
and the school day were short (resulting ina school year o f 610 hours compared to the
international norm o f 870 hours), butpre-university education could take up to 17 years.

1.2       The educationreform program embarked on in 1986 aimedto restructure the system
while expanding enrollments and introducing a greater degree o f cost recovery for the
secondary and tertiary cycles. The program also aimed to increase efficiency by increasing
the proportion o f trained teachers and increasingteaching time. The Bank supported the
reform program through two sectoral adjustment credits: Educational Sectoral Adjustment
Credits (EdSAC) Iand 11.'

1.3       The restructuringtook place as planned. The decline inenrollments was reversed.
The funds provided by the Bankplayed an important part insupporting the reforms by
facilitating the turnaround inschool quality. This period is covered inthe OED impact
evaluation o f Bank support to basic education inGhana.3EdSAC resources were directed
largely toward the construction o f classroom blocks andthe purchase o ftextbooks.
Nonetheless, concerns remained regardingthe poor quality o f instruction beingreceived.
Teacher absenteeism was comrnon andmanyteachers appeared poorly motivated. Very
manyschools still suffered frompoor infrastructure.The first o fthe two operations being
assessedinthis audit, the Primary School Development Project (PSDP), was identified in
this context. The rationale for theproject was to provide emergency support to the neediest
schools while a broader multi-donor sector program was being put inplace.

1.4       Once the new structure was inplace, policy for the basic sub-sector was outlined in
1996inthe strategy document "Free Compulsory Universal Basic Education (FCUBE),"
which stated the government's commitment "to making schooling from Basic Stage 1
through 9 free and compulsory for all school-age children by the year 2005.. . [and] to
improving the quality o f the education services offered" (GoG [MoE], FCUBE, April 1996:
1). Inprinciple, this statement didnot signal any change inpolicy, butwas one o fthe




1. Basic education inGhanacoversprimary (6 years) andwhat was middle school (4 years) and i s now Junior Secondary
School (JSS, 3 years).
2. PPARs for these two projectshave alreadybeenprepared:EdSAC,ReportNo. 13575, September 1994,and EdSAC11:
ReportNo. 19077, December 1998.

3. Books,Buildings, and Learning Outcomes:An Impact Evaluation of Bank Support to BasicEducation in Ghana,March
2003.

                                                            2


periodic attempts by government to abolish unsanctioned fees, which proliferate at the local


1.5      The significance o fFCUBEwas twofold: (1) itprovided abasis for a coordinated
sector program providing a framework for donor support to ed~cation;~and (2) it laid out the
institutional and other measures to support the nascent decentralization program, including
increased community participation in school management. At the time o fpreparation,
FCUBE and donor support to be provided through the Basic Education Sector Investment
Program (BESIP) were seen to be synonymous (the FCUBE document hadbeen sub-titled
BESIPonthe cover page).

1.6      FCUBE had three costed components:

     a) Improving quality o f teaching and leaming, consisting o f (1) the review and revision
         o fteachingmaterials inline with a revised, more focused, syllabus; (2) new
         measures on teacher incentives, including teacher prizes and teacher housing inrural
          areas; and (3) a shift to in-service teacher training usingdistance leaming materials.
          The total cost o fthese three sub-components was US$ 125.4million.

     b) Strengthening management at bothcentral and district level (US$ 112.8million).

     c) Improving access andparticipation through, inter alia, school construction and
         rehabilitation andpilot scholarship schemes to encourage girls' participation at
         primary level (US$33.7 million).

Inadditiontothe above, measuresweretobeundertakento ensurethefinancial
sustainability o f the education sector.

1.7       The Basic Education Sector Investment Program was the donor support to the
FCUBE policy. The FCUBEdocument gave a budget for FCUBE as a whole o f US$1,351
million for the period 1996-2000, showing a financing gap against existing resources o f
US$241.6 million. This gap was to be filled by development partners, with the Bank taking
US$50 million. The Bank's BESIP was thus intendedto be a contribution to a broader
multi-donor program. However, as documented below, donor support didnot materialize in
this form.




4. Primary school fees were first abolished on January 1, 1952. The EducationAct of 1961 confirmedthis position(though
materialscouldbe chargedfor) andmadeprimary schoolingcompulsory,thoughthe govemment at the time acknowledged
this was not practicalinall locations.

5. FCUBE coveredonly basic education, so it was a sub-sectorstrategyrather than sector strategy.However, since donors
were most concemedto support basic education, this fact shouldnot havebeenan impedimentto adoptinga sector
approach.

                                                  3


2.       Project activities, outputs and outcomes

PrimarySchoolDevelopmentProject

2.1      PSDP was initially called the Primary School Instructional Time Project, illustrating
the intended focus on a major perceived constraint on learning outcomes. This title was
dropped as it was deemed too narrow, as the project contained components not directly
relatedto learning time. However, moving away from the continued low learning time in
basic schools in Ghana (see paragraph 1.1above) remained an important part o f the project,
beingcontained inthe specific objective.

2.2      The overall objective o fPSDP was to increase learning achievements and
enrollments inprimaryschools throughout the country. Inorder to accomplish this, the
project had the specific objective o f increasingthe amount and improving the quality o f
instructional and learning time inprimary schools, particularly as far as 1,983 o f the least
well endowedprimaryschools are concerned which were to be the direct beneficiaries of the
physical infrastructure component.

2.3      Two main areas o f activity were identified:

    0    Policy andmanagement changes: (1) increased instructional time, (2) reduced
         studentfees and levies, (3) improved skills and motivation o fhead teachers, (4)
         community involvement inselection o fhead teachers, (5) orientation o f district
         officials and community leaders, (6) support to school supervision, and (7) school
         mapping.
    0    Investment inphysical infrastructure: (1) construction o f classrooms, (2)
         construction o f head teachers' housing, (3) provision o f roofing sheets for schools.
         Communities were to be responsible for buildingthe external walls ("cladding") for
         pavilions constructed by the project.

Physical infrastructure was plannedto consume 78 percent o f the project budget (Table 2.1).

Table 2.1: Allocationof resources under PSDP

                                          Appraisal estimate             Actual costs
                                         US$ millions   Percent      US$ millions   Percent
 Civil works                                     55.6       76.9             46.2       81.7
    School pavilions                             38.6       52.7             35.7       63.1
    Head teachers houses                         17.0       23.2             10.5       18.6
 Roofing materials                                0.5        0.7              2.3        4.1
 Vehicles and office equipment                    0.2        0.3              0.9        1.6
 Technical assistance and studies                 3.1        4.2              4.1        7.2
 Local training and training materials            1.8        2.5              2.1        3.7
 Incremental operating costs                      1.I        1.5              0.7        1.2
 Duties and taxes                                 0.3        0.4              0.3        0.5
 Unallocated                                     10.7       14.6                0        0.0
 Total                                           73.3      100.0             56.6      100.0

                                                                4


   2.4        An initial list o fover 3,500 potentialschools that mightbe supported bythe project
   was identified through discussions with District Education Officers, Circuit Monitoring
   Assistants, and other officials. All 3,532 o f these schools were surveyed inFebruary 1993.
   Ofthe 3,532 schools, 1,300 hadprimary enrollments o fless than 100pupils, andwere
   excluded from the project on the grounds that they may be closed following a rationalization
   exercise. It was also decided that any school that already had six good classrooms (or rooms
   that could be made into good classrooms with the provision o froofing sheets) would not be
   provided with pavilions. Fromthe data collected it was thought that inmany cases existing
   classrooms could be turnedinto effective teaching spaces byproviding roofing sheets.
   Followingthis exercise, it was decided that improved physical infrastructure, comprising
   head teacher housing andnew or rehabilitated classroomblocks, were plannedto be
   provided to 1,983 schools.

   2.5        The number o f schools covered by the project was later increased (at the mid-tenn
   review, MTR) from 1,983 to 2,178 inresponse to pressure from Ministers o fParliament. In
   1994 there were 11,218 public primary schools inGhana, so that the project reached nearly
   one infive o f these schools. The scale ofthe project was thus substantial and reached across
   the whole country. The targetingmechanismused, identifyingthe neediest schools, was also
   a sound one andpreferable to geographical targeting since there i s a highdegree o f intra-
   district variation inschool quality.

   2.6        Civil works androofing sheets accounted for 86 percent o fPSDP funds (Table 2.1).
   Close to two thirds was used for the construction of 3,727 school pavilions (Table 2.2),
   which was 708 more than planned inthe appraisal report on account o fthe increased
   number o f schools covered by the project andthe decisionto construct new pavilions after
   all insome cases where re-roofing had been planned. The target for head teacher housing
   was also exceeded -2,178 rather than the planned 1,983, correspondingprecisely to the
   increased number of schools. However, cladding fell short since some communities were
   not ina position to do this. Unclad pavilions are an improvement over the previous
   community-built structures6but suffer from problems o f disruption bynoise both externally
   andfrom the nextclassroomandcannot beusedduringheavy rain. The OED impact study
.  showed that these features o f school quality have a significant impact on learning outcomes.




   6. Inrural areas community-constructed facilities are either mudwalls and thatch or wooden pavilions, both ofwhich are
   liable to collapse in severe weather.

                                              5


Table2.2: PSDPoutputs: plannedand actual
                                                              Pianned          Actual
                                           Units                          Amount      As % of
                                                                                      planned
Training program
   General orientation training for
       Key district officials              Participants     600         787               131
       Local community leaders             Participants     6,000       5,949              99
   Community mobilizationfor circuit staff Participants     500         503               101
   Managementand teaching methods          Participants     2,000       2,619             131
   Training of trainers for above          Participants     350         749               214
Construction program
   School pavilions                        Classroom block 3,019        3,727             123
   Cladding of school pavilions            Classroom block 3,659        2,908              79
   Head teachers houses                    Houses           1,983       2,178             110
   Roofing of schools                      Classrooms       1,546       999                65
Materials
   Head teachers instructionalmanual       Copies           3,000       3,000             100
   Do it yourself clad manual              Copies           2,500       2,500             100
Source: PSDP ICR: p. 17

2.7     Inreturnfor the accommodation, the headteacher was to sign an agreement withthe
Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) and District Education Oversight Committee committing
to holding meetings out o f school time, providing teacher training, attending training, and
improving school-communityrelations. The communities were to sign contracts to clad the
pavilionwithin six months o f completion. However, as noted above, despite the attention
paidto the issue inthe SAR, the project failed to mobilize a significant proportion o fthe
beneficiary communities. This issue is discussed inthe next section.

2.8     The project was restructuredat the Midterm Review (MTR) inDecember 1995 to
better support the FCUBE, incorporatingthe Education Management Information System
(EMIS), provision o f teachingmaterials, a Schooling Improvement Fund(SIF), and an
information, education, communication program. These changes made little difference to
the allocation of funds. An unallocated amount o f $US10.7 million inthe original budget
was able to absorb the expanded civil works program andthe, relatively small, additional
amounts for technical assistance, studies and teachingkraining materials (Table 2.1).

2.9     While components maybe important even ifthey do not have muchmoney spent on
them, the ICRratedtheproject as unsatisfactory notingthat manyrequiredreforms hadbeen
only partially implemented. For example, schools didnot provide the requiredlength o f
instructionaltime, community involvement was negligibleother thaninsome SIF schools,
andthere was little impact fiom orientationandtraining ofofficials, community leaders, and
teachers. As described below, EMIS has proved important intime, havingreceived further
support underBESIP.However, PSDP's mainachievement was the provisionofphysical
infrastructure.

2.10    OED's impact studyo fBank support to basic education inGhana casts some new light
on this finding.That study showed the clear positive effects that improvementsinschool

                                                          6


infkastructure have had onboth enrollments andlearningoutcomes. While it remains the case
that the process aspects o fthe project were largely unsatisfactory, PSDP did have apositive
impact on the main educational outputs o f student attainment and achievement.

BasicEducationSector ImprovementProgram(BESIP)

2.11 The objectives for BESIP mirrored exactly the plannedcomponents o f FCUBE
(paragraph 1.6 above). Helpingthe Government o f Ghana to implement FCUBE was given
as the project's objective, specifically: (a) improve the teachingprocess and learning
outcomes; (b) strengthen management o fthe basic education system through better
planning,monitoring and evaluationbyMOE/GES at central, regional anddistrict levels,
andbypromoting active involvement o fcommunities inthe management of schools; (c)
improve access to basic education, especially of girls, the poor and other disadvantaged
segments o f the population; and (d) ensure financial sustainability o f the Government
program for basic education over the longer term.

2.12     BESIPwas strongly embedded inFCUBE, which was meantto provide the basis for
a sector approach. From the Bank's side, project documents indicate that it had always been
intended that its credit should bepart o f coordinated sector program with other donors and
referred to co-financing from USAID, UK ODA, UNICEF, andKfW.The aide-memoire
following the preparation mission listed these same donors. The government also appeared
to subscribe to the sector approach.

2.13     However, this identification o f the Bank's support with the broader donor program,
also referred to as BESIP, resulted insome ambiguity as to what the Bank would actually be
funding. The SAR for BESIP identified "betterment activities" inFCUBEwith abudget for
$241.6 million which were intendedto be coveredby BESIP, with $50 million coming from
the Bank. However, the financing plan for the project showed donors to be financing a slice
o f the total FCUBEbudget o f $1,35 1.2 million, without explicitly identifyingexactly what
donors would bepaying for. There was thus a lack o f clarity as to the intendeduse of the
Bank's US$50 millioncontribution to BESIP.

2.14     Inthe event, most BESIP fundingwent for civilworks andtextbook supply. This is
despite the fact that the BESIP S A R stated that "despite increased resource inputsand
enrollments, the reformmovement has had very limited success so far inimproving the
quality o f teaching and learning outcomes" (p.5) so that "more attention has to be paidto
software" (SAR: 14).' The Bank's focus on hardware andinstructional materials was
especially pronounced following the MTR inApril 1999, when the project was restructured
to focus on three components: (1) civil works, (2) textbook supply, and (3) EMIS. As a
result, the allocation to civil works and goods increased by about $19 million, givingrise to
the large share devoted to hardware and materials inproject expenses: $15.4 milliono fthe
total budget o f $47.9 were spent on civil works and a further $25.8 million on goods
(presumably mostly textbooks and furniture, though also including vehicles and other


7.Textbooksupply canimprove leamingoutcomes both throughimproving the quality of textbooksandproviding the
booksthemselves.Although the Bank supported curriculumdevelopment under BESIC, textbooksfor this new curriculum
were not developedwithin the lifetime o fthe project.The books distributedwere ones that already existed.

                                                7


equipment). Approximately one third was spent on school buildingandrehabilitation,just
over another third on textbook supply andjust under 10percent on school furniture (Table
2.3): intotal 77 percent o f the project budgetwas spent on hardware and materials inputs.
Just over five percent was used for trainingand training materials, and the remainderon
unspecified other expenses, which include support to the project implementationunit and
EMIS-related activities. The table shows actual spending only since, as explained above, the
appraisal document did not explicitly identify the intendeduse o f the Bank's resources
underBESIP.

Assessment by objective

2.15     Improve the teaching process and
learning outcomes: The main impetus for         Table 2.3: Allocation of BESIP resources
better learning outcomes has come from                                             US$  Percent
the provision o f close to 35 million           School buildingand rehabilitation  16.3    34.2
textbooks financed by the project. There        Training materials                 1.3     2.7
hasbeen less progress with respect to           Training                           1.3     2.7
teacher training, andhence the teaching         Teaching materials                 2.0     4.3
process. The GSS/OED survey data                School furniture                   4.2     8.9
collected for the OED impact evaluation         Textbook supply                    16.4    34.3
show that less than 5 percent o fbasic                                             6.2
schoolteachers receive in-service training      Other expenses                             13.0

on a regular basis. In-service training is a    Total                              47.8   100.0

focus inthe government's new strategy. To be successful there mustbeproper
understanding o fthe very limited success o f efforts to date. This appears to be an area in
which more could usefully be learned.

2.16     Strengthen management o f the basic education system through better planning,
monitoring and evaluation by MOE/GES at central, regional and district levels, and by
promoting active involvement o f communities inthe management o f schools: At the central
level efforts have focused on EMIS, which is discussed below. At local government level
there has beenprogress with respect to decentralization, but the Bank's involvement with this
has been somewhat limited. The Local Government Acts o f 1988 and 1993 shifted
responsibility for the administrationo f education to the districts, andthe 1995 Ghana
Education Service Act created District Education Oversight Committees as well as
community-level School Management Committees (SMCs). Whereas PTAs hadbeen
expected to play a largely revenue-raising function, the SMCs were to act like school boards,
which already existed at secondary level. Annual School Performance Assessment Meetings
were to bekeyevents at which the SMC, teachers, the rest o fthe community could meet
together. Armedwith data fi-om the most recent Performance Monitoring Test, which ranks
each school inthe district based on test results, SMCs are to prepare a planto improve school
performance. The project supported improved management efficiency through the enhanced
role o f circuit supervisors and expanded role o f districts incivil works. However, these
components were reduced at the MidtermReview (MTR) restructuring, partly in
consideration o f district-level capacity-building efforts that hadbeen launchedby DFID.

2.17     Improve access to basic education, especially o f girls, the poor and other
disadvantaged sements o fthe population: The project's main achievements were improved

                                                             8


access throughclassroom rehabilitation and equipment, as well as better learningoutcomes
from bothinfrastructure improvements andtextbook supplies. Whilst the project's objectives
also referredto increasing access for girls andthe disadvantaged neither group was
explicitly targeted. Yet it i s girls and the disadvantaged who are disproportionately absent
from school. Hence rising enrolments will more thanproportionately benefit these groups.
Analysis o f enrolment data for the OED impact study showed a convergence o f female
primary enrolment toward the male enrolment rate, and that enrolment growth has been
most rapid amongst the lowest income groups.

2.18      Ensurefinancial sustainability o fthe Governmenturogramfor basic education over
the longer term: No specific activities were carried out under the project inrelationto this
objective. Throughout the period the government has paid teachers' salaries and continues
to do so. But financial support for many school supplies and furniture will continue to
depend on donors and communities for the foreseeable future. This state o f affairs i s not
uncommon inAfrica and it not generally taken as an indication o f a locak o f sustainability.

2.19      Overall, despite the shift inthe project's focus, the objective o fpromoting learning
outcomes was still met. Classroom construction and rehabilitation contributed to higher
enrolments andbetter learning outcomes. Although activities oriented toward improving
classroom practice were cut back, the project financed 35 million textbooks, which played
an important part inimproving the quality of instruction.

Development and use of the Education Management Information System (EMIS)

2.20      EMIS data have been used inseveral ways for sectoral policy andresource
allocation. Boththe government's new sector strategy finalized inlate 2003 and Ghana's
proposal for the EFA Fast Track Initiative made heavy use o f EMIS data. The Bank's new
EdSEPprojectwill target resources to the 40 districts with the most deprived schools.8The
targeted districts were identified using EMIS data based on a ranking o f an index calculated
from 11indicators inEMIS.EMIS will also be usedto track improvements inschool
quality. After two years, a new rankingwill be made to re-identify the 40 target districts.
Government's own spending allocation o f educational resources will also utilize EMIS data,
including an additional flat payment to these same 40 districts. It i s also planned to use
EMIS data inthe allocation o f teachers, school furniture, and textbooks. These are positive
achievements. However, there are shortcomings with respect to local capacity to manage the
system. Staff o fthe Ministry o f Education, Youth, and Sports can now manage data
collection and entry. But ability at data management andanalysis, andmanagement o f the
software itself, i s more limited.

2.21      The contribution o f EMIS is a major direct way inwhich the Bank's support has
facilitated Ghana's proposal to be included for the Fast Track Initiative (FTI) o fthe
Education for All (EFA) initiati~e.~Without EMIS Ghanacould not have preparedthe
necessary documentation for a sound planto achieve EFA, as requiredby the FTI. The


8. PAD, Education Sector Project, February 2004, Report No. 26090 GH.
9. EFA i s an intemational initiative supported by several major intemational organizations, including the Bank
(http://www.unesco.org/education/efdindex.shtml).

                                                            9


projects also supported Ghana's inclusion inthe FTIinother ways. First, the books and
leaming materials provided have, as shown inthe OED impact evaluation, contributed to
increased enrolments and better leaming outcomes. These improved educational outputs
have helped give Ghana sufficient progress inbasic education to warrant potential inclusion
inthe FTI.Second, the experience at attemptingdonor coordinationlaida firmer basis for it
actually taking place over the last year, enablingthe sector program to materialize. Finally,
the government's FTIsubmissionlays great stress on school rehabilitation, confirming the
relevance o fthe substantive focus o fthese two projects.


3.        ImplementationIssues

DisbursementLags andRestructuring

3.1       The disbursement profile for PSDP (Figure 3.1a) shows disbursements to have been
only 20 percent o f the plannedamount inthe first year o fthe project and 40 percent inthe
second. The profile seems to fit the picture o f a "problem project" that only attained a higher
rate o f disbursements following restructuring at MTR." But the disbursement profile i s
misleading inthis case. About $12 million o fPSDP civil works activities were charged to
EdSAC I1inorder to use the balance o f that credit. This $12 million was cancelled from
PSDP, which explains how the project's physicaltargets were exceeded while the budget for
civil works was under-spent. Allowing for these $12 million inthe first two years o fthe
project gives a much healthier picture o f disbursements inthose years."




10. The disbursement profiles show the tendency of MTRsto take place about one-third through the life ofthe project. This
happens because of project extensions. For example, PSDP began inJanuary 1994, and was intended to close December
1997, so the M T R took place inDecember 1995, i.e. two years into a four year project. Inthe event the project closed one
year late with the final disbursement taking place inMay 1999.

11. Supervision reports confirm this more positive picture. The main delay noted was one o f six months inappointing a
project manager, but by the end o f 1994 good progress was being made with respect to construction (though less so with
the other project components).

                                               10


Figure3.1:Disbursementprofiles
(a) PSDP(millions SDRs)                            (b) BESIP(millions SDRs)
 +"-                                     --




                                                          1997   1998   1999   2000  301




3.2      The BESPprofile i s similar to that for PSDP: slow initial disbursementswhich
accelerate following restructuring at MTR. Inthis case the characterization o f a problem
project cured byrestructuring i s a correct one. B E S P had many components (on one
reckoning there were 97 separate components inthe project), which proved impossible to
manage and resulted inslow disbursement. As outlined above, following the M T R inApril
1999 it was decided to focus onjust three activities, allowing muchmore rapid
disbursement.

ProjectDesignandImplementation

3.3      Bothprojects were restructuredat the Midterm Review, suggesting either changing
circumstances or poor initial design. Both factors come into play. Two sets o f circumstances
were changing. Followingthe design o f PSDP, the FCUBE document was completed; so
there may have been some needto "bring the project into line," which i s the reason the ICR
gives for restructuring. Butthis argument appears overstated as there was little ifanythingin
the original project designnot compatible with the objectives o fFCUBE. The second
changing circumstance was a combination o f declining motivation inthe ministry and
changes inBank personnel. The period o f reforms coveredby EdSAC Iand I1(1986-94)
was one o f remarkable continuity inBank staff, notably the education specialist resident in
Accra, andinthe higher levels o f the ministry, notably the deputy minister responsible for
the reforms. A close working relationship had emerged which facilitated implementation,
includingensuringthat resources were usedinareasonablytimely manner. The later period,
since the m i d - 9 0 ~ ~ characterized by a rapidturnover o fboth task managers from the
                      was
side o f the Bank and high-levelstaff, including ministers, on the side o f the government.
The relationship became more strained as a result o f these frequent changes, with the lack o f
continuity undermining understandingo fthe projects and commitment to them. Under such

                                                             11


circumstances it i s only feasible to implement a small number o fwell-defined components.
Institutional development activities, especially o f a general nature, andpolicy-related work
are unlikelyto meet with much success inthese conditions.

3.4        Buteveninthe bestofcircumstances a strongcase cancertainlybemadethat BESP
was over-designed with too many components. This problem arose inpart from the fact that
it was meantto be a multi-donor program inwhich, inthe end, only the Bank took part. But
even the activities intendedto be carried out with Bank support were too many. The changes
at MTR were to some extent "rationalization," cutting back where other donors had stepped
in(e.g., DFIDwas training district-level officials, so the Bank scaledthat back), butalso a
necessary response to the fact that many components would not be able to use the hnds.

The Failureof Donor Co-ordination

3.5        Although there was already a donor co-ordination group inthe mid-1990s the
planned sector program failed to materialize. Inthe event, B E S P was financed by only the
Bank with other donors having their own projects. Havingbeen at the forefront o f donor co-
ordination inthe early 1 9 9 0 ~Ghana         ~ ' ~ has had no education sector program inrecent years,
althoughthe sector strategy which has beenprepared during2003 appears to beproviding
the basis for a more coordinated approach inthe coming years. Rather, it has had three large
donors (World Bank,U.S., andU.K.)with remarkably similar projects under different
management systems with an undoubted increase intransaction costs for g~vernment.'~
H o w didthis situation arise when the structure appeared to be inplace for a sector program?

3.6        The sector approach largely foundered on donor competition, despite the efforts o f
the Bank to encourage a government-ledprocess. InJuly 1994, the Bank's education
specialist inAccra wrote to the Minister o f Education referring to discussions they hadhad
on developing a new approach to donor financing o fbasic educationinGhana and
proposing that the government invite donors to preliminary assessment o f the sector later
that month. The letter emphasized the importance o f Government being seen to be firmly in
charge o f developing the comprehensive basic education program. The letter went on to
suggest a Ghanaian-led analysis to develop strategy with a meeting inNovember to get
donors onboard. Initially it seemed as though a sector approach would be adopted. The
appraisal mission for B E S P included staff from UK ODA (now DFID), USAID, and
UNICEF. But, whereas in 1987 other donors had no experience ineducation inGhana and
were willing to follow the Bank's lead, this was not the case nine years later. The crucial
episode appears to have been a workshop inLondon (supported by UK ODA) to develop a
sector strategy. This meeting took place despite the fact that a strategy already existed




12. EdSAC Iwas co-financed by several donors and so, given the context of a government-led reform program, effectively
a sector program before the term came into usage.
13. The midtermreview for QUIPS states, "donor co-ordination under the FCUBEhas been characterized as fragmented
and lacking collective consultation on strategic plans and financing.. . between donors there has been little regular sharing
or coordination o f the key elements o f their programs" (Bonner et al.: 11) and "the lack of coordination o f donor activities
at the district level is negatively affecting DE0 operations and attitudes" (ibid: 48).

                                                       12


(FCUBE) andthat no other donors were invited to the meeting.14From this time onward first
DFIDandthenUSAJDwent their ownway with programs to financebasic education. Only
within the past year, with the newgovernment strategy providing a basis, is a stronger
degree o fdonor coordination emerging.

3.7      A further contribution to ihe failure o fthe sector programwas madebychanges in
the Ministry o fEducation. The ministerat the time o fthe preparation o fBESIPwas
committed to a coordinated approach within FCUBE and played a strong role inproviding
government leadership. However, he departed the ministry at a critical time and his
successor didnot pushthrough inbringingdonors together under BESIP, certainly not
resisting pressures for separate donor activities. Indeed, it was government that asked
USAID to finance three model schools per district, the basis o fUSAID's Quality
Improvement inSchools project, although this activity didnot fall within the BESIP
framework.

CommunityInvolvement

3.8      PSDP had a poor performance at mobilizing communities, which were expected to
provide cladding for the pavilions provided by the project. A partial exception was the
School Improvement Fund, which financed community-basedproposals for school
improvements. The program was started as a pilot inthree districts following the MTR for
PSDP, andplannedto be scaled-up to national level under BESIP. Infact the scaling up did
not take place and this component was cancelled at the BESIP MidtermReview. BESIP
supported greater community involvement inschool management, but data collectedby
OED show fairly limitedinvolvement by most community members inSchool Performance
Assessment Meetings.

3.9       The difficulties o f community mobilization were noted inthe appraisal report for
PSDP. The report noted that Ghana had a tradition o f community construction activities in
the 1960swhich fell into abeyance at the end o f the first republic. There were attempts to
revive it under the Program o fActions to Mitigate the Social Costs o fAdjustment
(PAMSCAD),which provided support to Community Initiative Projectswhich included
schools. The appraisal report suggested four lessons need be learned from the experience
with these community projects: (1) approval andpayment process shouldnot be centralized,
(2) delays inpayments to communities often destroy the motivation o fthe communities, (3)
all projects should be designed to be completed quickly, and (4) only very limitedcash
involvement from most communities can be expected. However, these lessons seem not to
have been fully carried across to project design. The Midterm Review preparedby the
Project Management Unit found that only 48 out o f 276 pavilions hadbeen clad, a major
reason beinggiven that districts were still waiting for the buildings to be "handed over."

3.10     The pilot o f SIF under PSDP was operated by an NGO, CEDEP. CEDEP staff say
that they didmore actual implementation than hadbeen expected. The reasonthey gave for

       ~




14. Source: interviewwith DFIDeducationadvisor basedinAccra at the time. The incident i s also reportedinDFID's
Development Effectiveness Report, which notesthat bothheavyDFID involvementindrawingup the strategy andthe
bilateralnatureofthe meetingunderminedthe sector-wideapproach(DFID, 2002, p.26 Box 5).

                                                               13


this was that they were underpressureto meet targets, hence theybecameheavilyinvolved
inimplementation at the expense offocusing oncommunityparticipation.l5

3.11 This poor showing regarding community mobilization, which was a function o f the
project design, contrasts with the success o f social funds inmobilizing communities in
support o f school construction elsewhere inAfrica, such as Malawi andZambia. Under,
PSDP the schools were constructed by an external contractor ina "top down" manner, with
the communities then told it was "their school" and they should take care o f it. Insocial
funds the initiative comes from the community, they provide buildingmaterials upfi-ont and
are involved inhiring andmonitoring the contractor for supervision. The greater sense o f
ownership given by this approach has resulted inthe construction o fmany thousand school
buildings which are maintained bytheir communities. These social funds use local
government official ina supervisory capacity.

3.12         Inretrospect, Ghanawas perhapsunfortunateinhavingone ofthe very first social
funds, which usedamodel very different from that applied inthe "third-generation'' social
funds operating today.16OED's review o f social funds" suggestsreasons why Ghana's was
relatively unsuccessful: (1) the process should be decentralized with local personnel,
preferably existingdistrict officials, playing a supervisory role, (2) proposals come directly
from communities rather than being mediated through NGOs (or local government, which
can facilitate, but not prepare, proposals), (3) traditional structures o f authority (chiefs and
headman) should bepart o f the process since they have the legitimacy to mobilize
community labor, (4) rural communities can contribute inkindbut not incash, and (5) clear
technical guidelines, backed up bytraining support ifnecessary are required. Itmay also be
the case that the process is perhaps best not handledcentrally by a line ministrybut by a
dedicated agency, as has been the case for social funds. The success o f community action
elsewhere suggests that there was potential inthe SIF that was not realized.

3.13         However, there i s also a danger inherent incommunity-based resourcing o f
educational provision, which is that such mechanisms result inpoorer communities having
less-good schools. This tendency was noted some years ago ina report entitledA Tale of
Two Ghanas," andconfirmed by OED's own analysis for the impact evaluation o f support
to basic education. The expenditure targetinginboth government's own expenditure andthe
Bank's new EdSEP project toward the 40 districts with the least well provisioned schools,
noted above, i s therefore to be welcomed. However, the OED study found that there is
considerable variation within district~,'~              so that geographicaltargeting o f the type proposed

15. Ann Condy, 1998. "Improving the quality o f teaching and learning through community participation: achievements,
limitations and risks.Early lessons from the schooling improvement fund in Ghana." Social Development WorkingPaper,
Social Development Division, DFID, London.

16. It i s also unusual that PAMSCAD closed after the intendedperiod o f operations. Virtually all other social funds have
had their lives extended. Hadthis happenedto PAMSCAD it may have transformed into a decentralized based fund.
17. Social Funds: A Review, see also Designing Social Funds: Key Questions and Options, OED, 2004.
18. Kraft, Richard, B.K.Adipah, J.M. Dzinyela, K.Anku, K.Gala, F. Godwyll, E.Goody, L.Larcom and B.Okyere
(1995) A Taleof Two Ghanas: The Viewfrom the Classroom, Accra: MOEAJSAID.

19. Formerly speaking, an analysis o f variance using various measures o f school quality showed greater variation within
than between geographical areas. Impressions from the field confirm this, with dramatic discrepancies inthe quality o f
public school facilities within distances of less than one mile.

                                                            14


i s prone to quite large errors o fbothtypes: Type I, deprived schools are missed(all
                                                                    that
deprived schools inthe other 70 districts will not be helped) and Type 11,that non-deprived
schools will be helped(there i s a danger that it is the least deprived schools inthe 40
districts will bemost successful inobtaining funds; safeguards can and should be put in
place to prevent this from happening).


4.        Ratings

4.1       This section rates the projects accordingto the OED criteria o frelevance, efficacy,
efficiency, sustainability, institutional development impact, and outcome, as well as Bank
andborrower performance. These ratings are summarized inTable 4.1 below.

Table 4.1: Performance ratings

                                                   PSDP                                      BESlP
                                        OED                     ICR                 OED                  ICR
Relevance                        High                   n.a.                 1High                n.a.
Efficacy                         Substantial            n.a.                  Substantial         n.a.
Efficiency                       Modest                 n.a.                  Modest              n.a.
Sustainability                   Likely                 Likely                Likely              Likely
ID Impact                        Modest                 Modest                Modest              Modest
Outcome                          Moderately             Unsatisfactory        Moderately          Satisfactory
                                 unsatisfactory                               Satisfactory
Borrowerperformance              Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory        Satisfactory        Satisfactory
Bank performance                 Satisfactory           Satisfactory          Satisfactory        Satisfactory


4.2       Relevance: Bothprojects score highly on relevance. In 1986 Ghana embarked on an
ambitious program o f educationalreform combined with a commitment to expand primary
enrollments. This commitment was backed up byputtingfree, compulsory universal basic
education (FCUBE) inthe new 1992 constitution. FCUBE became the name o f
government's strategy for the sector. A more general context was given by the document
Ghana: Vision 2020, which outlined a national development strategy for the coming
decades2' Its goals are accelerated economic growth, improved quality o f life for all
Ghanaians, andreducedpoverty. Vision 2020places emphasis on the role o f the education
sector inthe skills development required for growth, and the Ministry o f Education's
strategy i s said to be rooted in Vision 2020.21Bothprojects were strongly alignedwith the
ministry's strategies, which inturn reflect national priorities.

4.3       Efficacy: Bothprojects producedphysical outputs as planned.The performance with
respect to other outputs was rather more patchy. UnderPSDP, plannedreforms did not take

20. The strategy was prepared over the period 1991-94, although it only became known as Vision 2020 in 1996.
21. "The Ministryof Education's vision for the future is pattemed on the educational element of Ghana's long-term
development plan, known as Vision 2020. At the basic level, it i s embodied inthe programfor Free, Compulsory,
Universal, Basic Education." M o E website: http://www.ghana.edu.gh/prospects/vision.html

                                                  15


place and community involvement inschool management remainedweak. The start o f
EMIS, which has been strengthened under BESIP i s a partial exception to this point. As
noted above, the scale o f support to school building(PSDP) andtextbook supply (BESIP)
has been quantitatively very significant, allowing for a "substantial" rating for efficacy.

4.4      Efficiencv: Although outputs have beenproduced, other activities were not
implemented, meaning that not all expected benefits will be realized. Efficiency i s thus rated
as modest.

4.5      Sustainabilitv: Three aspects o f sustainability are assessed(technical, financial and
institutional) andmay vary betweenthe various components o fthe project. The mainpoints


         The technical aspects o fthe main activities supported bythe projects appear sound.
         Fewtechnical problems were notedwith the construction o f civil works andthese
         are still being used.

         Financially the education sector continues to depend on donor finance for many key
         activities, mostly covering development costs. However, the importance o f a
         functioning education systeminwhich the government assumes responsibility for
         salaries at existing and new schools should not be under-estimated. This combination
         o f local financing for recurrent expenditures and donor financing for most
         investment and some recurrent obligations ensures the financial sustainability o f the
         activities supported by the projects. The reliance on external finance for the
         functioning o f the education system i s common inAfrica, and not taken as an
         indication o f a lack o f sustainability.

         IDactivitieshavebeenthe weakest components o fthe projects. Eveninareas o f
         success-notably EMIS - questions can beraised as to the technical ability of the
         MOEYS staff to truly manage the system. Another exception was the Project
         Management Unit inthe Ministry, established duringEdSAC andwhich become
         responsible for implementation o f all donor projects. This unit oversaw the
         construction o fthe school pavilions. But its establishment predates the projects
         under review inthis report. Finally, the OED report points to the improved
         distribution o f school materials such as textbooks andchalk. Decentralizationhas
         helped improve distribution. The Bank has provided some training to local
         government, but largely stepped aside from this once DFIDbecame more involved
         inthe same activity.

         Inaccordance with the comments above regardinginstitutionaldevelopment, ID
impact i s rated as modest for bothprojects.

4.7      Bankandborrower performance: There were strengths andweaknesses to bothBank
andborrowerperformance for each o fthe two projects. Bothaccepted over-designed
projects that neededrestructuring andboth allowed frequent changes inleadership to
undermine implementation. Despite these shortcomings, substantial achievements were
made under bothprojects. For these reasons a rating o f moderately satisfactory appears
appropriate, but i s not provided for under the four-point scale. Hence the Bank is rated as

                                                          16


satisfactory underbothprojects as i s the borrower for BESP.However, borrower
performance under PSDP i s rated as unsatisfactory owing to the failure to implementkey
reforms, notably the longer school day, that were central to the project.


5.        Findings and Lessons

5.1       The findings o f this review imply a number o f lessons. Some of these lessons are
common ones applying to projects inall sectors. But they are nonetheless true andbear
repeating.

     0    Bothprojects, but especially BESP, suffered from an over-ambitious project design
          being heavily ladenwith too many components. This problem was exacerbated in
          the later period by reduced capacity inthe ministrylinked to personnel changes. The
          lesson here i s the common one o fkeepingproject design realistic giventhe capacity
          o f the implementing agency. The design should not be over-burdened with too many
          components.

     0    Frequent changes inBank staff (and on the government side) meant there was little
          continuity underminingcommitment to, and understanding of, the projects. Both
          Bank and borrowers need to appreciate the contribution that continuity o fproject
          management can make to satisfactory implementation and outcomes.

     0    Donor coordination i s desirable, but this fact i s insufficient to ensure that it will
          happen.

     0    This point has implications for adopting a sector approach: a serious degree o f
          commitment to a sector approach i s requiredfrom both government and donors to
          ensure it happens. Ifthe Bank pushes the approach too much it may end up being the
          only donor inthe program. The lessonfor the Bank may appear to be to be sure o f
          the seriousness o f the commitment o f other donors before precedingwith a project
          design based on a sector approach. Inthis case it mightbe argued that other donors
          did appear serious. Hence it mightbe argued that a multi-donor design should only
          be put forward once there are concrete commitments from other donors.

     0    Inbothcases good choices were madeinproject restructuring which "saved" the
          projects to a considerable extent. Bothprojects disbursed most their fUnds,22andboth
          exceeded their mainphysical targets. The lesson i s that restructuring should always
          be on the agenda at MTR, or before, for poorly performing projects.

     0    The failure o f community mobilization to clad schools contrasts with the success o f
          social funds elsewhere inAfrica where communities have contributedto school
          construction andbecome actively involved inmaintenance and management. The

22. As explained inthe text, the shortfall inPSDP expenditure occurred since financing for some o f the early civil works
under the project was charged to EdSAC I1instead. The $5 million shortfall for BESIP was the result o f exchange rate
fluctuations.

                                          17


  conditions in Ghana - the traditional social structures inrural areas and
  decentralization- provide a favorable context for third-generation social fund-style,
  although an agency other than the Ministry o fEducationmaybe better placedto
  manage it.

0 Community financing for school facilities brings with it the danger o f creating
  disparities inthe quality o f schooling. Direct support from the center can overcome
  this bias. Recent initiatives inthis direction are welcomed. However, boththeory and
  evidence from elsewhere show that the approach taken, i.e. broad geographical
 targeting, is proneto substantial Type Iand I1targeting errors. The latter canbe
  avoidedby safeguards for the within district allocation o f funds.

                                                     19                                          Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

PRIMARY SCHOOLDEVELOPMENT                         PROJECT(CREDIT 2508-GH)

Key ProjectData(amounts in US$million)
                                                 Appraisal          Actual or             Actual as % of
                                                  estimate       current estimate        appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                  73.3             56.6                     77%
Loan amount                                          65.1             53.2                     82%
Cofinancing                                          0.0               0.0                      n.a.
Cancellation                                                          11.9


Cumulative EstimatedandActual Disbursements
                                       FY94     FY95     FY96     FY97       FY98        FY99
Appraisal estimate (US$M)               12.8     36.6     54.8     64.1      65.1         n.a.
Actual (US$M)                           2.5      11.7     32.0     47.2      53.1         53.2
Actual as % of appraisal                5%      22%       60%      89%       99%         100%
Dateof final disbursement:June 18, 1999


Project Dates
                                                         Original                          Actual
Initiatingmemorandum                        n.a.
Negotiations                                n.a.                              April 26, 1993
Board approval                               n.a.                             June 10,1993
Signing                                     n.a.                              July 26, 1993
Effectiveness                               July 1993                         January 21, 1994
Closing date                                 December31, 1997                 December 31, 1998


Staff Inputs(staff weeks)
                                      Total
Preappraisal                          17.2
Appraisal                             10.1
Negotiations                          19.2
Supervision                          244.8
Completion                            8.0
Total                                321.3

                                                                 20                                                    Annex A


Mission Data
                       Date          No. of      Staff days Specializations         Performance rating                 Types of
                  (monthlyear) persons            in field       represented                                           problems
                                                                                      IP               DO
Identification1
Preparation
Appraisal
Supervision 1          08/93                                  OA; PP; PO                                          None recorded
Supervision2           08/94                        12        PO; ES; PP                                          None recorded
Supervision3           11/94                        12        PO; ES; PP                                          None recorded
Supervision4           03/95                        13        SOO; PO; HRE                                        None recorded
Supervision 5          06/96                        10        SOO; PO; HRE;                                       None recorded
                                                              PS
Supervision6          06/97             7           10        ES; A; SPO;              2                2         None recorded
                                                              TTS; PO; HRE;
                                                              PS
Supervision 7          11/97            4                     TM; PO; HRE;             2                2         None recorded
                                                              ES
Supervision8           4/98             4                     TM; ES; PO; FA                                      None recorded
Supervision9           9/98             4                     PO(2);ES; FA                                        None recorded
Completion             9/98             5                     LSE; TM; PO; ES;                                     None recorded
                                                              FA

Suecializations: ES: Education Specialist; FA: Financial Analyst; H E : Human ResourceEconomist; LSE: Lead Specialist
education; OA: Operations Analyst; PO: Project Officer; PP: PrincipalPlanner; PS: Procurement Specialist; SOO: Snr. Operations
Officer; SPO: Snr. Project Officer; TM: Task Manager (Project Officer); TTS: Teacher Training Specialist; (2): Two people withthe
same specialization

Performance Rating: IP: Implementation status; DO: development objectives; 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory;
4: Highly Unsatisfactory.

                                                      21                                              Annex A


BASICEDUCATION                SECTOR IMPROVEMENT                  PROJECT         (CREDIT 2885-GH)

Key ProjectData(amounts in US$million)
                                                    Appraisal              Actual or            Actual as % of
                                                     estimate         current estimate        appraisal estimate
Total projectcosts                                    241.6                  47.5                    19.7
Loan amount                                           50.0                   45.0                    90.0
Cofinancing (includinggovernment)                     191.6                  2.5                      1.3
Cancellation                                                                 0.0
Inqtitiitinnnlnerfnrmance
Notes:The appraisal estimate includesdonor cofinancingwhich did not materialize.Actual disbursementswere less than
estimatedowing to appreciationof the SDWUSS exchange rate, there was no cancellation.


Cumulative EstimatedandActual Disbursements
                                                       woo
~                     FY97       FY98       FY99                    F Y O l      FY02        FY03
Appraisal
estimate
(US5M)                 2.5       14.2       27.5       42.3         50.1         50.1        50.1
Actual
(US5M)                 1.1        2.7        3.9       16.4         27.0         37.8        45.1
Actual as %
of appraisal          44.0       19.0       14.2       38.8         53.9         75.4        90.0
Dateof final disbursement: June 12, 2003


Project Dates
                                                            Original                            Actual
PCD                                                                                            06/14/1995
Board approval                                                                                 06/18/1996
Effectiveness                                             10/11/1996                           10/11/1996
Closing date                                              06/30/2001                           12/31/2002


StaffInputs(staffweeks)
                                      Total
Preappraisal                           28
Appraisal and negotiations             128
Supervision                            278
Completion                             10
Total                                  436

                                                                 22                                                 Annex A


Mission Data
                       Date          No. of     Staff days Specializations          Performance rating
                  (month/year) persons            in field       represented          IP             DO
Identification/        06/95
Preparation
Appraisal              02/96
Supervision 1          02/97            6          n.a.       TM; PO(3); EC;           S              S
                                                              CON
Supervision2           05/97            7          n.a.       PO(2); FA; PS;           S              S
                                                              HRE; ES; FA
Supervision 3          11/97            5          n.a.       PO(2);ES; FA;            S              S
                                                              OA
Supervision4          04/98             7          n.a.       PM; PO(2); ES;           U              U
                                                              PGS; FA; OA
Supervision 5         009/98            4          n.a.       TL; ES; PO;              U              U
                                                              HRE
Supervision 6         04/99             5          n.a.       TL; ES; PO; PS;          U              U
(MTR)                                                         FA
Supervision 7          12/99            6          n.a.       TL; MS; PO; PS;          S              U
                                                              FA IS;
Supervision8          05/00             6          n.a.       TL; IN; CW; PS;          S               S
                                                              FA; IS
Supervision9           12/00            5          n.a.       TL; HRE; CAP;            S               S
                                                              IS; AR
Supervision 10        03/01             5          n.a.       TL; IS; ES(3)            S               S
Supervision 11        06/01             6          n.a.       TL; ES(2); IS;           S               S
                                                              FA; CON
Supervision 12         11/01            7           n.a.      TL; ES; OA; EC;          S               S
                                                              PS; IN; FA
Supervision 13        03/02             6           n.a.      TL; ES(2);OA;            S               S
                                                              IN; PS
Supervision 14         11/02            6           n.a.      TL; ES(2);OA;            S               S
                                                              PS; FA
Completion                              3           n.a.                                               S
Soecializations: ES: Education Specialist; FA: Financial Analyst; HRE: Human ResourceEconomist; LSE: Lead Specialist
education; OA: Operations Analyst; PO: Project Officer; PP: PrincipalPlanner; PS: Procurement Specialist; SOO: Snr. Operations
Officer; SPO: Snr. Project Officer; TM: Task Manager (Project Officer); TTS: Teacher Training Specialist; (2): Two people with the
same specialization



Other Project Data
Borrower/ExecutingAgency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                                          Creditno.            Amount                  Board date
                                                                                     (US$ million)
EducationSector Project                                               38650              78.00                  March 9, 2004


