Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  11760-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NAY 17, 1993
Population and Human Resources Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(March 1993)
Currency Unit = Cedis
US$1.00 = 610 Cedis
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         African Development Bank
BECE        Basic Education Certificate Examination
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
CMA         Circuit Mobilization Assistant
CS          Circuit Supervisor
CU          Coordinating Unit
DEO         District Education Office
EdSAC I    Education Sector Adjustment Credit I (Cr. 1744-GH)
EdSAC II   Education Sector Adjustment Credit II (Cr. 2140-GH)
EEC         European Economic Community
ERP         Economic Recovery Program
GES         Ghana Education Service
GNAT        Ghana National Association of Teachers
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
IEPA        Institute for Education, Planning and Administration
JSS         Junior Secondary School
MOE         Ministry of Education
NIC         Newly Industrialized Countries
ODA         Overseas Development Administration
OPEC        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PNDC        Provisional National Defense Council
PTA         Parents-Teachers Association
PY          Project Year
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
SSS         Senior Secondary School
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNESCO    United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR                                      SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31                     September - June     (Basic and Tertiary)
January - December  (Senior Secondary)
STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION IN GHANA
Years    1 - 6       Primary
7 - 9      Junior Secondary
10 - 12     Senior Secondary
13 - 16     University



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT'
Table of Contents
Pagye No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ...............                       ..      ................
I.  INTRODUCTION ................1............1
II.    THE EDUCATION SECTOR ...................................1
A.   Overview  ............................................
B.   Previous Bank Operations in the Education Sector ...................                          3
C.   Future Bank Strategy in the Education Sector ......................                           4
D.   Other Donor Support for Government's Education
Reform Program   .......................................                                     5
HI.   PRIMARY SCHOOLING. POLICIES AND ISSUES  ....................                                        6
A.   The Primary School System   ................................                                  6
B.   Government Policies and Targets  .............................                                8
C.   Key Issues  ...........................................                                       9
D.   Costs and Financing  .....................................                                   11
E.   Administration, Supervision, and Monitoring ......................                           12
F.   Teacher Incentives and Sanctions  .............................                              12
G.   Instructional Time .......................................                                   13
IV.   COMMUNITY MOBILIZATION   ................................                                          13
A.   Involvement in Construction Activities ..........................                            13
B.   Involvement in the Management of Community Resources ....                 ..........         14
V. THEPRROEI C . ..15
A. The Survey to Select Project Schools .15
B. Project Objectives .16
C. Project Description .16
1. Policy and Management Changes .16
2. Investnent in Physical Infrastructure .21
D. Project Costs and Financing .23
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .24
A. Project Preparation .24
B. Project Management and Coordination .24
C.   Project Sustainability and Recurrent Cost Implications .25
D. Project Monitoring and Reporting .26
E. Mid-Term Review .26
F.   Environmental Aspects                                                                        27
G. Procurement .27
H. Disbursements .30
I. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .32
TThis report is based upon the findings of a pro-apprisal mission which visited Ghaa in February 1993. The mission memben
consisted of MessrsnMmes. Nicholas Bennett (Mission LeaderAPrincipal Plsnner, AF4GA), P. Stephens (Project Officer,
AF4GA), J. Angers (Research Analyst, AF4PH), S. Agarwal (Education Officer, UNICEF), and P. Theunissen
(Architect/Consultant). Mr. Peter Moock. EP, ws   the Lead Advisor and Ms. Janet Leno, AF6PH was the Peer Reviewer for
the project. The report was written by Mr. Bennet, with contributions submitted by the mission memnben. Messrs. Ian Porter
and Edwin R. Lim are the managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
VII.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ...............................                        32
A.  Project Benefits ........................................                     32
B.  Project Risks ..........................................                      33
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....... .. .......                         33
ANNEXES
2-1   Length of the School Year in Hours/Year in Selected Countries
2-2   Plan for Implementation of Structural Reform of Education in Ghana (1987-2000)
2-3   EdSAC 1: Selected Quantitative Results of the Reform (1986/87-1990/91)
2-4   Description of USAID Primary Education Program (PREP)
3-1   Basic Educational Statistics and Indicators
3-2   Percentage of Double-shift Schools and Respective Enrollment by District (1990/1991)
3-3   Change in P1 Enrollments by Region for the Period 1990/91-1991/92
3-4   Letter of Primary Education Development Policy
3-5   Student Flows and Projections by Levels/Types of Education in Ghana (1988-2000)
3-6   Suggested Primary School Timetable and Allocation of Periods to Subjects Per Week
3-7   MOE 1993 Recurrent Budget Summary, Recurrent Expenditures on Education (1986-1992), and
1993 Development Budget
3-8   Structure of the Central Ministry of Education
3-9   Structure of the Ghana Education Service
3-10  Structure of the District Education Office
3-11  Details of Initial Training of Circuit Supervisors
5-1   Questionnaire Used to Survey Primary Schools
5-2   Distribution of Primary Schools Supported by the Project by Region and District
5-3   Quantitative Results of the Survey
5-4   Directive to DEOs on Minimizing the Loss of Pupils' Learning Time
5-5   Circular to Basic Education Headteachers
5-6   Guidelines in Techniques of Cladding by Communities and Standard Agreement with the Local
Communities
5-7   Practical Duties and Responsibilities of the Primary School Headteacher
5-8   Headteacher Management
5-9   Detailed Description of the Training Program and Implementation Schedule
5-10  Specialist Services Under the Project and Draft Terms of Reference bf Key Technical Assistance
5-11  Detailed Bills of Quantities for Headteacher House and Floor Plan
5-12  Standard Contract Agreement for the Construction of a Headteacher's House
5-13  Standard Tenancy Agreement for the Occupation of a Headteacher's House
5-14  Detailed Project Cost Estimates
6-1   Detailed Description of the Coordinating Unit of the MOE and its Proposed Structure
6-2   Key Performance Indicators
6-3   Supervision Plan and Mid-Term Evaluation Criteria
6-4   Procurement and Disbursement Schedules
6-5  Implementation Schedule of the Construction Program Including Community Involvement
6-6  Impact of Raising JSS Quality on Cognitive Achievement in Ghana
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
MAP: IBRD 24783



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries:        Ministry of Education, and about 2,000 communities throughout the country
Credit Amount:        SDR 46.9 Million (US$65.1 Million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard, with 40 years maturity
Proiect Description:  The project would assist the Government in increasing learning achievements and enrollments
in primary schools throughout the country. In order to accomplish this, the project would
have the specific objective of improving the amount and quality of teaching and leaming time
in primary schools, particularly, as far as 1,983 of the least well endowed primary schools
are concemed. The project which concentrates on those schools combines the
implementation of key policy and management changes with investments in physical
infrastructure. In key policy and management changes, the inputs would be: (i) increasing
official teaching hours from 4 hours a day to at least 5 hours a day; (ii) ensuring that District
Education Officers do not arrange any functions or activities for school teachers during
official teaching hours; (iii) eliminating aUl fees and levies that are not officially endorsed by
the Ministry of Education and that are currently imposed on primary school students; (iv)
involving communities in the selection of headteachers; (v) training and re-training of 1,983
school headteachers in school level supervision; (vi) orientation of key district officials; (vii)
orientation of three community leaders from each school area; (viii) training and retraining of
circuit monitoring assistants; and (ix) strengthening the Ministry of Education's
implementation, monitoring and planning capacity (including carrying out a school mapping
exercise for 1,500 snall schools); and in investments in Rhvsical infrastructure, the inputs
would be: (i) constructing 10,977 classrooms (3,019 school pavilions or groups of three
classrooms); (ii) constructing 1,983 headteachers houses; (iii) re-roofing of 1,546
classrooms; (iv) employing construction supervision and technical auditing consultants; and
(v) mobilizing communities to clear and prepare the sites and rapidly clad the pavilions and
make cement wall blackboards.
Proiect Benefits
and Risks:           By extending instructional time, increasing the sense of community ownership of the school
and its involvement in supervision, training the headteacher and providing a house as a
permanent incentive, and ensuring that an attractive and functional school building is
available, the project should result in a significant improvement in enrollments, learning
outcomes, teachers' performance, and community interest, especially for the 1,983 schools
selected to benefit directly by this project.
There are three main risks. First, the Ghana National Association of Teachers (GNAT) and
its members might not cooperate in increasing daily instructional time to something like
intemational levels. Second, there might be some delays in procurement, i.e., in the award
of the school pavilion contracts. Third, there may be long delays in communities cladding
the pavilions. The first risk is being addressed by sensitizing GNAT officials and members
to the current situation of extremely low learning outcomes of primary school students and its
impact on Ghana's education system and future, and by constructing 1,983 headteachers'
houses. The second risk will be mitigated by the high level of support for this project in
Govermment, up front preparation of the bidding documents, and selection of contractors for
the manufacture and installation of at least 2,000 triple pavilions by effectiveness. The third
risk is being addressed by using a prior formal agreement between the Government and the
district and local communities, by frequent technical supervision, and by organizing
community mobilization workshops.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs (USS Million)
Local       Foreign       TQoal
A.  Management and Training:
Project Management and Coordination         1.6          0.4          2.0
Training and Orientation                    1.9          0.1          2.0
B.  Physical Infrastructures                   38.0          20.4         58.4
C.  Taxes and Duties                            u             O O
Total Base Costs                          41.8          20.9         62.7
Physical Contingencies                          3.7           2.0          5.7
Price Contingencies                             31:7                       i2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        48.7         24.6         73.3
Financing Plan (USS Million):
LQcal       Foreign       Tota
IDA                                            40.5          24.6         65.1
Govermnent of Ghana/Community
Participation                             8             00           8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        48.7         24.6         73.3
Estimated Credit Disbursements (USS Million)
IDA Fiscal Years               FY24   FYMA       EY       E   FY      9 
Annual                         12.8      23.8    18.2      9.3      1.0
Cumulative                      12.8     36.6    54.8    64.1    65.1
Economic Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Map:                      IBRD 24783



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1          The Government of Ghana in its effort to improve the quality and access to primary
education in about 2,000 of the most deprived schools in the country has requested IDA assistance of
SDR 46.9 million (US$65.1 million equivalent) to finance a project aimed at improving physical
facilities and increasing enrollment and learning achievements in these schools.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.   Overview
2.1          Until the mid-1970s Ghana had one of the most highly-developed educational systems
in West Africa. Along with the economic decline of the next decade, the quality of the system
deteriorated and enrollment rates stagnated or fell. Public resources for education fell from 6.4% of
GDP in 1976 to 1.4% in 1983. Government was no longer able to construct, complete and maintain
educational facilities. At the same time, foreign exchange dried up, preventing the purchase of
textbooks, library materials and other essential instructional materials. The economic decline also led
to a mass exodus of trained teachers, especially the more highly-trained and qualified school teachers.
2.2          Since the introduction of the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in 1983, the people
and Government of Ghana have been engaged in a far reaching program of economic recovery and
structural adjustment. Unlike adjustment programs in many other countries, the Ghanaian program
has always placed very great emphasis on the social sectors, and has succeeded in reversing the
precipitous fall in the provision of education and health services that preceded its introduction. As the
adjustment program has deepened, Government has placed increasing emphasis on the human
dimensions, by introducing a major educational reform in 1987, launching the Program of Actions to
Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment (PAMSCAD) in 1988, and by choosing as its theme for the
1991 Consultative Group meeting in Paris "Enhancing the Human Impact of the Adjustment
Program".
2.3          The Bank carried out its first sector study and analysis of the educational system in
1985, and the need for urgent reform and rehabilitation of the system became apparent. In the
majority of primary and secondary schools there were no textbooks, no chalk, no equipment, and no
materials. Teachers were conspicuous by their absence. The majority of teachers were untrained and
had probably been employed through under-hand methods. All schools were overstaffed not only
with unqualified teachers, but also with huge numbers of non-teaching personnel. In some secondary
schools the number of staff outnumbered the students, whilst all the universities had considerably
more staff than students. In 1985/86 Ghana had one of the smallest amounts of annual official
instruction hours anywhere in the world, with only 610 hours compared with a norm of 870 hours.
The length of the school year in hours/year in selected countries is found in Annex 2-1.



- 2 -
2.4          In 1987, the Government took the recommendations of a 1973 education commission
report, which had been shelved due to elite opposition, and with support from the Bank and other
donors, launched a major, multi-year, sector wide educational reform. This reform had four main
objectives corresponding to some of the key problems of the system.
2.5           To reduce the previous inordinate length of pre-university education. This was taking
up to 17 years, against an international norm of 12 years, and consisted of short school days and
years. This reform would have the effect of increasing access to secondary education, and would also
release public resources. A plan for implementation of structural reform of education in Ghana
for the period 1987-2000 is found in Annex 2-2.
2.6          To improve pedagogic efficiency and raise the guality and relevance of educational
outcomes. The old curriculum emphasized rote recall; textbooks and other instructional materials
were scarce; buildings were poorly maintained; the proportion of untrained teachers was high; and
school leavers received an academic training fitting them only for a modern sector wage employment,
which did not exist;
2.7          To contain and partially recover costs. Overstaffing was significant, especially of
non-teaching staff and untrained teachers; feeding and lodging costs of secondary and tertiary students
accounted for a significant proportion of Government educational expenditures; cost recovery for
textbooks was derisory; and funds were often misappropriated.
2.8           To enhance sector management and budgeting procedures. Physical and financial
norms did not exist or were not enforced; planning and budgeting were separated; budget
uncertainties hindered planning; management decisions responded only to crises; and monitoring was
insufficient, especially at school level.
2.9           The structure of the educational system was changed to six years of primary, three
years of junior secondary (JSS), three years of senior secondary (SSS), and four years of tertiary
education. The reform program was divided into phases: JSS from 1987 to 1990; SSS from 1991 to
1993; while the tertiary reform program will cover the next four years in its first phase. Reforms and
improvements at the primary level have been taking place continuously since 1987.
2.10         Enrollment increases have accelerated at all levels of education after a long period of
stagnation. Nine years of basic education (primary plus JSS) are offered to all children. The gross
primary enrollment ratio reached 82% in 1990/91, with the more rapid increases taking place in
previously under-served areas. Unfortunately, in 1991/92 public primary schools enrollment
stagnated largely due to a 4.2% fall in first grade enrollments. JSS enrollments are 51 % of the 12-14
age-group. Tertiary enrollments are increasing significantly, but are still only a little under I % of the
20-24 age-group.
2.11         The curriculum has been reformed at both primary and secondary levels to be less
theoretical and more relevant to Ghana. Ghanaian languages and agriculture have been made
compulsory. All JSS offer one pre-vocational subject, to familiarize pupils with the use of hand tools.
SSS offer both a common core and some of five areas of focus for elective program options. Most
SSS offer general arts and science and vocational options, half of them agriculture, and one-third
technical options. The elective program options being offered aim at preparing children for both a
wide range of occupations and post-secondary education and training. New textbooks have been
written at all school levels. Most primary school children now have access to a full set of core
textbooks though they are not always used. Pupils again have exercise books, pencils and pens.



- 3 -
Equipment has been provided for prevocational and science teaching in JSS. A major effort in both
pre-service and in-service teacher training, along with new curricula, has reduced the proportion of
untrained teachers to below 30% at primary, 20% at JSS, and only 10% at SSS.
2.12         Costs have been contained in several ways. The proportion of boarding students in
secondary schools is being reduced through concentrating all new expansion on day schools. Staffing
was regulated by a freeze on hiring between 1987 and 1992, and a maximum staffing limit is still in
force. About 13,000 non-teaching staff were laid off at secondary and tertiary levels. Many
temporary untrained teachers with low academic qualifications were also not rehired. Costs have
been partially recovered in a number of areas. Food subsidies have been eliminated at both secondary
and tertiary levels. School supplies are now sold at cost. There is partial cost recovery for textbooks
in basic education, and full cost recovery at SSS. At the tertiary level, an innovative student loan
scheme was introduced in 1988 which, though highly subsidized as in other countries, provides for an
element of cost recovery.
2.13         Sector management, planning and budgeting have been improved by a gradual merger
of staff into a unified planning, programming, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation division. This
has been provided with international technical assistance and has implemented an active work
program, including the development of physical and financial norms. Line units dealing with school
and non-formal education have also built up their professional staffing.
2.14         The Government has increased dramatically its budgetary allocation to the education
sector, from 1.4% of GDP in 1983 to 3.8% of GDP in 1993. Education's share of the national
recurrent budget has risen from 27% in 1984 to 39.8% from 1993. The internal allocation of the
budget has also improved substantially. The share of basic education has increased from 44% in
1984 to 62% or more every year since 1989. Allocations to non-wage recurrent items rose from less
than 12% of the recurrent budget in 1986 to 22% by 1989. With the October 1992 salary increase of
80% for teachers and other civil servants, these allocations have fallen back to 12% in 1993.
2.15         Despite the impressive progress being made in formal education, two-thirds of the
population remain functionally illiterate. Of those who have been to school, 40% are illiterate largely
due to poor quality of instructions in primary schools. The Government therefore launched a mass
literacy program in 1991, to reduce illiteracy by 5.9 million persons by the year 2000.
B.   Previous Bank Operations in the Education Sector
2.16         Though the Bank started supporting Ghana's development activities in 1962, it was
not until 1986 that the first credit was provided to the educational sector. This came after 50 loans or
credits had been granted to Ghana in most other sectors for a total of more than US$1.0 billion.
Since then six credits in the educational sector have been approved for a total of almost US$170.0
million.
2.17         The first project, an emergency Health and Education Project (Cr. 1653-GH, closed
on December 31, 1991) was approved early in 1986, and was designed merely to get text and library
books, writing materials, and other essential supplies into the school system as quickly as possible.
The Project Completion Report (Report Number 11080-GH) concludes that the project met its
objective in getting the necessary materials into the school system in a short time. This project was
followed by a series of programs and projects to support the Government's 1987 education reform
program. In 1987 the First Educational Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1744-GH, closed on
December 31, 1991) was approved. This was a broad policy based SECAL, covering the whole of



the educational system, but with the resources generated from the credit being concentrated on the
JSS level (grades 7-9). The three tranches of the program were released with very little delay. The
draft Project Completion Report of Cr. 1744-GH concludes that the impact of the project was positive
and laid a strong foundation for further reforms in the education system. It also emphasizes the
importance of project implementation activities falling under the direct and day to day leadership of a
high level political appointee. This same structure will be used for the implementation of this project.
(Selected quantitative results of EdSAC I for the period 1986/87-1990/91 is found in Annex 2-3).
In 1990 the Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2140-GH) was approved, based on the
model of Cr. 1744-GH described above, but with the policy framework dealing only with school
education, and resources generated from the credit being concentrated on the SSS level. All three
tranches of this credit have been released. Although EdSAC I and II funds were mainly aimed at JSS
and SSS levels, respectively, funds have also been spent on or are currently committed to primary
education.
2.18         In 1991, the Community Secondary School Construction Project (Cr. 2278-GH) was
approved. This involved supporting 150 rural communities in the construction of facilities needed for
new Senior Secondary Schools. Over half the schools have been completed, and over 50% of the
credit disbursed. According to the Ghana Living Standards Survey, in 1987/88 32.5% of the
population aged 8 and above were not functionally literate, even though 55% had been or were in
school. Thus in 1992, the Literacy and Functional Skills Project (Cr. 2349-GH) was approved,
designed to support the Government's mass literacy program. Already the first 270,000 participants
are studying in their own language in 11,000 classes. Finally, in FY93 the Tertiary Education
Project (Cr. 2428-GH) was approved, designed to help extend the reform process into the universities
and other tertiary institutions and rehabilitate their facilities.
C.    Future Bank Strategy in the Education Sector
2.19         Government decided during the 1991 Consultative Group meeting to attempt to
increase the GDP growth rate from its current levels of 4-5% p.a. to at least 7-8% p.a by the year
2000. To support this strategy, the Bank carried out jointly with Government and published
(February 1993) a study "Ghana 2000 and Beyond--Setting the Stage for Accelerated Growth and
Poverty Reduction". All future Bank lending to Ghana is being evaluated against this strategy. In the
education sector, by far the highest priority is given to the expansion of enrollments at the basic
education level, as "the Asian NICs, as well as Thailand and Malaysia, had all achieved universal
primary education by the time they began their industrialization. Today Ghana has lower primary
enrollment and literacy rates than the NICs had when their economic growth began to accelerate."
The accelerated growth strategy also emphasizes the improvement in quality. "Besides expanding
enrollments, improvements in the quality remain a major goal. If Ghana is to achieve some of the
dynamic growth of the East Asian NICs the quality of instruction and completion rates must rise."
2.20         This project, which aims to improve the quality of and access to primary education in
some of the most disadvantaged areas, where enrollment rates are lowest, and the quality of
instruction poorest, is entirely supportive of the accelerated growth strategy.
2.21         All the educational investments the Bank has made in Ghana in recent years have been
designed to increase the productivity and earning of the labor force, but none so far have attempted to
establish a close link between education and employment. In Ghana the majority of the labor force is
either self employed largely in the agricultural sector and associated rural industries, or in the
informal sector in the towns. Leading out of a study on "Education for Self Employment and Rural
Development" that was completed in 1989, Government and the Bank are developing a project



- 5 -
designed to strengthen informal apprenticeship schemes and twin these with reformed skill training
centers. A Government task force is currently working on elaborating proposals, and a project should
be ready for Board presentation late in FY94. Obviously all apprentices benefiting from training must
at the very outset have received a strong basic education.
2.22         EdSAC I and II funds have been used for massive in-service training programs for
primary school teachers and headteachers, the provision of essential classroom supplies, the
strengthening of monitoring and supervision, the provision of key teacher guides, the provision of
textbooks, exercise books and pencils, and (with co-financiers) the erection of 2,000 classrooms.
EdSAC II funds are being used to finance project preparation activities and the mobilization payments
for all supervision and school pavilion contracts, purchase ten supplementary readers for each P4, P5,
and P6 class, and Ghanaian language texts for all primary grades, and pay for travel and other
allowances for the circuit monitoring assistants. Approximately US$32.0 million of EdSAC I and
EdSAC II funds have been spent on, or are currently committed to primary education. The policy
framework under EdSAC I and II has resulted in a freeze in additional teacher recruitment, fees for
textbooks use charged only at P3 to P6 levels; and improvement in the teacher qualification structure
and a retrenchment of non-teaching staff. Because of the achievements of EdSAC I and II; and
because the Bank in FY95 is planning a large sector investment credit designed to assist the
Government in further addressing issues in basic education, especially teacher education, curriculum
development, school management, and planning and monitoring systems; this project will concentrate
on the more limited activity of increasing instructional time through policy initiatives, involving
headteachers in supervision, and constructing schools in the least well endowed communities.
D.    Other Donor Support for Government's Education Reform Program
2.23         Before the launch of the educational reform program in 1987, there had been very
little donor support for the educational sector. However, in September 1986 in order to increase
donors support, there was a social sector donors meeting in Vienna and since then over US$110.0
million has been committed from other donors to support various aspects of the reform. The biggest
donors apart from IDA have been USAID, who have allocated US$35.0 million to primary education
(a description of USAID's Primary Education Program Is found in Annea  ); ADB with
US$20.0 million for tertiary education; CIDA with US$14.0 million for basic and technical education;
British ODA with US$8.0 million for literacy and teacher education for basic education; Norway with
over US$8.0 million for literacy and school pavilions for basic education; and the OPEC Fund with
US$4.4 million for school pavilions and school sanitation. Other donors include World Food
Programme (WFP) for school feeding; UNICEF for primary and pre-school education; Switzerland
for secondary school equipment; the Saudi Fund for secondary school development; GTZ for
vocational school development and UNDP and ILO for institutional strengthening. Various non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) have also provided assistance. Given the increasing interest of
donors in the education sector, in August 1992, a monthly education donor coordinating meeting was
started in Accra.
2.24         As mentioned in paragraph 2.23 above, USAID is supporting many key research and
software elements essential for the revitalization of the primary sub-sector including: (a) intensive
short in-service training to approximately half of all primary teachers a year in English and
Mathematics; (b) four textbooks to each primary school child (English, Math, Science, and Social
Science); (c) teacher guides and syllabi for all teachers; and (d) essential classroom supplies. The
project is also piloting in the three northern regions a number of initiatives including housing for
headteachers, motorcycles for headteachers and circuit supervisors, furniture for schools, scholarships
for girls, and retention contests amongst schools. Useful for the monitoring of the impact of this



- 6 -
proposed project is the development and implementation of criterion-referenced tests, the results of
the first round of which will be available by the middle of 1993.
2.25         British ODA has a four year project for UK£2.2 million designed to upgrade the
quality of basic education pre-service teacher training in English, Math, Science, and Technical Skills
in the 38 teacher training colleges, through producing tutor support materials, conducting in-service
training for tutors, and developing schemes of continuous assessment.
III. PRIMARY SCHOOLING. POLICIES AND ISSUES
A.    The Primary School System
3.1          Ghana officially has a nine-year cycle of basic education, made up of six years of
primary schooling and three years of junior secondary education. Children enter school at the age of
six (or when they can touch their ear with their hand over the top of their head). There are also
many overage children in school. There is automatic promotion through to the end of JSS whether
internal assessments show that a child has learnt anything or not. The only allowable repetition is
when a child is absent from school for more than half of the school year. There are no external
examinations until the end of JSS3. Basic education is compulsory for all those children living within
5 km of a school, but few attempts are made to enforce this.
3.2          Schools are established by local authorities, Christian, or Muslim organizations.
Historically the churches constructed and managed most schools, but in 1955, the running of schools
was taken over by Government. Thus though there are still Catholic, Baptist, Presbyterian, Anglican,
and Muslim educational units in the Ghana Education Service, the management and financing of all
schools is really controlled by district and central educational authorities, and by the district
assemblies.
3.3          In 1991/92, there were 11,064 public primary schools with a total enrollment of
1,796,490, and in 1990/91, there were 542 private primary schools (largely in urban areas) with
142,274 students. Forty-five and one-half percent of enrollments in public schools were girls and
48% in private schools. There were 63,156 public primary school teachers and in 1990/91, 4,123
private teachers. In 1991/92, 72.6% of public school teachers were trained compared with, in
1990/91, only 26.8% of private school teachers. (Basic educational statistics and indicators is
found in Annex 3-1).
3.4          From 1976 to 1986 there was stagnation in primary school gross enrollment rates.
However, with the introduction of the educational reform in 1987 enrollments have again begun to
accelerate, and have grown by 23% since 1986/87; the proportion of trained teachers has leapt from
below 50% in 1986/87 to over 72.6%, ranging from 90.5% in the Greater Accra region to 55% in
the Western region; and the pupil-teacher ratio has changed from below 22:1 in 1986/87 to 28.6 in
1991/92, ranging from 37.8:1 in the Greater Accra region to 25.1:1 in the Eastern region. No data is
available on net enrollment rates, as age specific data on students has not yet been collected.
However, gross enrollment rates have increased substantially from 67% in 1985/86 to 80.5% in
1991/92. Gross enrollment rates vary from around 100% in some of the southern districts to less
than 30% in many of the northern districts. However, enrollments are growing much faster in those
northern areas. The percentage of girls in total enrollments has shown only slight increase in recent



- 7 -
years, from 45% in 1990/91 and 45.5% in 1991/92. There are however wide differences between
regions, ranging from 49.2% in the Greater Accra region to 35.1% in the Northern region.
3.5          Up until 1982/83 all schools (except those running double shifts) had a morning
session involving four hours of instruction and an afternoon session with a further two hours. Partly
as a result of the drought in 1983, and partly because private schools were achieving vastly better
results with only a long morning session, the afternoon session was dropped, to enable teachers and
students to farm. All extra curricula activities were supposed to take place outside normal teaching
hours in the afternoon or at weekends. In 1987 an attempt was made to compensate for the lost
instructional time by lengthening the school year from 36 weeks to 40 weeks. With four hours of
instruction daily, three weeks of testing and four public holidays per year this leaves 720 instructional
hours yearly. With three days allowed to prepare for independence day celebrations, and three days
for sports contests, this leaves 690 days. With a further 1-2 days lost every month whilst the teacher
collects his/her salary this leaves 600 hours. All this is before any unauthorized absences are taken
into consideration. In double shift schools, the afternoon shift has 2-1/2 hours less instructional time
per week which would bring its maximum likely total to 540 hours. Unauthorized school closing,
and closures due to weather, especially in more remote schools, can easily lead to a further 50% loss,
reducing actual instructional time to as low as 300 hours a year.
3.6          There is no flexibility in school hours. Virtually all (except Islamic) single shift
schools start at 8:00 a.m. and close at 12:35 p.m., whilst double shift schools open at 7:30 a.m. close
at noon, open at 12:30 p.m. and close at 4:30 p.m.. Currently 21% of primary school students are in
double shift schools. Double shift schools have two sets of teachers. Details on double shift schools
and their relative importance by district are found in Annex 3-2.
3.7          After nearly a decade with the primary school having to operate with no textbooks,
chalk, or other materials, in 1987/88 centrally produced and procured materials began to get back into
the system, so that by the present time, most students have access to three textbooks and all teachers
have a minimum of essential supplies. In order to keep the cost down to affordable levels (currently
250 cedis per year) students are not allowed to take the textbooks home. In many schools teachers do
not encourage children to use the texts, as they got out of the habit of doing so during the period of
materials starvation.
3.8          At independence in 1957, the primary school was usually the most substantial building
in the community, with the most attractive compounds. In the majority of schools this situation no
longer exists. In 1990/91, 2,466 or 23.2% of all public primary schools, though having some
makeshift facilities, had no classroom sufficient to protect children and teachers from the rain.
3.9          A very large number of primary schools are in appalling condition. For example, in
14 of the 110 districts in the country more than 50% of schools have no classrooms facilities. In
addition to these schools there are an almost equal number with leaking roofs, and cracked and
dangerous walls.
3.10         Officially, responsibility for school construction in the southern half of the country
rests with the communities, churches and local authorities, whilst in the northern half central
government is supposed to share responsibility. In fact in recent years, through the Program of
Actions to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment (PAMSCAD), through the EdSAC I supported
school pavilions, and through other initiatives central government has become increasingly involved in
school construction even in the southern districts. Furniture is the responsibility of the parents, and



-8 -
thus one often sees small children carrying their desks to school on their heads. Some District
Assemblies are beginning to provide some furniture.
3.11         In 1975, Government was spending a total of US$41 per student in primary school
(compared with US$131 at the secondary level and US$3,638 at the tertiary level), this had fallen to
US$16 per student in 1983, but has recently risen to US$45 (compared with US$150 at the secondary
level and US$1,500 at the tertiary level). Though Government has tried to limit the private costs of
schooling, these have been rising rapidly in recent years, and the annual cost in rural areas of fees,
levies, and uniforms can now easily reach 4,000 cedis at the lower grades and 5,000 cedis at the
higher grades, most of the recent increase being caused by a proliferation of fees and levies on
primary school children. This proliferation, which started in 1991, has already resulted in a fall in
P1 enrollments of up to 4.2% in 1991/92, the first fall since 1983/84. The change in P1 enrollments
by region for the period 1990/91-1991/92 Is found In Annex 3-3.
3.12         Government has devoted considerable attention in recent years to the strengthening of
district and circuit level supervision and inspection. All district education offices have been provided
with a vehicle, all circuit level supervisors retrained and most given motorcycles, and a new category
of circuit monitoring assistants created, and also given motorcycles. Still the frequency of school
visits remains low, and since the supervisory personnel often have closer loyalties to the teachers than
the administration, the returns from this increased supervision have been small.
B.    Government Policies and Targets
3.13         Overall PoW. Government has presented the Bank with a letter of Primary
Education Development Policy, which provides the framework within which this project is being
developed. This letter is included in Annex 34.
3.14         Enrollment Growth. Government plans to take various actions to increase intakes into
primary schools so that by the end of the century there will be a gross intake rate of 98% of the
notional population of six year old children. It is also expected that dropout rates will decrease to a
grade specific average of about 2%. Thus there will be a 46% increase in primary school enrollments
between the 1990/91 and the 2000/01 academic years, and by the year 2000 the gross enrollment ratio
will exceed 90%. This growth will only be possible if fees and levies on primary school children are
reduced and learning becomes much more interesting and effective. Details of Government
enrollment projections are shown in Annex 3-5. The progression rate from P6 to JSS1 will increase
to 95 % in 2000/01.
3.15         Staffing Norms and Teacher's Oualifications. On April 10, 1991, Government
approved a new set of staffing norms for primary schools. In this, a target pupil teacher ratio of 45:1
was to be aimed for. Any class with at least 30 students was to have a teacher, and in small schools
2-3 classes must be combined under one teacher, as long as the combined class size did not exceed
35. In multi stream schools a full-time headteacher was also allowed. With the implementations of
these norms, the pupil-teacher ratio will rise rapidly to around 38:1 in 1994/95, and thereafter will
continue to rise but at a much slower rate.
3.16         Almost all Primary school teachers only have a Middle School Leaving Certificate,
with one-third having no pre-service training. Government is thus determined to increase the
qualification structure of the primary teaching force, so that by the 1995/96 academic year, virtually
all middle school pupil (untrained) teachers will either have been trained or replaced by fully trained
teachers, or by 'O' level, or SSS graduates. In order to meet these targets, Government is planning



- 9 -
to increase the output of Teacher Training Colleges from its current level of around 6,000 new
teachers per annum to 8,000 per annum after the next two years.
3.17         For the past four years, Government has been pursuing a program of upgrading and
improving the 38 basic education teacher training colleges, so that the teachers with improved
teaching skills will be available to teach at both the primary and JSS levels.
3.18         Curriculum and Teaching Materials. The stated objectives of primary education are
the following:
(a)    numeracy and literacy i.e. the ability to count, use numbers, read, write, and
communicate effectively;
(b)    laying the foundation for inquiry and creativity;
(c)    development of sound moral attitudes and a healthy appreciation of Ghana's cultural
heritage and identity;
(d)    development of the ability to adapt constructively to a changing environment;
(e)    laying the foundation for the development of manipulative and life skills that will
prepare the individual pupil to function effectively to his own advantage as well as
that of his community; and
(f)    inculcating good citizenship education as a basis for effective participation in national
development.
3.19         At the primary level there are nine compulsory subjects namely, Mathematics,
English, Agriculture, Science, Social Studies, Cultural Studies, Ghanaian Languages, Life Skills, and
Physical Education. Between 30% and 35% of instructional time should be devoted to Mathematics
and English as can be seen in the timetable at Anrex 3-6.
3.20         All teachers teach all subjects to one class. They are provided with the Syllabus and
up to six teacher guides in English, Science, Math, Social Studies, Life Skills, and Physical
Education. They are also provided with chalk, notebooks, registers, and cumulative record cards.
3.21         All students are supposed to have access to up to four textbooks in English,
Mathematics, Science, and Social Studies. The development of Ghanaian language texts is almost
completed. Finally, up to ten supplementary readers will be provided to each class from P4 to P6.
C.   Key Issues
3.22         The main issue that Government is determined to solve in the next 2-3 years is that in
many of the least well endowed public primary schools, children are learning very little, if anything
at all. It is not uncommon to find P6 students in poorly endowed schools who can neither write their
names, nor read a simple word like 'BAD".
3.23         Generally private primary schools, almost all of which are found in major towns, have
better rates of achievement than public primary schools despite the fact that only 26.8% of their
teachers are trained compared with 66.1% in public primary schools in 1990/91. It seems that this



- 10-
higher level of achievement is due in part at least to the fact that the proprietors supervise teachers on
a daily basis and ensure that there are few if any teacher absences; and to the fact that parents take an
active interest in their children's learning by buying them books, and insisting that they do their
homework.
3.24          The poor achievement level in public schools has several interrelated causes including:
(a)    children do not attend school regularly because the school is not an attractive place,
the parents do not see their children learning much; the teachers are often absent,
teaching methods are not entertaining or challenging, and there are competing
demands on the child's time;
(b)    children drop out of school because of the high cost of primary education, and of the
anticipated high costs of secondary education. They also drop out because of teacher
violence, of distance of the child's house from school, and boring and uninspired
teachers;
(c)    teaching methods are often poor, with most instruction being carried out through rote
repetition. The available textbooks are often not being used;
(d)    no supplementary readers, or other teaching learning equipment are used. Even
exercise books are hardly used. Students are not allowed to take textbooks home;
(e)    there is little external pedagogic or administrative supervision of the primary school.
Any supervision that takes place concentrates more on routine matters, but without
any sanctions being imposed;
(f)    teachers do not attend school regularly, often arrive late and close early, and use
every excuse to be absent. Even district officers tend to arrange meetings and events
during school hours; and
(g)    official instructional hours are very short.
3.25          Despite the increased inputs in recent years, there are many schools, especially those
in the most remote and deprived areas, where grade 6 students have learnt almost nothing. A recent
study carried out by the Teacher Education Division of reading ability amongst 644 pupils at P6
showed that 43% had little or no reading ability, 40% were reading at the P2 level, whilst only 18%
were reading at the P5 level or above. Many of those who had good reading skills had private
tuition. According to preliminary results of the criterion reference tests recently administered to 5%
of P6 students throughout the country, only 116% of children had reached that grade level in English
and only 15% in Math. In addition to the criterion reference tests, a large number of research studies
on the pedagogy, the administration and the achievements of the educational system have been carried
out, including studies on why children drop-out of school, factors that affect learning achievement,
attitudes of parents to schooling, along with a number of pilot studies of the impact of various inputs.
Often the research findings suggest solutions well beyond the capacity of MOE to implement, for
example, in 1987, a school mapping exercise recommended, on the basis of staffing and cost criteria,
that small underenrolled and underendowed schools in the same town should amalgamate, this has
proven extremely difficult to do.



- 11 -
D.     Costs and Financing
3.26          Currently almost 40% of total Government recurrent budgets are allocated to the
MOE. Though Education is a decentralized Ministry and the operation of schools falls under the
District Assembly all direct costs of primary schools are met from central Government budgets.
Salaries and regular allowances are paid directly to the teachers' bank accounts, whilst teaching
learning materials are provided to the school in kind. In the 1993 recurrent budget of the MOE, about
44% is allocated to primary education. Of this about 94.1 % is for salaries and 5.9% for teaching
learning materials. In addition, a textbook revolving fund has been in existence since 1987 and has
only been used for the purchase of a few titles at the end of 1991. Currently the central account has
a balance of 2.4 billion cedis. The school deposits the user fees collected from the higher primary
grades (P3/P6) in a dedicated account at the district, and these monies are sent quarterly to an interest
earning account at the center. The district and central textbook accounts are subject to an annual
audit. The proceeds of these accounts can only be used to purchase basic level textbooks. Only 9%
of the total 1993 recurrent budget for education (137.6 billion cedis) is coming from donor sources
(2.8 billion cedis from EdSAC II, 1.8 billion cedis from the Literacy Skills Project, 3.7 billion cedis
from USAID, 4.0 billion cedis from EEC and 0.6 billion cedis from UNICEF). Government has
agreed with USAID, as a condition for the release of its program assistance, to maintain the share of
primary education in the recurrent budget at least to its 1989 level of 38%, and to increase the
allocation for primary school materials to 6% of total primary education recurrent budgets. EEC
program assistance is also being used to ensure allocations for primary school materials are released.
Over the next 3 years, primary school recurrent costs per pupil will fall, as the pupil-teacher ratio
rises, but after 1996 they are expected to rise again. By 1996, primary education's share of real
recurrent education budgets will be about 40%, which is still higher than the level in 1989. (MOE
1993 recurrent budget summary and recurrent expenditures on education for the period
1986/1992 is found in Annex 3-7).
3.27          There is an insignificant allocation from the Government's own investment budget for
primary school construction. Over recent years, the only allocations have been to cover the costs of
rehabilitating school facilities destroyed or damaged through natural disasters. District assemblies
have been making small allocations of roofing sheets for a few primary school buildings. In some
areas, donors and church groups have provided significant support, almost always in the form of cash
or material grants to support community labor inputs. This has also been the approach of
PAMSCAD. In most areas the only way school facilities have been constructed has been through the
imposition of an educational development levy on all adult citizens of the particular town or village
whether they are resident or not. The ability of communities to raise such levies all but disappeared
during the years of economic decline from the mid 1970s. This partly explains the poor quality of
most classrooms, in most parts of the country.
3.28          Government has always tried to keep the costs that have to be borne by the primary
school child or his parent to an absolute minimum. The fees officially sanctioned by the Ministry of
Education are ¢250.00 at the P1IP2 level, and ¢500.00 per student per annum at the higher grades.
These fees are allocated as follows: in P1I/P2: ¢l100.00 for PTAs, ¢:100.00 for sports, and ¢50.00
for cultural events; in P3/P6: ¢250.00 for textbooks revolving funds, ¢100.00 for PTAs, ¢100.00
for sports, and ¢50.00 for cultural events. However with the devolution of responsibility for
education, district authorities (and even Regional authorities) have imposed a new range of additional
levies and fees, including a regional sports levy, a district assembly educational levy, a welfare fund
fee, and a children's park fee averaging in total ¢300 - ¢1350 p. a. In addition Parent Teacher
Associations are being given permission by the district authorities to impose their own fees averaging



- 12 -
E60O - ¢700 p.a. It is Government's policy that no child should ever be sent away from primary
school because his parents have not paid the fees, but in fact this often happens. Results of research
being carried out by UNICEF (see Annex 3-3), shows that the main cause of children dropping out of
school, or not enrolling in the first place, is the level of fees being collected. There is evidence to
suggest that headteachers in some cases under report enrollments, so that they don't have to report
any shortfall in collection of fees to district authorities.
E.     Administration. Supervision. and Monitoring
3.29         Over the past three years there has been a change in the administration of education at
the district level, with the enactment of PNDC Law 207 on decentralization. Whereas a few years
ago district education officials were answerable to Regional and Central GES authorities, they are
now dependent on the District Chief Executive and the District Assembly, especially the social
services sub-committee of the assembly where this exists. The number of headquarters divisions in
the Ghana Education Service has been reduced from 14 to 6, whilst at the same time the Ministry of
Education has begun to play a much more direct role in policy making in the education sector and in
the financial control of GES. Thus, though all public schools still fall under the GES, they have
become increasingly accountable to district assemblies. The structures of the central Ministry of
Education, the Ghana Education Service, and that of the District Education Omce are found in
Annexes 3-8. 3-9. and 3-10, respectively.
3.30         It is Government's policy that there should be one circuit supervisor and one circuit
monitoring assistant for every 15-25 primary schools. Of the more than 500 of each that are
required, only 233 circuit supervisors, and 186 circuit monitoring assistants are in post, which means
that each has to deal with 2-3 circuits. Currently, Government is pursuing an active policy of
selection, recruitment, training, and provision of motorcycles for these supervisors. Details of
Initial training of circuit supervisors is shown in Annex 3-11.
3.31         Government believes that the main supervision of a school must be the responsibility
of the local community and the headteacher. This is why Government has already done some
preliminary work on the eventual creation of local management committees for all schools.
F.     Teacher Incentives and Sanctions
3.32         The main incentive given to a teacher is his/her salary. All teachers in public schools
are members of the Ghana Education Service. They are paid the same salaries as civil servants with
equivalent qualifications and length of service, even though they have up to 12 weeks of holiday a
year compared with seven weeks for civil servants, and are officially on duty for 41/2 hours a day,
compared with 8 hours a day for a civil servant. Teachers also have opportunities for income
supplement by offering private tuition. Headmasters, and in large schools deputy headmasters,
receive a special responsibility allowance. The civil servant is more likely to be housed by
Government than the teacher, but has to pay 20% of his/her salary as rent. In October 1992, teachers
(and civil servants) had an 80% salary increase. There are no performance related payments made to
teachers, and none planned, though under the USAID project, experimental prizes are being offered
in the Northern region.
3.33         Theoretically, there is considerable scope for GES to impose sanctions on teachers for
a range of misdeeds. These are outlined in the 'Conditions and Scheme of Service and the Code of
Professional Conduct for Members of the Ghana Education Service (Teaching Personnel)" prepared
by the GNAT (included in the project file). These conditions include 17 areas of professional



- 13 -
misconduct, three areas relating to absence from work, 10 areas of general misbehavior, and three
areas of misuse of property. There are two levels of penalties, those for "minor misconduct" which
include up to 14 days loss of pay, or disciplinary transfer, and those for "major misconduct" which
can include penalties as severe as dismissal. Of the 33 areas of misconduct, 9 are classified as
"major" and 24 as "minor". Few sanctions apart from disciplinary transfer are ever applied.
However, in September 1991, the GES issued the "Guidelines for Setting up District and Regional
Disciplinary Committee and for the Application and Enforcement of the Code of Professional Conduct
for the Teaching and Non-Teaching Personnel of the Ghana Education Service (GES)" (included in
the project file) which laid out clearly the sanction or punishment that would be imposed for each
misdemeanor. Since considerable authority was also given to districts in these guidelines,
increasingly disciplinary action is being taken by the newly established District Disciplinary
Committees, especially for minor misdemeanors.
G.     Instructional Time
3.34         Government has been conscious that if the length of the pre-university cycle of
education in Ghana was to be shortened from 17 to 12 years, both the school year, and the school day
would have to be lengthened to compensate for the loss of instructional time. Already the school year
has been lengthened from 36 to 40 weeks, and now government is taking steps to lengthen the school
day from 4 hours to at least 5 hours of instruction. Government is also aware that instructional time
cannot be increased merely by increasing the official instructional hours, and is thus taking steps to
reduce substantially teacher absences from the classroom during official hours, partly by improving
school level supervision and partly through the implementation of sanctions. Providing teachers with a
wider range of teaching learning materials, including supplementary readers, and increasing in-service
teacher training, should encourage teachers to take pride in teaching more regularly. Encouraging
schools to run sports contests, and prepare for ceremonial events outside official teaching hours,
should again help increase actual instruction time. Persuading District Education Offices not to call
meetings or run training programs during official teaching hours will also help develop a more serious
attitude to teaching. Finally, once most schools have buildings that provide protection from the sun
and rain, schools will be able to remain open at all seasons, again increasing actual instructional time.
At negotiations, Government presented IDA with circulars to be issued to DEOs and headteachers on
the steps they should take to increase instructional time.
3.35         The one hour added to daily instructional time will largely be used for a new
integrated curriculum area "Communication Skills" which will attempt to increase children's free
verbal and writing skills largely in English. This integrated area is not designed around textbook
reading or rote repetition, but around trying to force the child to express him/herself. A teacher
handbook on communication skills is being developed. The increase in actual teaching hours, through
improved school level supervision, and other measures will be used to ensure that the existing
curriculum, especially in Ghanaian languages, English, and Math is in fact effectively covered.
IV. COMMUNITY MOBILIZATION
A.    Involvement in Construction Activities
4.1          Ghana has a long tradition of involvement of local communities in construction of
micro projects at the village and local community level. In the early 1960s Ghana's community
development movement was one of the most successful on the continent, with schools, health centres,
public toilets, markets, and drainage systems all constructed through labor mobilized by town and
village development committees. However, when the first republic was overthrown, these



- 14 -
development committees were abolished, and for the next two decades there were very few
Government sponsored community development projects.
4.2         In 1988 first attempts were made to revitalize the community development movement
under the Program of Actions to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment (PAMSCAD). Government
developed a system of providing matching grants for communities who were ready to undertake
various small construction projects such as schools, health centres, public latrines and markets. One
thousand such Community Initiative Projects (CIP) have been undertaken since then. An evaluation
of the CIP suggests four improvements are necessary. First, the approval and payment process
should not be centralized as central authorities are not always aware of local conditions. Second,
delays in providing stage payments to communities should be minimized, as these delays often destroy
the motivation of the communities. Third, all projects should be designed to be completed quickly, as
with inflation, the value of initially approved grants can rapidly diminish. Related to this is the need
to frequently update the level of grants. Fourthly, only very limited cash involvement from most
communities can be expected.
4.3          This CIP was followed by the school pavilion scheme funded under EdSAC, whereby
Government provided its contribution up-front by installing school pavilions (roofs on pillars), which
could be used as classrooms, even before communities completed the walls. 2,000 of these pavilions
were installed in under 600 days in every corner of Ghana by one contractor. However, local
communities were slow to complete the floor and walls for three reasons. First, because the MOE
was slow to accept the handover of the pavilions from the contractor, and thus any initial motivation
was extinguished because of a long wait. Second, the instructions given to local communities were in
a technical form and were not easy to follow. Third too much was expected from the community in
terms of purchased inputs.
4.4          A further variation of the CIP system was developed for the Community Secondary
School Project (Cr. 2278-GH), whereby communities were expected to provide their contribution
(one-third of estimated costs) up-front, by constructing the foundations and plinth before Government
provided any assistance. The difficulty with this approach was that the secondary school (unlike the
primary school) is not an institution that belongs to any one community. It thus proved difficult for
Government to organize the substantial up-front community inputs needed. Often this could only be
done through the imposition of general district level taxation.
4.5         In summary, the lessons learnt, which have been applied in the design of this project,
are the following. First, the total community effort needed must be kept low in absolute terms.
Second, the commodities that the community will have to purchase must be kept to an absolute
minimum. Third, instructions and designs must be prepared in a form that can be easily followed and
understood by illiterate or semi-literate villagers. Fourth, the communities must feel that they are
obligated to provide the necessary assistance before Government provides any assistance. Finally,
once a community is motivated and ready to carry out a project no delays or bureaucratic
impediments must be put in their way.
B.    Involvement in the Management of Community Resources
4.6          There is in Ghana, in common with most countries, a bureaucratic reluctance to
involve community members or leaders in the day to day management and supervision of local level
institutions which receive regular financial support from Government. Many local level organizations
have been created to raise funds for, or work to construct, or maintain physical facilities at particular
institutions, but none are given any real management control.



- 15 -
4.7          For example all schools are supposed to have Parent Teacher Associations (PTA).
These PTAs are mainly used to raise development funds for the school, or to help organize
community labor. PTA members are actively discouraged from becoming involved in any
management issues; and teachers and district education officials are horrified at the idea of having
"non-professionals" supervise the work of the teachers. When the PTA or community members
complain about the behavior of a particular teacher to the District Education Officer, more often that
not he will try to defend "his teachers". To develop a spirit of community ownership of schools will
take a long time. Government decided to take the first big step, that of involving community leaders
in the selection of the headteachers of the schools, under this project. This will help make
headteachers begin to feel answerable to the community, and help begin to get communities to believe
that the local primary school is their school. For the longer run, Government has produced a first
draft of legislation to establish school management committees, but a great deal of further detailed
work is needed before these committees will be able to be put in place.
V. THE PROJECT
A.    The Survey to Select Project Schools
5.1          There are very few public primary schools in Ghana that have entirely adequate
physical facilities. In the preparation of this project, it thus became necessary to systematically
identify those schools whose activities are being most seriously hampered through a lack of adequate
structures, and which were large enough to justify the provision of at least three standard 40m2
pavilions. The 3,532 potential schools that might be supported through this project were identified
from discussions with District Education Officers, Circuit Monitoring Assistants, and other officials.
All these schools were surveyed in February 1993 using the questionnaire included in Annex 5-1.
5.2          Twenty-five percent of the schools surveyed were in the three Northern Regions (or
47.6% of the schools in the Northern regions), and 75% in the seven Southern Regions (or 30% of
the schools in the Southern regions). A very significant proportion (37.2%) of the schools turned out
to be small schools with less than 100 students, almost 11% even had fewer than 40 students. It was
obvious that a considerably more detailed school mapping exercise would have to be carried out
before these small schools could be provided with permanent structures, as in many cases it might
prove necessary to change the school location or amalgamate some of these small schools. It was
thus decided that this project would not deal directly with any school that currently has primary
enrollments of less than 100. Only schools that have enrollments in excess of 100 would start to have
regular grade specific classes and teachers.
5.3          It was also decided that any school that already had 6 good classrooms (or rooms that
could be made into good classrooms with the provision of roofing sheets) would not be provided with
pavilions. From the data collected it became apparent that 1,546 existing classrooms could be turned
into effective teaching spaces merely by providing roofing sheets.
5.4          This left 1,983 schools requiring new primary classrooms (see Annex 5-2 for the
distribution by region and by district). As pavilions will be constructed in groups of 3, those
requiring 1-3 additional classroom were each given triple pavilions, and those requiring 4-6
classrooms were allocated two triple pavilions. 307 school needed one triple pavilion; whilst 1,676
schools required two triple pavilions.



- 16 -
5.5          Of the 1,983 schools selected for core project support, the majority are still relatively
small, 48.8% with enrollments of less than 150, and a further 21.8% with enrollments between 150
and 189. There were 11,429 teachers in the selected schools of whom 69.4% were trained.
Teaching was only taking place in 78.5% of the schools at the time of the survey. There were
353,875 primary children in the selected schools of whom 44.3% were girls. Almost half the schools
selected had other grades apart from primary, 38.7% also had kindergarten and 19.0% had JSS. Of
the selected schools, 78% had water near the school, and 28.2% had toilets. Only 49.5% had a safe
place to keep text books and teaching materials in the school. Finally only 66.9% of selected schools
were by a road, with 8% more than 30 minutes walk away from the nearest road. Of the selected
schools, 19.6% were in the northern half of the country, and 80.4% in the southern half (see Annex
5- for details on the selected schools).
B.    Project Objectives
5.6          The overall goal of this project is in line with previous Bank involvement in basic
education in Ghana - - to increase learning achievements and enrollments in primary schools
throughout the country. In order to accomplish this, the project will have the specific objective of
increasing the amount and improving the quality of instructional and learning time in primary schools,
particularly as far as 1,983 of the least well endowed primary schools are concerned.
C.    Project Description
5.7.         The project, which concentrates on 1,983 of the most deprived schools, combines the
implementation of key policy and management changes with investments in physical infrastructure.
1. Policy and Management Changes
5.8          Increasing Instructional Time. The project has been designed within the framework of
Government's policy to increase instructional and learning time, and improve overall quality,
effectiveness, and enrollments in primary education as expressed in the government's letter of
Primary Education Development Policy in Annex 3-4. Of particular relevance to the achievement of
the project objectives is Government's commitment to increase instructional time from four hours to
five hours daily by the beginning of the 1993/94 academic year. Discussions have already taken
place with the Ghana National Association of Teachers, (GNAT) and they seem ready to accept the
increase. Government has also decided to take action to ensure that the District Education Offices no
longer invite, encourage, or allow teachers to leave their classrooms during official teaching time,
except for the most essential reasons such as the monthly collection of salaries. The DEOs have been
instructed to minimize the loss of pupils' learning time on activities such as preparation for sporting
and ceremonial activities (see Annex 54 for Directive to DEOs). Similarly, a circular has been sent
to all primary school headteachers instructing them to ensure that all school teachers teach during
official teaching hours, and that extra curricula activities take place outside these hours (see
Annex 5-5 for circular to basic education headteachers). In addition, a first step will be taken to
allow some flexibility in teaching hours, initially just for rainy days. Where schools have to open late
because of morning rain, they will be instructed to make up for the lost time, by closing later than
normal. At a later stage, schools might be allowed to fix, in consultation with DEOs, their own
opening and closing time as long as the minimum official instructional hours are adhered to.
5.9          Reducing Student Fees and Levies. Government is concerned about the impact on
enrollments of the recent imposition of fees and levies on primary school pupils by regional and
district authorities and PTAs. Government has decided to embark on a two pronged approach. From



- 17 -
the beginning of the 1993/94 academic year no new fees and levies will be allowed to be imposed on
primary school students and steps will be taken starting with the 1993/94 academic year to phase out
all fees and levies not already approved by the Ministry of Education, so that by January 1997 all
such unapproved fees and levies will no longer be collected. It should be possible for DEOs from the
beginning of the 1993/94 academic year to eliminate unauthorized PTA levies and replace these where
necessary by other revenue sources such as levies on adult community members or harvest festivals.
In addition, prior to any pavilion being installed at a particular school the community will have to
sign an agreement with MOE. In this agreement there will be an undertaking that the PTA will not
charge levies on school children in excess of those approved by MOE (see Annex 5z ). Finally,
district assemblies will be encouraged to replace their small levies on school children with alternative
revenue sources, such as the District Education Endowment fund whose establishment is currently
being advocated by the Minister of Education.
5.10         The Headteacher as a Supervisor. Central to the eventual success of this project is the
improvement of the skills and the motivation of the primary school headteacher to become the key
supervisor, responsible for ensuring that all the teachers turn up regularly and on time, and also to
help ensure that all the teachers are teaching more effectively. This will be done through improving
the headteacher's recruitment process, providing the headteacher with a house on the school
compound as long as certain agreed activities are carried out, providing manuals and guidebooks, and
finally providing regular and continuous training.
5.11         Government has been aware of the importance of the primary school headteacher in
improving school effectiveness for some years. In 1988, all headteachers were given 10 days of
initial training, and in January 1992 a workshop was held to review the role of school headteachers in
the management and administration of primary schools. A description of the official duties of the
primary school headteacher is attached in Annex 5-7.
5.12         The Selection of the Headteacher. Up until now, all headteachers have been appointed
by the District Education Officers. Almost always the most senior teacher at a particular school is
selected, and often both teachers and headteachers in the least well endowed schools are there because
of their poor performance, indiscipline, or drunkenness in better endowed schools. With the
availability of comfortable houses for headteachers, it is expected that more teachers will be interested
in becoming headteachers at such schools. Under this project all headteachers will be selected on the
basis of an interview by a panel composed of district and local leaders such as the District Assistant
Director for Manpower and Training, or his representative, a representative of GNAT, and one or
more community leaders from the ward assembly, the PTA chairman or some other PTA member
who is also a parent, and a traditional chief or elder from the area where the school is situated.
Wherever feasible the interview will take place at the school. In this way the selected headteacher will
be answerable to local community leaders, as well as to the DEO.
5.13         Any potential headteacher will have to be a trained teacher, preferably with a post-
secondary certificate, and have a clean record. He will have to indicate his willingness to serve at the
particular school for at least four years.
5.14         Training of Headteachers. In addition to the subject specific in-service training that he
will attend every two years, the headteacher will receive an initial 14-day training, and refresher
training of two days every school holiday (three times a year). Eventually, it is planned that a system
of distance learning will be developed for the project headteachers, which will then be able to be used
for the training of all headteachers throughout the country. The headteacher will also be provided
with a manual that will cover much of the material dealt with during the training. All headteachers



- 18 -
will have been selected and have received their initial 14 days in-service training prior to the
beginning of the 1994/95 academic year (see Annex 5-).
5.15         Both the in-service training, and the headteachers manual will concentrate on the
following topics:
-     principles of personnel management
-     assessment of teacher performance
-     in-service training sessions for school teachers
-     managing instructional time
-     managing the use of learning resources
-     formal and informal methods of assessing student performance
-     planning extra curricula activities
-     improving school community relationships
-     increasing school intakes and attendance
-     financial management and accountability
5.16         Of particular importance will be the attempt to get the headteachers to start to take the
performance of their pupils as their prime concern. The headteachers' manual will therefore include
grade and subject specific learning milestone sheets, which will be used as a guide to monitoring
teacher performance and learning outcomes during the fortnightly staff meetings.
5.17         Based on a capacity assessment to be carried out by the MOE, the newly established
Education Development and Extension Department of the University College of Education at Winneba
or the Institute for Education, Planning and Administration (IEPA) of the University of Cape Coast or
the GES Training Center at Ajumako will be contracted to be responsible for all aspects of developing
training manuals; training of trainers, supervising training, and preparing, testing and revising the
headteachers' manuals. Initial in-service training, and the refresher training will take place in groups
of approximately 50 headteachers. In most cases, headteachers from three or more districts will have
to be brought to one of the district training centers used over the past five years by MOE for
in-service training. Two hundred trainers drawn from teacher training colleges, and district education
offices will be trained as trainers, and will then be responsible for initial and follow-up training of the
headteachers.
5.18         Orientation of Key District Officials. District political and administrative leaders have
a key role to play in the implementation of this project. For example, they will arrange the
contracting for the construction of the headteachers' houses and provide any necessary technical
assistance to contractors; they will help in mobilizing the local community in the cladding of the
school pavilions and again provide the necessary technical assistance; they will assist in the
distribution of roofing sheets; and they will be involved in the revised headteacher selection process.
In some cases they might even provide cement for the cladding of the school pavilions. The early
orientation of key district officials is thus essential. Six people from each district will therefore attend
a 1 /2 day orientation program prior to proiect effectiveness, which will be repeated after two years.
These six will include the Presiding Member of the District Assembly, the Chairperson of the Social
Sector Committee of the Assembly, the District Chief Executive, the DEO, the District Community
Development Officer, and the District Public Works Department Engineer. The training will be
carried out on a zonal basis, with approximately 165 participants in each of the four zones. (Details
of this and following training programs are included in Annex 5-9). Trainers will be key MOE
and project implementation officials. All participants will be provided with the following documents
during the training:



- 19 -
*     guidelines for contracting for the headteachers' houses, including the contract
documents.
*     tenancy agreement for occupation of headteachers' houses.
*     guidelines for constructing the headteachers' houses (for contractors).
*     community agreement on the cladding of classroom pavilions.
*     list of schools in the participant's district to be provided with: (a) houses and
(b) roofing sheets.
5.19         Orientation of Community Leaders. Government is aware that only if community
leaders start to take a direct interest in the constructing and running of the schools will they begin to
feel that the primary school is their school. Only then will there be any certainty that pavilions will
be cladded and maintained, that teachers will teach conscientiously, and that children will enrol in
increasing numbers. There will thus be a general 1 'h day orientation program for three key leaders
from each of the 1983 communities whose school is being supported by the project during the first
year of the project, repeated for uncompleted schools after two years. These leaders will include the
assembly man from the school catchment area, an important traditional chief and possibly the CDR
ward chairperson. Almost 6,000 leaders will attend this orientation which will take place at each
district headquarters. The trainers will consist of MOE officials. The following documents will be
given to all participants:
-     community agreement on the cladding of classrooms pavilions
-     guidelines for cladding classroom pavilion by local community
*     tenancy agreement for occupation of the headteachers house
*     process of selecting school headmaster
The orientation will concentrate on the pre-conditions that will have to be met by the local
communities before they can benefit from school pavilions and headteachers houses, especially the
need to abolish all locally imposed fees and levies not authorized by MOE on primary school pupils;
the role of community leaders in headteacher selection; and community mobilization for site
preparation, and pavilion cladding and maintenance.
5.20         Sub-District Supervisory Personnel. MOE has, for supervision and monitoring
purposes, divided the country into about 500 circuits, each circuit containing around 25 primary
schools. Eventually it is planned that there will be a Circuit Monitoring Assistant (CMA), and a
Circuit Supervisor (CS) working full time in each of the circuits, though currently there are only 250
CSs and 186 CMAs in post. The CMAs will play a key role in monitoring the achievements of this
project, as they were in fact originally established to monitor both the distribution of supplies
provided under the educational reform program, and the quantitative impact of these reforms. They
also carried out the field work on the survey of 3,532 schools discussed in paragraph 5.1 above,
along with that for the "Social Survey on Parents, Teachers and Community Leaders Attitudes
Towards Female Participation in Education" (included in the project file). The CSs are responsible
for pedagogic inspection and supervision. The Government has decided that the CMAs aided by the
CSs and community development officials will be the key field level implementation personnel for this
project. They will be responsible for mobilizing community support for site preparation, and for
pavilion cladding, and will also report to MOE, through the DEOs on the status of headteacher house
construction, pavilion erection, and pavilion cladding. Five hundred CMAs and CSs will be called



- 20 -
for zonal orientation training workshops twice in the first year, and at least once per year thereafter.
All CMAs and CSs will be provided with the following documents during the training:
*     community agreement on the cladding of classroom pavilions
*     guidelines for cladding of classroom pavilions by the local communities
*     tenancy agreement for occupation of the headteachers' house
*     list of schools to be supported by the project in the CMA's area
*     site plans for schools to be supported by the project in the CMA's area
In addition to covering the costs of the semi-annual/annual training, the project will pay night and
other allowances of the CMAs and CSs when they are involved in approved project mobilization and
monitoring activities, which require prolonged absence from their circuit base.
5.21         School Mapping Study. About 40% of the schools surveyed during the preparation of
this project had an enrollment of less than 100 students, and thus have had to be excluded from
benefiting from this project. Evidence from this survey showed that these small schools have some of
the worst physical facilities of any schools in the country, and thus any follow-up project might have
to concentrate on these small schools. Before this can be done, a detailed school mapping exercise
will need to be completed of these 1,500 small schools in order to determine their viability. (Details
of this school mapping study can be found in Annex 5-10).
5.22         Monitoring of Proiect Implementation: Intensive planning and monitoring is obviously
needed with a project involving key policy changes, training programs for over 8,000 people, several
large school pavilion contracts, headteacher house construction on 1,983 sites, the activities of
construction supervisors and technical auditors, and the cladding of 10,977 classrooms. For this, the
existing School Building Section of the old Project Management Unit which is now incorporated in
the Coordinating Unit for Managing External Funding (CU) of MOE will be significantly
strengthened, and provided with the vehicles and operational budgets needed for intensive field
operations during the life of the project.
5.23         The project will finance the services of a number of local consultants and the
associated operational costs serving the School Building Section. For project implementation,
supervision and monitoring the country will be divided into four zones, and each zone will have a
team of professional and technical consultants. Project funds will be used to finance the School
Building Section Project Manager, responsible for all aspects of physical implementation; two deputy
project managers (one architect and one engineer), who will assist the project manager in the
construction program, and for vetting all payment certificates. The recruitment of these consultants
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA will be a condition of effectiveness. The deputy
project managers will be assisted by a further two consultants, one engineer and one architect. Two
quantity surveyors will also be employed to regularly check the work of the construction supervisors,
and technical auditors. Six building technicians will be employed to complete the zonal supervision
and monitoring teams. All these technical staff will be expected to be in the field for at least half of
every year. Their night and other allowances, along with the cost of vehicles, computers, and other
equipment and that of some support staff (especially for maintaining computer records of the status of
project implementation), will be covered by the project. In addition accounting consultants will be
hired to assist the disbursement section of the CU to make 60-70 payments a month, keep up to date
accounts, and prepare withdrawal applications. Project auditors will also be hired using project
funds.



- 21 -
2.    Investment in Physical Infrastructure
5.24         Construction of Classrooms. A total of 10,977 classrooms will be constructed through
a combination of large scale contracting for the manufacture and erection of prefabricated school
pavilions and micro agreements with each of 1,983 communities for cladding the pavilions. The
selection of the contractors for the manufacture and installation of at least 2,000 triple pavilions is a
condition of effectiveness. Any school that wants to be eligible to benefit from the project will have
to eliminate PTA and other locally imposed fees that are not authorized by MOE on school children.
5.25         The pavilions consist of a wooden framne resting in metal footings, and a corrugated
aluminum roof, designed to withstand winds of up to 65 knots and the ravages of termites. The
pavilions will be installed in groups of three, joined together (which will save 12.2% of the cost of a
single pavilion). In addition to the erection of the pavilions the contractor will also be responsible for
constructing a concrete slab floor which will make up 30% of the basic cost of a pavilion. The total
cost of a triple pavilion, with concrete slab floor has been calculated at US$12,790 excluding
contingencies.
5.26         Five major steps are involved in classroom construction. First all 1,983 sites will be
surveyed in order to determine the site layout for the block of three classrooms (307 sites) or six
classrooms (1,676 sites), the headteacher's house, and the toilet on the school compound. The
appointment of the construction supervisors and the start-up work on surveying at least 50 project
sites are conditions of effectiveness. During the survey, community leaders will be informed of the
steps that they will have to take to clear and prepare the site for the pavilions. Second, key district
and local personnel, and CMAs and CSs will be oriented and trained as described above. Third
community leaders will sign an agreement with MOE, specifying their roles in site preparation,
cladding, school supervision, and the abolition of fees. Fourth, through ICB, six large contracts for
pre-fabrication and installation of the school pavilions will be let on a geographical basis ranging in
size from about 5,000 classrooms down to 700 classrooms, all to be installed within three years.
Finally, as the pavilions are installed, the CMAs and CSs will go to the sites and mobilize the
community to complete the cladding quickly within the original contracted time.
5.27         This school pavilion approach is based on the experience gained with the 2,000
pavilions erected from 1989 to 1991, and financed with EdSAC, and related donor sources. The
following improvements and modifications have been made. First, there has been a simplification in
the design, with smaller timber sections, and a lower pavilion height. Second, the standard
prefabricated unit has been changed from one unit, to a unit of three pavilions joined together.
Wherever possible, a unit of six pavilions joined together will be used. Third, the provision of a
concrete slab floor will be included in the main contract. Fourth, several large contracts will be let,
enabling all 10,977 pavilions to be installed within a three year period. Fifth, cladding specifications
have been simplified and easy-to-follow instructions prepared. Finally, much greater attention is
being devoted to community mobilization at all stages of the process than was the case 2-3 years ago.
5.28         The Headteacher's House. The only way that it will be possible to attract well
qualified and motivated teachers to apply to become headteachers in deprived areas, often far from
their homes, is to provide them with a simple but comfortable house. A low cost house with a total
covered area of 560ft, and an external improved ventilated latrine of 24fW (the floor plan is found in
Annex 5-11) will be constructed on the school compound at each of the 1,983 sites where school
pavilions are being erected. This house will be constructed using improved local building technology
without internal plumbing or electrical wiring. One prototype house using the design and procedures
is being constructed on a site not far from Accra. Detailed bills of quantities have been prepared in



- 22 -
April 1993 (Annex 5-11 . These show a cost of construction of Z4.2 million for the southern
regions, and e5. 1 million in the northern half of the county where cement and roofing sheets have to
be transported long distances, and where timber is in short supply. These prices will be re-calculated
by the project quantity surveyors every six months, to take account of any escalation in construction
prices, and the new price will then apply for all contracts signed after this recalculation.
5.29         The project will pay the actual cost not exceeding a ceiling price for a house
constructed and completed at each of the 1,983 project schools. Ninety percent of the actual cost will
be paid by the Ministry of Education on receipt of a report from the District Chief Executive certified
by the headteacher that the house has been completed. The remaining 10% will be paid to the
contractor when the house has been certified as complete according to specifications by an
independent technical auditor. Contracts for the construction of each house will be let to small scale
contractors by the district administration, which will also be responsible for providing technical advice
where necessary. Detailed, but easy to follow drawings and specifications will be given to each
contractor. Since contractors will have to pre-finance the whole cost of construction, speed of
payment is crucial. The standard contract agreement for the construction of a headteacher's
house is shown in Annex 5-12.
5.30         This system is similar to that developed under the Community Secondary School
Project with three important changes. Firstly communities will not have to make any contribution.
Second, payment will only be made when the house is fully completed. Third, the payment will be
made by the Ministry of Education directly to the contractor and not through the district authorities
thus speeding up the receipt of payment by the contractor.
5.31         On appointment, prior to moving into his new house, the headteacher will sign an
agreement with the PTA and the DEO in which he will make a commitment to hold all PTA and
teacher meetings, sports, extra curricular activities outside official teaching hours; that he will
supervise the attendance and performance of his teachers; that he will hold a short fortnightly
meeting/training session for his teachers outside school hours; that there will be continuous
assessment of the children in his school; that he will interact frequently with parents and community
leaders; and that he will attend regularly all training programs organized for headteachers. The
headteacher will have to pay only 2% of his salary as rent for his new home compared with the 20%
normally charged to civil servants occupying government houses. This rent will be deposited in the
school account, to be used solely for maintenance and repairs to the house. If the headteacher does
not keep to this agreement he could be transferred to a school where no house is available or his rent
could be increased. The standard tenancy agreement for the occupation of the headteacher's
house is shown in Annex 5-13.
5.32         Provision of Roofing Sheets. In the survey of the 3,532 schools discussed in
paragraph 5.1 above, 1,546 classrooms in about 600 schools were found to have strong walls, but
either no roof at all, or a seriously leaking roof. The project will thus provide 30 distinctively
coloured roofing sheets for each of these classrooms. The local communities will be responsible for
providing all other materials such as nails and the skilled craftsmen needed to roof these classrooms.
The roofing sheets will be distinctively colored in order to prevent pilferage and diversion. The same
process has been successfully carried out under EdSAC I.
5.33         Construction Supervision and Technical Auditing. Two teams of external technical
consultants will be hired under the project. The first will be responsible for supervising all aspects of
the school pavilion installation process, from original site layout, through supervision of actual
erection, including certifying that the pavilion and the slab have been installed according to



- 23 -
specification on each site, and the preparation of certificates for the payment of the contractors. On
the basis of the 1989-1991 experience, one team of supervisors will be needed for every five to ten
construction gangs, on the assumption that one gang will be able to install two triple pavilions in 10
days. The employment of the construction supervision consultants is a condition of effectiveness.
Draft Terms of Reference for these construction supervision consultants are included in Annex
5-10. The second team of technical consultants will be employed to certify the full completion of the
headteacher's house according to specifications. These technical consultants, or auditors will only
visit those sites where the district authorities have informed the MOE that a house is completed, and
will not visit any site more than twice. During the first visit, instructions might have to be given to
the contractor to remedy defects and omissions, and during the second visit the final certificate should
be able to be given. The technical auditor will tour the country once a month, as soon as the
headteacher's house construction is underway. The selection of the technical auditors for the project
is a condition of effectiveness. Draft Terms of Reference for the technical auditors are included
in Annex 5-10.
5.34         Community Involvement in Pavilion Cladding and School Supervision. As discussed
above three key community leaders will be oriented in their new roles and responsibility in school
construction and management, and CMAs and CSs trained in community mobilization. The first key
function of the CMA will be to obtain a formal signed agreement from the local community in which
it will agree to clear the site, and complete the cladding of the pavilions within six months of their
installation, to help in school supervision, and to maintain the building once it is completed. In this
agreement the community leaders will also make a commitment to abolish all PTA fees and levies on
primary school children not approved by MOE. This agreement will be signed by the ward
assemblyman, the most senior local traditional chief, the headteacher, the presiding member of the
district assembly, and the district chief executive officer on the one hand, and a designated MOE
official on the other hand. In this way both the community and the district authorities will feel
committed to completing the cladding rapidly. The community agreement on cladding classroom
pavilions by the local community is included in Annex 5-C.
D.    Project Costs and Financing
5.35         Project Costs. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$73.3 million equivalent,
including US$0.35 million in duties and taxes. Out of the total project costs, 99% are investment
related costs and the remaining 1% is for incremental recurrent costs. Total base cost estimates are
US$62.6 million at March 1993 prices. Physical and price contingencies are estimated at US$10.6
million with physical contingencies representing about 9% of base cost. Price contingencies have
been derived from the implementation schedule and the following expected price increases: foreign
prices 3.7% in 1994, and per annum thereafter; local prices 25% in 1993, 15% in 1994, 10% in
1995, 5% in 1996 and per annum thereafter. The project would be implemented over a four-year
period, with an expected completion date of June 30, 1997. Detailed project cost estimates are
given in Annex 5-14.
5.36         Financing Plan. The total project cost of US$73.3 million equivalent covers US$24.6
million in foreign costs and US$48.7 million in local costs and is shared as follows:
(a)   the proposed IDA credit of US$65.1 million, which will cover US$24.6 million of
foreign costs and US$40.5 million of local costs, or about 89% of total project costs;



- 24 -
(b)   the Government's allocation of US$5.0 million will be used to cover part of the local
costs of construction of the school pavilions, and taxes and duties, or about 7% of total
project costs; and
(c)   community participation will provide US$3.2 million or 4% of total project costs for
unpaid labor and to finance materials for the cladding of 10,977 classrooms, and the
clearing of the schools sites for the pavilions.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Project Preparation
6.1         The project was identified by Government as being of the highest priority during
Government/Bank discussions on the accelerated growth strategy for Ghana in June 1992. The
project was prepared by Ministry of Education and IDA staff early in 1993, pre-appraised in February
1993, and appraised and negotiated in April 1993.
6.2         Preparation for project implementation is well advanced with the 1,983 schools that
will benefit from new classroom facilities and headteacher houses already identified, listed, and
approved, and draft bidding documents prepared for ICB for the school pavilions, and for the
selection of construction supervisors, and technical auditors. Only the strengthening of the School
Building Section remains to be done. Once this project becomes effective, it should be ready to
disburse at a rapid rate.
B.    Proiect Management and Coordination
6.3         In January 1993 the Government established a Coordinating Unit for Managing
External Funding (CU) responsible for managing all externally aided projects in the education sector.
Tle core of this CU has been drawn from the EdSAC Project Management Unit (PMU) which was
created in 1987, and has been functioning successfully with responsibility for the IDA-financed
EdSAC I, EDSAC II, and Community Secondary School projects and the USAID-financed Primary
Education Project, all of which are managed by the School Education Division of MOE. The PMU
has demonstrated impressive commitment and organizational capability through the program. The
staff have gained considerable experience in different types of education investments. The PMU has
at times been overextended in terms of handling procurement, given the heavy burden of EdSAC II
activities and some staff attrition. The PMU has an efficient accounting and payment system. With
the creation of the CU, a few staff working in the Non-Formal Education Division on the new
Literacy Skills Project, and in the Higher Education Division on the new Tertiary Education Project
are being incorporated into one integrated unit.
6.4         The Coordinating Unit is developing strength on procurement, disbursements,
accounting for logistics and distribution. However, neither this CU, nor the Planning, Budgeting,
Monitoring and Evaluation Division in the MOE has the staff or the transportation equipment to
monitor 2,000 micro projects throughout the length and breadth of the country. It has thus been
decided, for the life of this project, to strengthen the small school building section of the old PMU
which will now fall under the new CU with a structure as outlined in Annex 6-1.
6.5         In addition to a Manager, the School Building Section will consist of six professional
staff, six technicians, drivers, and support staff. Procurement will be carried out by existing CU



- 25 -
staff, as will the logistics of distribution of roofing sheets, headteachers' manuals, and other materials
to all corners of the country. Project accounts and disbursements will be carried out by the existing
CU staff with the addition of two consultants.
6.6          The project will fall under the direct authority of the Minister of Education, who will
be responsible for mobilizing wide political support, and ensuring that district authorities play an
active role in project implementation. At the district level, the Presiding Member of the District
Assembly, the District Chief Executive Officer, and the District Education Officer will be the key
officials, with the District Engineer, and the District Community Development Officer playing
important roles. At the sub-district level, the Circuit Monitoring Assistants will have the key role to
play, with the Circuit Supervisors also assisting. At the community level the headteacher, the local
assemblyman, and the traditional chief are the key actors, with the PTA chairman and members, the
CDR ward chairman, and other community leaders having important roles to play in community
mobilization.
6.7          Project implementation will be straightforward, with six large contracts for the
manufacture and installation of the pavilions; two large contracts for external construction supervision
and technical auditing; a contract with the University College at Winneba, the IEPA, or the GES
Training Center at Ajumako, for all elements related to headteacher training and manuals; payment
for up to 1,983 headteachers houses on completion and certification by the technical auditors; and a
large scale training of district officials, community leaders and CMAs/CSs.
C.    Proiect Sustainability and Recurrent Cost ImDlications
6.8          Through extending official instructional time, increasing the sense of community
ownership of the school and its involvement in supervision, training the headteacher and providing a
house as a permanent incentive, and ensuring that an attractive and functional school building is
available, the project will contribute to increasing learning achievements and enrollments well beyond
its implementation period.
6.9          Apart from the provision of roofing sheets, the project will only deal with the 1,983
existing schools, the vast majority of which are under-enrolled. The average size of the school being
supported is only 178 students, and the average pupil-staff ratio is only 3 1:1; both of which suggest
that most schools will be able to increase enrollments with almost no immediate impact on recurrent
costs. In the 1993 fiscal year, Government has allocated just under C10 billion (US$16.4 million) of
staff salaries and other recurrent costs to these 1,983 schools. This involves a slightly lower average
unit cost of US$44.6 per pupil than the US$45.0 national average. Apart from the normal
incremental creep in salaries, no increase in recurrent costs is expected over the next few years in the
project schools, and none that can be directly attributable to the project, especially since there will be
no additional teachers needed, textbooks will, for some years, be able to be provided out of the
proceeds of textbook revolving funds, and local communities will be responsible for school
maintenance.
6.10         The total 1993 recurrent budget for education is 137.6 billion cedis. Only about 9%
of this is coming from donor sources (2.8 billion cedis from EdSAC II, 1.8 billion cedis from the
Literacy Skills Project, 3.7 billion cedis from USAID, 4.0 billion cedis from EEC and 0.6 billion
cedis from UNICEF). It is thus unlikely that normal running costs will be jeopardized through any
gradual withdrawal of donor funding, especially since sizable textbook revolving funds have been
built up. However, there is much greater dependency on donor funding of investment costs, for even
without this project, it is expected that about 19.8 billion cedis will be disbursed from donor sources



- 26 -
in 1993, two-thirds from IDA. This is about three times the level Government is allocating from its
own investment budget. The tremendous requirements for donor support in rehabilitating the physical
stock of schools and tertiary level institutions will continue for at least a further decade.
6.11         Fees and levies on primary school children, in addition to those approved by MOE,
charged by local authorities and PTAs produce resources between US$1.5-3.0 million annually. Of
this about one third are levied by district and regional authorities and two thirds by the PTAs. It
seems that not more than US$0.5 million is spent directly on primary education, almost all of which
is for roofing sheets and cement. As the project is providing significant assistance for school
construction in every district in the country any reduction or abolition of these additional fees is not
likely to have any significant impact on primary education development.
D.    Project Monitoring and Reporting
6.12         Monitoring Indicators. A system of monitoring relevant intermediate indicators is
being established, to track progress during implementation. In order to establish this system, it will
be necessary to collect additional baseline data on the 1,983 schools being supported, to find out the
number of days and hours the school was open during the previous year; the official teacher absences
during the previous year; the intake level; attendance rate; and the grade-specific dropouts during the
year. These same indicators would then be included in the annual school census which is carried out
in February each year. The Government has agreed to carry out before the beginning of academic
year 1993/94 a baseline study on the 1,983 schools. During negotiation, Government gave assurances
that it will implement, not later than December 31, 1993, a continuous program to monitor
instructional time of primary school teachers and learning time of primary school students, to be
conducted under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
6.13         The Project Manager (PM) will be responsible for continuous project monitoring and
reporting to the Coordinator of the CU on any bottlenecks hindering implementation that might be
encountered. He will be served by his four zonal monitoring teams, each made up of at least one
professional officer and two technicians. The PM will also be receiving copies of agreements signed
with local communities, contracts signed with micro contractors on the construction of the
headteachers' houses; reports from construction supervisors, and technical auditors, as well as
financial reports. The PM will produce semi-annual progress reports for formal submission to IDA
and Government, which will include a summary of project related information as discussed above, as
well as any other data from the school census, the criterion-referenced tests and other data as it
becomes available. MOE will also provide Part II of a Project Completion Report to IDA within six
months of the closing date. Key performance Indicators are found In Annex 6-2.
E.    Mid-Term Review
6.14         There will be a mid term-review of this project between July and December 1995.
Prior to this review Government will have completed a survey of all the schools being supported with
school pavilions and headteachers' houses under the project, and will compare this data with the
baseline data collected as part of the preparation activities for this project. The mid-term review will
concentrate on the following topics:
number of pavilions constructed;
proportion of pavilions cladded;



- 27 -
average length of time between pavilion installation and cladding;
number of headteacher houses completed;
number of headteachers recruited through the new process, and qualifications of these
headteachers;
number of classrooms roofed;
-     training programs completed and their impact;
-     change in intakes and enrollments in project schools, compared with all schools;
-     change in official instructional time;
-     change in actual instructional time;
-     change in scores on criterion-referenced test, or other proxy measures for pupil
achievement.
6.15         During the mid-term review the scope and coverage of the project will be discussed,
and where necessary, schools that still have not signed an agreement (or schools in districts that are
not prepared to abolish levies on primary students) will be replaced by some of the better performing
small schools initially excluded from the project. In addition, based on the outcome of the review,
the Government would promptly prepare and implement an action program, acceptable to IDA, for
making necessary corrective actions and improving the project's implementation. (A supervision
plan and mid-term evaluation criteria is found in Annex 63 .
F.    Environmental Aspects
6.16         The project, involving the construction of durable classrooms and houses for rural
schools, which are designed to make the greatest possible use of locally available materials will not
have a negative impact on the environment especially since all houses will be provided with sanitary
facilities, and all schools will be encouraged to construct such facilities. The expansion and
improvement in basic education is likely to have a positive environmental impact. This project does
not involve resettlement.
G.    Procurement
6.17         The following table summarizes the project components, their estimated costs and
proposed methods of procurement. The Implementation and Disbursement Schedules, which allow
sufficient time for all the key procurement steps, are presented in Annex 64.



- 28 -
Surn7 o  Pra?3o¶ed Procuremet  Trneet
AYS mlTM AequlvEl nfta*Including9 co"n rnoenc es)
TOTAL
Project Conponent                   ICe          LC8         OTHER           N.B.F.                COST
1. Works
1.1 SchooL Pavilions               46.20                                      3.20  g/            49.40
(41.60)                                                        (41.60)
1.2 Headteachers Houses                                       16.20                                16.20
(16.20)                              (16.20)
2. Goods
2.1 Vehicles  Office                            0.20          0.07                                 0.27
Equipment and Training                     (0.20)        (0.07)                               (0.27)
Materials
2.2 Roofing MateriaLs              0.52                                                            0.52
(0.52)                                                         (0.52)
3.  ConsuLtancies
3.1 Project Suprvision,
Implementation and
Monitoring support                                        3.58                                 3.58
(3.58)                               (3.58)
4. Hiscellaneous
4.1 Local Training/Workshops                                  1.90                                 1.90
0. 90)                              (1 90)
4.2 Incremental Operating Costs                               1.06                                 1.06
(1.06)                               (1.06)
4.3 Taxes and Duties                                                          0.35  W              0.35
TOTAL                              46.72        0.20         22.81            3.55                 73.30
IDA Finwncing                     (42.12)      (0.20)       (22.81)                              (65.10)
Note: TotaLs my not add up due to rounding
Figures in parentheses are the respective amomts financed by the IDA credIt.
N.S F.  Not Sank-Financed.
/ Co_usnity participation: USS3.2 million equivaLent.
Goverr_nnt: USS0.35 million  quivalent.
6.18            Civil Works. The civil works included under the project are for the provision and
installation of about 9,057 classrooms on 1,983 sites. Each site will be provided with either one module
of three pavilions or two modules each of three pavilions (at an estimated base cost of US$12,790 per
module of three pavilions). The local communities will be responsible for clearing of the sites, and once
the school pavilions have been installed, for constructing the walls and blackboards with locally available
materials. In addition, the project will finance the construction of headteachers houses located at each of
the 1,983 selected school sites (at an actual expenditure not exceeding the ceiling unit cost of C4,200,000
(or US$6,890 equivalent) for the Southern regions, and C5, 100,000 (or US$8,360 equivalent) for the
Northern regions). The construction program will be financed by IDA, the Government, and the local
communities. The total contribution from Government and local communities for the school pavilions is
estimated at US$7.8 million or 16% of total cost. The local communities contribution for site clearing
and cladding of the school pavilions will be ensured through a signed standard agreement between the
MOE, and local leaders as described in paragraph 5.34 above. Although the 1,983 schools are
geographically scattered, the contracts for manufacture and erection of pavilions will be grouped into bid
packages of between US$3.0 million and US$22.0 million, up to an aggregate of US$46.2 million
equivalent including contingencies, and would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with the IDA's 'Guddelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loons and IDA
Credits" (May 1992). For this purpose, the country has been divided into six zones, and six relatively
large scale contracts will be let, each for the manufacture and erection of the pavilions. Given the small



- 29 -
size and scattered nature of constructing the headteachers houses in remote locations, they will be
constructed by small scale contractors selected by the district administration through local shopping
involving, whenever possible, obtaining three quotations on the basis of disclosed cost estimates; work
will be paid at actual cost not exceeding this estimate by the project on receipt of a report from
independent technical auditors certifying full completion in accordance with standard drawings and
specifications (Annex 5-11). The ceiling cost of construction assessed by qualified local quantity
surveying consultants and verified by the implementing agency and agreed by IDA will be updated semi-
annually and be used as a basis for entering into a fixed price contract as mentioned above.
6.19         Goods. Goods financed under the project would include: roofing materials, vehicles,
small items of office equipment, and production of training materials for a total value of US$0.77 million
equivalent including contingencies. The roofing materials will be procured through ICB following Bank
guidelines. Contracts for goods procured through ICB would total about US$0.52 million, representing
68% of the total value of goods financed by IDA. The vehicles which can be competitively procured
locally and which cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent each which, in
the aggregate, would not exceed US$0.2 million equivalent and would represent 26% of the total value of
goods financed by IDA, would be suitable for procurement through local competitive bidding (LCB)
under procedures acceptable to IDA. The remaining 6% of the total value of goods, small equipment,
printing and materials, which cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least US$50,000 equivalent will
be procured on the basis of price quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, provided that
the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed a total of US$0.2 million equivalent. LCB
procedures will include: (a) explicit statement to bidders of the evaluation and award criteria; (b) local
advertising with public bid opening; (c) no preference to state-owned enterprises; (d) award to lowest
bidder; and (e) foreign bidders would not be precluded from participating in LCB. At negotiations,
Government confirmed the above LCB principles.
6.20         Services. Consultants financed by IDA, totalling US$3.6 million equivalent would be
contracted in accordance with IDA's " Guidelines for the Use of Consultants" (August 1981). The
consultancy services required under the project would be mostly for project management, supervision and
implementation, and for training activities. It would include, specifically, the services of locally recruited
consultants such as: (a) a project manager for overall project coordination; (b) two deputy project
managers for the coordination, management and implementation of the construction program; (c) two
quantity surveyors and six building technicians; (d) two project accountants to establish and monitor the
project accounting system as well as the services of auditing firm to perform annual project audits; (e)
construction supervisors for the school pavilions and technical auditors for the headteachers houses; (f) a
sole source contract with the University College of Winneba, the IEPA of the University of Cape Coast,
or the GES Training Center at Ajumako for the design of headteachers training programs and manuals
(the selection of the institution would be based on a capacity assessment carried out by the MOE); (g)
adequate number of trainers to cover the training program; (h) consultants and field staff to complete the
school mapping exercise; and (i) technical assistance to be used in the development of the proposed Basic
Education Project scheduled for FY95. Individual consultants to be financed by IDA would total about
624 person months. Terms of reference for major consulting services and details on consultancies
are given in Annex 5-10.
6.21          Procurement Arrangements. The major procurement under this project is for the
manufacture and installation of 3,019 pavilions of three classrooms. The designs and bidding documents
for the 1989/91 school pavilion contract for 2,000 single pavilions under Cr. 1744-GH have been
modified and improved, and are ready to be used in a new International Competitive Bid. The second
largest procurement activity is for the construction of 1,983 headteacher houses. With this, the
procedures developed under Cr. 2278-GH will be used, whereby payment will be made to contractors



- 30 -
only when independent technical auditors have certified that the building is complete according to
specifications.
6.22         Apart from the procurement of works described above, and the selection of consultants,
there will be very little other procurement under this project. Thus no procurement agents will be
needed, but instead the procurement under the project will be carried out by MOE's CU Procurement
Section which is currently under the leadership of the Manager for Higher Education. Although the
project manager of the School Building Section will be responsible for the overall administrative and
contractual arrangements under the project, he/she will liaise closely with the Procurement Section for
handling all matters related to the preparation, implementation and monitoring of work plans to ensure
successful execution of procurement for all goods, works and services, including the preparation of
bidding documents, launching of tenders, analysis, and reporting the results to Government and to IDA
for review.
6.23         In addition, under the general supervision of the project manager, the School Building
Section of the CU will maintain adequate records on procurement progress, including staff reports on site
visits; the timing of works and goods procurement; and compliance with agreed methods of procurement.
These will be used in MOEs project monitoring system. The status of construction of all school pavilions
and headteachers houses would be kept in a computerized database. The Project Manager will update the
project cost estimates annually, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price
contingencies, and report these to IDA. Implementation schedule for the construction program is
found in Annex 6-5.
6.24         A project launch workshop will be organized by IDA shortly after Board presentation with
the assistance of CU staff as soon as key project staff are in post, and the major consultant companies
have been hired. This workshop will deal with all aspects of project implementation, and will especially
concentrate on procurement, disbursements, monitoring, and reporting. This will be followed by
nationwide orientation programs for 660 district officials, and 6,000 community leaders. The completion
of the first orientation program for the 660 district officials is a condition of effectiveness.
6.25         Bank Review. Prior review by IDA would be required for procurement of packages of
works, and goods which exceed US$100,000. The review process would cover over 70% of the value of
the amount contracted for works, goods, and services financed by IDA, the largest exception being for
the headteachers houses (23%) which will be paid for on a fixed cost basis. Wherever ICB is to be used,
the draft bidding documents and proposed contract awards would also require IDA's prior review. All
bidding documents will be prepared using the Bank's Sample Bidding Documents for each type of ICB
procurement which will be submitted to IDA for review and approval. IDA's prior review of the terms
of reference, qualifications, and estimated costs of consultant contracts will be required for all consultant
services since most services under the project exceed by far the authorized threshold by the Bank.
H.     Disbursements
6.26         The project is expected to be completed within a four-year period by June 30, 1997, with
all disbursements made by December 31, 1997. The expected project completion is rapid compared with
the Ghanaian average of seven and one-half years for two main reasons. First, because it is a relatively
simple project with only two significant standardized components; and secondly, because many of the
project start-up activities are being financed under Cr. 2140-GH. These activities are mainly for
contractual arrangements for the construction program and related technical assistance.



- 31 -
6.27           The following table gives the categories and amounts to be financed out of the IDA credit,
and the percentage to be financed in each category.
ALtocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Amoint of the Credit
Attocated                  Percent of Expenditures
Cateaorv of Exr enditures                (USS NfLLfon)             to be Finaned by IDA
1.   CiviL Works:
A. School Pavilions X/                  38.60                        90X
B. Headteachers Houses                  14.00                       100X
2.   Roofing Materials                        0.50                        100X
3.   Vehicles and Office                      0.20                        100X  Foreign *xp.
Equipment                                                            90X  Local exp.
4.   Technical Assistance and
Studies                                  3.00                       100X
5.   Local Training and
Training MateriaLs                       1.80                       100X
6.   Incremental Operating Costs              1.00                        100X
7.   Unallocated
Totat Cradit ADt                         im
p/   As a condition of disbursement apinst this category, the Goverr_unt will have deposited USS400,000
equivalent in a Project Account (para. 6.30).
6.28        All withdrawal applications will be fully documented except for: (a) payments under
contracts of less than US$50,000; (b) local training-related costs; and (c) incremental operating costs
(general office, vehicles, and equipment operating costs, and field allowances incurred by CMAs/CSs
and other staff), which will be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs).
Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be retained at the CU for review by IDA staff
during supervision missions and for regular audits.
6.29       Special Account. To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for works, goods
and services, the Government would open a Special Account in a commercial bank to cover IDA's
share of eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by the CU. The authorized allocation
for the Special Account would be US$5.0 million; IDA would make an initial deposit for that amount
from the proposed credit imhiediately upon credit effectiveness. IDA would replenish the Special
Account on a monthly basis upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expenditures.
Replenishment requests would be accompanied by up-to-date bank statements and reconciliations of
the Special Account. All payments under US$500,000 equivalent must be made through the Special
Account; payments above that amount may be made through direct payment or special commitment
procedures. The construction costs of the headteachers houses carried out through small contracts
awarded by the district administration, will be paid for at 90% of the total actual cost which will not
exceed the ceiling unit cost once a completion report is received from the District Chief Executive,
the remaining 10% will be paid upon certification from an independent technical auditor that the
house meets the prescribed specifications. The replenishment of the total actual cost will only be
made from the Special Account upon certification by independent technical auditors that the
construction has been completed according to standard design and specifications (para. 6.18). The
Task Manager, presently located at the Resident Mission in Accra, will review all replenishment



- 32 -
applications for such headteachers houses, prior to dispatching them to the Africa Disbursement
Division, to ascertain that the claims are eligible as part of an ongoing supervision process to be
carried out in Ghana during the period of project implementation.
6.30      Project Account. The establishment of a Project Account in cedis in a commercial bank
for Government matching funds, and a deposit of US$400,000 equivalent to cover Government's
share of the mobilization advance for school pavilion contracts, which is expected to be needed by
January 1994, would be made as a condition of disbursement for the school pavilions. The
Government would be required to make quarterly deposits of local matching funds in advance on the
basis of an agreed budget for the project, proposed by Government, and accepted by IDA by
November 30 of each year.
1.    Accounting. Auditing. and Reporting
6.31      Overall responsibility for the project's financial management would rest with the CU,
which would maintain the consolidated project accounts for the entire project. The CU would prepare
and submit to IDA: (a) semi-annual progress reports on project implementation; (b) annual financial
statements on project expenditures in the preceding year; (c) annual work programs and budgets for
the following year; and (d) a project completion report within six months of the credit closing date.
Project accounts, including the Special Account and disbursements under SOEs, would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. A separate opinion as to the proper use of all
amounts withdrawn on the basis of SOEs will be included in the auditors' long audit reports.
Certified copies of the auditor's report will be submitted to IDA for review within six months of the
end of the fiscal year.
VII PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.  Project Benefits
7.1       By improving the qualification and motivation of the primary school headteacher, making
him/her partially accountable to the local community, and for providing him/her with continuous in-
service training, it is expected that the actual hours of teaching and learning will increase and the
general effectiveness of teaching and learning will improve for the 354,000 children in the 1,983
schools covered by the project.
7.2      Increasing the official daily teaching hours, and reducing the loss in teaching hours for
official and semi-official purposes, combined with the provision of number of key inputs under
EdSAC, and USAID PREP, will ensure an improvement in learning outcomes of all 1.8 million
public primary education students.
7.3       A study carried out by the Bank with data collected in 1988/89 (Glewwe and Jacoby,
1992), showed that of a large number of possible determinants of cognitive achievements, by far the
most significant were the provision of a non-leaking roof, and a blackboard where none exist. See
Annex 6-6 for a summary of the result of this study. Since the project aims to provide 10,977 good
classrooms with wall blackboards and re-roof a further 1,546 classrooms, improvements in cognitive
achievement for the 354,000 children in the schools covered by this project can be expected.



- 33 -
B. Proiect Risks
7.4       The project has three significant risks. Firstly, the Ghana National Association of
Teachers (GNAT) and its members might not cooperate in increasing daily instructional time to
something like international levels. Second, given the size of the school pavilion contracts, there
might be significant delays in the Government approval of the contract award. Third, there may be
long delays in communities cladding the pavilion. The first risk is being addressed, using various
mass media, to sensitize GNAT officials and members to the current situation relating to the
extremely low learning outcomes of the primary school students, and its impact on the Ghana's
education system and future, and by constructing 1,983 headteachers' houses. The provision of
almost 2,000 houses for headteachers will also help convince GNAT officials that Government is
seriously concerned about the welfare of teachers. The second risk will be mitigated by the high level
of support for this project in Government, up front preparation of bidding documents, and selection of
contractors for the manufacture and installation of at least 2,000 triple pavilions by effectiveness. The
third risk is being addressed by using a prior formal agreement between the Government and the
district and local communities, by frequent technical supervision, and by organizing community
mobilization workshops.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.1       During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will:
(a)  implement, beginning with the 1993-1994 academic year, a program for increasing the
actual instructional time of primary school students (paras. 3.34, and 5.8);
(b)  carry out before the beginning of the 1993/1994 academic year a baseline study on the
1,983 schools (para. 6.12); and starting to implement, not later than December 31, 1993,
a continuous program to monitor instructional time of primary school teachers and
learning time of primary school students, to be conducted under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.12);
(c)  beginning with the 1993/1994 academic year, halt the imposition of new fees on primary
school students and eliminate all fees not approved by MOE by January 1997 (paras.
3.11, 5.9, 5.34, and 6.15);
(d)  require as a precondition to the construction of any classroom pavilion that the host
community execute with MOE, the agreement presented to IDA (para. 5.34);
(e)  require as a precondition to permitting any headteacher to occupy a newly constructed
house that the headteacher execute with MOE a tenancy agreement, in a form and
substance satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.31);
(f)  submit by November 30 of each year, the budget for the project for the following year,
which will show the needed Government contribution to project activities by quarter, and
thereafter implement such budget (paras. 6.30-6.31);
(g)  deposit matching funds quarterly in advance according to the budget for the project (para.
6.30); and



- 34 -
(h)  carry out a mid-term review between July and December 1995, focusing on project
implementation performance including an analysis of the key monitorable indicators, and
progress with the construction and training programs (para. 6.14).
8.2       The following will be the conditions for credit effectiveness:
(a)  the Project Manager, and his two deputies will have been employed with qualifications
and experience acceptable to IDA (para. 5.23);
(b)  Government will have appointed the construction supervisors, and they will have surveyed
at least 50 project sites (paras. 5.26 and 5.33);
(c)   Government will have selected the technical auditors for the project (paras. 5.33 and
6.18);
(d)  Govermnent will have selected contractors for the manufacture and installation of at least
2,000 triple pavilions (paras. 5.24 and 6.18); and
(e)  the first orientation program for 660 district officials will have been completed (paras.
5.18 and 6.24).
8.3       The following will be a condition of disbursement against contracts for the manufacture
and erection of the school pavilions:
(a)   Government will have established a Project Account in Cedis in a commercial bank for
matching funds and have deposited US$400,000 equivalent (paras. 6.30).
8.4       Subject to the agreements to the above, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit
of SDR 46.9 million (US$65.1 million equivalent) to the Republic of Ghana on standard IDA terms
with a maturity of 40 years.
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



REPUBLC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCH L DEVELOPMENI PROIEC
The length or the school year in hours/year in some countries 1/
Counuy                   1st          3rd           6th           Country                 1st           3rd           6th
Year         Year         Year                                  Year           Year         Ycr
Argentina               950           950          950           Guinea-Bissau          1 000         1 000         1 000
Austria                 800          8g0              *           Guyana                1 200         1 200         1 200
Bangladesh              444           715                 -       Indonesia A           1 128         1 380         1 503
Benin                  1 080         1 080        1 080           IndonesiaB             1810         1 350         1 350
Bra2il                  800           800           800           Indonesia C           1 107         1 476         1 558
BurkinaFaso            1 290         1 290        1 290           Jamaica                950            950          950
Cameroon I             1 024         1 024        1 024           Jordan                1 074         1 074         1 074
Cameroon 2               720          720           720           Korea (Rep. of)        816            952         1 0Q8
Cen. Afr. Rep.           885          885           885           Malawi                 930            930          930
Chile                  1 140         1140         1 140           MaJta                 1120          1120          1 120
China                  1 230         1 320        1 320           Mauritania            1110          1110          1 110
Colombia               1 140         1140         1 140           NiEeria A             1128          1128          1 128
Congo 1                  900          900           900           Nigeria B              666            666          666
Congo 2                 750           750           750           N igeris C             878            878          975
Costa Rica               800          800           800           Panamau                925            925          925
COted'lvoire           1 140        1140          1 140           Pcru                   874            950         1 140
Cyprus                  980           980         1 260           Philippines            749          1 000         1 200
Ecuador                 833           833           833          Senegal                1176          1176          1 176
El Salvador            1 000        1 000         1 000          Sri lanka               740            900         1 200
Equatorial Guinea       713           713           713          Surinane                653            725          725
Ethiopia               1 230        1 230         1 230          Tanrani a              1 I10         1 480         1 480
Ghana                    800         80            800          Tanzania 2              907            907          907
Guinea                  780           780           780           Venezuela              875            875          875
Country where the duration of prinary education is less than six yeus. (For those countries where it is longer, only the first six yec
have been taken into consideration)
Note: The countries numbered I and 2 ae those where systems of standard and double vacations exisL
The countries marked A to C we those where a diversity of situations are officially allowed Ad a relatively large degret of autonomy is given
to the States (Nigeria) or Province (bIdonesia) in the organization of prinay educalion. 
*  Nigeri- the data supplied re those for the States of ormo (A). Kaduna (B), and Kwara (C).
*  Indonesia: the data have been supplied by the Directorate for Primary and Secondary Education of the Ministry responsible (A). South
Sulawesi Province (B), and West lava Province (C).
1/    This includes examinations which is not normally considered as instructional time.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Plan for Implementation of Structural Reform of Education in Ghana
(1987-2000)
ACAOD(A 6    _7              8       9      10                                   Is 12  IJ    It  I5    16  17  18  19  20    21     221
i,,Is16          'z      P3     P'7P P          6    JI       1.42    43    8-44    S   sI 52 IS        I Si.    Ss      L6      UI     S
19a6/     PP                            PJSSI51 M4                                                 53      St     Ss      fi    Ul    Nai
1911/10   P      P1     P3      P1      S      P      SI JS          53 SS          51 SS    .            S.      S        I     U      S 
1990/91   Pa     P1     P       P.      S       6      Si  5iSS1   JSS3   5551                                                                                   W
OtOs   5,15X                         +     E If 1..6s *W l .2)< t* co.Xj EtIEAIC  END   NACI l
11919!.11    e    E l<                   1     >       m '      H     W    111                          \      E    E     ' E       E
cu                    2. b4IODtL      ENOS  AUGUS1* 1990                                  .- 
P    PRIMARY                    .    *e                                                          nun
:                    ~~~~~~K8 Y  1.4 . Ul O OE E                   EE    NS        JUNE, 19        C)KEY:       .5.JA                      E       CX
S    sEC ODA R                . 4   LEVEL   E NDS    JUNE. 1996                           S.S.S. *       'O CCNOa  SCo
E6:  LOWERn 6               5 ,4  J.,SS   I ERMlNA  (~D Of  K)                            N. S.  :A H4lt SEAIC8t 
u6   UPPER    6             6.                                                               NEW S.IS. S.  I E1114AA  (VA&DDV V.  I. C.    1 111110  CYCLE  ..
7. 8 I.iC,   IERAINAL( 0fNOlARC;        )  _9              .                         .



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EdSAC 1: Selected Quantitative ResuLts of the Reform
X Change     X Change      K Change       X Chane
1986/87 to   1987/88 to   1988/89 to      1989/90 to
Academic Year          1986/87     1987/8U      1988/89     1989/90      1990/91   1987/88       1988/89      1989/90         1990/91
A. All Primry Schools
No. of Schools                    9,494        9,921       9,368        9,831      10,623           4.5         -5.6           4.9            8.1
Enrollment                    1,467,074   1,479,449   1,598,443   1,703,074   1,803,148             0.8          8.0           6.5             5.9
Boys                          836,232     825,533      887,261     939,010      991,877          -1.3          7.5           5.8            5.6
Girls                         630,842     653,916      711,182     764,064      811,271           3.7          8.8           7.4            6.2
Teachers                         62,936       63 161      62,670       62,859      62,823           0.4         -0.8           0.3            -0.1
X Trained                        47.2X        Sl.1l       60.3X       66.4X        66.1K
3. Junior Secondary Schools
*nd Niddle Schools
No. of Schools                    5,327         n.a.       5,169        5,136       5,136           n.a          n.e          -3.1 1/          0.0
Enroll_mnt                      572,108     625,341      608,690      625,018     569,343           9.3         -2.7           2.7            -8.9
Boys                          327,818     370,827      357,24U     366,830      337,108          13.1         -3.7           2.7           -8.1
Girls                         244,290     254,514      251,446     258,188      232,235           4.2         -1.2           2.7          -10.1
JSS1 only                        n.o.        n.a.      193,079     200,541      218,455           n.a          n.a           3.9            8.9
JSS2 only                        n.a.        n.a.      166,107      178,419     189,591           n.a          n.a           7.4            6.3
JSS3/h.3                         n.e.        n.a.      134,377      142,328     161,297           n.a          n.a           5.9           13.3
M.4                              n.e.         n.a.     115,127      103,730           0           n.a          n.e          -9.9         -100.0
Teachers                         33,443       40,528      34 584       35,262      30 708          21.2        -14.7           2.0           -12.9
K Trained                        65.2X        67.3X       72.0X        65.0K       h.0o           3.2          6.7           9.7            17.0
C. Change in Primry Enrollment
by Region
Regions:
Ashanti                                    275.494     301,313      321,143     327,685                        9.4           6.6            2.0
Brong Ahafo                                164,291     178,139      180,986     193.099                        8.4           1.6            6.7
Central                                    162,571     178,931      188,388     197,613                       10.1           5.3            4.9
Eastern                                    239,854     265,075      273,876     281,431                       10.5           3.3            2.8
Greater Accre                              145,163     158,982      169,205     176,752                        9.5           6.4            4.5
Northern                                    92,300      91,061       95,1U8     124,531                       -1.3           4.5           30.9
Upper East                                  40,317      45,022       50,933      65,752                        11.7          3.1           29.1
Upper West                                  33,567      30 830       36,797      43,089                        -8.2          9.4            17.1
VoLta                                      162 568     171,499      197,036     195,405                        5.5           4.9           -0.8
Western                                    163,322     177,591      189,562     197,791                        8.7           6.7            4.3
n.a. * not appLicable.
1/ Percentage change over 1986/87 to 1988/89.
21-Mar-93
b:anroll (Je33)



- 38 -
ANNEX 24
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Description of the USAID Primary Education Prog2ram (PREP)
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
PREP is a program supported with a US$35.0 million A.I.D. grant designed to strengthen the policy and institutional
framework required to assure a quality, effective, equitable and financially sustanaable pri mry education system in Ghana by
the year 2000. PREP addrosoes key economic, financial, institutional and social constraints to improving Ghana's primary
education system in three principal ways. First, it supports policy and institutional reform through conditionality on
disbursement of $32.0 million in sector cash grant funds. Second, local currency generated through auction of dollars will be
used to support the primary education budget. Third, PREP provides limited projectized funding ($3.0 million) for technical
assistance, training studies, evaluations, financial assessments and financial management reviews. PREP's $32.0 million sector
cash grant will also support Ghana's Economic Recovery Progrm by increasing the amount of foreign exchange made available
in Ghana through the auction. $32 million will be disbursed in five tranches when specific conditions are met:
First tranche:        $4.00 million (disbursed in January 91)
Second tranche:       $7.00 million (disbursed in January 92)
Third tranche:        $8.00 million (disbursed in January 93)
Fourth tranche:       $8.00 million (due to be released in December 93)
Fifth tranche:        $5.00 million (due to be released in December 94)
This grant is supplemental to GOG's normal operational budget for primary education.
KEY CONDMONALITIES
1. Conditions Related to School Financing
1.     GOG financial commitment to primary education is sustained at 1989 level (3.5% of total GNP to education and 38%
share of MOE recurrent budget to Primary Education).
2.     GOGIMOE increases its budgetary commitment to primary school instructional materials from 2% in 1989 to 6% in
1994 of total primary education budgets.
3.     The gap between budgeted and actual expenditures is narrowed (from 70% level of expenditure in 1990 to 95% by
1994).
4.     MOE completes a disaggregation of data on budgets and expenditures for primary education (Grade I - 6). Currently
all data is co-mingled in the basic education budget (Grade I - 9).
11. Policy Related Condition Precedent
1.     Eguitv Improvement Plan. GOG develops and implements a policy related to equal access to education to all regions
of the country and increases female participation.
2.     Decentralization. GOG/MOE develops a policy and implements the policy to decentralize financial, management and
programmatic responsibilities of all schools from the central government to 110 districts.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 2
111. Program Related Conditions
1.     People Level ImMact Assessment
GOG/MOE develops and adapts a policy to assess students' scholastic achievement in three key subjects ie. English (reading,
writing, and understanding spoken English), Mathematics and Social Studies. A Criterion-Referenced Testing program based
upon Ghanaian syllabus will be developed and tested, adapted, and applied to a small 5% ample of Grade 6 pupils.
2.     Policy Related to Teachers In-Sorvice and Pre-Service Trainins
GOG/MOE develops and implements policy and a program to support its implementation to train approxinmtely 25,000
untrained teachers and provide professional development opportunities to all 63,000 primary school teachers. (At a minimum
level of one in-service every two yars).
3.     Inteeration of Proiect Manasement Unit (PMU)
PMU is fully integrated into existing MOE structure to function effectively as an integral part of MOE's evaluation, planning,
monitoring and budgeting directorate.
WHAT PREP PLANS TO ACHIEVE BY PROJECT CLOSING (JULY 17_1995)
1.     90 % of 2.3 million children attending Ghanaian primary schools will have access to textbooks and instructional
materials.
2.     90% of 25,000 untrained primary school teachers will receive minimum level of teacher training in the area of teaching
methodology.
3.     90% of all primary school teachers (63,000) will receive in-service training related pedagogy and using textbooks and
developing audio-visual teaching aids.
4.     80% of all children entering JSS (Form 7) will be able to read, write and do arithmetic at 6th grade level.
5.     Female participation in under representative areas of the country (Upper West, Upper East and North) will be
increased by 50%.
6.     Number of trained teachers assiped to the most disadvantaged areas (Northern, Upper West and Upper East Regions)
will be increased by 50%.
7.     The level of access to primary education is increased by 50% in the east representative regions of the country (North,
Upper East and Upper West). For example, this access now ranges from 30 - 42% as compared to national average of
82.5%.
a:prep (ja40-b)



- 40 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 14
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMMAY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Educational Statistics and Indicators
I. PUBLIC PRIMARY SCHOOL STATISTICS (1991/92)
A. BASIC DATA BY LEVEL
No. of Schools              11,064    10,969    10,660    10,229      9,791     9,380      11,064
No. of Schools        -
offering levels up to           95       309       431        438       411     9,380     11,064
No. of Classrooms            9,813     9,237     9,000      8,454     7,974     8,025      52,503
No. of CL asse
(Streams)                  11,720    11,472    11,385    10,617    10,061       9,812     65,067
Enrollmnt:
Totali                  372,876   328,300   307,995   286,333   258,504   242,482  1,796,490
Boys i                  196,912   175,441   167,338   157,794   144,131   138,369    979,985
Girlas                   175,964   152,859   140,657   128,539   114,373   104,113    816,505
Ropeateras
Totali                   20,959    11,468      8,422     6,484      4,929     5,034     57,296
Boys a                   11,178      6,177     4,541     3,551      2,746     2,960     31,153
Girls                      9,781     5,291     3,881     2,933      2,183     2,074     26,143
Transforss
Totali                              12,931    12,875    12,004    10,368      9,729     57,907
Boys *                               6,606     6,672     6,287      5,425     5,283     30,273
Girls.                               6,325     6,203     5,717      4,943     4,446     27,634
Full-time Teachers
in Classrooms:
Total    ,               11,988    10,097    10,035      9,475      8,989     8,429     59,013
Trained  *               10,199      6,741     5,894     7,026      6,039     7,343     43,242
Untraineds                1,789      3,356     4,141     2,449      2,950     1,086     15,771
a:l7 (Ja40-b)
21-Mar-93



- 41 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 14
I. PUBLIC PRIMARY SCHOOL STATISTICS (1991/92)
B. rULL-TIME TEACHERS INCLUDING DETACHED TEACHERS
Number of detached teachers:                    4,143
No. of teachers in classroom:                 59,013
Total Full-time Teachers:                     63,156
C. FULL-TIME TEACHERS BY QUALIFICATION AND GENDER
Mons                                   Wcmnen
- Trained and certified:      22,971   - Trained and certifieds          16,339
- Trained but not certified:  3,430   - Trained but not certified:    3,129
- Untrained:                  13,542   - Untrained:                       3,745
Subtotal (men):               39,943   Subtotal (women):                23,213
GRAND TOTAL (MEN AND WOMEN): 63,156
a:al8 (ja4O-b)
12-Mar-93



- 42 -ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 14
I. PUBLIC PRIKARY SCHOOL STATISTICS (1990/91)
K BASIC DATA BY LEVEL
o. of Schools               10,623    10,404    10,069      9,677     9,294      8,e76     10,623
o. of Schools
ffering levels up to          219        335       392       383       418      e,876     10,623
o. of Classrooms            e,757      9,068     8,595     8,227     7,735      7,531     49,913
o. of Classes
(Streams)                   11,702    11,196    10,841    10,286      9,885      9,3eo     63,290
nrollment:
Total:                   388,951   333,901   306,297  2.79,4X9   256,777   237,eo3  1,803,14e
Boys :                   207,763   180,578   168,246   154,981   144,171   136,13e    991, 877
Girls:                   181,188   153,323   138,051   124,438   112,606   101,665    811,271
Repeaters:
Total:                    24,003    10,061      7,055     5,083     3,956      3,920      54,078
Boys :                    12,704      5,343     3,802     2,768     2,204      2,363     29,le4
Girls:                    11,299      4,718     3,253    2,315      1,752      1,557     24,s94
rransfers:
Total:                              11,885    11,824    10,863      9,744      9,063     53,379
Boys :                               6,284      6,218     5,829     5,298      5,067     28,696
Girls:                                5,601     5,606     5,034     4,446      3,996     24,683
rull-time Teachers
in Classrooms3
Total    t                11,864     9,770      9,650     9,127     8,669      e,205     57,293
Trained  s                 9,829      6,043     4,979     5,936      5,170     6,595     38,552
Untrained:                 2,035      3,735     4,671     3,191     3,499      1,610     18,741
ata3 (ja40-b)
11-Mar-93



43                                        ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 14
I. PUBLIC PRIMARY SCHOOL STATISTICS (1990/91)
B FULL-TINE TEACHERS INCLUDING DETACHED TEACHERS
Number of detached teachers:                   5,530
No. of teachers in classroom:                 57,293
Total Full-time Teachers:                     62,023
C. FULL-TIME TEACHERS BY QUALIFICATION AND GENDER
Men:                                   Wemen5
- Trained and certified:      20,443   - Trained and certifieds         14,392
- Trained but not certified:  3,443   - Trained but not certified:    3,224
- Untrained:                  15,941   - Untrained:                       5,380
Subtotal (men):               39,827  Subtotal (women):                 22,996
GRAND TOTAL (MEN AND WOMEN) 62,823
a:a5 (ja4O-b)
11-Mar-93



44 -                                   ANNEX 3-1
Page 5 of 14
II. PRIVATE PRIHARY SCHOOL STATISTICS (1990/91)
A. BASIC DATA BY LEVEL
No. of Schools                  542       507        479       446        409        358        542
No. of Schools
offering levels up to            35        28         33        37         51        358        542
No. of Classrooms               665       616        588       594        471        390      3,324
No. of Classes
(streams)                      713        643       618        567        504       426       3,471
Enrollments
Total:                    31,821    28,160    26,268    23,094    18,863    14,068    142,274
Boys a                    16,490    14,748    13,468    12,006       9,965      7,438      74,115
Girls:                    15,331    13,412    12,800    11,088       8,898      6,630      68,159
Repeaters:
Total:                        763       473        435       274        194        105      2,244
Boys a                        395       240       222        154        108         55      1,174
Girls;                        368       233        213       120         86         50      1,070
Transfers:
Total:                                1,742     1,553      1,318        833       605       6,051
Boys :                                  897        785       686        430       305       3,103
Girlss                                  845        768       632        403       300       2,948
Full-time Teachers
in Classrooms:
Total                         715       661        639       557        497       399       3,468
Trained                      215        139        129       134        120       123         860
Untrained:                    500       522        510       423        377       276       2,608
alO (ja4O-b)
11-Mar-93



- 45 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 6 of 14
II. PRIVATE PRIMARY SCHOOL STATISTICS (1990/91)
B. FULL-TIME TEACHERS INCLUDING DETACHED TEACHERS
Number of detached teachers:                     655
No. of teachers in classroom:                  3,468
Total Full-time Teachers:                       4,123
C. FULL-TIME TEACHERS BY QUALIFICATION AND GENDER
Men:                                   Women:
- Trained and certified:         726   - Trained and certified:             336
- Trained but not certified:      24  - Trained but not certified:           19
- Untrained:                   2,433   - Untrained:                         5e5
Subtotal (men):                3,183  Subtotal (women):                     940
GRAND TOTAL (MEN AND WOMEN): 4,123
a:all (ja40-b)
11-Mar-93



- 46 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 7 of 14
Indra d Ca4p I FiMkPrnury Madi
(8191  0 -9i90Z)
198990  939.010  764,064  1,703,074    7%    7%      7%   40)SIL  23,008   63,059    0%      0%     1%
1990,91  991,877  811,271  1,803,148    6%   6%      6%   39,827  m22996   62,823  -1%       0%     0%
1991)92  979,5  816,505  1,796,490  -1%       1%     0%   39.943   23W13   63,1S6    0%      1%     1%
n.a. = not avaihbie
a a4 (a40-b)
11-Mar-93



-47-
ANNEX 3-1
Page 8 of 14
Enrollment by Sex and Grades in Basic and Senior Secondary Education
(1990/91)
. : . . . - - : . . - .: .: . 1, . .j:-: . , : :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   ..   ..  
G.ade  I..              .. .   > . ....
Pi                 207,778  53.4%      181,173  46.6%      388,951
P2                 180,574  54.1%      153,327  45.9%      333,901
P3                 168,249  54.9%      138,048  45.1%      306,297
P4                 154,994  55.5%      124,425  44.5%      279,419
P5                 144,180  56.2%      112,597  43.9%      256,777
P6                 136,142  57.3%      101,661  42.8%      237,803
Total             991,916  55.0%      811,232  45.0%    1,803,148
JSSl               127,141  58.2%       91,314  41.8%      218,455
JSS2               112,371  59.3%       77,220  40.7%      189,591
JSS3/M3             97,617  60.5%       63,680  39.5%      161,297
Total         337,128  59.2%      237,215. 40.8%      569,343
SSl                 33,945  67.6%       16,254  32.4%       50,199
SS2                 26,906  65.1%       14,431  34.9%       41,337
SS3                 24,064  65.6%       12,641  34.4%       36,705
SS4                 22,088  66.6%       11,087  33.4%       33,175
SS5                 18,261  68.0%        8,597  32.0%       26,858
L6                   4,518  75.2%        1,487  24.8%        6,005
U6                   3,798  76.3%        1,183  23.8%        4,981
Total         133,579  67.0%                          199,260
TOTAL    L1462241  56.9%           m                  2,571,7511
a:enrol 1ja44-b)
09-Mar-93



- 48 -                             ANNEX 3-1
Page 9 of 14
GROWTH IN ENROLMENT IN GHANA BY LEVELS OF EDUCIATION
AND CLASSES, 1988/89,1989/90 AND 1990/91
E N R O L M E N T               % CHANGE
G R A D E
1988/89   1989/90  11990/91   '88/89 to '89/90 to
89/90      90/91
PRIMARY SCHOOLS
P. 1               350,105   363,689   388,951    3.88            6.95
P. 2               288,782   315,166   333,901    9.14            5.94
P. 3               273,243   288,253   306,297    5.49            6.26
P. 4               252,637   268,928   279,419    6.45            3.90
P. 5               226,884   244,332   256,777    7.69            5.09
P. 6               206,792   222,706   237,803    7.70            6.78
TOTAL             1,598,443 1,703,074 1,803148    6.55            5.88
J.S.S/MIDDLE SCHOOLS
JSS. 1             193,079    200,541   218,455   3.86            8.93
JSS. 2             166,107    178,419   189,591   7.41            6.26
JSS. 3/M.3         134,377    142,328   161,297   5.92           13.33
M. 4               115,127    103,730         -     -9.90          _
TOTAL              608,690    625,018   569,343   2.68          - 8.91
SENIOR SECONDARY SCHOOLS
Form 1                33,758    37,673    50,199  11.60          33.25
2               33,420    34,937    41,337   4.54           18.32
3               30,599    34,298    36,705   2.09            7.02
4               25,323    27,696    33,175   9.37           19.78
5               21,330    23,244    26,858   8.97           15.55
L.  6                  4,757      5,233      6,005  10.01        14.75
U.  6                  5,290      4,919      4,981  -7.01         1.26
TOTAL               154,477   168,000   199,260   8.75          18.61
GRAND TOTAL             2,361,610 2,496,092 2,571,751   5.69           3.03



- 49 -
ANNEX 3-1 
Page 10 of 14
RATES, RATIOS AND INDICES
OF GROWTH OF SCHOOL EDUCATION IN GHANA
ITEM                          1988/891 !989/90   1990/91
Average size of School (Enrolment)
1.1 Primary                               170.63  173.24       169.74
1.2 Junior Secondary School               117.76  121.69       110.85
1.3 Senior Secondary School               630.52  672.00       493.22
Average Size of Class:
2.1 Primary                                28.02   27.70        28.49
2.2 Junior Secondary School                 28.48   27.12        31.54
Percentage of Girls Enrolled:
3.1 Primary                                44.49   44.86        44.99
3.2 Junior Secondary School                41.31   41.31        40.79
3.3 Senior Secondary School                32.68   33.01        32.96
Percenntage of Female Teachers:
4.1 Primary                                 -       36.60       36.60
4.2 Junior Secondary School                 _       23.62       26.80
4.3 Senior Secondary School                 -       17.41        16.64
Percentage of Trained Teachers:
5.1 Primary                                60.27   66.36        66.06
5.2 Junior Secondary School                71.84   64.87        75.89
5.3 Senior Secondary school                70.15   74.82        71.92
Pupil/Teacher Ratio:
6.1 Primary                                25.51   27.09        28.70
6.2 Junior Secondary School                 17.60   17.72       18.54
6.3 Senior Secondary School                 18.11   20.77       21.67
Percentage Growth in Enrolment:
7.1 Primary                                 -        6.55         5.88
7.2 Junior Secondary School                 _        2.68       -8.91
7.3 Senior Secondary School                 _        8.75        18.61
Percentage Growth in 1st Year Enrol.
8.1 Primary                                  -       3.88         6.95
8.2 Junior Secondary School                  -       3.86         8.93
8.3 Senior Secondary School                  -      11.60        33.25
Percentage Growth in No. of Teachers:
9.1 Primary                                  -       0.30        -0.06
9.2 Junior Secondary School                  -       1.96      -12.91
9.3 Senior Secondary School                  -      -5.18        13.70
Average No. of Teachers per Class:
10.1 Primary                                 1.10    1.02         0.99
10.2 Junior Secondary School                 1.62    1.53         1.70
10.3 Senior Secondary School                2.09    1.95          1.63



:  50                           A JNNEX 3-1
Page 11 of 14
PERCENTAGE SHARE OF OIRLS BY LEVELS  OF EDUCATION/
CLASSES IN GHANA 1988/89, 1989/90 AND 1990/91
PRIMARY SCHOOLS
GRADE               1988/89            1989/90         1990/91
1                   46.15             47.09           46.58
2                   45.62             45.82           45.92
3                   44.76             44.84           45.07
4                   43.83             44.11            44.53
5                   43.22             43.46           43.85
6                   41.98             42.36           42.75
PERCENTAGE TATOL          44.49             44.86            44.99
JUNIOR SECONDARY/MIDDLE SCHOOLS
1988/89           1989/90         1990/91
JSS. 1                   41.87              42.41           41.80
JSS. 2                   41.60              41.48           40. 73
JSS. 3                   41.92              40.23           39.48
M.  4                   39.22              40.37             _
PERCENTAGE TATOL          41.31              41.31           40.79
SENIOR SECONDARY SCHOOL                 *
ORADE                 1988/89            1989/90         1990/91
Form 1                   34.27              34.96           32.38
2             -    34.76              34.55            34.91
3                   32.45             34.15            34.44
4                   32.09             32.05            33.42
5                   33.18             31.76            32.01
L.  6                   22.64              22.65           24.76
U.  6                   20.62              21.53           23.75
PERCENTAGE TATOL          32.68              33.01           32.96



- 51 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 12 of 14
BASIC STATISTICS ON PRIMARY EDUCATION IN OHANAI
1988/89.- 1989/90   1990/91        %  CHANGE
ITEM                     .                        ' 88/89-89/90 89/90-904,
No. of Schools            9,368       9-,831    10,623     4.94        8.06
No. of Classes           l7,056      61,472    63,290      7.74        2.96
No. of Pupils          1,598,443 1,703,074 1,803,148       6.55        5.88
Boys          %887,261   939,010   991,877       5.85       5.63
Girls          711,182   764,064   811,271       7.44       6.18
No. of Repeaters          61,063    65,326    54,078       6.98      -20.80
No. of Teachers           62,670.   62,859    62,823       0.30      - 0.06
Male               -       39,851    39,827        -       - 0.06
Female             -       23,008    22,996        -       - 0.05
No. of Teachers           62,670    62,859    62,823       0.30      - 0.06
Trained                   37,769    41,713    41,502    10.44        - 0.05
Untrained                 24,901    21,146    21,321   -15.08          0.83
RATES, _RA'IIOSA  I?4DICES   1989/90                1990/91
Average Size of School        170.63           173.24               169.74
Average Size of Class          28.02            27.70                28.49
% of Girls Enrolled            44.49           .44.86                44.99
% of Girls Repeaters           45.77            44.39                46.03
Pupil/Teacher Ratio            25.51            27.09                28.70
Av. No. of Teacher/Class        1.10             1.02                 0.99
% of Trained Teachers          60.27            66.36                66.06
% of Female Teachers             -              36.60                36.60
^ Change in Class 1 Enrol                         3.88                 9.95



- 52 -                               ANNEX 3-1
Page 13 of 14
BASIC STATISTICS ON JUNIOR SECONDARY SCHO?L
EDUCATION IN GHANA
1988/89   -1989/90   1990/91             % CHANGE
ITEM                   A          B          C       '88/89 -89/90 '89/90-91
No. of Schools             5,169        5,136     5,136    -0.64            0.00
No. of Classes           221,370      23,043    18,050       7.83         -21.67
No. of Pupils             608,690   625,018   569,343        2.68         - 8.91
Boys           357,244   366,830   337,108         2.68        - 8.12
Girls          251,446   258,188   232,235         2.68        -10.05
No. of Repeaters             4,208      4,259     7,449       1.21         74.90
No. of Teachers            34,584    35,262    30,708         1.96        -12.91
Male                -        26,933    22,478        -          -16.54
Female              -         8,329     8,230        -          - 1.18
No. of Teachers            34,584    35,262    30,708         1.96        -12.91
Trained                    24,844    22,874    23,303   - 7.93            - 1.88
Untrained                    9,740    12,388      7,405    27.19           40.22
RATES, l   1                  1989/90               1990/91
Average Size of School          117.76           121.69               110.85
Average Size of Class            28.48            27.12                31.54
% of Girls Enrolled              41.31            41.31                40.79
% of Girls Repeaters             41.80            37.97                  1.30
Pupil/Teacher Ratio              17.60            17.72                18.54
Av. No. of Teacher/Class          1.62             1.53                  1.70
% of Trained Teachers            71.84            64.87                75.89
% of Female Teachers               _              23.62                26.80
% Change in JSS.1 Enrol.                            3.86                  8.93



- 53 -                              ANNEX 3-1
Page 14 of 14
BASIC STATISTICS ON SENIOR SECONDARY SCHOOLS IN GHANA
1988/89   1989/90   1990/91         l   % CHANGE
ITEM                                                 '88/89 -89/90 '89/90-9?
No. of Schools                245        250       404        2.04         61.60
No: of Classes              4,078      4,150    5,640          1.76        35.90
No. of Students           '154,477  168,000   199,260         8.75         18.61
Boys          '103,991  112,5422  133,581         10.82         18.69
Girls            50,486   55,458    65,679        10.98         18.43
No. of Repeaters             4,200    5,222       3,535      24.33        -32.30
No. of Teachers              8,528    8,087       9,195      -5.17         13.70
Male                -        6,679      7,665        -           14.76
Female              -        1,408      1,530        -            8.67
No. of Teachers              8,528    8,087       9,195      -5.17         13.70
Trained Graduate Tr.        2,248*    2,295       2,661         -          15.495
Other Graduates             1,212*     1,314      1,589         -          20.93
Trained Non-Graduates       3,734*    3,756       3,952         -           5.22
Other Non-Graduates           716*       722        993         -          37.54
National Service              618*     (731)      1,191         -          62.93
RATES, _    IO    INDICES    1989/90                 1990/91
Average Size of School          630.52            672.00               493.22
% of Students (Girls)            32.68             33.01                 32.96
% of Repeaters (Both              2.72              3.11                  1.77
Sexes)
% of Boarders (Both              54.14             54.22                 46.98
Sexes)
% on Government Sponsor-         31.85             25.42                   _
Ship
% of Trained Teachers            70.15             74.82                 71.92
No. of Students per              18.11             20.77                 21.67
Teacher
No. of Teachers per               2.09              1.95                  1.63
Class
Average Load per Class           18.93             21.16                 21.84
(periods)
% Change (Total Enri.)            -                8.75                 18.61
% Change (Enrl. in                -               11.60                 33.25
Form 1
In 1989/90 National Service Personnel were not included among the four
Categories of teachers



- 54 -                                   AtNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 3
RSPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Percentaqe of Double-shift Schools and Respective Enrollment by District
(1990/1991)
. .Sou th ern *egi cn-
A.  Ashanti                             1.672      327,665         295.98           1 Oa         23t        1.7 54
1Kumasi                                164       65,353         398.49          so*           69%          935
2 Atwima                  -            148       25,525         172.47            3t           6t           48
3 Aman.ie West                          91       12,700         139.56            0t           0%             0
4 Amansie Bast                         132       19.004         143.97            2%           5%            30
5 Afigya-Sekyere                        81       16,183         199.79          37t           39%          180
6Kwabre-Sekyere                         63       11,653         184.97            04           0t             0
7 offinso                               78       16.049         205.76            0%           0%             0
8Ejura Sekyedamase                      30        3.915         130.50            3%          12%            12
9 Anante Akim North                     76       14,639         192.62          24%           41%          192
10 Asante Akim South                     37 13.755               258.10            3%          11t            45
11 Adanhi Went                          117       24,281         207.53           16%          36%          204
12 Adansi East                          105       17,756         169.10            5%          11%            60
13 Ahafo Ano North                       52        8.770         168.65            2%           4%            12
14 Ahafo Ano South                       72       13,095         181.88            0%           0%             0
15 ljisu/Juaben                         107       19.451         181.79            0t           0%             0
16 Bogomtwe/Kwanwcaa                     95       14,286         150.38            4%           8%            36
17 Sekyere Bast                          79       14,506         183.62            04           0t             0
18 Sekyere Went                          95       16,764         176.46            0%           0%             0
B.   Brong Ahafo                        1.299      193,099         148.65            5%           74           384
1 Tano                                 104       15,327         147.              6%           8%            36
2 Berekum                               57       11,257 297.51                    7%           7%            24
3 Jaman                                 95        MM             717.76           0%           0%             0
4 wenchi                               135       18,514         137.14            04           0t             0
5 Techiman                             104       16,480         158.46           4%            5%           24
6 Kintampo                             206       14,037         132.42            2%           3%            12
7 Nkoranza                             101       12,643         025.1e            0%           0%             0
8 Dormaa                               126       20,544         163.05            6%          15%            60
9 Sene                                  70        6,083          86.90            3%           5%            12
10 Asunafo                              138       22,262         161.31            1%           2%            12
11 Sunyani                               72       14,453         200.74          43%           46%          198
12 Asutifi                               76       11,277         048.3% 0*                     0              0
13 Atebubu                              115       13,240         115.13            1%           1t             6
C.   Central                            1.065      197,613         185.55           11          13t           704
1 Cape Coast                            54       13,959         258.50          46%           41%          158
2 Xocenda-Edina-Bquafo                  61       14,550         238.52           28%          29%           105
3 Hfantniman                            77       14,692         190.81           8a           11t            38
4 Abura-Anebu-Kwamankene                67       12,274         183.19           13%          16%            54
5 Gomoa                                114       20,699         181.57           4             4%            24
6 Ewutu-Efutu                           62       15,593         253.11           37%          34t           147
7 Ajumako-Breman-Enyan                  80       12,968         162.10            3%           4%            12
8 Anikuma-Odoben-erakwa                 59       11,110         188.31            3%           4%            12
9 Agona                                110       20,907         190.06           10%          11t            66
10 Upper Denkyira                       109       177302         159.4%7           7           10t            46
11 Twifo Heman                          131       17.310         132.14            2%           2%            12
12 Assin                                141       26,069         184.89            4%           3%            30



ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 3
II. Southrn Region* 
D.  Eastern                           1.772      2S1,431         158.82           141          194        1,567
1 New Juaben                            64      16,364         255.69           98%          89%          418
2 Suhum-Kraboa-Coaltar                 129      20,740         160.78           16%          19%          120
3 Akwapim South                         68      13,651         200.75          28%           34%          138
4 Akwapim North                       100       16,154         161.54          20%           18%          120
S West Akim                           105       17,719         168.75           30%          34%          186
6 Birim South                         122       22,600         185.25           114          15S           84
7 Birim North                          111      17.239         155.31            54          8a            39
8 Asuogyaman                            35       7,340         209.71           17%          34s           55
9 Afram Plains (Xwahu -North)         146       14,909         102.12            2%           3%           18
10 Xwahu South                         209       33,494         160.26           8a           10%           96
11 Xwaebibirem                          109      19,739         181.09           20%          23%          136
12 East Akim                            163      26,634         163.40           10%          12%           96
13 Yilo Krobo                            92      13,691         148.82            0%-          0%            0
14 Nanya Krobo                          12 6     17,843         141.61            1%           0%            6
15 Fanteakwa                            193      23,314         120.80            St           8%           55
E.  Greater Accra                         545     176,752         324.32           69%          70%        2.554
1 Accra (Metro)                       288      111,715         387.90           97%          79%        1,744
2 Tema                                  67      26,938         402.06           61%          81%          477
3 Dangme East                           57      10.299         180.68           11%          13%           36
4 Dangmce West                          55       9,021         164.02           11%          20%           51
5 Ga                                    78      18,779         240.76           53%          56%          246
P.  Volta                              1,l17      195,405         164.62            7%          10%          535
1 Ho                                  225       36,906         164.03           1s%          20%          218
2frachi                                134       14,628        109.16            0%           0%             0
3 Nkwanta                               79      10.136         128.30            0%           0%            0
4Akatsi                                 69        9,340        135.36           10%          17%           39
5 xadjebi                               62        8.608        138.84            0%           0%            0
6Anlo (Xeta)                            75      19,500         260.00           36%          33%          165
7 Xpandu                                99      17,558         177.35            0%           0%            0
8 Ketu                                105       28,606         272.44           14%          11%           89
9 North Tongu                         112       15,294         136.55            0%           0%            0
10 South Tongu                           67        8.901        132.85            3%           5%           12
11 Hohoe                                 49        9,717        198.31            4%           4%           12
12 Jasikan                              111       16,211        146.05            0%           0%             0
G.  Western                            1,207      197,791         163.87           10%          19%        1,032
lAhanta-Shama West                    112        38,031        339.56           30%          37%          368
2Ahanta West                            41        8,693        212.02           17%          31%           84
3Nzema West                             96      14,200         147.92            8%          20%           72
4 Jomoro                                42        9,435        224.64           17%          28%           69
S wassa Amenfi                        207       28,221         136.33            3%           5%            48
6 Sefwi Wiaweo                         122       14,633        119.94            5%           6%            48
7 Bibiani-Bekwai                        78       12,024        154.15            9%          19%            12
SJuabeso Bia                           192      23,805         123.98            9%          12%          110
9 Wassa-Fiase west                     138      23,959         173.62           12%          22%          150
10 Aowin Suaman                          85       11,781        138.60            4%           4%            18
11 mpohor wassa East                     94       13,009        138.39            St          11           53
Subtotal Southern Regions          8,747  1.,569,776         179.46           13%          22%        8,530



- 56 -                                       ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 3
IINortharn Regionas
A.  Northern                           1,191      124.531         104.56             2t           5t          lSl
1 West Dagamba                         153       27,121         177.26           3%           6C            30
2 East Dagamba                          80        9,907         111.34            10          100            3
3 East Gonja                           100       10,913         109.13           2%            80           24
4 West Gonja                            a5        7,461          87.78           20            9%           18
5  ole                                 91        8,146         100.57           10            9%           12
6 Nanumba                              222       15,730          70.86           10            10           12
7 Saboba-Chereponi                      76        5,850          76.97           0%            00            0
8 Guhiegu-Xaraga                        36        3,160          87.78           30            10            6
9 Zabzugu                               55        3,680          66.91           0%            0%            0
10 Tolon-Xumbungu                        85        6,742          79.32            8%          12%           58
11 Savelogu-Nanton                       68        5,682          83.56            it           2%            6
12 Hanpruui East                         90       12,690         141.00            00           0%            0
13 ampruni West                          60        8,449         140.82           2%            7%           12
C.  upper Bast                            361       65,752        192.14             9%          22%          344
1 Bawku East                           135       23,360        173.04            7%           16%           95
2 Bawku West                            30        3,527         117.57            7%          19%           18
3 Buila                                 37        5,043         136.30           3%            88           10
4 Bolgatanga                            64       16,367        255.73           28%           50%          190
S Kassena Nankani                       68       11,789         173.37           1%            4%            6
6 Bongo                                 27        5,666        209.85            7%           19%           25
D.  Upper Went                            324       43.089        132.99             3%           8t          101
1 Lawra                                 52        7,657         147.25           4%           13%           24
2 Jirapa-Lambussie                      61        7,544         12367                          0%            0
3 Sismala                               43        5,316        123.63            70           13%           24
4 Nadawli                               53        7,039         132081           00            0%            0
S Wa                                   115       15,533         135.07           4%           11           53
Subtotal Northern Regiona          1,876      233,372         124.40            4%          10%          626
GRAND TOTAL IN ALL                       I            I
10 REGIONS                       10,623| 1.03.148 169 74                      120          21%        9,156
atal4 (ja4O-b)
02 -iar-9 3



- 57 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Change in PI Enrollments by Region
(1990/91-1991/92)
A. Southern Regions:
Ashanti                              66,503      68,242            2.6%
Brong Ahafo                         41,182       37,402           -9.2%
Central                              41,022      36,378          -11.3%
Eastern                              58,079      55,823           -3.9%
Greater Accra                        30,184      30,390            0.7%
Volta                                41,458      39,277           -5.3%
Western                              42,642      41,371           -3.0%
Subtotal Southern Regions          321,070      308,883           -3.8%
B. Northern Regions:
Northern                            35,895       33,696           -6.1%
Upper East                          20,434       19,453           -4.8%
Upper West                           11,557      10,571           -8.5%
Subtotal Northern Regions           67,886       63,720           -6.1%
TOTAL                  388,956     372,603           -4.2%
a:pl (ja4O-b)
12-Mar-93



- 58 -                             ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 3
Action Research to Determine Reasons for Non-Enrollment and
Dropout Among Primary Schools Pupils
SUMMARY OF PHASE 1 CARRIED OUT IN 8 DISTRICTS (2 URBAN. 6 RURAL)
A pilot study was carried out by UNICEF and the Ministry of Education in eight districts (two
urban and the other rural), during December 1992 to March 1993 to determine reasons for non-
enrollment and dropout among primary school aged children and pupils. This survey is planned to be
repeated in a sample of 1,000 schools. Preliminary results of Phase 1 are presented here.
In each of the eight study districts, categories of respondents were as roughly follows:
-      12 opinion leaders/community leaders
-     72 teachers
-     33 parents of children who have dropped out of school
-      10 parents of non-enrolled children
-      16 non-enrolled children, or those who have dropped out
Total number of respondents in this first phase was 1,100
Tle study instrument used was in 7 parts.  Part 1 was a "Family Profile" provided by
parent/guardian of a non-enrolled or a child who had dropped out, giving without prompting, their own
reasons why all the children in their families, aged 5 and 18, either went to school or dropped out from
school, or why some of them did not enrol in school.
Part II was a "school profile" provided by headteachers of primary schools, giving the gender,
qualifications, training and experience of the teachers in the school.
Part III was on observational chart filled by the researcher on 3 working days in the school,
noting the total number of teachers present on the given day, how many teachers late or absent, how
many instructional hours in the school day were taught inside the classroom using instructional materials,
what were the physical facilities of the school, and the availability of sanitation facilities and textbooks.
Parts IV, V, and VI contained 12 suggested factors which were used as prompts by the
researchers on the respondents (Part IV for parents, Part V for teachers, Part VI for children and part
VII for community leaders), in semi-structured interviews to determine the salience of each of these
factors.
Almost all respondents of every category indicated that the high costs of schooling was the single
most significant factor determining non-enrollment and dropout. Incidence of large families and the
parent/guardian's inability to pay for the schooling of all the children is one reason for this. Authorized
fees and school uniform appear to be the most commonly cited cost items followed by shoes and feeding
costs. The high incidence of broken homes, due to divorce, separation, migration or death of either one
or both parents, appears to be leading to a high number of children in the care of relatives. It appears



- 59 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 3 of 3
that relatives not only do not value the education of their wards highly, but are also not often financially
able to pay for their education.
The second most significant factor contributing to dropout in particular appears to be a dislike
of both school and the teachers, especially the poor quality of teaching, combined with a feeling of
failure, coming from the child's perception of his/her own inability to learn. Reasons such as the child
does not comprehend what is being taught because it is too difficult or in a different language (often in
English) to the child's mother tongue, slow learners ("dull children") being made to feel inadequate and
discouraged in school by peers and teachers, not knowing how schooling will benefit them (as even
"educated" people have no jobs), school being boring (because the teachers are disinterested in teaching
and caring for the children), the lack of things such as roofs, furniture, toilets, and teaching aids, all
contribute to this factor.
The third factor that contributes significantly to children dropping out and not enrolling in schools
is the pursuance of other activities both for income, and to assist their parents/guardians. These
activities include pushing trucks, trading, loading trotros with merchandise and domestic chores in the
urban district; in the rural districts, farming, making bricks, and household chores including fetching of
water and taking care of siblings, were cited. Girls appear to be more adversely affected by household
chores, while for boys the main factor is farming, pushing trucks and loading trotros. Many of the
respondents say that in most cases, these "other" activities initially contribute to repeated absenteeism and
this leads to eventual dropout when the income earned through the activities becomes sufficiently
attractive.
In the semi-urban areas, most of the teachers, and about half of the parents identified market day
as a significant reason for continued absenteeism, leading to eventual dropout. In the urban districts, the
majority of the parents cited complications and confusion related to the shift system as a significant factor
leading to truancy, and eventual dropout. The early start of morning school was considered a reason for
delayed arrival, often leading to dropout, by all the teachers in the rural districts, and nearly half of the
parents. This was also explained by some children who felt that the school started too early in the
morning, and did not leave sufficient time for domestic chores, or for travel to school where the school
was some distance away.
The majority of the community leaders and at least half of the parents wanted more
communication between parents and teachers, and felt that the lack of trust between them lead to a
significant number of children dropping out. Even though none of the children suggested that they had
dropped out solely due to harrassement/punishment received in school, all the schools observed showed
that harsh forms of punishment were commonly and frequently given to children. Out of all the
respondents who cite pregnancy as a factor effecting dropout, it is not clear whether they are referring
to specific cases they know, or whether there is a general apprehension held by girls and
parents/guardians of girls becoming pregnant if they go to school. On the whole, teachers tend to suggest
that reasons for non-enrollment and dropout lie mainly with the parents who do not value education and
do not act in a responsible manner toward the education of children. Parents and community leaders,
on the other hand blame the teachers for poor quality teaching and absenteeism, which they believe leads
to the children not being serious about their education.
a:reason (ja40-b)



AN-NEX 3-4
- 60 -                           Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Letter of Primary Education Development Policy
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND
ECONOMIC PLANNiNG
o_et9 IDL11./20.10           X   |   [                P. 0. BOX M,40
IDA/J./2O.1O                               ~~~~~~~ACCRA
r_. ~*.  ..V_.....    5ch Hay,    ___@  93
MR. LEWIS T. PRESTON
PRESIDENT
THE WORLD BANK
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20433
Deear Mr. Preston:
Gi&ANA    'diry-Sclio  Deyelounent Protect
lAtter gf Prjv E ation  =evelogment Raft
I am writing with respect to the proposed Primary School Development Project which
Li designed to increase enroltnents and ctfectiveness especially through increasing oMcinl
and actual instructlonil tine and classroom and hcadmaster house construction In 2,000
least well endowed primary schooLs in the country. I would like to Inform the
International Development Agency of tho substantial Improvements that have taken
placc il the primary education system since the start of our educational reform
progrnmme In 1987, and oitilnie somile of the further key adjustments that will be
lmplemenited In this sub-sectur In the next year or two to ensure that Ghanaians, in all
parts of the country receive a meaningful and effective basic educatlon.
We are aware that only If the vast majority of Ghanialan boys and girls receive a
quality basic education will ve be able to accelerate our economic growth. We arc also
aiware thal only with a stron- and effective universal primary education system can this
Government's equity objectives be fulfilled. Thus, Government has and will continue
to attach the highest priority lo tihe strengtheninig and Pxpanslon of primary educationi.
The reforms to the primary education system wero first announced In October 1986,
and have since received substantial support from both Government and the donor
coinmutiuty; especially from  the World Bank through tho Health and Education
Rehabilitationi Projecl, nnd the first and Second Education Adjustmenit Credits; from
USAID throtugh its primary eduention project; and from CIDA witlh Its paper
commodity Assistance.
Education hns been central to Glhana's developmcnt effort. It has therefore been a
key benienciary or the growth In Governiment budgets resulting from the Economic
Recovery Progr amaini (ERP) being impleniented with support rroin World Bank and the
IMF. The implementation of tile. ERP tas led to lmprovement In tle balance or
payments, stistained annd sibstanitial GDP growth and substantIal Increases in the
budgetary allocallois to tlhe sociil sectors.



- 61 -
ANNEX 34
Page 2 of 5
The achievemcnts in the educational system over the past five years have been
cxtraordinary. The stnicttre of the system has been changed from a 6:4:5:2 (17 years)
to a 6:3:3: (12 years) system; curricula and teaching materials have been rewritten by
Ghanaians and made more relevant to national conditions; and all essential education
materials have been made readily available especially at the basic and secondary levels.
A new cost-sharing system has been put in placc to ensure continuous supply of
textbooks, writing and educational materials, while freeing institutions from  non-
educational concerns; considerable Increases in efficiency have been brought about
through an increase In student intakes and enrolments with an increasing studcnt/staff
ratio; and improvement in the qualification structurc of thc teaching stafr at all levels of
education.
More specifically at the primary school level:
the school year was lengthened from 36 to 40 weeks;
*     the medium of instruction in the first three grades was changed from
English to a local Ghanaian language;
untrained middle school leaver teachers are being rapidly phased out of
the system, so that by 1995 no such teachers will be Involved in teaching
and all teachers will have received pre-service training;
the pupil/teacher ratio has been increased from 21:1 to 2X:1;
all teachers have attended at least one, if not two, In-servicc training
programmes;
-     all teachers have been provided with syllabi, teacher's guides and basic
stationery;
-     all students, cxcept those at grades I and 2 pay a text book user fee
sufficient to cover half the replaccmcnt cost of the books;
-     primary school enrolments have increased by 23% from  1986/87 to
1990/91, and gross enrolment rates from 67% to 82% ofithc school age
population;
-     special efforts are being made to Increase the enrolnicnt of girlsi;
*     the proportion of the budget going to primary cducation has incrcased from
32% in 1985 to 38% in 1989, and 44%o currently;
district education offices have been reorganizcd to make them  more
responsive to local concerms;
/...3



- 62 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 5
.3 -
-     circuiL supervisors, aad circuit monitoring asmistants havc bccn recruitcd,
traincd, and provided with motorcycles to ensure that all schools arc
frequently visited,
-     more than 2,000 classrooms have been built using the school pavilions
approach, and further 3-4,000 classrooms rmated with corrugated sheets
provided by Government agencies.
Thc impact on learning of all these policy changes is beihg evaluated with a
criterion reference test whicb has been administered to a sample of 5% of P.6 primary
school children throughout the country. The results of the tat wnl be ready by the end
of June, 1993 and will be communicated to you. This criterion reference test whll be
administered annually to the same 5% sample of students, which will enable Government
to ascertain the progress being made In strengthening primary education.
Though much has been donc, it is obvious that a great deal more needs to be
done if the primary education system is to provide a strong foundation for further
learning at higher leveLs of the education system and for acceicrated growth of the
national economy, Hiowever given the fact that the educationa sector Is already
corsuming 39.69% of thc 1993 recurrent budget, and that primary sducation is receiving
around 449% of this budget, all our prinary education polcicas and progmmes hive to
operate within the framework of an increase in the efficiency of the oxisting school
system. Thus we will:-
-     increase daily instructional time from Its current 4 hours to a least S hours
by the beginning of the 1993/94 academIc year;
-     ensure that teacher absences from the classroom during official working
hours are substantially reduced during the life of the project and beyond;
-     ensure that extra curricular activities such as sports, matches and practices,
as much as possihic, take place outside official teaching hours;
-     Instruct district education officers, and dbtrict administrations noL to call,
cncourage, or allow teachers to abandon their clases during official school
hours for any training programme, meeting, or, other activities by the
beginning of the 1993/94 academic year,
*     ensure thut the vast majority of school buildings have suMcient protection
from the sun and rain tc) enable them to operate in all scasons;
-     strictly adhere to a one In one out sytem whereby each n¢wly quulrfied
teacher replaces an untrained teacher and maintain multi-grade tcaching
until an overall pupil/teacher ratio nf at least 38:1 Is achieved;
..4



- 63 -
ANNEX 34
Page 4 of S
-4.
whcrc more than onc primary school exist in the samc town or village, but
with each having less than-150 students, encourage an amalgamation;
-     complitc a school mapping exercise by December 1994 for all small
schools to see where amnalgamation should take place.
Obviously these efficiency enhancing measures will only have an Impact If the
tcachers havc the necessary teaceing skills, and the teachers and students have access to
basic learning materials. Thus Government is taidng steps to ensure that:-
i     all primary teachcn will attend at least one In-service training programme
at least every two years;
-     by, September 1994, all primary school teachers will be provided with a set
of handbooks and supporting materials;
there will be detailed pedagogic inspection and guidanrce from  circuit
supervisors at least five times a year;
-     by June 1994, there will be an Improved sclection procss for headmasters
involving community leaders, as well as officials and rpecial bandbook and
training programmes designed for these headmaster,;
by April 1994, each primary school student wil have accesM to a basic set
of at least four textbooks;
-     by April 1994, all primary school P4 - P.6 classns wiU have a selection of
supplementary readers in an accossible book box or llbrauy shelf;
*     the use of radio time available for schools broadcating be substantially
improved;
Finally Government plans by the end of this decade that over 90% of school aged
children will enter school and remain In scbool until they have completed 9 year. of
basic education. This mcans that the intake ratio will have to Increase from its current
level of 82.4% to 98%7b by the end of the century. Enrolmonts and Intakes at the primary
school level will havc to increase by a minimnum of 5% per anrum. For this to happen
it witl not only be necessary to improve the overall level of efficiency and quality of
inuuction, but also fccs on primary school children In excess of thosc approved by the
Ministry of Education will be eliminated, whilst all fees and lovies targeted at primary
school pupils by district assemblies will be referred to the Ministry of Educadton prior
to being imposed. Where local authorities or communities need to raise funds for
educational development, thcy will be cncouraged to do this through levies on adult
mcmbers of the community, not on children.
/-_5



-64-
ANNEX 3-4
Page 5 of 5
Government hopes with these measures, combined with
continuous programe of monitoring and research, that Ghana will
be able to enter the 31st contury with an educated and litorate
labour force.
I hope that these dotails will help the main direction of
our primary education reform and revitalization programm* over
the next few years   Nuah has been done, but so much more still
remains to be done. We will of course be ready to provide you
with additional information as you may require.
Yours sincerely
MINISTER FOR F   CE-AND
ECONOMIC PLANNING



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
Student Flows by Levels/Tye of Education in Ghana
(1988-2000)
PRIMARY EDUCATION
YEAR     6 YR OLD    PERCENTAGE         PI            P2          P3          P4          PS          P6     TOTAL       POPULATION  GER
POPULATION INTAKE                                                                                   PRIMARY    6 - I I      IPRIMARY I
0            1           2             3             4           5           6           7           8           9           10        11
1988        485.886         74.82        363,557     299.878     283.741     262.344     235.602    214.738    1,659,860  2.063.274        80.45
1989        498.689         75.73       377,663     327,276     299,329      279.261     253.720    231.263    1.768.512  2.207.454        80.12
1990        510.329        82.45        420.772      362,061     332 565     V0)2513    ?75,640    251.871    1 945 4?.2  2.358.788       82.48
1991        517.052         84.01        434.350    4  1        354.820     325.914    .29b.463    2fU.17 _I.u94,030  2.493,476           83.98
1992        523.699         85.56       448,077      425,663     4011. 109   347,723     319,395    290.533    2.235.501  2.634.266        84.86
1993        531,684         87.12       463.177      439,115    417,149      396,027     340.769    313.008    2.369.245  2.781.413        85.18
1994        538.394         88.67       477.394      453,913    430.333      408.806     388.107    333.954    2,492.507  2,935,170       84.92
1995        544.793         90.23       491,539     467.846     444.835      421,726     400,630    380.345    2.606.921  3,095.807        84.21
1996        557.603         91.78       511,768     481.709     458.489      435.938     413.292    392,618    2,693.813  3.163.913       85.14,
1997        572.525         93.34       534.366      501.533     472.075     449,319     427.219    405.026    2.789.538  3.233,299        86.28
1998        585.951         94.89       556.009      523,679     491.502     462,633     440.333    4 18.675    2.892,831  3.304.007       87.56
1999        601.613         96.45       580.226      544,889    51.5205     48I.672     453.380    431.526    3.004.898  3.376,043        89.01
200n        615.683         98.00        603.369     568.621     53i,991     t'02.941    472.039    444.313    3.125.274  3.449.426        90.60
INDEX
12000/19921          118          115           135         134         132         145         148          153         140        131         107
Source   :  PBMAE. September 1992
NOTES;             I.    Population doao (COLs. 1 and 10) ore based on Population Projections (medium
voriont) of Ghana Stolistical Services
2.     Enrolment dato for 1988 ond 1989 (COLs. 3 to 9) ore based on the Annual School Cen3us
conducted by the PBME division, adjusted by 3.77% to include enrolments
in privote schools. Actual enrolment of Private and Public Schools
for 1990 hos been used in COLs. 3 to 8.
3.    Intloe rate of 82.452 in primary I in 1990 is ossumed to increase lineorly by
1.555 X per onnum to 98X by the year 2000.                                  .o
4      Flow rote assumed to be            98 % from Primary I to Primory 6 (COLs. 3 tc; 8).
5.    Index of growth hos been colculated on the basis of doao in 1992 ond 2000
6.     GER is Gross Enrolment Rote.                                                                                            Oi|



- 66 -                                        ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 2
m,PaDCYIS OF ENRLMf ST LEVELSL.'W     OF UCATOW II GHANA. 1992-2000
IZAR      PUAT            A JCS                        TUARY       TEIRTiRY      TERTIARY     TERTIARY   NDNFORMN.        TOTAL
I             I t                        IV
0                        2             3              4  -                         6            7            a            9
102        2,235.50;      641,609        253.3S          14,603         4.500         2.100       23.500      270,000    3,445.709
103        2,35924S         I.543        236.913        IS,30          s5000          2.450       25.000      270.000    3.619,821
104        2.492,70       7492;53        210.041         17.2M          5.500         2.800        26,500     400,000    3.912.858
1995       2.606,21       0A.02          229.910         11,644         6,000         2,000       28,032      500.000    4.199.217
1926       i2.93,13       *7,135         244.129         19525          7,000         2.800       30.387      800,00     4,664,791
t957       2.759,535      *52073         2.044           19,599         8.000         2.800        30.037     000,000    4,871.114
ion        2OVU31  '       207.140       2ff5SS          20,053         9.000         2800        30,852      750.000    5,029.250
Io9        3,0045bl      1,094023        326591          21,09          10.000        2,300       27,339      700.000    5.187.008
2000       3,251274      1.1313614       360,241         22.603         11.000        2800         28,090     710,000    5,391,384
-2000/1U21          140           16             142           156            244           133          120         283          156
J" Es           1.     Do e* honmI ON   /Iomf o6acefem I based _ n proijcUmns 96we i Tables I lo 7.
2.     The r4ooe of I a'm t be covered by the NeL Utny PregWra e is esthmated
at L2 mUss kerm 199 so 2000.
3      270.000 loww    A of thee a    lad h 191 swe upeed to  np.eta in 1992.
4.     h ea of Cnouwth  e kbee colkwod on lmohe *    di o in 1992 end 2000.
.      Terley I            -       lrmr sl
Tovtwy I            -       Polpiechimica
-olry          '    -       T eme A .dhed   builtuti emi
TenSely IV          -       TeoKhe Troisls CaIe4e dsW AECAAST



- 67 -
ANNEX 3-6
RZPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DZVELOPMENT PROJECT
Suggested Primary School TimetabLe and
Allocation of Periods to Subjects Per Week
Subject            R  M  A  R  M  A  R  M  A  R                A        R  M  A
1.    Agriculture                   3  3  3  3  3  3  4  4  3  4  4  4  4  4  4  4  4
2     Cultural Studis               5  5  4  5  5  5  5  5  5  5  5  5  5  5  5  5  5  5
3     Elementary Science            3  3  3  4  4  3  4  4  3  4  4  3  4  4  3  4  4  3
4.    English Language              7  7  7  7  7  6  6  6  6  6  6  6  6  6  6  6  6  6
5.    Ghanaian Language            4  4  4  4  4  3  4  4  3  4  4  2  4  4  2  4  4  2
6.    Life Skill.                  6  6  3  6  6  4  5  5  4  5  5  4  5  5  4  5  5  4
7.    Mathematics                   7  7  6  6  6  6  6  6  6  6  6  6  6  6  6  6  6  6
8.    Physical Zducation            2  2  2  2  2  2  2  2  2  2  2  2  2  2  2  2  2  2
9.    Social Studies               3  3  3  3  3  3  4  4  3  4  4  3  4  4  3  4  4  3
Total            40 40 35 40 40 35 40 40 35 40 40 35 40 40 35 40 40 35
Notes One period - 30 minutes.
The folloving subjects should have at least one double period a veoks
Agriculturel ELZm_ntary Scienc.r English Language; Life Skills;
Math-matiasi and Social Studies.
Legend t R - Regular or One Session
N - Morning Shift
A - Afternoon Shift
Sources Curriculum Research and Development Division, GES/MOZ. September 1986.
astm (ja 40-b)
21-Mar-93



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
MOE 1993 Recurrent Budget Summar. Recurrent Expenditures on Education. and
1993 Development Budget
HaC 1993 Recurrent Budget Suwnary
140       MINISTRY OF EDUCATION                  9.957,420,000         433.944.000    103.000.000    18B.000.000    156,600.000   695.554.000    0.380,330.000
1 General Adainistration                  0,060,484,000         24,000,000      20.000.000      40.000,000      85,600.000    310,554,000      0.380,330,000
2 Bureau of Ghana Languages                           0                   0               0              0               0               0                  0
3 Non-Formal Education Div.                 801.944.000        401.944,000      20.000.000    100.000.000       50,000,000    230,000,000                   0
4 Planning. Budgeting,                                0
monitoring and Evaluation                52.000.000                  0      25,000,000      15,000.000       7,000.000       5.000,000                  0
5 School Education Division                 130.000.000                   0     30.000.000               0               0    100.000.000                   0
6 NACVET                                    113,000,000          8,000,000       8,000,000      33,000,000      14,000,000      50.000.000                  0
0'
141       GES - NUADQUARTBRS SERVICES           10.733,795.000      2.046.410.000    252.674.000 1.321.252.000 1.100.000.000 6.013.451,000                          0
I General Administration                  4,164.460.000      1,488,021.000    198,774,000    882,685,000  1,075,256.000    519.724.000                      0
2 Manpower and Training Div.                442.515.000          85.029.000        662.000    342.500.000                0      14.324,000                  0
3 C.R.D.D.                                  107,076,000         46,302,000       9,466,000       2.309,000               0      50.000.000                 0
4 Inspectorate Division                      61.740,000         41,459,000      12,571,000       3,510,000               0       4.200.000                  0
S Budget Unit                                         0                   0              0               0               0               0                  0
6 Secondary Bducation Div.                  529,737,000         70,075,000         662.000               0               0    450,000,000                   0
7 Tech./Voc. Education Unit                           0                   0              0               0               0               0                  0
8 Teacher Education                          92.380,000         32.456.000       1.456.000      18,476.000               0      40.000.000                  0
9 Physical Education Div.                             0                  0               0               0               0               0                  0
10 GES Secretariat                                     0                  0               0               0               0               0                  0
11 Planning Unit                                       0                  0               0               0               0               0                  0
12 Supply and Logistics                                0                  0               0               0               0               0                  0
13 Basic Education Div.                    4.818,357.000         16.769.000       1.588.000               0               0  4,900,000,000                   0
14 Cultural Studies Div.                               0                  0               0               0               0               0                  0
15 Agric. and Environ. studies                         0                  0               0               0               0               0                 0
16 Special Educaton Div.                     112.866.000         29.363.000       1.985,000       1.518.000               0     90,000.000                  0
17 Accra Technical Trg. Center               154,674,000         86,780.000      13.447.000      20.076.000       7.470.000     26.893.000                   0
18 XLmasi Technical Inetitute                250,982,000        142,164,000      13.063.000      50.179.000      17.266.000     28.310,000                  0
a I
P- 
0 
llb -



142       OS SCnOOLS T r AD RSG. SLRVICS         102,176,61B.000    98,606.612.000 1.270.000.000 1.2,0.700,000   400.000.000    700.00.0000
GMneral Administration                     78610,027.000       7.139.818.000     267.454.000      335,075,000       45,903.000      21.777.000                    0
2 Pricary  Education                       51.647.029.000      51,317,022.000    155.124.000       127.380.000       16,393,000      31,110.000                    0
3 Junior s coIdary Bduc.                   20836,513,000       20,360,129.000     173,045.000      117,344,000      154,004,000      31,111,000                    0
4 secondary Education                      15,000,479,000      13,624,520,000    438,248,000       395.568,000     137,703,000    404,440,000                      O
S Teacher Bducation                         4.e46.o07.000       4.504.442.000      141.720.000     100.577.000       24.597.000      74.671.000                    O
6M1anagement and Supervision                  767.125,000         688.625.000       26.745,000      41.918,000        9.837.000               O                    O
7TSechnical Zducaticn                                   O                    O               O                O  .            O               O 
_   Vocational *ducacion                      1.269.439,000         972,062,000       66.864.000      82,139,000       11,483,000    136,9S1,OOC 
143       G S - 9RBCIAL S RVICSJ                     516.346.000         401.346.000       45.000,000      30.000.000        5.OOO.0OO      35.000.00 
1Specialist Teacher Trg. Inst.                          0         0                          0                0               0               0                    0
2 Inst. of the Handicapped                    516.346.000         401.346.000       45.000.000      30,000.000        S.000.000      35.000.000                    0
144   _    ATIOUaL ARmen0                                                            0               0                0               0                0                   0
1 General Aduinistration                                0                    0               0                0               0                0                   0
145       TERTIART EDUCaTION DIVI9IOU            14.260,734.000       2,003.775,000       73.000.000      79,000,000       *5.000.000   112.000.000    11.916,459.000                   MD
I General Administration                   11.946.959.000                    0       9.000.000       4.000.000        7.000,000      10.000.000      11.916.959,000
2 Polytechnics                                772.000,000         612.000.000       30.000.000      40.000.000       30,000.000      60.000.000                    0
3 Diploma Colleges                            313,000.000         260.000.000       14.000.000       9.000.000       10.000.000      12.000.000                    0
4 University Colle6e-Uinnsba                1.236.775.000       1.131.775.000       20.000.000      25.000.000       30.000.000      30.000.000                    0
TOAL HMIISTRT Or EDUCKTIOU BUDGET            137,652.921.000   103.492.101.000 1.743.674.000 2.817.252.000 1.746.600.000 7.556.005.000    20.297.209.000
Sources NOR. 1993.
AIsUWT (JA40-B)
09-Mar-93
0W



- 70 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 3 of 6
Changes in Zducational Expenditure
(1980/1989)
1980/81                   17 _l.0            3.2
1981/82                   20.1               2.3
1982                      18.3               2.0
1983                      20.4               1.6
1984                      20.2              2.0
1985                      22.3              2.3
1986                      23.9              3.3
1987                      26.5              3.6
1988                      25.7              3.5
1989                      24.3              3.4
asa19 (ja4O-b)
29-Mar-93



71 -                                     ANNEX 3-7
Page 4 of 6
1993 Development Budget
(In Million of Cedis)
.  -  -  f~ ~ ~ ~ . -   . ........  ..................
..   ...   ...  -  ....... .  -   -   ~~~~~.. ..............................
'' P',,'''KS-T'I.'''',', '""' "'"'......     .....    ...........-   ... -   ...........
1. Rehabilitation of
building and
infrastructure
of 2nd cycle
Educational
inatitutionr          On-going                  1,229                                         1,229
2. Provision of
equipment, furni-
ture and vehicles
for 2nd cycle
Educational
institution.          On-going                                    50                             50
3. Institutional
dovelopment of JSS
(providing
matching fund for
JSS)                  On-going                                    60                             60
4. Completion of
on-going/suspended
building projects
of 2nd cycle
Educational
institutions          On-going                  1,725                                         1,725
5. Rehabilitation of
1st cycle educat-
ional institutions
(provision of
matching funds)       On-giong                                    60                             60



72 -                                          ANNEX 3-7
6. Logitics end
building project.
of other inrtitut-
ions under NOR          on-going                        151               67                                218
7. Logistics *nd
building projectr
of diploma awarding
colleges (St. Andrew.) on-going                           19               6                                 25
8. Rehablitation and
constructional
project for the
handicepped             On-on7ing7                      170                                                  170
9. Logistics support
for Ghana Education
Serviceo (NQs,
Regional and District
Services)               On-going                                         48                                  48
10. Logistics support for
strengthening of MOE   On-going                          72              25                                  97
11. Univ. Of Ghan-
(Logistics, R-hab.
and Building projects) On-going                         372              44                  35            451
12. Univ. of Science &
Technology (Logistics,
Rehab a^nd Building
projects)               On-going                        415                                                415
13. Univ. of Cape Coast
(Logistics, Rhn b
and Buildng projects) On-gong                          266                                                274



73-                                          ANNEX 3-7
Page 6 of 6
.....  .   u . .                     . .
:,.   .   -,-E-.. ..   . ... ..--  : 
-UWMCT T . ,-          0                                                  -     ':' 
14. Rehabilitation/
construction of
regional and district
education offices       on-going                       195                                               195
15. Development of
technical and vocatio-
nal education (Poly-
technics and post-      Tech./Voc.)                    248                                               248
basic skills)           on-going                        65                                                85
16. Univ. of Development
Studies, Tamale         on-going                       158              85                               243
17. Univ. Collego of
Education, iinneba      New                            387              26                               413
18. Government counterpart
fund for World Bank/
AfDB projects for
universities and
polytechnics            New                            400                                               400
TOTAL                                       5,892             479                             6,371
aial (ja40-b)
29-Apr-93



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PROJECT TO INCREASE PRIMARY SCHOOL INSTRUCTIONAL TIME
Structure of the Central Ministry of Education
| sRSIt FOR tDUCATIM 
COOUDIRAIR  VNI IOU I                II  I3R7E                tALAD R!  |
m m   neD                          I  I         L ~JCOMIS
PROE
[  _w_K_EI                  I                            I                                 I
|  eWI  DIR  e       l
I T
I|DINfCOU. _ E      DIGo.  MFL AN. I                                      DIRTORS, Yet          I  I    DINUCO. hw 3
DIVIIc            AND FIC   IlVINi                     I               P. IWOUIOAtI@   mg .           V         Pin@ii
\ 0 eLI                                                                           DS IVIBION o
| Di    _I                 SUCI r          I               I              | AFICE   COMDI                  OTMR       "D I   A
NC3001 RIIOS            SIx G                                                          DDUCE1CN  IO@FMVQ o DuVCzIOR  OOUN N  am
(-_}   {g)                                                {g ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~sr           T
1. ftana ACadtY Of ArtB
and sciece
secretariat
3. Ghana institute of
4 Ghana Library Board
5. Ghana National comain-
oion oa uuiscoO
6. Ghana nook Development              0
Council
aeNOal (ja4O-b)
28-Apr-93



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCH   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Structure of the Ghana Education Service (GES)
|DIRSCSOR  mgtL|
DZPUTY DIRECTOR                         DEUT  D |PGr CIROR
I SrCO DARS SDUC. I      I                       I                I   .I aR                        IISPCLrU.I
sECONDARy aDC          BAI   DUCP.TION        ?3ACHER BDUCAT?ION                            ANAPOMBR            SPCIAL EDUC..        I3SPECTORAT3
RsCIUA,L DIRBCTORS                                    *DISTRIC
or 3OwcaYIoU                                      .ASSENDLIDS 
( 10}                                        *                              ,                                                    i t10)
*                                            *                                      DISSRICS
U                                            *CAHxrr rOrcuss
*                                            *                                       ( 1101
*                                            .                                          I
*                                            .                                          I
*                                            .1?NC                                      I
, 110
CIRCUIT
ABSIYATUS AND
SUPIRVISORM
I s00)
Legends  *kd -    ainistrative LLne
Bill     -  A .dwiory Line
liii1 1--   -  Supervisory Line
caGES (Ja40-b)
03-Mar-93



REPUBUC OF GHANA
IMARY SCHOOL DEVELOP    PROJECT
Structure of the District Educaion Office MDEO)
PRCIPAlE  DORY (2)          PIM!I UflS   . (3)                             IRUIPS assu?.l (l 1)           PIICISLS MM. (12)
AcCm3JI  (1)             1. A^ntatratioa             1. Planni                                      1. fraing a Staff              1. Cixait Sqevio. (6)* |
2. tebook offila r          2. bositoriag i Data                              Dwel.oaat (1)               2. Ouida_o i Counelliag (1)|
3. Naaolb a Smoord                             3. Daulo 54 Soboola (2)        4. P.Y  (1)                                   I
4. Seooad 9ol. lost. (1)       S. Cultur  (1)        
Sr~~~~~~~~ a_ttl.
tt   (1)                                                                                                                                     .
SokpeA  (2)             P           mP                     AA.3. St ff (3):                                                        S eretari t (412
ACCOUNTAN                1 AOffi/tt                                          1. Ada. Anataaant                                    1. Ste    r    Grade  II
Sr Storeee per                                                          2. Srt  Clerk                                         2  Sr. t      Cpm t
2  Storekeawr                                                            3 1k           I                                      3. ypiat Grae a    I
1                                            4. Radio a32ator
(jDri r             1       aLabourer. (6):
.Clanaer (1)                6  el.Vu  1
I  Dayight      2. Cncerano  Oab. (is71col)mt  fie 
SC.   D y/comaht a.  eeral Labourer. (2
N1 'r of Circuit Supez-isor. depend. on nuber of olrouit.
Nt:btablLa   t:    ?eaing Staff:    32
Uoneaekinq Staff: 22
Aotalc             53n
atDUO ( 1a40-b)
03_eer.                                                           2     C20



- 77 -
ANNEX 3-1 1
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Details of Initial Training of Circuit Supervisors
Courne Content:
1.     The Education Reforms: Basic, Senior Secondary, Tertiary, Non-Formal
2.     The Education Reforms within the Decentralized Administrative Framework.
3.     School Management at the Basic Education Level: Challenges and Problems.
4.     Accountability and Responsibility in the Management of Education.
5.     The Curriculum and Content of the Education Reforms:
Primary, Junior Secondary School, Senior Secondary School.
Teacher Training Colleges.
6.     Teaching Skills and Techniques in Basic Schools:
Planning for Teaching
Scheme of Work/Lesso Plan
Classroom Discipline and Management
Questioning Techniques
Inquiry/Discovery Method
Activity/Discussion Method
7.     Teaching Aids: Preparation, Acquisition, Types, Uses, Care and Storage.
8.     Supervision of Instuction: Principles, Process and Techniques.
9.     Guidelines for School Supervision.
10.    Assessing Teacher Performance.
11.    Testing Techniques and Continuous Assessment.
12.    Techniques for Collecting and Collating data for Educational Planning and Administration.
13.    Financial Administration and Records Keeping in Basic Education Schools.
14.    Guidance and Counselling in Basic Education Schools.
15.    Organizing In-service Training Courses for Teachers.
16.    The Supervisor at Work: Case Study.
17.    Code of Professional Conduct for Members of Ghana Education Service.
18.    The Structure and Functions of the Ministry of Education and the Ghana Education Service.
19.    Social and Community Responsibility in the Provision and Management of Education.
20.    Current Issues on Education.
21.    New Perspectives in School Supervision.



- 78 -
ANNEX 3-11
Page 2 of 3
Rationale and Objectives of the Orientation and Training Con= for Newly-Anointed Circuit Supenisors as
nresented at a Tmaining Held in Jull IM9 at the Kuinas Advanced  Tahie anchers Colleire
DATE:                        20th to 28th July 1992
DURATION OF COURSE:          8 days
TARGET POPULATION:           All newly-appointed Circuit Supervisors from the 110 districts.
RATIONALE:
1.     Since the beginning of the current reforms in 1987, some key measr  have been taken to address the critical
problems that characterized the nations educational system at the time.
2.     The 17-year pre-university education with one of the highest opportunity cos in the world, was reduced to 12
years with built in measures to ensure that the quality of education was not adverody affected.
3.     Access to basic education has been expanded through opening of more schools to ensure that children do not
travel more than 5 km to attend school at the basic level.
4.     Unqualified teachers are being progressively replaced and continuing in-rvice training is being provided for
both teachers and school Heads to improve the qulity of teaching and leaming in schools.
S.     The content of education has been made relevant to the socio-economic needs of Ghana through the designing of
syllabuses and the production of textbooks that are deeply rooted in the socio-culturl environment of Ghana
6.     Sufficient quantities of textbooks and stationary have been produced nd supplied to schools which were hitherto
starved of these basic educational materials.
7.     Classroom pavilions have been provided by Govenment to the Educational disadvantaged communities and
communities have been mobilized, successfully, to participate in the implementation of the reforms through the provision
of labour or money for the development of schools in their communities.
8.     The high level of wastage that existed before the Reforms has been brought under control through the
elimination of redundant labour, a reduction of drop-out rate and proper magement of resources.
9.     The District Education Offices have been strengthened through their upgrading to directorte. and through the
provision of means of transport to enhance management and supervision of schools.
10.    Four (4) Assistant Directors ar being appointed to assist each District Education Officer in the maagement and
supervision of education in his district.
11.    In spite of the huge amount of resource that have been put into the implemnton of the above meuwr,
monitoring reports indicate that the classroom child is not deriving the ful benefit of the refoms and poor supervision of
schools has been identified as the major caues of this state of affairs.
12.    The importance of supervision in any productive set-up cannot be over-mphaszd. This is even more so in the
field of education where research and experiments are always being conducted to redefine goals and objectives as well as
specify and develop content for variou subjects in line with the chaging time. Supervision is even more important in
the field of education where the human resource is the focus of the totl education process.



- 79 -
ANNEX 3-11
Page 3 of 3
13.    According to a 'Ghana Education Service (GES) Inspectorate Position Papa  premted to the subcommittee on
inspection at Basic Education level:
"There is still mismanagement of educational resources by various categorie
of staff within the Education Service including Heads, Staff, Students and
bursars and their counterparts in the offices; Students riotsldemonstrion
persist and in some instances intensify; schoolfacilities continue to degeneat
and resources dwindle and disappear... '
"... This state of affairs in the educational institutions and offces caUsfor
effective supervision, appraisal, monitoring and advice as weU as proper
accountability which are very essential for maintenance of high standard
of performance at all levels of education. "
14.    A critical look at the academic and professional background of Circuit Officer and inspectors of basic education
schools revealed that most of them did not have the knowledge, skills and attitudes required for effective and efficient
supervision of instruction at the basic education level.
15.    Accordingly, the National Planning Committee for the Implementation of the School Reforms (NPCISR) set up
a subcommittee in 1988 to bring proposals for revamping the inspection and supevision of schools at the basic education
level.
16.    The Report of the Subcommittee on inspection of schools at the Basic Education level stated among other things
that the new Circuit Supervisor, wh;baatcome to replace the former Circuit Officer and the Inspector, (at Basic Level)
should be given an 8-day intensive training programme before he assume duty.
17.    The challenge facing the new circuit supervisors is how to arm theomselves adequately with the lkowledge, skills
and attitudes required to enable them to play the roles that are demanded of thm. It in in response to this need that the
Ministry of Education has designed this course for circuit supervisors.
OBJECTIVES:
18.    At the end of the course, the circuit supervisor will be able to: (a) promote offective teaching/learning in all
basic education schools; (b) interpret educational policies to teachr, and help thm understand educational policy
objectives; (c) promote effective school management; (d) liaise between the school nd the district education authorities;
(e) organize in-service training courses for the professional development of teacher; (f) promote healthy school
environment; (g) monitor the achievement and performance of pupils and staff; (h) prepae guidelines for school
supervision; (i) collect and collage statistics on the schools he superviss.
Source: Ghana Education Service, 1993.
a:cs (ja40-b)



- 80 -
ANNEX 5-1
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOIZ D1EVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ouestionnaire Used to Survev Primary Schools
SCHOOL NAME: .............................................................  LEVEL...............................
LOCATION (1):    ..............................................................
CIRCUIT:           .............................................................. ................................DlSICT:
TEACHERS          TOTAL       TRAINED       UNTRAINED               NSP                 PRESENT ()        NUMBER LIVING IN
COWM4UNITY
PRIMARY:         ..............  ..............  ...............  .................  ..............     ..................
*SS:      .      .......... ......  ..............  ......................  ......................  .........................  ..................
IQNDERGARTEN: ...............  ............. ................  .................    ..............      ..................
OTHER:          ............... .    ..............  .................  .....................................  ..................
PRIMARY ENROLLMENT: ......           BOYS: ........     GIRLS: .......... TOTAL: ........   OF WHICH P.1 .........    P.6
TOTAL PRESENT:(3)  ............... ESTIMATED % OF LOCAL CHILDREN OU   SCHOOL:.
TEACHING TAKING PLACE AT TIME OF ARRIVAL:  YES ............             NO .......       IF NO WHY NOT: 
LAND:(4) ADEQUATE: YES .......... NO .LEVEL: YES ......... NO.
TOILET: YES       ................   NO ............  URINAL:   YES .NO.
WATER: YES         ................   NO ............    IF YES DISTANCE ..AND SOURCE.
-| 1        WALLS                                         ROOF
ROOM       OVERALL    ORIGINAL    CURRENT   EXTERNAL                PARTMIION      MATERIALS    ROOF             QUALrIY       BLACIC
OR        QUALITY        FUNCTION    USE (6)       WALL             HEIGHT (7)   (8)               MATERIAL    (10)            BOARD
SHADE    (12)            (5)                          _ HEIGHT (7)                                 (9)                         (11)
2.
3.
4.
7.
ADDITIONAL NUMBER OF ROOMS NEEDED OR ROOMS NEEDING REBUILDING: .......................
NUMBER OF ROOMS NEEDING REROOFING:                          ........................
ADDITIONAL NUMBER OP BLACKBOARDS NEEDED:                     ........................
PLACE W3ERE TEXTBOOKS ARE grORED
IN THE SCHOOL                 .....................  IN TEACHERS HOWUS
IN OTHER HOUSES:              .....................  DISTANCE ROM SCHOOL:.
GENERAL STANDARD OF FURNIrURE
SATISFACTORY: ............      F UNCTIONAL: .UNSATISFACTORY:.
PERCENTAGE OWNED BY STUDENTS: ................................
LYIYHOOD OF COMMXlNTY INVOLVEMEfI IN MATCUIG GOVERNMENT SUFWOR
GOOD .      ...... MODERATE    ....           UNL LY:.....UNL
................                      ...................                   ................... .....    ........................
DATE                                      TIOME                                SIGNATURE                   POSMlRON



- 81 -
AM=  5-2
Paqe I of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRDUAY SCHOOL DZVELOPMBYT PROJECT
Distribution of the Primary Schools Supported by the Project
Dy Region and District
1.  Sq.suthern Regionse                                                     l            
.  Ashanti                        |      21.672     327.605          195.98           254              156               74
1 Kuwmai                                164        65.353         396.49            15               9%               19
2 Atwima                     -          140        25,525         172.47            43              29%               12
3 Amansie Went                           91        12.700         139.56             2               2%                1
4 Amansie Bast                          132        19.004         143.97            23              17%                6
5Afigya-Sekyere                          el       16,183          199.79             5               6%                1
6 Kwabre-Sekyere                         63        11,653         184.97             6              10%                1
7 Offinso                                78        16.049         205.76            16              21%                2
8 Ejura Sekyedansae                      30         3.915         130.50             4              13%                0
9 Asante Akim North                      76        14.639         192.62             8              11%                3
lO Asante Akim South                      87        13,755         158.10             9              10|                2
11 Adansi Went                           117        24.281         207.53             5               4%                1
l2Adanui Bast                            105        17.756         169.10            34              32%                5
13 Ahafo Ano North                        52         8,770         168.65            23              44%                4
14 Ahafo Ano South                        72        13,095         181.88             5               7%                0
15 Ejisu/Juaben                          107        19,451         181.79            18              17%                7
16 Bo.amtwe/Kwaow              |          95        14.286         150.38            18              19%                7
17 Sekyere Bast                           79        14.506         183.62            12              15%                3
18 Sekyere West                           95        16,764         176.46             8               8%                0
B.  Brong Ahafo                          1.299      193,099          146.65           261              20%               44
1 Tano                                  104        15,327         147 .38           27              26%                a
2 Berekum|                               57        11,258         197.51            12              21%                3
3 Jan n                                  95        16,982         178.76             7               7%                0
4 Wenchi                                135        18 514         137 .14           34              25%                6
5 Techiman                              104        16,480         158.46            17              16%                3
6 Kintanpo                              106 |      14037          132.42            28              26%                2
7 Nkoranza                              101        12.643         125.18            i8              18%                1
8 Dormaa                                126        20,544         163.05            27              21%                0
9 Sene                                   70         6.083          6.90             12              17%                2
lOAsunafo                                136        22,261         161.31            28              20%                8
11 Sunyani                                72       214,453         200.74             9              13%               10
12 Asutifi                                76 |      11277          148.38            21              28%                1
13 Atebubu                               115        13,240         115.13            21              18%                0
C.  Central                              1.065      197.613          185.55           205              19%               54
1Cape Coast                              54        13,959         258.50             4               7%                1
2Kcannda-Sdina-8quafo                    61        14,550         238.52            24              39%               16
3 Mfantsiman                             77        14,692         190.81            20              26%               10
4 Abura-Asebu-Kwamankese                 67        12,274         183.19            17              25%                4
5 Gcroa                                 114       20,699          181.57            23              20%               18
6 Bwutu-Efutu                            62        15,693         253.112            5               8                 0
7 Ajumako-Brenan-Bnyan                   so        122966         162.10            22              28%                0
8Auikuma-Odoben-Brakwa                   59        11,110         188.31            13              22%                0
9 Agona                                 110        20.907         190.06            18              161                2
10 Upper Denkyira                        109        17.382         159.47            19              174                3
11 Twifo Heman                           131        17.310         132.14             8               6%                0
12 Assin                                 141        26,069         184.89            32              23%                0



- 82 -
Page 2 of 3
. .. _otSrnlo T"gi_ T
D.  Easte                             1.772      281.431        158.82          261             15*              66
1 Nw Juaba                            64       16.364        255.69           14             22%               7
2Suhum-Kraboa-Obaltar                129       20,740        160.78           23             18%              10
3 AkapiJm South                       6o       13.651        200.75           16             24 4              6
4 Akwapim North                      1oo       16.154        161.54             a             6%               1
5West AMis                           1051      17,719        168.75           14             13%               3
6lirim South                         122       22.600        185.25           17             14%               7
7 BiriM North                        111       17,239        155.31           22             20%               1
*a uoyun                              35        7.340        209.71           11             31%               5
9Afram Plaine(Khuh  North)           146       14.909        102.12           19             13%               0
lo Kwahu South                        209       33.494        160.26           28             13%              10
11 Kwaabibir                          109       19,739        181.09           18             17%               2
12 East Akiz                          163       26,634        163.40           21             13%               1
13 Tilo [robo                          92       13,691        148.82           21             23%               4
14 Manya Srobo                        126       17,843        141.61           16             13%               9
15 Panteakwa                          193       23,314        120.80           13              7%               0
E.  Greater Loara                       545    176,752          324.32           68             122              34
1 Accra (Matro)                      233      111.715        387.90           11              4%              14
2 TM                                  67       26,939        402.06             5             7%               0
3 Dangm Bast                          57       10,299        160.68           14             25%              10
4 Dangme West                          55       9,021        164.02            15            27%               6
5 Ga                                  78       16,779        240.76           23             29%               4
F.  Volta                             1,117      195.405        164.62          271             23%              92
1N1o                                 225       36,906        164.03           57             25%              19
2Krachi                              134       14,620        109.16           29             22%               5
3 Nkwanta                             79       10,136        128.30           30             38%               0
4 Akati                               69d       9,340        135.36           24             35%               2
5 Kadjebi                             62        3.608        138.84           12             19%               2
6 Anlo (Kata)                         75       19,500        260.00           20             27%              17
7 Kpandu                              99       17,558        177.35           22             22%              16
8 Ietu                               105       26,606        272.44           18             17%              20
9 North Tonqu                        112       15,294        136.55           16             14%               1
10 South Tonqu                         67        0,901        132.85            7             10o               1
11 Hohoe                               49        9,717        198.31           22             45%               5
12 Suem/Jaiaun                        1112      16,211        146.05           14             13%               4
a.  1tern                             1.207      197,791        163.67          274             23.              28
1 Ahanta-Shaim  St                   112       36,031        339.56           12             11%               6
2Ahanta Vegt                          41        6,693        212.02           10             24 %             13
3 zaua felt                           96       14,200        147.92           18             19%               2
4 Jcwro                               42        9,435        224.64            4             10%               0
Swatsa  nmi                          207       20,221        136.33           60             29%               3
6 Sefwi Wiawo                        122       14,633        119.94           23             19%               0
7 Oibiani-3ukwai                      is       12,024        154.15           17             22%               0
Juabeso hia                         192       23,805        123.96           50             26%               0
9Wasea-Fiame West                    133       23.959        173.62           20             14%               4
0lAin Suain                           a5       11.761        138.60           46             54%1              0
11 Mpohor Was"a lt                     94       13.009        138.39           14             15%               0



- 83 -
ANNEX 5-2
Page 3 of 3
II orthezrn AteSione
_____ ____ _____ ____                             .
a.  Ilorthern                         1.191      124.531        104.56          126             11%              57
1 West  Dagcud)&                     153       27,121        177.26           19             12%               5
2Zaut Dagamba                          80       8,907        111.34            11            14%               3
3Saut Gonja                          100       10,913        109.13            a              8a               6
4 Went Gonja                           65       7,461         07.78            9             11%               1
5 Bole                                61        0,146        100.57           16             20%               9
6 Nanumba                            222       15,730         70.86           10              5%               3
7 Saboba-Chereponi                    76        5,850         76.97            2              3%               4
8 Gushiequ-Karaga                      36       3,160         87.78            4             11%               0
9 Zabzugu                              55       3.680         66.91            2              4%               4
10 Tolon-Kuwbunqu                       e5       6,742         79.32            7              8%               4
11 Savelogu-Nanton                      66       5,682         83.56           10             15%               4
22 ManVru.i East                       90       12,690        141.00           15             17%               0
13 Hamprusi West                       60        8,449        140.82           13             22%              14
C.  Upper East                          361       65,752        182.14          155             43%              90
1 Bawku Sast                         135       23,360        173.04           58             43%              35
2 Bawku West                           30       3,527        117.57           10             33%              12
3Builua                               37        5.043        136.30           16             43%               9
4 Frafra                              64       16.367        255.73           31             48%              10
5 Kamsena Nankani                     68       11,789        173.37           24             35%              20
6 Bongo                               27        5.666        209.85           16             59%               4
D.  Upper West                          324       43.069        132.99          108             33%              59
1 Lawra                                52       7,657        147.25           12             23%               6
2Jirapa-Lanbussie                     61        7, 54 4      123.67           29             48%              27
3 Simala                              43        5,316        123.63           17             40%               3
4 Nadawli                              53       7,039        132.81           20             38%              16
5 Wa                                 115       15.533        135.07           30             26%               7
Subtotal Northern Regions         1,876     233,372         124.40          389            21%             206
GRAND                                                       169AL IN AL4
10 REGIONS                      10.623  1.803.148          269.74        1,983             19%             598
ata16 (ja40-b)
22-Mar-93



- 84 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRiMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quantitative Results of Survey
1.      Distribution of schools bY Region
REGION                        Code   No. Schools Percent
Greater Accra                     0         68      3.4
Eastern                           1        261     13.2
Volta                             2        271     13.7
Central                           3        205     10.3
Western                           4        274      13.8
Ashanti                           5        254      12.8
Brong Ahafo                       6        261     13.2
Northern                          7        126      6.4
Upper East                        8        155      7.8
Upper West                        9        108      5.4
Total      1983    100.0
2.      Distribution of schools by rnse of classes offered
Range of classes               Code      No. of
schools Percent
P1-P6                             1        898     45.3
KG-P6                             2        594     30.0
P1-JSS3                           3        204     10.3
KG-JSS3                           4        172      8.7
Other                             5        115      5.8
Total      1983    100.0
3.      Distribution of schools by size (enrollsnt)
EnroL ent                      Frequency  Percent
100-149                         968     48.8
150-189                         433     21.8
190-239                         223      11.2
230-269                         135       6.8
271-309                          89       4.5
310-349                          44       2.2
350-399                          30       1.5
401-499                          32       1.6
500+                             29       1.5
Total       1983    100.0



- 85 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 2 of 8
4. Size (enrollment) of selected schools by regIon
REGION
Greater  Eastern  Volta    Central  Western  Ashanti  Brong    Northern Upper    Upper
Accra                                                     Ahafo               East     West   Rom
Enrollment        -
27      133       114       101       135      130       146        63        60       59       968  (48.8)
100-149
13       66        55        46       66        52        57        24       34        20       433  (21.8)
150- 189
6       29        33        33        35       22        31         7        16        11      223  (11.2)
190-239
5       16        23        11        12       15        14        11        22        6       135  (6.8)
230-269
7       10        19         6        9        10         8         7         6        7        89  (4.5)
271-309
4        3         5         2         8        8         2         4         5         3       44  (2.2)
310-349
1        2         7         4         1        6         2         2        3         2        30  (1.5)
350-399
1        1         8         2        6         5         0         5        4         0        32  (1.6)
401-499
4        1         7                   2        6         1         3         5        0        29 (1.5)
500+
Total schools          68       261       271      205       274       254       261       126      155       108      1983
per region            (3.4)   (13.2)   (13.7)   (10.3)   (13.8)   (12.8)   (13.2)    (6.4)    (7.8)    (5.4)  (100.0)
5.      Distribution of schools by source of water.
Value Label                   Code   Frequency  Percent
Pipeborne                         1        227      11.4
Well                              2        236      11.9
Borehole                          3        413     20.8
River/Stream                      4        586     29.6
Pond/Lake                         5        100      5.0
Other                             6          3        .2
No water & other                  7        418     21.1
Total       1983    100.0
6.      Distribution of schools by distance from water source
Value LabeL                   Value  Frequency  Percent  Percent  Percent
0-SOm                             1        255      12.9
51 - 200m                         2        572     28.8
201-500m                          3        363      18.3
501-1000m                         4        191      9.6
1001-2000m                        5         86      4.3
2001m & above                     6         48       2.4
468     23.6
Total       1983    100.0
Valid cases    1515       Missing cases    468



- 86 -
ANNEX S-3
Page 3 of 8
7.       Siz me Collnro t of *d tol b' umbr of Paviltars to be provided.
3 unit  6 unit
pDvl LIon pavilion   Rma
Total
Enrollomnt
64     753      637
105-149                             45.2
66     365      433
150-169                              23.4
45     178      223
190-2S9                              12.0
27     106      135
230-269                               7.3
24      65       s9
271-309                               4.6
14      30       4
310-349                               2.4
14      16       30                                         ,. ,
350-399                               1.6
10      22       32
401-499                               1.7
§   11  16       29
500+                                  1.6
CotL.m    297    1555    1852
TotaL    16.0    64.0   100.0
Number of Ni,ing Obervations: 131
S.   k.r of adioto by to (size) of p.ftlm to be prwvdad
Type/size pavilion         Frequency PefCent
3 unit                       307     15.5
6 unit                      1676    64.5
Total     1963    100.0



- 87 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 4 of 8
9-1.    Sistribtluin of _mr by thelr rumtunms.
Vatue Labt                  Value  Frequmnsy  Percent
Roadside                        1      1327     o.9
Up to 10nr  lk frm  roe         2       323     16.3
10-30 ins wlk frau roed         3       155      7 J
Remote (difficult acecs)                165.     5.3
Other                           5        12       .6
Misi"ng                         7         1        .1
Total      19#    100 0
Valid cases    1963      Ni"unh cam         0
9-2.    Accesiblity of sabsos by also .d    mb  of pavilions to be provided.
3 unft  6 unit
pailton pevlion  Rno
Total
LOCATION      -
1      206     1119     1327
Roadside                              o.9
2       63      260      323
Up to 10mins                            16.3
walk fra  road
3       24      131      155
10-30Oins wlk                          7.8
fro  road
4       10      155      165
R_mote                                 5.3
5        2       11       13
Other                                   .7
ColM       307     1676     1963
Total    15.5     ".5    100.0



-88-
ANNEX S-3
Page 5 of 8
10.     Pwrcwutag  of te - r.   present at th  school by size *nd rubr of pavilfons ruqlired.
3 Lnit   6 unit
psvilion pavilion   Row
Total
TEAPERCE
1.00        1        5        6
0-10X                                    .3
2.00        5       20        25
11-25Z                                  1.3
3.00       19       97       116
26-50X                                  5.9
4.00       53      270       323
51-75X                                 16.5
5.00      229     1248      1477
76-100X                                75.6
6.00                 6         6
Unknown Z                                .3
Colauw     307     1646      1953
Total    15.7     84.3    100.0
Ntaber of Nissing Observations: 30



- 89 -
ANINEX 5-3
Page 6 of 8
AVAILABILITY OF WATER, TOILET AND URINAL FACILITIES
BY TYPE AND SIZE OF PAVILION REQUIRED.
11.     Wter
Is water available?
3 unit  6 unit
pavilion  pavilifan  Ro
ITota.l
WATER
0       79      357      436
No                                     22.0
1      228     1317     1545
Yes                                    78.0
Column     307     1674     1981
Total    15.5     84.5    100.0
Numer of fissing Observations: 2
12.     Toilet facilities
is a toilet available?
3-wnft  6-ulnt
pavilfon pavlina  Total
TOILET
0      233     1187     1420
No                                     71.7
1       74      486      560
Yes                                    28.3
Column     307     1673      1980
Total    15.5     84.5    100.0
Nluber of Nissing Observations: 3
13.     Urinal facilities.
is there a urinal?
Coat
3 unift 6 unit
pavilion  pavilion  Row
Total
URINAL
0      125      708      833
No                                     42.1
1      182      965     1147
Yes                                    57.9
Column     307     1673     1980
Total    15.5     84.5    100.0
Number of Missing Observations: 3



- 90 -
ANE  5-3
Page 7 of 8
14.     Likelihood of c      nity i,wt     nt bc sntinv a     mm  of p_avitis ve1nrqrd.
Count
3 unit 6 unit
pavilion pav1l1on   tow
Likelihood of                            Total
coami ty
irvolvement:    1       241      1255     1496
Cood                                    75.5
2       62       395      457
Moderate                                23.1
3        1        25       29
UnlikeLy                                 1.5
Cotuln     307      1675     1962
Total    15.5      64.5    100.0
NuWb r of Missing Observations: I
15.     Addtional klackbtiwds nmed by size  d in br of pwltus   rq"are
3 unit   6 unit
pavilion pavilion   Row
ITotal,
Additianal
blackboards      0        2         a       10
required                                    .6
I       11        34       45
2.5
2       46        96      144
1.1
3       78       178      256
14.4
4       39       161      200
11.2
5       13        68       A1
4.5
6       65       664      929
52.1
7        4        28       32
1.6
6        1        53       54
3.0
9        3         5        6
.4
10        4         5        9
.5
12        1        10       11
.6
14                  1        1
. I
15                  1        1
16                  1        1
Column     267      1515     1762
TotaL    15.0      85.0    100.0
NuMbr of Missing Obsrvations: 201



- 91 -
ANEX 5-3
Page 8 of 8
16.     Loation dwm  textboks we sted by size 1d   m     of pavillns.
3-unit  6-unit    RoN
STORAGE            pavilion pavitlfn  Total
LOCATION
1      230      752      982
School                                 49.5
2        6      526      572
Teacher a hause                        28.9
3       31      396      427
Other houses                           21.5
Other         4                  1        1
Column     307     1675      1962
Total    15.5     66.5    100.0
No. missing obsavatfons:  1
17.     _srol imlfty of fsumutur by sfze     uid          of pviliam rwArs&
3 unft  0 unit
povilion povflion   Now
Total
FURNITURE
AL I TY         1       75       271      3"6
Satisfactory                           17.5
2      232     1399     1631
Unsatifactory                         82.3
Other 3                 S         S
.3
CoLuw      307     1675      1962
Total    15.5     64.5    100.0
NLIsr of Missing Observations: I
a:survey (Ja41-b)



- 92 -                                  ANNEX 5-4
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Directive to DEOs on Minimizing the Loss of PuRils' Learning Time
GHANA EDUCATION SERVICE
EHADQUART')S
RUN,be? *.td tqIE  tt fb                                         NlInIsty Branch Post omUc
inter t__ be d.                                                           P. 0. Box M.S
My   GES/DG/OI 1/lf/"2                                                         Accrs
PSy J' - . So._
I&PUIUC Of GUIMA.
Apt-rI 22, 1993
MrrGATING THE EFFECT ON ACTUAL 7hACHING AND) LEARNG
TVf9 IN RASIr SCHOlOLS RY PACTORS SUCHI AS CONQUCTIN
spom7 EE    OR rDNECrING TrNINC EROGRAMME.S DURINC
[OrFloxL szcmoor tiO[RS
As you are aware, one of the surest ways of ensuring the attainment of good teaciting
and leaming situation In the school for the dellvery of quality education is by maintaining
official levels of teacher/plupil contact houw or Instructional time in the school. Report.s
from the monituoring of scihools indicate thaz4 nationwide there is rampant absetuecism In
schools by both teachers and pupils artiing from the following factors:
i)   teaciers are often called to meetings by District Education Officerv or Circuit
Supervisors during official school hours, leading to complete closure of school
during thiat period;
ff)   preparation for sporting events or rehearsals for ceremonial occasionu taking
place during official school hours, leading to non-attendance of classes;
lii)   training courses for teachers being conducted during official school hours
leading to classes being unattended;
iv)   Headteachers and teacher.t visiting district education offices during official
sc/hool hours.
The combined effect of all tJtese Is to drastically reduce instructional time in .schonls
resuldng in poor achievemcnt by pupils.
It has therefore been decided rthat with immediate effict:
I)    all nmcetings of Headtcaclers and teachers with District Education Officrt or
Circuit Supervisors should be reduced to a minimum and, should take place
outside official school hours;
Ii)   preparution for and 1Iolding of sporting urnd other events shouild take place
outside official sc/iool hour.M except as are authorised by the Minister of
Education;
iii) e-xcept for very urgent reasons, Headteacilers ancd teachers whiting to visit
district or regional education offices or the IICUqd(Uters 1SShldu  d )o outsuile
official scIhool hottur.
/...2



- 93 -                                 ANNEX 54
Page 2 of 2
*2-
District Education Officers are requc,:'?1 to ensure tdiat the directives are imrplemented
in all basic sc/tools within their ditricts.
DE    DlRECTOR-GEERAL
for., D!RCTOR.GENERAL
DlSTRrBUTIQ
ALL DISTRICT EDUCATION OFFICERS, GES.
ALL REGIONAL DIRECTORS OF EDUCATION, GES.
ALL REGIONAL MANAGERS OF EDUCATION UNITS.
Cc:   Thje Hon. Minister for Education
Ministry of Education, Accra.
Tlhe 1lon.L Deputy Ministers for Education
Ministry of Education, Accra.
Ag. Chief Director
Ministry of Education, Accra.
The Deputy Director-General 11, GES.
All Hqtrs Directors and Co-ordinators GES.
All Regional Directors
All Directors, MOE,       Accrm.
All General Managers of Edlucational Units.
Thie General Secretary
GClana National Assoc. of Teachers
Accra
The Dinmctor,
National Service Sclheme,
Accra.
The Co-ordinator, (Scltoot Edur.)
MirL of Educcation, Accrac



- 94 -                                   ANNEX  -S
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJELJ
Circular to Basic Education Head
GHANA EDUCATION SERVI1&
in cia .1 ,tpiy ~                                 HEADQUAMRS
/L      ae e I thbe                                                aishy Bnoul Pe  O.ee
jn a. MiL vb Ae qu@ftdii
letter shoud _ t ______                                                     P. O. BOX NL45
GES/DG/IOI1ll/23                                                           A
UUPIiC Xt Qali
Yew Raf. N._-
Apfil 22 1993
It has been observed that, ipitc of the injection of Lnputs such as teatbooks,
stationerj and other itens of teaching and learnn equipment and matenals Into the schools,
and inpite of the orientation and other trubn   courses for teachers ant other measure
taken to bnprove the teachig and leaning processes in the schlonoL the level of achievement
hy pupils in a koqe nunmber of bask educaion schools Imaes much to be desirfdL This state
of affairs is lagely attributable to the fact that a lurp number of teachers do not realy
teach during official school hours; tiwty absent themselves filon classes ostentibly to receive
medical treatment or attend funerals.
It is now time to put a stop to such beuwfour on the part of some of our teaches
and to ensur that every teacher mwally works. It is the responsibIity of Headtcachers to
ensur that all teachers under their chatV do w/tat is expeted of them by attending school
regularty and punctually and by teaching effectively during offlcial schtool houtu
In this regard, Headteucluers are requested to ensure tiat:
i)    absence from school on the parn of any teacher for medical pur,pose is
supported by a medical certifcate which has to be attached to the log book
In which it is recorned;
ii)   all extra-class activIties in thte school take ptace outside official school houm
District Education Officers are requested to make copies of this cimular for
distribution to all basic schiool Headteachlers in their dLstvrcts  77wy arm  rther reqused to
monitor and enforce the implementation of these directivls and #ye regular feedback
DEPUTY DIRECTOR.  :N RAL
for DOlRECTOrltENERAL



-95-
Page 2 of 2
2
HEADS OFALL BASIC SCHIOOLS.
ALL DISTCT EDUCATION OFFICERS, GES.
ALL REGIONAL MANAGERS EDUCATIONAL UNITS.
cc:   The lon. Miniter for Educaio
MIbraty of Educaion, Accra.
The Hon. Deputy MinLters of Educadoi
Ministry of Educxion
Ag. Chief Director
Mitnisy of Education, Accra
The Dapuy Dirctor-General M, GES.
All Hqtrt Directors and Co.ondbumo% GE 
All Regional Director
All Directors, Minity of Education,
Accra.
All Ginend A( Manayp of Educational Unk;s
TJe General Sertawy
Ghtana National Amsoc. of Trwchegs
Accra.
7he Director,
Vational Service Schnem,
Accra
77Tc Co-ordinator,
Srhtool Education,
Mfinistqy of Cducation
Accran



- 96 -
ANNEX5-6
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guidelines in Technigues of Cladding by Communities and
Standard Agreement with the Local Communities
1.    Preliminary Requirements: Check on the general state of the pavilion;
a)    Structure:    - whether structurally stable;
b)    Roof:         - is roof cover leaking, properly nailed, etc.;
c)    Wooden Parts: - whether treated or weak/decaying.
2.    Construction Guidelines
I.    Cladding Materials: Identify the type of cladding materials;
a)    Sandcrete
b)    Landcrete
c)    Improved laterite
All block sites are 12" x 9" x 5"
II.    Substructure
a)    Mark cut cutline for foundation;
b)    Excavate trench for strip foundation 1 ft. deep x 1 ft. wide
c)    Use mass concrete of mix 1:3:6 - 1-1/2" aggregate for foundation concrete to a depth of 4 inches.
Note:  1:3:6 means 1 part cement mixed with 3 equal parts of sand and 6 equal parts of stone. 1-1/2"
is the recommended size of stone.
d)    Place I course (layer) blockwork for foundation. Use cement mortar of 1:4 i.e., 1 part of cement
to 4 equal parts of sand.
III.   Type of Walls: Walls are to be either:
a)    Full for gable and partition walls and dwarf for side walls.
b)    Full for all walls with openings for doors and windows.
Dwarf walls are to be erected to a height of four feet (4'-O") and full walls to a recommended
height of eight feet (8'-O").
Cement mortar for walling is of 1:4 mix i.e., 1 part cement to 4 equal parts sand. There are two
(2) entrances each four feet (4' x 06") wide per classroom. Cement blackboards of 10 ft. x 3 ft.
x 1/2 inch each per classroom fixed at partition walls.



- 97 -
ANNEX5-6
Page 2 of 6
IV.   Recommended Finishings:
Lay concrete coping on dwarf walls where provided.
Internal and/or external rendering/plastering.
Internal and/or external painting.
3.    Notes on Design for Cladding Pavilions
a)    Design: A three unit classroom for a pavilion is designed to take 45 pupils per classroom. Each
classroom has a floor area of 27' x 16" and eaves area of 30" x 22".
b)    Units of Measurement and Dimension: All units of measurement and dimension are in the
imperial system i.e., English units.
c)    Foundation: Strip footing cast for walls 1 ft. x 1 ft. using mass concrete of 1:3:6 mix with 1-1/2"
aggregate. Depth of foundation concrete is 4" and lay blockwork for foundation the 5" side up.
d)    Walls: All walls are to be erected using 5" laterite blocks.
e)    Stabilizing Pavilion Walls:
End Walls: See sketch break linearity of walls of eigth (8) ft. from side wall:
T wv  be     r  sts
Laterite direction and partition walls: Erection to be done so that walls are tightly sandwiched
between existing wooden posts of pavilion structure.



,A TYPIC-A- Fr-ot4T ELEVATION  oF A C-ADDED  PP-ImA-MY SC*-OOL-  PAvILb-"O
L I JIS       I



- 99 -
ANNEXS
Page 4 of 6
TYPICAL GABLE '- PARTIrON4 E LEVAVtIo
[ j;E'~~~~~~~-  L I   1It1



- 100 -
ANNEX5-6
Page 5 of 6
Standard Agreement Between Ministry of Education and Local Communities.
for School Pavilion Site Preparation. Cladding.
and Supervision of School Activities
District Code:................
School Code:................
This agreement is signed this .day of.
One Thousand Nine Hundred and Ninety Three (1993) between the Ministry of Education, Accra, (herein
referred to as MOE), and the local community of .school, represented
jointly by the chief of .............., the headteacher of .school, the
local Assemblyman and the Presiding Member of ........... ........... District Assembly and the District
Chief Executive (herein referred to as the local community).
Whereas the MOE has obtained funds from the World Bank under the Primary School
Development Project to construct a group of three-classroom/six classroom (delete as appropriate) units
of school pavilions, including precast concrete floors, at the school site at no charge to the local
community, And,
Whereas the MOE has agreed to enter into contract with the local community represented jointly by the
Chief of ...         .....  School, the elected Assemblyman and Presiding Member of the
................... District Assembly and the District Chief Executive.
Now the local community hereby agrees to:
-      abolish all fees and levies on primary school children charged by the PTAs in excess of
those approved by the Ministry of Education;
-      clear and prepare the site as laid out and instructed by MOE consultants;
-      mobilize community labour to clad the school building, and prepare cement blackboards,
strictly adhering to the attached "Community guidelines for School Pavilion Cladding";
-      ensure that for each unit pavilion of three (3) classrooms, thirty-six (36) bags of cement,
nails and the needed sand are available for the mortar and the blackboards;
-      complete the cladding within six months of pavilion installation by MOE's contractor as
certified by MOE Consultant.
The local community further agrees to:
-      ensure that all children of school age attend school regularly, and on time;



- 101 -
ANNEX5
Page 6 of 6
-      ensure that the Headteacher and all teachers are present during official school hours, and
to report any persistent absences to the Circuit Supervisor and District Education Officer;
-     ensure that the cladded pavilions are well maintained;
-     ensure that the school compound is made and kept neat and beautiful.
If the local community requires advice on aspects of the cladding this can be provided by the
Circuit Supervisor and Circuit Monitoring Assistants or the District Community Development Officer.
The "Community Guidelines for School Pavilion Construction" are construed as a part of this
agreement.
........................               .1.  Name: .
For and on behalf of MOE                    Sign: .
Chief of:. 
2. Name: .
Sign: .
Assemblyman from: .
3. Name: .
Sign:. 
Headteacher of.           
4. Name: .
Sign:.
Presiding Member of:.
5. Name: .
Sign:.
District Chief Executive for and
on behalf of local community
In the presence of
Name:.
Signature:.
a:cladding (ja40-b)



- 102 -
ANNEX 5-7
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Practical Duties and Responsibilities of the Primary School Headteachers
1.           The Headteacher's duties and responsibilities extend beyond office duties and supervision of
work of classroom teachers and pupils.
A.    GENERAL
2.            Before school re-opens at the beginning of the academic year, the headteacher should:
(a)    Know the environment in which the school is situated, familiarize him/herself with the town
or village.
(b)    Meet the chief and prominent members in the town, if you are newly appointed, you
introduce yourself and pay respect, if you are returning to your old station you will call a meeting as a matter
of courtesy and discuss any plans you have for the new school year. Other people to be met are (a) School
Committee members, P.T.A. chairman, Local Pastor, Assemblyman, and the CDR representative.
(c)    Meet the Circuit Officer and District Education Officer if the school is in a municipality.
(d)    Collect materials form the District Education Office i.e chalk, notebooks, registers, etc.
(e)    Help new teachers to find accommodation in the town or village.
(f)    Examine the school building to see if there are repairs to be made. Furniture must also be
looked at.
B.    STAFF MEETING:
3.           Just before the academic year begins the headteacher should call a staff meeting on Friday
preceding the first day of school. The agenda should be as follows:
(a)    Self introduction by staff members and indication by staff members of their special interest to
facilitate allocation of duties.
(b)    Appointment of Assistant Headteacher. Normally the Assistant Headteacher is the most
senior person next to the Headteacher in rank.
(c)    Allocation of classes to teachers.
(d)    Distribution of textbooks, teachers' notebooks, registers, syllabuses, time-tables, and other
materials to teachers. New teachers are shown their classrooms after the meeting.
(e)    Staff duties are assigned according to the interests and capabilities. Among such duties are:
the staff secretary, officers for sports and Games, Music and Culture, Health and Sanitation and a
Disciplinary Committee. Officers should be appointed to serve as School treasurer, GNAT Representative,
PTA Secretary, Sectional teachers and a staff welfare officer.



- 103 -
ANNEX 5-7
Page 2 of 4
C.    DUTY ROSTER:
4.            The Headteacher must draw up a staff weekly duty roster and spell out clearly the job
description in writing, namely:
(a)    Inspection of classrooms and compound to see that they are tidied before morning assembly or
afternoon session for shift schools.
(b)    Conduct morning and closing assembly.
(c)    Compile sectional reports and marks. e.g marks for inspection of uniforms, for school plots.
(d)    Locking up of classrooms at the end of the day. The duty roster should be put on the office
notice board and at another place where all teachers can refer to it.
D.    THE FIRST DAY OF THE SCHOOL YEAR
5.            Staff Attendance Book: The Headteacher should keep a staff attendance book ruled out as
follows:
DATE             NAME OF           ARRIVAL          DEPARTURE   REMARKS
TEACHER          TIME              TIME
6.            Each teacher should sign the correct time by the school watch. Where a teacher comes in late
or leaves earlier than the closing time, the reason must be written in the remarks column. Normally each late
arrival and early departure is not allowed.
The staff attendance book must be kept and signed at the headteacher's office.
E.    CLEANING AND TIDYING OF THE SCHOOL GROUNDS
7.            The Headteacher must ensure that the tidying up of the school compound and classrooms is
done. If there is heavy work to be done e.g weeding it must be done in stages outside official school hours
in order not to waste learning time.
F.    MORNING ASSEMBLY
8.           The Headteacher conducts the morning assembly and introduces teachers to children and their
classes and sections. Teachers stand at the back and sing, pray, and recite the pledge with children.
G.    ADMISSION OF PUPILS
9.            The headteacher admits new pupils who have registered. Names and particulars of pupils are
to be written in the School's Admission Register and the admission numbers put in the class registers.
H.    DAILY ROUTINE OF A HEADTEACHER:
10.          The Headteacher should:
(a)    Come to school early. That is a must.
(b)    Dress neatly and decently.



- 104 -
ANNEX 5-7
Page 3 of 4
(c)    Vet teachers' lesson notes on Monday. Teachers should hand in their lesson notes by 8:00
am at the latest every Monday. The Headteacher should read through carefully and make corrections,
comments and suggestions in a separate exercise book and discuss with the teacher. Comments should never
be written in a teacher's notebook. Insist on neatness, the use of the proper format for writing notes,
underlining headings etc. Ensure that notes are based on the syllabus and expanded scheme of work.
(d)    Notebooks are school property and must be treated as such.
(e)    Ensure that the toilets and urinals are in good working order.
(f)    See that there is good drinking water for the children. Where there is no pipe-borne water,
the Headteacher should buy some covered containers and cups and store water for the children to drink.
(g)    See that the class registers are marked and closed on time at the end of the day. They are not
to be taken home, kept in cupboards or teachers' drawers.
(h)    Help teachers to obtain information for teaching and preparation of teaching aids.
(i)    Put all letters and circulars on a float file for teachers to read and sign.
(i)    File all letters and circulars after teachers have read and signed. Files should be opened for
different subjects and kept properly.
(k)    Give in-service training to new teachers, pupil-teachers, national service personnel and to old
teachers when there are changes and new trends in education. Teachers who attend courses should be made
to impart the knowledge to the rest of the staff. Carry-out general in-service.
(I)    Keep all school records.
(m)   Collect fees approved by Government personally, issue approved receipts promptly and pay
the money collected for textbook user fees to the District Office. Textbook fees must be entered against the
child's name in the register, and in the textbook cash book.
(n)    Keep proper accounts of the school and be ready for auditing and checking at any time.
(o)    Record all important events in the Log Book e.g GNAT Meetings. Open Days. School
Breaking for holidays, etc.
(p)    Check on late coming and absenteeism of teachers and pupils.
(q)    Reply to all correspondence and feed the District Education Office with all the information
needed about the school.
(r)    Attend Headteachers' meetings - Don't delegate that to a teacher or staff to represent you.
(s)    Go around during teaching and check on teachers' and children's work. All subjects should
be taught.
(t)    See that assessment forms and cumulative records are properly filled in by teachers. He/She
should read all comments on the report sheets before they are sent to parents.
11.           Call a staff meeting at least twice a term at the beginning and end of a term. Other meetings
could be called when necessary.



- 105 -
ANNEX 5-7
Page 4 of 4
12.          Receive all visitors and officers who come to the school.
13.          Make teachers hand over property at the end of the year or when going on transfer.
14.          Waste should be disposed of properly.
I.    THE LAST DAY OF TERM
(a)    The Headteacher should call a staff meeting a day before the end of term - Review the term's
work and discuss children's reports, etc.
(b)    The Headteacher should ensure that the classrooms and compound are tidied up and locked up
properly before dismissing the children.
(c)    The Headteacher should conduct the closing assembly and give relevant announcements e.g.
re-opening date, fees, etc.
(d)    Log the closure of the school for holidays.
J.    OPEN DAYS
15.          The Headteacher should organize an Open Day each year for parents and guardians and well
wishers. This is the time that parents and guardians come into the school to see the good work that the
teachers and pupils have done. It encourages parents and guardians to help the school with its needs.
16.          On open days the Headteacher should invite the important personalities in the town. The
DEO and his/her staff, the Unit head, and any other special guests. Some schools add prize giving to their
open days.
K.    PARENT-TEACHER ASSOCIATION
17.          A Headteacher should ensure that the school has a PTA of which he/she is a member. A staff
normally is the secretary. The Headteacher should inform the PTA about what happens in the school.
He/She must however n= handle the PTA money.
18.          The Headteacher should encourage the PTA to provide the basic needs of the school e.g.
tables and chairs, cupboards, etc.
L.    CONCLUSION
19.          For a Headteacher to perform the duties and responsibilities listed effectively, he/she must be
academically and professionally competent. He must have leader qualities, must be tolerant, sympathetic,
disciplined, must have foresight, and be progressive. To crown it all the Headteacher must be firm and fair.
Source: Ministry of Education. January 1992.
a:Headm (ja4O-b)



- 106 -
ANNEX 5-8
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Headteacher Management
1.     Recruitment of Headteachrs:
A more rational system of headteacher recruitment implies both upgrading the headteacher qualification
levels and giving communities more of a say in the selection of headtoachers, to guantee a higher degree of
headteacher retention at place of appointment. This can be achieved by the following two steps:
Sp.1.: Candidates should have a minimum post secondary teacher's certificate.
Sp2: Individual interviews should be held before placement on the school premises by a panel of the following
four members:
(a)    District Assistant Director for Manpower and Training
(b)    Community Chief/elder/prominent member/Assemblyman
(c)    Representative of the PTA who is a parent
(d)    Representative of GNAT
The main criteria for selection of qualified candidates should be their willingness to be posted to remote
areas, and remain there for a minimum of 4 years. All 1988 headtoachers for the project schools will be
reappointed on this basis.
I.    Training of Headteachers:
A.    Training Model: Ad hoc workshops, albeit annually, with large numbers of participants and the principle
methodology used of lecturing, with little practical training have proven to be not too effective so far in headteacher
and teacher training in Ghana.
The cascade model of training expected to prodwe a multiplier effect also has several shortfalls. Firstly,
it relies on a long training chain where messages and training content can change by the time they reach the last
in the chain. Secondly, it is a top-down model, where useful feedback which can help modify training, is seldom
received from participants.
The training model proposed for headteachers' training in this project will therefore be more innovative,
and will offer a variety of training activities, including an initial 14 day pro-appointment orientation, followed with
in-service workshops during holidays after every term (2 days at a time), and self-directed learning through distance
education materials. The model will look like this:
At Recruitment               Refresher in-service everv term
14 days at base                    > 2 day workshops
Location: 40 district centres
Trainers: TOT by DEOs, TTC tutors, core staff from Winneba/IEPA/MOE
All levels of training will be carried out during school holidays. The initial training following'
reappointment of headteachers should be completed before June 1994.



- 107 -
ANNEX 5-8
Page 2 of 3
The trainers for the initial training will be 200 in number. This team will be made up of 110 Distict
Education officers (or their Assistant Directors in charge of Manpower and Training), 70 selected tutors from
Teacher Training Colleges, 5 core of specialists from University College of Education at Winneba, 5 core of
specialists from the Institute of Educational Planning at Cape Coast, and 10 resource person from MOE/GES. The
training of trainers will be held prior to the headteachers' training, for a total of 14 working days, in one of the
national training centres.
The same trainers as mentioned above will be used for the annual in-service training for headteachers held
at each District capital, for 6 days each year (2 days at a time during each term holiday).
The headteacher will be responsible for carrying out minimum and regular in-service training for all
teachers appointed to their respective primary schools. One afternoon outside official teaching hours, every two
weeks will be allocated regularly by the headteacher for the in-service training of staff, focusing particularly on
teaching methodology and informal methods of measuring pupil performance. Leaning Milestone Sheets for mixed-
ability classes will be prepared by the Winneba School of Education or the Institute of Educational Planning at UCC,
and included in the headteacher's manual. These will be a guide containing suggested activities for teachers to
monitor learning outcomes in each subject, for P1 through P6.
B.     Training Materials: The Education Development and Extension Department of the University College
of Education at Winneba, or the Institute of Educational Planning at the University of Cape Coast, will be
designated as the authorised body responsible for the preparation of the following training materials, in collaboration
with the Ministry of Education:
1.     Training materials for headteachers using a modular approach (see under course content below).
2.     Training materials for training of trainers.
3.     In-service workshop materials.
4.     Staff appraisal sheets for assessing teacher effectiveness.
S.     Learning Milestone sheets for mixed-ability classes.
6.     School and the Community activity sheets.
The headteachers will be given a Headteacher's Manual containing ten headteacher training modules (see
course content below), staff appraisal sheets, Learning Milestone sheets, School and the Community activity sheets,
and record-keeping formats on teacher absenteeism, pupil attendance and drop-out, staff and PTA meetings, school
finances, and school supplies.
C.     Course Content: The headteachers training will be based on ten modules:
(a)    Principles of personnel management: Leadership and supervision role, conducting every term staff
meetings and keeping of minutes, orientation in disciplinary actions which may be taken, role and procedures of
disciplinary committees, code of ethics for headteachers.
(b)    Assessment of teacher 2erformance: Reporting on teacher absenteeism (keeping of records on each
teacher indicating lateness, leave days, sick days, etc.), conducting every term teacher appraisals and the preparation
of teacher appraisal reports, supervision of learning Milestone Sheets, role of classroom observation, ensuring lesson
planning and completion of schemes of work, etc.
(c)    In-service training sessions for school teachers: Principles of staff development and conducting
in-service training sessions, teaching methodology for primary schools, role of punishment and reward in teaching,
code of ethics for teachers, the rights of the child to education.
(d)    Managing instructional time: Organisation of the school imetable and general activities of the
school, flexible school hours, orientation to syllabus and regulations concerning instructional time, regulations
regarding holidays and extra-curricular activities, afternoon shifts, etc.



- 108 -
ANNEX 5-8
Page 3 of 3
(e)     Managing the use of learning resources: Managing and maintaining school buildings and facilities,
maintenance of school furniture, blackboards, cupboards, library books, etc., ordering, receiving, purchasing, and
distribution of school supplies, eg. textbooks, exercise books, chalk, pencils, etc.
(f)     Formal and informal methods of assessing student performance: Varieties of informal assessment
activities, individual/pair/group tasks and assignments, quizzes, fostering cooperation and competition in learning
tasks, formal assessment activities: formative and summative testing, basic record-keeping for continuous
assessment, supervision of teachers' assessment.
(g)     Plannin2 extra-curricular activities:  Types of extra-curricular activities, planning of extra-
curricular activities in afternoons and holidays.
(h)     LmRroving school community relationships:  PTA and its functions, holding PTA meetings,
fostering good relations with the local community, commitment expected from communities for school construction,
cladding, maintenance and supervision, generating local resources including materials, labour, artisans, and
community members to teach, etc.
(i)     Increasiny school intakes and attendance: Keeping accurate school admission and attendance
records/registers, keeping detailed records on drop-out children including reasons for drop-out and follow-up actions
taken by headteacher/teacher, ways of identifying and attracting non-enrolled children.
(j)     Financial mana2ement and accountability: Managing the finances of the school, authorised and
non-authorised fees, managing finances collected through PTA, income generated through school farm etc., buying
and selling of exercise books, uniforms, etc., teacher salaries.
IV.    Sunervision of Headteachers and Teachers: The supervision of headteachers is primarily the responsibility
of the circuit supervisors and the Circuit Monitoring Assistants, with community level support from the PTA, and
the community chief/elder, as well as district level support from the district education officer.
As part of the headteacher's self-supervisory role, he/she will be required to keep stringent records, as
specified in the headteachers' manual issued by the Ministry of Education (see above).
All records kept by headteachers will be subject to inspection by Circuit Supervisors during their visits each
term/twice each term to the schools, and by the District Education Officers or their Assistant Directors, or the
Chairman of the PTA, or the community chief/elder, upon request.
As long as the headteacher is found to be carrying out the functions specified in the Headteacher's Manual
(ckocked by DEO each term), he/she will be allowed to stay in the headteacher's house paying a rent equivalent
to 2 % of his/her salary per month. However, additional rent may be levied from the headteacher's monthly salary
by the DEO/Chairman of the PTA if the headteacher is found to be non-performing. Persistent cases of non-
performing headteachers, ie. those issued with a warning by the circuit supervisor twice, will be referred to the
district disciplinary committee upon the issuance of the third warning.
The supervision of teachers will be mainly the reponsibility of the headteacher. This will be done
primarily through regular staff meetings, and by keeping staff records on each teacher indicating lateness, leave
days, sick days, and staff appraisal reports prepared each term. At each term staff meetings, teacher attendance
records will be read out by the headteacher, emphasising achievements (regular attendance, monitoring milestone
sheets for pupils) of individuals, as well as deficiencies (lateness, absence, drunkenness, other unprofessional
behaviour). Warnings will be issued by the headteacher every time a teacher conducts deficient behaviour. The
first warning will be verbal, the second written and shared with the Circuit Supervisor, the third written and referred
to the District Education office for disciplinary action.
a:headanne (ja40-b)



- 109 -
ANNEX 5-9
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Description of the Training Program
and Implementation Schedule
A.     General Orientation for Key District Officials:
1.     Identification:
a) Total Number of Participants:      110 Districts x 6 persons = 660 participants
b) Number of programmes:              1 programme x 4 zones = 4 programmes
c) Number of days per programme:      1-1/2 days
d) Frequency:                         PYI, PY3
e) Number of Trainers:                8 trainers
Trainers should be:
Project Manager;
Coordinator for basic education/MOE; Director for basic
education/GES; Representative from GNAT.
f) Location:                          Tamale, Kumasi, Cape Coast, Accra
g) Prerequisites:                     Participants should be:
District Presiding Member; Chief Executive; Chairperson of
Social Committee; District Education Officer; PWD
Engineer; and Community Development Officer
2.     Description:
The general orientation training will cover the following areas: (i) orientation in the project
objectives and its scope; (ii) role of district in contracting and supervising headteacher house construction; (iii)
awareness of the current poor level of teaching and learning in schools on project sites, and a recognition of
how that has to change dramatically for the success of the project; (iv) orientation on the commitment expected
from project site communities for construction, cladding, maintenance, and supervision.
Educational Objectives: The objective of the training will be inform key District officials about
the objectives of the project, and the key role they will be expected to play in its implementation.
Methods: 660 officials will be divided into 4 groups of 165 each. They will be provided with
all relevant documents and contracts relating to the headteachers, the headteachers houses and community
mobilization for pavilion cladding, pictures of poor school facilities, and given brief information on problems of
quality within the school system. Participants will work through lectures, group discussions, and plenaries.



- 110 -
ANNEX 5-9
Page 2 of 6
B.     General Orientation Trainin2 for Local Community Leaders:
1.    Identification:
a) Total Number of Participants:     2,000 sites x 3 persons = 6,000 participants
b) Number of programmes:             3 programmes x 110 Districts = 330 programmes
c) Number of days per programme:     1-1/2 days
d) Frequency:                        PY1, PY3
e) Number of Trainers:               6 trainers per district
Trainers should be:
MOE officials involved in project implementation and those
who were participants in the general orientation training for
key district officials, namely, District Chief Executive,
District Education Officer, PWD engineer, and District
Community Development Officer.
f) Location:                         In each of the 110 districts
g) Prerequisites:                    Participants should be:
Local Community Leaders, namely, Community Chief,
Local Assemblyman, CDR Chairperson
2.     Description:
The general orientation training will cover the following area: (i) orientation in the project
objectives and its scope; (ii) awareness of the negative impact fees have on student enrollments; (iii) awareness
of the current poor level of teaching and learning in schools on project sites and their role in improving this;
(iv) community role in headteacher selection; and (v) orientation on the commitment expected from project site
communities for construction, cladding, maintenance, and supervision.
Educational Objectives: The objective of the training will be inform key community leaders
about the objectives of the project, and the key role they will be expected to play in its implementation.
Methods: 6000 community leaders will be divided into groups within each District. They will
be given all documentation relating to the cladding of the pavilions, and the headteacher house, and will also be
given the agreement form to study prior to obtaining signatures. Participants will work through lectures, group
discussions, and plenaries.



- 111 -
ANNEX 5-9
Page 3 of 6
C.     Community Mobilization WorkshoRs for Circuit Monitoring Assistants (CMAs) and Circuit Sunervisors
(CSs):
1.     Identification:
a) Total Number of Participants:      500 participants
b) Number of programmes:              4 programmes
c) Number of days per programme:      3 days
d) Frequency:                         PYI (twice), PY2, PY3
e) Number of Trainers:                4 trainers x 4 zones = 16 trainers
Trainers should be:
Zonal supervision teams.
f) Location:                          Tamale, Kumasi, Cape Coast, Accra
g) Prerequisites:                     Participants should be:
Circuit Monitoring Assistants or Circuit Supervisors
2.     Description:
The workshops will cover the following areas: (i) provide general orientation for the
CMAs/CSs; (ii) orientation in the agreement forms for Headmasters; (iii) orientation in the role of the PTA;
(iv) awareness of the current poor level of teaching and learning in schools on project sites, and a recognition of
how that has to change dramatically; (v) orientation on the commitment expected from the communities for the
cladding of the school pavilions, general maintenance, and supervision; (vi) orientation on the preparation and
submission of field reports on the schools after supervision; (vii) use and maintenance of standard buildings; and
(viii) use of resources available to CMAs/CSs (imprest, DSAs, refresher courses, etc.).
Educational objectives: The objectives of the workshops will be to orient the CMAs/CSs in
community mobilization techniques which they can impart to the communities, as well as orienting them on the
role of headteachers and their job descriptions.
Methods: The CMAs/CSs will each attend two workshops in the first year, and at least one in
each successive year. The participants will receive practical training in cladding, on community mobilization,
as well as a step-by-step orientation into the roles and functions of headteachers.
3.     Materials: Easy to follow 'Do it Yourself' cladding manuals, designed with simple pictures adapted for
illiterates. Agreement forms for local communities on cladding and general school supervision tenancy
agreement for headteacher, and site plans for all schools in a particular circuit.
f



- 112 -
ANNEX 5-9
Page 4 of 6
E.     Primary School Management and Teaching Methodology:
1.     Identification:
a) Total Number of Participants:       2,000 participants
b) Number of programmes:               4 programmes x 10 Regions - 40 programmes
c) Number of days per programme:       14 days initial (pre-appointment);
2 days every school holiday (6 days per year)
d) Frequency:                          PY1, PY2, PY3
e) Number of Trainers:                 200 trainers
Trainers should be:
110 District Education Officers, 70 Tutors of Education
from Teacher Training Colleges, S persons from Winneba
Education Development and Extension Department (core of
specialists), 5 persons from Institute of Educational Planning
at UCC (core of specialists), 10 Resource persons from
MOE/GES
f) Location:                           40 District Centres in each of 10 regions
g) Prerequisites:                     Participants should be:
Headteachers of the project site schools
2.     Description:
The headteachers' training will be based on ten modules: i)principles of personnel management; ii)
assessment of teacher performance; iii) in-service training sessions for school teachers; iv) managing
mstructional time; v) managing the use of learning resources; vi) formal and informal methods of assessing
student performance; vii) planning extra-curricular activities; viii) improving school community relationships;
ix) increasing school intakes and attendance; x) financial management and accountability.
All levels of training will be carried out during school holidays. The initial training following
reappointment of headteachers should be completed before June 1994. Headteachers will also attend annual in-
service refresber courses at each District capital, for 6 days each year (2 days at a time during each term
holiday).
The headteacher will be responsible for carrying out minimum and regular in-service training for aU
teachers appointed to their respective primary schools. One afternoon outside official teaching hours, every two
weeks will be allocated regularly by the headteacher for the in-service training of staff, focusing particularly on
teaching methodology and informal methods of measuring pupil performance. Learning Milestone Sheets for
mixed-ability classes will be included in the Headteachers' Manual, and will be a guide on suggested activities
for teachers to monitor learning outcomes in each subject, for P1 through P6.
Educational Objectives: The headteacher's training and materials wiU improve the skill and the
motivation of the headteacher, and enable him to become the key supervisor, responsible for ensuring that all
headteachers turn up regularly and on time, and also help ensure that all the teachers are teaching more
effectively.
Methods: A variety of techniques will be used, including lectures, practical exercises, group work, pair
work, and individual work. Plenaries, demonstrations, and role play activities will encourage group
participation.
3.     Materials: Headteachers Instruction Manual (3,000 copies). The Headteacher's Manual will contain ten
headteacher training modules, staff appraisal sheets, Learning Milestone sheets, School and the Community
activity sheets, and record-keeping formats on teacher absenteeism, pupil attendance and drop-out, staff and
PTA meetings, school finances, and school supplies.



- 113 -
ANNEX 5-9
Page 5 of 6
F.     Training of Trainers:
1.     Identification:
a) Total Number of Participants:       350 participants
b) Number of programmes:               1 programme x 4 zones = 4 programmes
c) Number of days per programme:       10 days
d) Frequency:                         PYI, PY2
e) Number of Trainers:                 20 trainers
Trainers should be:
Professional and technical staff from MOE/GES, University
College of Education at Winneba, IEPA at the University of
Cape Coast.
f) Location:                          Tamale, Kumasi, Cape Coast, Accra
g) Prerequisites:                      ParticiDants should be:
110 District Education officers, 150 District Assistant
Directors, 70 selected tutors from Teacher Training
Colleges, 5 core of specialists from the University College
of Education at Winneba, 5 core of specialists from the
Institute of Educational Planning at UCC, and 10 resource
persons from the MOE/GES.
2.     Description:
The training of trainers will cover the following areas:
(a)    The ten modules contained in the Headteachers' Manual which are: principles of personnel
management; assessment of teacher performance; in-service training sessions for school teachers; managing
instructional time; managing the use of learning resources; formal and informal methods of assessing student
performance; planning extra-curricular activities; improving school community relationships; increasing school
intakes and attendance; financial management and accountability.
(b)    Other components of the Headteachers' Manual, namely: staff appraisal sheets, Learning Milestone
sheets, School and the Community activity sheets, and record-keeping formats on teacher absenteeism, pupil
attendance and drop-out, staff and PTA meetings, school finances, and school supplies.
(c)    Orientation in the primary school syllabus; orientation in the project objectives and its scope;
orientation in the role of the PTA; orientation in the functions of the members of the disciplinary committees
(district and central); awareness of the current poor level of teaching and learning in schools on project sites,
and a recognition of how that has to change dramatically for the success of the project; orientation on the
commitment expected from the communities for the cladding of the school pavilions, general maintenance, and
supervision.
Educational Objectives: To enable the trainers become effective and responsible for initial pre-
appointment and follow-up refresher training of the headteachers.
Methods: A variety of techniques will be used, including lectures, practical exercises, group work, pair
work, and individual work. Plenaries, demonstrations, and role play activities will encourage group
participation.
3.     Materials: Training of Trainers Manual (500 copies) to be prepared by University College of
Education at Winneba or the Institute of Educational Planning and Management at UCC.
a:tr (ja40-b)



Implelentation Schedule of the Training Program
... .. .....t@oatin                                         'Dte                ~       ±.ZkLTL.. 
........     .....                                                        I  
...... ...... . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r.
General Orientation    Prof. (1); Key District   110 Districts           June 93         At               Sept. 93      Sept. 93       PYI, PY3J
Staff (2)                    660 officials                       Level                                         4 clauses at
General Orientation    Key           Local            2,000 sites        May 94          At               June 94       Sept. 96       PYI; PY3;
Training                District    Cauunity          X 3 leaders =                      District                                      1-1/2 days;
Officials   Leaders (3)    6,000 leaders                         Level
Carmnities              Technical   CHAS/CSs          500 CHAs/CSs       October 93      At               December      December       PY1 (twice); PY2;
Mobilization            Staff (8)                                                        National         July          July           PY3
Level                                         3 days
Cladding Techniques   CHAs/CSs    cammnity            2,000 sites        May 94          At               Informal       Informal      PY1I  PY2; 4 days
for Cammnities                       Members;        X 10 part.                          School
Heacnasters    20.000 part.                         Level
Primary School          DEOs; ADs   Headnasters 2/ 2.000 schools         December 93    At                April 94      April 96       PYI, PY2. PY3;
Management and          Tutors fran                   X I Headnaster                     District                                      PY1a 20 days;
Teaching Methodology   TTCs;                          =  2000 headm.                     Level or pair                                 PY2 A P13s 6 days
Prof.                                                            of districts                                  40 classes at once
Training of Trainers   Prof.         Trainers 3/    110 districts        December 93    At                December 93  June 94         PYI; PY2; 4 days
for above trainng                                    X 3 = 330 +                         National
-Tech. (20) = 350                   Level
1/  Six people fron each district  Presiding nmeber; Chief Executive; Chairperson of Social Ccunittee; DEO;
Public Works District Engineer; and Canminity Developnent Officer.
2/  Headmasters will provide in-service teacher training
3/ DEOs; Assistant Dir.; Tutors fran Teacher Training Colleges; Core staff fram Univ. College in Winneba, IBPA/UCC. or GES Training Center
in Ajumako; MOB Staff.
ai aS (ja4O-b)                                                03-May-93
0%



- 115 -
ANNEX 5-10
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Specialist Services Included in the Project and
Draft Terms of Reference of Key Technical Assistance
Specialty                           Person/Month
Project Manager                        48
Deputy Project Manager-Architect       48
Deputy Project Manager-Engineer        48
Architect                              48
Engineer                               48
Quantity Surveyors (2)                 72
Building Technicians (6)              216
Accountants (2)                        96
Total                                 624



- 116 -
ANNEX 5-10
Page 2 of 5
Terms of Reference of Key Technical Assistance
A. Project Manager
Responsibility: The Project Manager (PM) will be responsible for the general coordination and administrative
management of the project. The PM will head the School Building Section, which will include two architects, two
engineers, two quantity surveyors, six building technicians and support staff within the framework of the Coordinating
Unit for Managing External Funding (CU) in the Ministry of Education. The PM will handle all administrative and
contractual procedures necessary for the implementation of project activities, with the support of the disbursement and
procurement sections of the CU.
The PM will also have responsibility for developing a simple monitoring system to help collect and record procurement
information through prompt reporting of contract award information based on agreed implementation schedule. As part
of the semi-annual progress report to be submitted to IDA, the PM will provide: (a) a revised cost estimates for
individual contracts and the total project, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies; and
(b) a revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time of
individual contracts.
Qualifications: At least five (5) years of experience in managing a large and complex operation throughout Ghana.
Some experience with school buildings, and with World Bank or other donor funded projects would be an advantage, as
would be a knowledge of the educational and local governmental administrative systems. He/she will also have to make
a commitment to full-time employment for the life of the project.
Organizational Features: The PM will report to the Coordinator of the CU. He/she will have full responsibility for the
technical implementation of project activities within the limits of the agreed work plan. This includes frequent field
visits to monitor and ensure that project activities at the district level are taken place as scheduled and recommend any
remedial measures that may be necessary.
B.  Deputy Project Manaeers: Architect/Engineer
Responsibility: The Architect/Engineer will assure efficient supervision of the activities related to the construction
program. They will assist the Project Manager (PM) in carrying out activities related to the implementation of the
physical infrastructure of the project. This includes the planning, organizing, progranmuing, supervision and control,
and training of staff at the district level. The Architect/Engineer will also be required to: participate in frequent site
visits to assess the progress made; recommend corrective actions, where necessary; and submit a written report on their
findings after each visit to the PM. Finally, he/she will supervise the activities of the construction supervisors and
technical auditors, and for the four zonal monitoring teams.
The Architect/Engineer should also prepare instructions for CMAs and training programs for the mobilization and
supervision of the communities during the cladding of the school pavilions. At the beginning of the assignment, they
should establish and maintain a monitoring system to record the status of implementation of the construction program at
the district level.
He/she will carry out any other tasks that may be defined by the PM.
Oualifications: University degree in Architecture and/or Civil Engineering, validated and recognized internationally.
Five years or more of post qualification experience in drawing, construction administration preferably of small spread
out projects, and budgeting.
Organizational Features: The Architect/Engineer will report to the Project Manager, School Building Section. They
will have full responsibility for the technical implementation of project activities related to the construction program.



- 117 -
ANNEX 5-10
Page 3 of 5
C.  School Mapping Study
1.  Objectives of the Study: The study aims to provide Government with information that it will need in order to take
action to amalgamate small schools in order to enable a more rational use of resources for effective learning or, move
the location of a school so that it can serve a larger catchment area, or continue to run a school as a small school.
2.  Coverage of the Study: The study will cover the following schools and population that serve the schools:-
-     all primary schools with less than 100 students, other schools within 6km of such a school, and villages
served by the school;
-     all population settlements that are currently not served by any school;
-     for towns with a population in excess of 5,000 where there is more than one primary school, any school
with an enrollment under 180.
3.  The Survey: There will be a survey of each of the approximately 2,000 schools that will be in the sample, and a
survey of all settlements currently served by the school to estimate the proportion of six year old children who are not in
school, and the proportion of school age children (6-11) who are not in school. For each school a map will be produced
showing the number of households in communities served by the school, households in communities within 5km served
by no school, and schools and their enrollment within 6km of the school.
4.  Carrving out the Study: Responsibility for carrying out this school mapping study will be contracted to the
National Service Secretariat (NSS), and an international organization such as UNESCO's International Institute of
Educational Planning (IIEP) or a similar organization. NSS will be responsible for actually carrying out the survey and
coding the responses, whilst IIEP would provide consultants at three crucial stages namely; the design and testing of
survey instruments, the training of survey teams, and in setting up systems of data analysis and reporting.
5.  Phasing of the Study: Work is expected to start on this survey in January 1994, with preliminary results available
by September 1994 and the final report in December 1994.



- 118 -
ANNEX 5-10
Page 4 of 5
D.  Construction Supvision
1.  General: The Consultant shall be the representative of the Ministry of Education for all aspects relating to the
erection of approximately 3,659 triple prefabricated school pavilion units, and the casting of a concrete floor at
approximately 2,000 sites in every part of the country.
2. Pre-Contract Services: The Consultant shall between June and December 1993 visit each of the 2,000 sites, and
prepare a site plan showing where the 1 or 2 triple pavilion units will be placed, where the headteachers' house should
be constructed, and where eventually any school KVIP should be placed. If the existing school site is inadequate
discussion for a new site should be initiated.
The consultant should also discuss with the headteacher, and other community leaders the site preparation activities
they would undertake prior to the installation of the pavilion.
The consultant will assist in the evaluation of bids for the prefabrication and erection of the pavilions.
3.  Post-Contract Services: The consultant will be responsible for supervising that installation of the pavilions by the
contractor, and ensuring that sound procedures are used, and the specifications for both the pavilions and the procast
floor are strictly adhered to. It should be noted that the contract does not allow for variations of any type at all. It is
expected that post contract services will run from January 1994 to February 1997.
It is expected that the consultant will need to provide a supervisor for every four to ten gangs from the contractor,
depending on their proximity.
In addition the consultant will:
Issue all Information, notices, instructions to the Contractor as provided for in the Contract Documents.
Report quarterly on the progress of works, the contractor's performance, the quality of the works and materials,
the contractor's key staff and labour, plant, the project's financial status and forecasts.
To submit progress reports within fourteen (14) days after the end of the quarter.
To check and certify the contractor's payment certificates for each group of three pavilions.
To prepare and maintain inspection reports and records to adequately document the progress and performance of
the works.
To advise on disputes and assist the Client in any matter related to the proper interpretation and application of the
Conditions of Contract and the execution of the Works.
Perform any and all other assignments not specifically mentioned above but are necessary and essential to
successfully supervise and control the construction activities in accordance with the contract documents.



- 119 -
ANNEX 5-10
Page 5 of 5
E. Technical Auditor for the Headteacher House
The Consultants, who wiU act on behalf of the Ministry as Inspectors/Technical Auditors to make monthly rounds
of the country to visit each of the headteachers' houses that have been completed, to carry out the following functions
for each building for which a building construction agreement has been entered into between Govermment and the district
assembly/local community:
(a)   Take measurement to find out whether each structure has been built according to the drawings;
(b)   check whether sound building procedures have been followed, and that the various measurements are
according to specifications;
(c)   where possible, ascertain that materials being used are not of lesser quality than those specified in the Bills
of Quantities;
(d)   advise those involved in construction of any adverse procedures or specifications that they are following;
(e)   prepare monthly status report on the project for submission to the Ministry of Education and the World
Bank office in Accra;
(f0    provide all those involved in the construction with written instructions on the remedying of faults, and
follow up the implementation of previous instructions;
(g)   provide detailed calculations of cost savings to a contractor when constructing below specification;
(h)   prepare certificate for full completion of the structure;
(i)   if there are substantial deviations from the specifications and if these impose a potential hazard or danger to
users of the buildings or if the buildings or any part of them are in danger of collapse, the contractor will
have to take remedial action.
(j)   if these deviations do not impose a danger but involve a savings of more than 59% in construction cost, the
savings be calculated and recommendations made to Ministry of Education and the World Bank office in
Accra for a reduction in price paid.
(k)   No site will have to be visited more than twice.
a:sp (ja4O-b)



- 120 -                        ANNEX S-l I
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Bills of Ouantities for Headteacher House and Floor Plan
Unit Cost   Tota
Work        _         Area       (Cedis      Cost
I. SUBSTRUCTURE:
A. Site Preparation                     61 m2          85        5,185
B. Excavation:
Excavate oversite average
6 feet deep to remove all
vegetable soil, load wheel
and deposite off site.               61 m2         200       12,200
Excavate foundation trench
maximum depth not exceeding
5 feet deep starting at formation
level.                               12 m3         915       10,980
Backfill selected excavated
material around foundation.           8 m3         695        5,560
Remove surplus excavated
materials from site.                  4 m3         630        2,520
C. Harcore Filling
Approved imported laterite
hardcore filling to make up
levels under floors deposited
and compacted in 6 inches layers.    17 m3       4,000       68,000
D. Concrete Work
Mass concrete (1:3:6 1-1/2")
cast insite to foundation trench.     4 m3      31,000      124,000
Mass concrete (1:3:6 1-1/2")
6" thick in floor slab.              58 m2       3,500     203,000



- 121 -
ANNEX 5-Ill
Page 2 of 5
Unit Cost   Total
Work                  Area                 Cost
E. Blockwork
6" thick solid lancrete
blockwork laid level in cement
mortar (1:4) in trench.             43 m2       3,200     137,600
3/4' thick cement mortar (1:3)
rendering on external walls.         9 m2       1,200      10,800
Prepare and apply tbree coats
of emulsion paint on walls.          9 m2         400       3,600
IL SUPERSTRUCTURE:
A. Blockwork
5" landcrete blockwork in cement
mortar (1:4) in wals               177 m2       3,200     566,400
B. Roofing
0.6 mm thick long span corrugated
aluminium roofing sheet nailed
to hardwood purHins with laps
(measured separately).              74 m2       3,500     259,000
0.6 mm thick long span corrugated
aluminium roofing sheet nailed
to hardwood pur]ins with laps
(measured separately). 18 wide
in ridge cap.                       11 m        2,500      27,500
Half round 6" diameter aluminium
roof gutter supported by and
including 1/2" thick steel bracket
at 6 feet centers.                  35 m        2,000      70,000



- 122 -
ANNEX S-11
Page 3 of 5
I          l Unit Cost   Total
Work                  Area      (Cedis)     Cost
Sawn treated hardwood in:
2" x 4" rafter                      153 m         400       61,200
2" x 4" purlin                       97 m         250       24,250
2" x 6" ridge board                  11 m         400        4,400
2" x 4" sprockets                    19 m         280        5,320
2" x 2" ceiling jist and noggings  1085 m         350      379,750
D. Joinery
Wrought hardwood in:
1" x 9" fascing                      32 m         400       12,800
2" x 6" doors and window frames
plugged to blockwork                 78 m         520       40,560
2" x 1/2" batterns over ceiling beads  56 m       100        5,600
3/4" thick flush door (6)             9 m2       1,500      13,500
1-1/2" thick timber jelousie window  18 m2        550        9,900
E. Ironmongery
Pair 4" brass butt hings and fixing to
hardwood screws to match.            10          2,200     /22,000
Pair 3" brass butt hings and fixing to
hardwood screws to match.            16          1,500      24,000
Union brand mortice lock              6          7,000      42,000
3" barrel bolt                       16          1,000      16,000
F. Finishing
1/2" smooth cement and sand (1:4)
rendering to internal walls and
floor surfaces.                     252 m2       1,200     302,400
Cement and sand spatter on external
walls.                              202 m2       1,450     292,900
G. Painting
Prepare and apply three coats of
emulsion paint on walls.            404 m2        400      161,600
Prepare and apply three coats of
emulsion paint on ceiling surfaces.  38 m2        400       15,200



- 123 -
ANNEX S-l 
Page 4 of 5
Unit Cost   Total
Work             I  Area    (Cedis)       Cost
G. Painting (Cont'd)
Knot, prime, and stop and paint
two undercoats and one coat of
hard gloss oil paint on general
surfaces of woodwork.              67 m2        900      60Q300
Knot, prime and stop and paint
two undercoats and one coat of
hard gloss oil paint on door and
windown frames.                    76 m         900      68,400
H. Provisional sum of cedis 180,000
for external works (aprons and
drains).                                                180,000
G. Provisional sum of cedis 360,000
for a two seater detached KVIP.                         360,000
MUSUTMMARY:
Preliminaries:                                          500,000
Substructure:                                           583,445
Blockwork:                                              566,400
Roofing:                                                356,500
Carpentry:                                              474,920
Joinery:                                                157,360
Finishing:                                              595,300
Painting:                                               305,500
Provisional Sums:                                       540,000
Total Estimated Cost:
Southern Regioi:                                    4,200,000
Northern Regions:                                    5,100,000



1-                    '4  1.                                   11 gd,~'_4
LI VIN47etZ
14,i.                     1--4
N          I4~X,                       I,~
Xs"    -t- TS R RAC                  5L
___  ___  __    i__ __ _   !2._          3       5'                    _     
' I                                                               2   kVip p
-tA



- 125 -
ANNEX 512
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Standard Contract Agreement for the Construction of a Headteacher's House
District Code............
School Code..............
This contract is made this ................ day of ..  month and ...       .. year, between
the District Administration of ..................... district, represented by the Chief Executive Officer, and
confirmed by the Presiding Member of the District Assembly, and the Ministry of Education represented by the
District Education Officer
on one hand (the client) and .................. of .(the contractor) whose registered address
is:
on the other hand.
The Government of Ghana has entered into an agreement with the International Development Association
(IDA) to extend a credit, a part of which will be used to finance the costs of the construction of headteachers'
houses according to the attached detailed drawings, specifications, and bills of quantities; at approved school sites;
at a fixed price.
The client and the contractor have entered into a contract for the construction of a headteacher's house at
............................ school which is situated at ., for a fixed price of
.           ..       payable on completion of the house according to specifications, and certification by a team
of independent technical auditors. The contractor hereby agrees to start construction no later than .............. (date)
and complete within ............ weeks.
The house will be constructed on the school site, according to a site plan prepared by Ministry of Education
Consultants. Without the written approval of the Ministry of Education no other site can be used. It should be
noted that under this contract there will be absolutely no fluctuations and no variations in the contract price, and
that payment will be made only when the house has been completed according to specifications. 90 % will be paid
when the completion of the house has been certified by the District Chief Executive, and the remaining 10% when
it has been certified as complete according to specifications by the Ministry's Technical Auditor.
If there are any deviations from specifications which result in a reduction in cost of more than 5%, but
where these reductions do not cause any hazard or danger, these reductions will be deducted from the eventual price
paid. Where such reductions cause a danger or hazard, nothing will be paid.
As soon as the house is completed the contractor should inform the District Chief Executive in writing,
and the District Education Officer who will arrange for an early inspection by the technical



- 126 -
ANNEX 5-12
Page 2 of 2
auditors. Once the inspection has been successfully completed, payment will be made directly to the contractors'
Bank account as follows:
Account Name: ........................................
Account No.:   ........................................
Name of Bank:  ........................................
Address of Bank:........................................
Payment will always be made within 2 months of receipt of confirmation from the contractor that the house
has been fully completed according to specifications by the District Chief Executive. This confirmation must be
countersigned by the school headteacher, with the official stamp of the school.
If the contractor makes any false completion claim, there will be penalty of 2% of the contract price to
cover part of the cost of the wasted trip of the technical auditor.
Should the technical auditors deem that the work has not been completed according to specifications, or
acceptable standards, the contractor will be notified on the spot, in writing of the defects that will have to be put
right before payment is made.
The drawings, the specifications, the instructions and the bills of quantities shall be read and constructed
as a part of this agreement.
In witness whereof, the parties confirm to adhere to all details of the contract, and to complete the
construction rapidly and efficiently.
................................                          ........................................... ................
For and behalf of the Contractor                          District Chief Executive Officer
For and Behalf of the Client
Name:
Address:
In the presence of                                        In the presence of
Name:                                                     ................................................
Presiding Member District Assembly
Address:
District Education Officer
a:contract (ja40-b)



- 127 -
ANNEX 5-13
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Standard Tenancy Agreement for the Occupation of Headteacher's House
District Code ..............
School Code ................
This Tenancy Agreement is made this ......................... day of ..     month
and ................ year between the headmaster/headmistress .............................. (herein
reffered to as the head) name of school .                     and the District Education Officer
................................ (herein referred to as the DEO) for the occupation of the house constructed
at the school site.
The head hereby agrees to deposit monthy 2% of his/her salary to the school account, to be
specially kept to be used for minor repairs and maintenance of the house.
The head agrees to keep the house and its surroundings neat and clean at all times and carry out
any day to day repairs as may prove necessary.
More specially the head agrees to ensure that:-
-      he/she will attend in full all in-service training programmes organized for school heads;
-      she/she will be present at the school from between 8 a.m. to after official closing time
every day of the official school year. In exceptional cases, where he/she might have to
be absent, he/she must ensure that all other teachers will be present during official school
hours;
-      all other teachers in the school arrive on time, and do not leave before closing. He/she
will make sure that any teacher absence, for any reason be recorded in the school log,
and if this is for medical purposes the medical absence certificate must be attached to the
log;
-      he/she will inform the District Education Officer of any frequent and unauthorised
absence of any school teacher;
all sports, preparation for independence day and other celebrations and extracurricular
activities take place outside official instructional hours;
all school compound cleaning activities, fetching water, working on the school farm will
take place outside school hours;



- 128 -
ANNEX 5-13
Page 2 of 2
teachers in the school are made aware that the learning achievement of the children in
their classes is their responsibility. Thus honest continuous assessment, combined with
immediate remedial action is essential;
he/she will ensure that all the school teachers are using the text books and the other
teaching learning materials provided everyday;
he/she will organise a teachers meeting once a fortnight, outside official teaching hours,
during which problems teachers are facing in getting students to achieve the required
learning achievement levels will be discussed, and short in-service training held on
improved teaching methods;
he/she will not allow school children to work on anyone's private business on or farm
during school hours; and
he/she will arrange with the PTA/local community to keep the school building well
maintained, and the school compound a beautiful place.
It is hereby agreed that if the head does not keep the provisions of this agreement, the DEO will
inform the head in writing of the remedial action the head should take. If he still does not keep this
agreement the DEO will have the right and authority to deduct an additional 3% (to total 5%) of the
head's salary at source for school maintenance. If the head still fails to keep the agreement, he/she can
be asked to vacate the house.
The head confirms that he/she will adhere to all details of the agreement, and to ensure that steps
are taken to increase the amount of time spent on instruction, and the effectiveness of this instruction so
that learning achievement of all primary school children increases.
.. .......................................
District Education Officer
..........................................
Headmaster/Mistress
In the presence of
...........................................
Chairman of the PITA
a:tenancy 0a40-b)



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Project Cost Sumary
Cedis                                       USS                                      X Total
------------------------------------------    ---------------------*-*-----------       X Foreign          Base
Local       Foreign         Total          Local    Foreign      Total          Exchange         Costs
A   TRAINING AND ORIENTATION         1185350000      35990000    1221340000        1943197      59000    2002197                 3             3
a   PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURES        23120722000   12464858000   35585580000       37902823   20434193   58337016                35            93
C   PROJECT NGT. AND COORD.           971582124     218971080    1190553204        1592758     358969    1951727                18             3
D   TAXES AND DUTIES                  202769162             0      202769162        332408          0     332408                 0              1
Total BASELINE COSTS                 25480423286   12719819080   38200242366       41771186   20852162   62623348                33            100
Physical Contingencies             2283041450    1224351658    3507393108        3742691    2007134    5749825                35             9
Price Contingencies                6236295804    3379455449    9615751253        3192834    1756622    4949456                35             8
Total PROJECTS COSTS                 33999760540   17323626187   51323386727       48706711   24615918   73322629                34            117
============r*=sas=zt=fl ==SSfl=    tg-=5s=s=.wf=Ufls=n.ss===t=z                Z-w=eS-=S-SSZ ,-SS=S MSf_
..............  .................. .....................................    .....---------.------------------.---.....----------.....------------..--............-------------------.... 
4/13/1993  10:31
. 'U



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Suimary Account by Project Component
Cedis
Physical                  Price
PHYSICAL                                                            Contingencies              Contingencies
TRAINING AND  INFRASTRUCTU  PROJECT MGT.    TAXES AND                     -------------------------------------------------
ORIENTATION       RES       AND COORD.       DUTIES            Total                       Anoumt          X       Amount
================t====g=S=================v==========s:t=s=a=ss=n=sst=============s=-==sr===s=======uz
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. SCHOOL PAVILIONS                          0   23548200000             0              0   23548200000             10    2354820000          30    7022343727
2. HEADMASTERS HOUSES                        0    8665200000              0             0    8665200000             10    866520000           16   1344435991
3. CLADDING * SITES CLEARING                 0    1683140000              0             0    1683140000             10     168314000          27    449280636
Sub-total                                    0   33896540000              0             0   33896540000             10    3389654000          26    8816060354
B. ROOFING MATERIALS                          0     278280000              0             0     278280000             10      27828000          16      43174927
C. LOCAL TRAINING/WORKSHOPS          1088500000              0             0             0    1088500000              0             0          16    169099275
D. OFFICE EQUIPMENT
1. PORTABLE COtPUTER/PRINTER                 0             0        4880000             0       4880000             10        488000           a        404043
2. OTHER OFFICE EQUIPMENT                    0             0         610000             0        610000              5         30500           8         48124
Sub-total                                    0              0       5490000             0       5490000              9        518500           8        452167
E. PROD. OF TRAINING MAT.              35990000              0             0             0      35990000              5       1799500           8        2844372
F. VEHICLES                                   0             0      100026080             0     100026080             10      10002608           8       8281733
G. ALLOWANCES/HONORARIUM                      0              0      63360000             0      63360000              0             0          24       14898807
H. TECH. ASSISTANCE/STUO                                                                                                                                     I
1. LOCAL CONSULTANTS                  95500000    1410760000      339693476             0    1845953476              4      75313000          20     372911349
2. FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                       0              0             0             0             0              0             0           0              0
3. STUOIES                                   0              0      61000000             0      61000000              0             0           8       4591400
....-----.--------------------------------------------------------    --------------------------------------------......------------.......--...--------.....--........-..-....-----....-------C
Sub-total                             95500000    1410760000      400693476             0    1906953476              4      75313000          20      377502749             °
I. TAXES AND DUTIES                           0              0             0     202769162     202769162              0             0          18      36624598
J. SALARY OF CONTRACT STAFF                   0              0      18783648             0       18783648             0             0          24        4416887
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS               1219990000   35585580000      588353204     202769162   37596692366              9    3505115608          25    9473355868
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATING COSTS                      1350000              0     602200000             0      603550000             0       2277500           24     142395385
B. MAINTENANCE                            -   0              0             0             0              0             0             0           0              0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                   1350000              0     602200000             0     603550000              0       2277500           24     142395385
Total BASELINE COSTS                 1221340000   35585580000    1190553204      202769162   38200242366              9    3507393108          25    9615751253
Physical Contingencies                6642000    3488020000       12731108             0    3507393108
Price Contingencies                 186245960    9152971498      239909197      36624598    9615751253              9     821500436
Totat PROJECT COSTS                  1414227960   48226571498    1443193509      239393760   51323386727              8    4328893544          19   9615751253
Taxes                                       0             0              0             0             0              0             0
Foreign Exchange                     40633872   17029123393      253868921             0   17323626187              9    1523902316                                   o
4/13/1993  10:33                                                                                                                                                      0%



Stumary Accou nts by Year                                            Sumiary Accounits by YedI
Totals Including Contingencies                                       Totals Including Contingencies
Cedis                                                                  USs
1994         1995          1996          1997        Total           1994          1995          1996         1997         Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. SCHOOL PAVILIONS             1106930724   10772339210   13348963146   7697130647  32925363727         1718837     15455293      18488869      10529590     46192589
2. HEADMASTERS HOUSES           5135972634   5740183357             0             0   10876155991        7975113      8235557             0             0      16210670
3. CLADDING & SITES CLEARING     326386325    733111500    787278622    453958189   2300734636            506811       1051810      1090414        621010       3270044
Sub-Total                          6569289683   17245634066   14136241769   8151088836  46102254353        10200760     24742660      19579282      11150600      65673303
B. ROOFING IIATERIALS               164574199     184708728            0             0    349282927         255550        265005             0             0       520555
C. LOCAL TRAINING/WORKSHOPS         677035000     192354750    388209525             0   1257599275         1051297       275975        537686             0       1864958
D. OFFICE EQUIPMENT
1. PORTABLE COMPUTER/PRINTER       5772043             0            0             0       5772043          8963             0             0             0         8963
2. OTHER OFFICE EQUIPMENT           688624             0            0             0        688624           1069            0             0             0          1069
Sub-Total                             6460667             0            0             0       6460667          10032            0             0             0         10032
E. PROD. OF TRAINING MAT.            40633872             0            0             0      40633872         63096             0             0             0        63096t
F. VEHICLES                         118310421            0             0             0    118310421          183712            0             0             0       183712
G. ALLOJANCES/HONORARIUIH            17028000      19126800     20538540      21565467      78258807         26441         27442         28447         29501       111831
H. TECH. ASSISTANCE/STUDY
1. LOCAL CONSULTANTS             838927797    571992465    498980552    384277011    2294177825          1302683       820649        691109        525687      3340128
2. FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                   0             0            0             0             0              0            0             0             0            0
3. STLJIES                        65591400             0            0             0      65591400         101850            0             0             0        101850
========================================== =3===========  ==                             =t============ ========================
Sub-Total                           904519197    571992465    498980552    384277011    2359769225          1404533       820649        691109        525687'     3441978
1. TAXES AND DUTIES                 101074033      55274100     53736875      29308752    239393760         156947         79303         74428         40094       350772
J. SALARY OF CONTRACT STAFF           5048105       5670314      6088837       6393279      23200535           7839         8135          8433          8746        33153
---     -  -  - - -  -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  -  - -  - -  -  -   - -  . -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  .  . .  .  .    .  . -  .  -  .  -.
Totat INVESTMENT COSTS             8603973177   18274761223   15103796097   8592633345   50575163841       13360207     26219170      20919385      11754628      72253390
==================-===========================3 =S========== =3=======ss==3=============3================= =3= =========
11. RECURRENT COSTS
................ ..................
A. OPERATING COSTS                  162943749     183025236    196535321     205718579    748222885          253018       262590        272210        281421      1069239
B. AINTENANCE                               0             0            0             0             0              0            0             0             0            0
-----------------------------------------------------.--.---------------..--..-.-.-...-.  .-.-.-----------...---.....---...----...---.----....
Total RECURRENT COSTS               162943749     183025236    196535321     205718579    748222885          253018       262590        272210        281421      1069239
Total PROJECT COSTS                8766916926   18457786459   15300331419   8798351924  51323386727        13613225     26481760      21191595      12036049      73322629
13 3=======                                          =    = 10=33
4/13/1993 10:33



Summary Accounts Cost Sumary
Cedis                                       US$                                      X Total
----- ~------------------~    ~----------------    ---------------------------------    X Foreign           Base
Local       Foreign          Total         Local    Foreign       TotaL         Exchange          Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. SCHOOL PAVILIONS             14128920000    9419280000   23548200000       23162164   15441443   38603607                 40            62
2. HEADKASTERS HOUSES            6932160000    1733040000    8665200000        11364197    2841049   14205246                20            23
3. CLADDING & SITES CLEARING    1346512000      336628000    1683140000         2207397     551849    2759246                20             4
Sub-Total                          22407592000   11488948000   33896540000        36733757   18834341   55568098                34            89
B. ROOFING MATERIALS                         0      278280000     278280000              0     456197     456197               100              1
C. LOCAL TRAINING/WORKSHOPS         1088500000              0    1088500000        1784426          0    1784426                 0              3
D. OFFICE EQUIPMENT
1. PORTABLE COMPUTER/PRINTER              0       4880000        4880000             0        8000       8000               100             0
2. OTHER OFFICE EQUIPMENT            305000        305000         610000           500         500       1000                50             0
Sub-Total                               305000        5185000       5490000            500       8500       9000                94              0
E. PROD. OF TRAINING MAT.                    0      35990000       35990000              0      59000      59000               100              0
F. VEHICLES                                  0      100026080     100026080              0     163977     163977               100             or
G. ALLOWANCES/HONORARIUM              63360000              0      63360000         103869          0     103869                 0             0
H. TECH. ASSISTANCE/STUDY                                                                                                                                         w
1. LOCAL CONSULTANTS             1104403476     741550000    1845953476         1810498    1215656    3026153                40             5
2. FOREIGN CONSULTANTS                    0              0             0              0          0          0                 0             0
3. STWDIES                                0      61000000       61000000              0     100000     100000               100             0
Sub-Total                           1104403476     802550000    1906953476         1810498    1315656    3126153                42             5
I. TAXES AND DUTIES                  202769162              0     202769162         332408          0     332408                 0             1
J. SALARY OF CONTRACT STAFF           18783648              0      18783648          30793          0      30793                 0             0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             24885713286   12710979080   37596692366        40796251   20837671   61633922                34            98
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATING COSTS                   594710000        8840000     603550000         974934      14492     989426                 1              2
S. MAINTENANCE                               0              0             0              0          0          0                 0             0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                594710000       8840000      603550000         974934      14492     989426                 1             2
Total BASELINE COSTS               25480423286   12719819080   38200242366        41771186   20852162   62623348                 0            100
Physical Contingencies           2283041450    1224351658    3507393108        3742691    2007134    5749825                 35             9
Price Contingencies              6236295804    3379455449    9615751253        3192834    1756622    4949456                 35             8
------------------------------------------~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - --------------- -   ----- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -----Pa--
Total PROJECTS COSTS               33999760540   17323626187   51323386727        48706711   24615918   73322629                34            117            CD
4/13/1993  10:34                                                                                               'I



Projects Componts by Year                                                   Projects Cawponents bV Year
Totals Including Contingenies                                               Totals Including Continencis
Cedis                                                                         USS
1994          1995           1996           1997         Total              1994           1995           1996          1997          Totat
sazSSSSS            Sas             S ........=Sas as as as s... .                             as .as ... as= .a  s ..-raWK&Wf  as aSs.........S..
A. TRAINIIG AND ORIENTATION             778903560      236223225      399101175              0    1414227960           1209478         338914        552772               0       2101164
B. PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURES            7381032341   17811868579   14545999433    8487671146   48226571498             11461230       25555018      20146814       11611041       68774133 1
C. PROJECT MGT. AND COORD.              505906993      354420555      301493935      281372026    1443193509            785570         508494        417582         384914        2096560 _
0. TAXES AND DUTIES                     101074033       55274100       53736875       29308752     239393760            156947          79303          74428         40094         350772 
Total PROJECTS COSTS                    8766916926   18457786459   15300331419    8798351924   51323386727             13613225       26481760      21191595       12036049       733226291
=ssufl=sfss=,=u,sfl==_====nylzs=  ,==,=====ua.a3sns                           Ul=.SS=SSSSUSS=SSSfS3*fRElflZfl
4/13/1993  10:34
II



- 134 -                                         ANNEX 14
Page 6 of 6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cedis
Project Components by Year
Base Costs                                        Total
1994          1995           1996           1997      Cedis           USS
A. TRAINING AND ORIENTATION            720040000      193900000     307400000               0    1221340000        2002197
B. PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURES           6267518000   13426240000   10213000000    5678822000   35585580000          58337016
C. PROJECT MGT. AND COORD.             459489110      292973030     231973030      206118034    1190553204         1951727
D. TAXES AND DUTIES                     94022356       45775652      41443652       21527502      202769162         332408
Total BASELINE COSTS                   7541069466   13958888682   10793816682    5906467536   38200242366          62623348
Physical Contingencies               613673508    1329856500    1007202500       556660600    3507393108         5749825
Price Contingencies                  612173952    3169041277    3499312237    2335223788    9615751253           4949456
Total PROJECT COSTS                    8766916926   18457786459   15300331419    8798351924   51323386727          73322629
Taxes                                        0              0              0             0              0              0
Foreign Exchange                   2272617158    5992531597    5717932393    3340545038   17323626187          24615918
4/13/1993 10:34



- 135 -
ANNEX 61
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Description of the Coordinating Unit of the MOE
1.           In creatinr a unit to manage all externally funded project operations, care has been
taken to ensure that efficiency in time and effort is achieved. Staff would not have to perform (for
exarnple) procurement operations in three Project Units in one Ministry. In achieving this efficiency,
however, adequate staff of the right experience and numbers have been taken on to provide the
desired coverage. As much as possible, officers experienced in particular schedules will be
maintained.
2.            The structure will be sensitive to the considerable decentralization of operational
decision making and control that is required. Consequendy, once an assignment has started, each of
the functional areas (sections) will decide operational details using agreed criteria and applying
regulations as agreed. The following positions are agreed for the Coordinating Unit (CU).
3.            The Coordinator. This office has overall leadership responsibility for all projects in
the Ministry. There is a proposal that the Deputy Ministers for School and Higher Education and
Coordinator (NFED) will form a policy team, awaiting the appointment of a Coordinator.
4.            The Coordinator ensures that policies articulated in the legal documents and staff
appraisal reports are followed strictly.
5.            The Coordinator articulates a clear policy and strategy for ensuring that all
programmes/projects receive the desired level of attention. He/she should have effective and efficient
mechanism for monitoring and evaluating all actions within the CU. He/she is in constant touch with
the Minister and also with his/her project managers to ensure adequate policy alignment and effective
implementation of all decisions and programmes. In addition to the above, the Coordinator will have
special responsibility for the work of the Programmes Schedules. This schedule which is highly
sensitive and policy related takes on short-term consultants and specialists of particular concern for
the Divisions. These relate to curriculum and design of academic programmes, major staff
development and management support activities. The Coordinator will delegate operational oversight
of functional and specific programmes areas to project managers.
6.            Proiect Manager. He/she plays a key role in management assignments. He/she has
responsibility for staff time allocation, work scheduling, organizing the method of work and the
nature of advice to be given (to the Coordinator). He/she must have the confidence both of the
Coordinator and of the members of his/her teams. His/her role is to bridge the various components
of the project into a unified whole.
7.            He/she must be able to motivate staff and provide the necessary support and logistics
for the full and successful execution of assignments. Efficient utilization of time and usage of
materials and other valuable resources should be his/her concern.
8.            Apart from oversight of common services he/she will also be assigned responsibility
for the operation of specific programmes such as the EdSAC, the Non-Formal Project or the Tertiary



- 136 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 2 of 3
Project. Under the above duties, the Coordinator may assign him/her the role of assisting in the
planning and coordination of activities within particular functional areas or programmes for
effectiveness.
9.            Specifically, the following schedules will be assigned to the Project Managers by the
Coordinator:
(a)    Procurement Schedule: preparation, implementation and monitoring of work plans to
ensure successful execution of procurement of all goods, works and services, including the
preparation of bidding documents, launching of tenders, analysis and submission and reporting the
results to funding agencies for approval.
(b)    Disbursement Schedule: preparation, implementation of work plans to ensure
successful disbursement of project funds, establishment of sound financial management arrangement,
adequate internal financial control system for project funds; establishment of complete written record
system for project funds; control of requests for expenditures, management of accounting system,
project finance, budgets, cash flow, etc.; and the monitoring of all of the above.
(c)    Management Schedule: preparation, implementation of work plans to ensure adequate
support for personnel and contract administration, staff development, supply and management of
office consumables, spares, provision of logistical support of office equipment, vehicles, printing,
binding, clearing, warehousing, etc.
(d)    Technical Services Schedule: preparation, implementation of work plans to give focus
to project preparation activities, project results related research programmes, monitoring of project
activities, collation of data and liaison with PBME. Monitoring provision of physical facilities and
monitor space utilization in academic institutions.
10.          Functional Unit (Heads) Supervisors. Each functional section will have selected for it
a head for the specialized area such as procurement or disbursement. The leader must have the
ability to get the best out of staff. He/she must be able to motivate the team to give out their best.
Specifically, he/she must:
(a)    ensure that work plans and schedules are provided and programmes are duly executed;
(b)    provide technical guidelines for operating specialists;
(c)    review important reports and proposals to be submitted to project managers (at weekly
meetings);
(d)    ensure that regulations are carried out with due diligence;
(e)    be the first to call attention to the need for timely intervention strategy; and
(f)    ensure that periodic (quarterly) reports on progress of work is provided.
Source: MOE, 1992.
a:cu 0a40-b)



Struoture of the Coordinating Unit in the Central Miniatry of Xducation
NNIS"TCR FOR tDUXPrATON
DEPUTY mNDISTSSR
C OORDINATSOR FOR          |
IEtPRKAIZI PVNDED PRDJECTS 
LOcAL/ IREr
I= I
xamiwm                ~~~~~~NMAMMR                                                          K NAMGBR
iNW-FONBAL PROJECT         SaOOL tDUCATIOU PROJZC                                                  ZOI R EDUCATION PROJCCT
TUCUSICAL SERVICE           DISBUWISCImT/AceOUuTs                   PRoOCUEKNET                        KANAS AODT              s*d}Lt"i!fnr0
- Project                 - Credits/Grants/kid/Loans;        - Project Officers for:           - Peruonnel & Contrat             '. brx Y     f*$raI *
Research                - School Project Offioer;            School; Non-Formal;               Kanalgameat;                      A05fUsf  dh    9h
- Projeat                 - Project Officer Non-               Hlgher Education; and           - Training;            s              .i f
Nonitoring                 or mal;                           Civil Works.                    - Office Supplies;                   M         ttj**t   iS:9S
- Project                 - Projeat Officer Higher           - Pool Assistant to               - Logistiso:                      <                EIf ,
Preparation               Zducation;                         Project Officers;                 Clearing, Warehousing ,i 4% *                          .
- Pool Assistant to               - Pool Project Assistants.           Distribution Nanagemant                        -   S
Project Officers;                                                                                     .       A 
- Pool Project Assistants. 
NOvas  Shaded areas - aot yet established.
Soerae sOS, 1993
&n=We (ja40-b)
12-Nar-93



- 138 -
ANNEX 6-2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Performance Indicators
Project Year
Pre-    ------------------------------------
Project Component         Project    FY94       FY95     FY96      FY97       TotaL              Remarks
----
I. INPUT INDICATORS:
A. TRAINING PROGRAM:
1.     General Orientation
Training:
- Key District Officials                       660         0       660                  660 1/ Participants
- Local Comnunity Leaders                    6,000         0    6,000                 6,000 1/ Participants
2.     Communities Mobilization
for CMAs/CSs                                    500      500       500                  500 1/ Participants
3.     Primary School Management
and Teaching Methodology                      2,000    2,000    2,000                 2,000 1/ Headteachers
4.     Training of Trainers for
above training                                  350      350                            350 1/ Participants
B. CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
1.     School Pavilions                                120    1,040    1,200        659       3,019    Unit of 3 Pavilions
(480)    (160)                          (640)    Unit of 3 Pavilions
2.     Cladding of School Pavilions                    600    1,200    1,200        659       3,659    Unit of 3 Pavilions
3.     Headmasters Houses:                                                                    1,983    Houses
Southern Regions:                               807      802                          1,609    Houses
Northern Regions:                               187       187                            374    Houses
4.     Roofing of School Facilities                    773       773                          1,546    Classrooms
C. MISCELLANEOUS
1.     Vehicles                                         14                                       14    Pick-ups/4 x 4
2.     Production of Training
Materials:
- Headmasters Instruction Manual             3,000                                    3,000    Copies
- "Do it Yourself" Cladding Manual           2,500                                    2,500    Copies
- Easy to follow drawings of
vilLage headmasters houses               2,500                                    2,500    Copies
11. PROCESS INDICATORS:
1.     Increase in official                    4         5         5        5         5                Hours/day
instructional time
2.     Reduction in fees and levies:
P1 - P2                                         250      250       250       250                Cedis per child/year
P3 - P6                                         500      500       500       500                Cedis per child/year
III. OUTPUT INDICATORS:
1.     P1 enrollments                     73,416   77,500   81,400   85,500   91,400
2.     P6 enrollments                     47,468   50,000   53,500   57,200   61,200
3.     Proportion of teachers present          86X      901       951       95X      95X
4.     Proportion of headmasters
present                              841       901      951       981       981
5.     Proportion of schools where
teaching is taking place             791       80X      901       921       951
6.     Proportion of students present          831      841       861       88X      901
7.     X of Children out of school             371      36X       341       311      28X
NOTE: Figures in parenthesis are the pavilions being constructed under EdSAC 11 funds.
1/    These totals refer to number of participants undertaking training programs
which are carried out intermittently during project implementation.
a:key (ja40-b)
07-May-93



- 139 -                                    ANNEX 6-3
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan and Mid-Term Evaluation Criteria
1.             Bank supervision input. Regular supervision needs are described in the following table. This
project will also receive continuous supervision from Bank staff located in Ghana to handle specific tasks such
as review of progress reports, procurement and disbursement actions, audit reviews, etc., and will require a
total of six staffweeks per annum.
2.             Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)    Progress reports will be submitted to IDA on a semi-annual basis (January 31st, and July 31st
of each year). They will comprise, inter alia, a summary of implementation for each project component and
financial tables, including revised cost estimates and revised timing of procurement actions. The Project
Manager of the School Building Section of the Coordinating Unit (CU) will collect data and prepare the reports.
(b)    Project coordinating, monitoring and evaluation will be the responsibility of the CU.
(c)    A comprehensive review (the mid-term review) of the progress of project implementation will
be held between July and December 1995. Prior to this review Government will have completed a survey of all
the schools being supported with school pavilions and headteachers' houses under the project, and will compare
this data with the baseline data collected as part of the preparation activities for this project. The mid-term
review will concentrate on the following topics: (i) number of pavilions constructed; (ii) proportion of pavilions
cladded; (iii) average length of time between pavilion installation and cladding; (iv) number of headteacher
houses completed; (v) number of headteachers recruited through the new process, and qualifications of these of
headteachers; (vi) number of classrooms roofed; (vii) training programs completed and their impact; (viii)
change in intakes and enrollments in project schools, compared with all schools; (ix) change in official
instructional time; (x) change in actual instructional time; (xi) change in criterion on reference test scores, or
other proxy measures for pupil achievement.
(d)    During the mid-term review the scope and coverage of the project will be discussed, and
where necessary, schools that still have not signed an agreement (or schools in districts that are not prepared to
abolish levies on primary students) will be replaced by some of the better performing small schools initially
excluded from the project. In addition, based on the outcome of the review, the Government would promptly
prepare and implement an action program, acceptable to IDA, for making necessary corrective actions and
improving project's implementation.
(e)    The Project Manager will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision
missions and for providing information to them. Officials from the concerned agencies will accompany the
missions on field trips; and
(f)    In the case of visiting mission, briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings on the
project will be chaired by the PNDC Deputy Minister for School Education, and will include all project staff
involved (e.g., Project Manager, Deputy Project Managers, etc.).



- 140 -
ANNEX 6-3
Page 2 of 2
Bank Supervision Input Into Key Activities 1l
Approx.                                                Skill                              Staff Input
Dates (MMY)                Activity                    Rauirements                        Staffweek
07/93              Project launch workshop,            Principal Planner                        8
and first supervision              Project Officer
mission to review project          Architect
start-up and procurement
10/93              Supervision Mission                Principal Planner                         4
Project Officer
02/94              Supervision Mission                 Project Officer                          5
09/94               Supervision Mission                Project Officer                          7
Educator
Architect
03/95               Supervision Mission                Project Officer                          2
08/95               Mid-Term Review                    Principal Planner                       10
Educator
Project Officer
Architect
03/96              Supervision Mission                 Project Officer                          5
11/96              Supervision Mission                Project Officer                           2
03/97              Supervision Mission                 Educator                                 4
Project Officer
10/97              Completion Mission                 Educator                                 10
Project Officer
Architect
b:spn 0a40-b)
.1     The project will receive continuous supervision from Bank staff located in Ghana.



- 141 -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA                                      ANNEX 6-4
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                            Page 1 of 2
Procurement and Disbursement Schedules
Procurement Implementation Schedule/
Estimated Annual ContractuaL and Other Payments
Project Year
Pre-     ----------------------------------                 Total
Project Element         Project 1/  FY94       FY95      FY96      FY97     FY98    Payment       Remarks
--------------tUSS Nit lion Equivalent)----------------
Credit Timing
Sign/EffecJClose                                *                  */*
1. Works
1.1 Construction
Prequat/Bid/Award                   xxxxxx xxxxxx
s) SchooL PaviLions                             1.71    15.46    18.49       9.96      0.59    46.20         ICB
b) Cladding and Sites Clearing                  0.50      1.05      1.09      0.50     0.06      3.20    Community
c) Headteachers Houses                          7.98      8.22                                  16.20       Local
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx                 Shopping
SubtotaL 1                          10.19    24.73    19.58    10.46        0.65    65.60
2. Goods
2.1 Roofing MateriaLs                                0.26      0.27     0.00      0.00                0.52        ICe
xxxxxx_ xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2.2 Vehicles                                         0.18      0.00     0.00      0.00                0.18        LCB
2.3 Office Equipment                                 0.01      0.00     0.00      0.00                0.01       Local
xxxxxxxxx_         xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx                           Shopping
2.4 Production of Training                           0.06      0.00     0.00      0.00                0.06       LocaL
MateriaLs                                   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx                            Shopping
SubtotaL 2                           0.51      0.27      0.00      0.00               0.77
3. ConsuLtancies
3.1 Project Supervision, Inplemen-
tation, and Monitoring Support                   1.43     0.86      0.73      0.16     0.40      3.58       Other
Subtotal 3                            1.43     0.86      0.73      0.16     0.40      3.58
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Local Training/Workshops                         1.05      0.28     0.54      0.00                1.86       Other
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4.2 Operating Costs                                  0.25      0.26     0.27      0.27      0.01      1.06       Other
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4.3 Taxes and Duties                                 0.16      0.08     0.07      0.04                0.35
xxx_xxVVYVxxxxxxxxxxx
Subtotal 4                            1.46     0.62      0.88      0.31      0.01     3.28
TOTAL                            13.60    26.60    21.20    10.90        1.00    73.30
IDA-financing                      (12.80)  (23.80)  (18.20)        (9.3)   (1.00)  (65.10)
~~~~---. ...................... .. ..   ------... ... .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Note: TotaLs may not add up due to rounding.
a:proc (ja4O-b)
07-Hay-93



Disbursement Profile
Disbursements              Profite
Regional
IDA f iscat                                             Sector
Years ard     By Semester    Cumutative        Project  Profite
Semesters     (USS Million)  (USS Miltion)        (X)       IX)                   US$ Million
- - - - - -  - -- - - - - - - - - - - - ---  --- - - -- - - - - -
70
1994  1                  5.0             5.0        7.7%      0.0%
2                  7.8            12.8       19.7%     6.0%             60 -
1995  1                 11.9            24.7       37.9%    10.0%
2                 11.9            36.6       56.2X    18.0%
1996  1                  9.1            45.7       70.2%    26.0%
2                  9.1            54.8       84.2%    26.0%
1997  1                  5.3            60.1       92.3%    38.0%
2                  4.0           64.1        98.5%    50.0%
1998  1                  1.0            65.1      100.0%    58.0%
2                                                     70.0%
1999 1                                                       78.0%            20          .......
2                                                     86.0%                                                                                                              -
2000  1                                                      90.0%                                                                                                             )
2                                                     98.0%
0
2001  1                                                     lGO.OX             1994        1996        1996       1997        1998       1999        2000        2001
Fisoal Yeear
e:cSisb.wk1 ( ja4P-b)                                                                               Project Profile    -     Regional Profile
12-Apr-93
Nl)



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule of the Construction Program
(Month/Year)
Y.~~~~ ......e..CS^                                                                                  >   '       ' -    ''              ''1''''''  '   ''    '''''  ' :'''''  ' '  
',...z,,,,,'""''  '. "        .I- s          -            -l          . ,,.   ' '-''..,.,
Apr. z.e.                                                    May 93    Aug. 93        Deo. 93       Jan  94       Apr. 94           eb. 97
Feb. 93 Fe93b. 93            I:eb. 93
School Pavilions I/   Aatual
Jul. 93      Aua 93 A. 93 D.  93 J. 93                    Feb. 93
Apr. Eot.                                                    May 93    Continuous  Continuous  Continuous  Continuous              Jun. 95
Headteachers                             Feb. 93        Feb. 93       Feb. 93
Houses 2/               Actual 
Apr. got.                                                    Jul. 93    Oct. 93       Nov. 93       Deo. 93       Jan. 94          Dec. 94
n.a.           n.a.          n.a.
Roofinq Materials       Actual
Sites Clearing and    Apr. Bet.                                                                                              Sept. 93    Jan. 94            Jun. 9g
Cladding of School         ---- ------                                                                     -------
Pavilions by the                          n.a.            n.a.          n.a.           n.a.           n.a.         n.a.
Local Comsunitieg         Actul 
n.a. - not applicable.
1/ Includes community involvement.
2/ Under small scale contracts with locally recruited contractors.
a. aG (ja40-b)                             06-May-93
IX



- 144 -
ANNEX 6-6
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Impact of Raising Junior Secondary School Quality on
Cognitive Achievement in Ghana
|     Mathematics Score                 R ading Score
Policy Option           Indirect   Direct    Total   Indirect   Direct    Total
Reducing travel time
from 2 hours to 0 hours              +3.44          -     +3.44     +5.24          -     +5.24
Raising average teacher
experience from 2 years
to 10 years                          +3.19          -     +3.19     +4.87          -     +4.87
Repairing classrooms in
schools where all classrooms
cannot be used when it rains         +3.10     +5.45      +8.55     +4.73      +7.78    +12.51
Providing blackboards in
schools where non presently
exist                                +4.05     +9.43    +13.48      +6.16    +12.95    +19.11
Providing 50 more textbooks
per room in schools which
now only have 25 per room                -          -         -         -     +1.92      +1.92
Source: Glewwe and Jacoby, 1992.
a:a12 (ja40-b)
28-Mar-93



- 145 -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents in Project File
Angers, Johanne. Detailed Project Costs: Working Paper. (PC-Costab File: Taxesl). March 1993.
Ghana Education Service. Guidelines for Setting Up District and Regional Disciplinary Committee
and for the Application and Enforcement of the Code of Professional Conduct for the Teaching and
Non-Teaching Personnel of the Ghana Education Service (GES). September 16, 1991.
Ghana National Association of Teachers (GNAT). Conditions and Scheme of Service and the Code of
Professional Conduct for Members of the Ghana Education Service (Teaching Personnel). n.d.
Ministry of Education. Basic Education in Ghana: Early Warning Signals (1990/91). Document No.
96. May 1992.
Ministry of Education. Basic Statistics and Planning Parameters for School Education at National and
Regional Levels (1988/89. 1989/90 and 1990/91). Document No. 97. May 1992.
Ministry of Education. Circular on Staffing Norms for Primary Schools. April 10, 1991.
Ministry of Education. Floor Plan of a Two-Bedroom Headteacher's House and Four Alternative
Designs for Two-Bedroom Houses. May 1993.
Ministry of Education. Primary Education Programme (PREP): Budget for Tranche III. 1993.
Ministry of Education. Proposed Design for a One-bedroom House for Primary School Headteacher:
Bills of Ouantities and Floor Plan. March 1993.
Ministry of Education. Report on Basic Statistics and Planning Parameters for Primary Education in
Ghana, 1990191. March 1992.
Ministry of Education. Report on Basic Statistics and Planning Parameters for Primary Education in
Ghana, 1991/92. March 1993.
Ministry of Education. School Pavilion Manufacture and Erection: Cost Summary. March 1993.
Ministry of Education. Social Survey on Parents. Teachers and Community Leaders Attitudes
Towards Female Participation in Education. Draft. April 22, 1993.
Theunissen, Philippe. Preparation of a Manual for Self Help Cladding of School Pavilions by
Community: Consultant's Notes. May 3, 1993.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 24783
BURKINA FASO                           ,~
GHANA
LGf/  /  BoLGATAN-3      v                      PRIMARY SCHOOL
HN.kpod        DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Numbers in red refer to
the number of primary
\.I. ~~ O  %    f  :        INorio            )schools supported by
0                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the project by region.
0t  t    WA \  O.  g f  h  o    A  -    PRIMARY ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
TERTIARY ROADS
\ -' ~~~~~NORTHERNf.i 
Di l                                                                ) >tAMALE .... M) .......... 2 ............. - RAILWAYS
., . .~ L        <                           <r v \-sZabzuzu | () REGION HEADQUARTERS
iCh On                                               f)Camblu  I0-I                             J<* NATIONALCAPITAL
-   )  ' -   REGION BOUNDARIES
-)t    o  JINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
COTE                                          )                               i 
D'IVOIRE  3  .i
.0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ti mlb ba bavaam  k   y~   t \    
/           J      / B~~RONG-A}d4FO                           t-i- ; 
on 1hi mp do o4 imp onth
J(/261  °    Ai---bbu                 IO
jl   SUNYANI  \\7   \                                    -    *~         K I                                       A
;5\\       |                <       ~~~~~ASHANTI      5     k9            (puj*%TG
< s               O   r - - nm    0 8>/ rNij  voLT 3?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O.f 
br; ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~            _     o oubl 
WESTERN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GL                                       TERtEAwhbono"
7=   7                         1;                       0>                        1;                       7^~~~~~~CCR
274~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARL19



