Docunent of
The World Bank
FOM OFCIAL USE ONLY
Rlepit N. P-6045-Gfl
MEKORANDUM MMD RECOlMENDATICN
OF TOE
PRESI:DENT OF THIE
ITERN ONAL                 ASSOCION
TO TM
EXECUTIVE DIREClXRS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN TME AM       EQUIVALENT TO SDR 46.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOIPENT PROJECT
MAY 17, 1993
iFS--.-t  ; \.:- -      :8  )-   '''l'      -!:
,      I   -                   .
This docment has a restricted diribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CCBRY BOU-VALET
(March 1993)
Currency Unit = Cedis
US$1.00 3 610 Cedis
ARQSXM AM ARDBEYMU
ADB          Africa Development Bank
CAS          Couty Assistance Strategy
CDC          Commenwealth Development Corporaden
Co           Consultative Group
CIDA         Canadian Intrational Development Agency
CPPR         Country Porfolio Performance Review
ECOWAS       Economic Comm ty of West African States
EdSAC I      Education Sector Adjustment Credit I (Cr. 1744-OH)
EdSAC II    Educadon Sector Adjustment Credit 11 (Cr. 2140-GH)
EPC          Enviromental Planning Council
ERP          Economic Recovery Program
ERR          Economic Rate of Retum
FS"          Enhanced Strucural Adustment Facility
ESW          Economic and Sector Work
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GNAT         Ghana Nadonal Association of Teachers
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IFC          Intemational Finance Corporation
IL0          International Labour Organization
IMP          Internatonal Monetary Fund
K*W          Kredianstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
NEAP         Natonal Environment Action Plan
ODA          Overseas Development Adminon
OPEC         Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
OPIC         Overseas Private Investment Corporation
SAP          Strucural Adjustment Facility
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SPA          Special Program of Assistance
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
VAT          Value Added Tax
HCALZAR                                              SCHOOLYER
January 1 - Decmiber 31                        Septmber - June        (asic and Tertary)
Jamnary - December    (Senior Secondary)
SlRUCTURE OF EDUCATION INGHN
Years      1- 6       Primy
7- 9       Junior Secondary
10- 12      Senior Secondary
13 -16      University



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPU3BLIC E GgANA
PiUMA}t SCHOO  I EVEOPM[ENT PROJECT
M=DI AND Egg=aC SUIA
Borrnwg:                     Republic of Ghana
Benefies:                    Ministry of Education, and about 2,000 communities throughout the
country
Credit Amount:               SDR 46.9 million (US$65.1 million eq lent)
erms:                        Standard, with 40 years maurty
Financing la:
Local         Fore!gn      Total
- US$ Mllon
IDA                         40.5           24.6         65.1
Government of Ghana/
Community Participation      .2            La          8>
Total Project Cost          48.7           24.6         73.3
Economig Rate
of tun.                    Not applicable
Staff AppDraisal
BoRorI:                    Report No. 11760-GH
MOap:                        IBRD 24783
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
POR AMIY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed development
credit to the Republic of 3hana for SDR 46.9 million (US$65.1 million equivalent). The proposed credit
would be on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years, and fmance a primary school development
project. Part I of the document discusses Ghana's development problems and prospects, the key priorities
of the ecoromic refom. program at the macroeconomic and sector levels, and the Bank Group's assistance
strategy. Part E of the document describes the proposed Credit.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
2.    This section describes Ghana's policies and development objectives and the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). It first summarizes recent developments and Ghana's central development
issues. A discussion of the staus of the policy dialogue and the Bank's country assistance strategy
follow. The section concludes with a summary asstssment and criteria for evaluating progress in key
areas.
A. Trends In PoIldes and Performance
1.    Background
3.    Ghaia's per capita income is US$400 and its population of 15 million people is growing at 2.6
percent per annum. The county is well endowed with a broad range of naural resources, including
arable land, forests, and sizable mineral deposits of gold, diamonds, bauxite, and manganese, as well as
a considerable potent  for hydroelectric power. The economy has traditionally depended on primary
production and exports. Most of the Ghanaian labor force is employed in agriculture. Agricultural
production-primarily small scale-is concentrated in staple food crops and cocoa; Ghana ranks among
the world's largest producers and exporters of the latter. The service sector is the second largest
employer-over 25 percent of the labor force-accounting for over 40 percent of real GDP, largely trade
and public sector services. The industrW sector accounts for about 15 percent of CDP and employment;
it is relatively diverse and well developed by Sub-Saharan African standards.
2.    Past Performnnce
4.    Before the Economic Recovery Program (ER?) was adopted in 1983, Ghana's economy had
virtually collapsed. Basic institutions and infrastructure had ceased to function and the incentive system
was badly distorted. Measures necessary to restore growth involved not just policy change, but
substanial physical reconstruction and institutional rehabilitation. The crisis offered one advantage,
however. It limited internal resistance to policy reform. Interest groups had little justification for
mainting the status quo. Rent-seekers could no longer find rents. A broad consensus for change
prevailed. But other conditions were less propitious. In 1983, Ghana suffered one of the most
devastating droughts in decades. At the same time, almost 1 million Ghanaiaus who had been working
in Nigeria were sent home. Lat, in 1986, the world price of cocoa began a sharp descent, and depressed



-2 -
Ghana's export earnings in spite of increasing export volumes. Meanwhile, import prices rose steadily,
after a respite in 1985 and 1986 associated with the oil market slump.
5.    Stabation and Liberalization. Ghm's reform efforts Initially focused on stabilization and
liberalization. Fiscal discipline has been sustained ;or nearly a decade. Revenue collections rose
dramatically between 1984 and 1987. These resources enabled the Government to rebuild the country's
social and physical infrastructcre without enlarging the fiscal deficit. the improved fiscal balance, in
turn, allowed a greater degree of monetary restraint. As a result, the rate of inflation was brought down
from 66 percent to 26 percent per annum. Meanwhile, the extesive price control system has been
dimand ed and interest rates have ben liberalized. Overvalurfion of the cedi has been eliminated.
Quantitative restrictions and foreign exchange controls have been phased out. Trade taxes have been
progressively reduced.
6.    Results of the ERP. Growth has been restored to an average of around 5 percent per annum
(Table 1). In the preceding decade, Ghanaian standards of living had fallen by a third; the period since
1983 has seen steady real growth of more than two percent a year on a per capita basis, with the benefits
of growth widely distributed. Farmers and rural workers have gained from improved producer prices
for cocoa and a liberalization in the trading system for other cash crops. Real food prices (cereals and
roots) have fallen gradually. Government expenditures on social programs rose significantly during the
mid-1980s before leveling off in the late 1980s, and social iadicators have improved across the board.
E=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_
7.    U #n*shdAgenda. Substnt   progress notwitstanding, Gbaa faces an unfinibhed agenda of
economic reform, which amus be addressed if Ghana is to transcend the S percent growdh twrshold. The
agenda micludes publk sectr managment and civil saece rom, divst9  'of pubc enterprises; and
thie enabling enviroruent for the private sector. Though some rtecmnsand decompression of salary



-3 -
scales have occurred, Ghana's civil service, in relative terms, remains one of the largest in Africa; even
so, It lacks adequate supervisory oversight to ensure satisfactory performance. Meanwhile, after 10 years
of adjustment, Ghana still has more public enterprises than any other African country, except Tzania.
These public enterprises hold most of the assets in the manufacturing sector, and have privileged access
to financial assistance, special tax treatments and, in many cases, a monopoiistic positiou. Nor has the
climate for the private sector become sufficienty favorable, although many liberalizat:n measures were
adopted. Private investors, both foreign and domestic, must navigate non-transparent approval processes.
They also face problems in acquiring, titling, and swinug laAd. These contribute to the lingering
perception by the private sector that the Govermment is ambivalent toward private secter interests.
3.    Recent Developments and Outlook
a.    Economic
S.    In 1992, a new constitution was promulgated, and presidential and parliamentary elections were
held. President Rawlings was returned to power with a strong rural-based majority, reflectg in part the
broad-based support for the ERP; the National Assembly has begun to play its legislative role in the new
constitutional set-up. But the political transition carried a large price tag. Tn the last quarter of 1992,
shortly before the elections, civil servants demanded-and obtained-a large increase in wages.
Substantial increases in payments also accrued on employment-related benefits for workers of public
enterprises. As a result the fiscal deficit rose to around 6 percent of GDP in that year, and money supply
rose by more than 50 percert. Ihe current account deficit widened sharply to 8.6 percent of GDP.
9.     1993 Budget. The Government's 1993 budget introduced signficant corrective measures aimed
at restoring macroeconomic stability. Taxes on petroleum products were raised substantially, and furfther
increases are likely. New initiatives were launched to improve revenue collections and accelerate the
divestiture of major public enterprises. Public sector wages and salaries are expected to be kept at current
levels. The improved fiscal position wfll permit the Government to make repayments to the banking
system, thereby improving the availability of credit for private investment. Though effective
implementation of all these measures would return Ghana to a sustainable fiscal position, there remains
considerable uncertainty about the projected revenue and expenditure outturn for 1993. A close watch
will be necessary.
10.   Recen Developmens. During the first quarter of 1993, consumer prices rose by 13 percent and
the cedi depreciated by 15 percent. The exchange rate appears to have stabilized since then. The outturn
on government revenue appears promising. Petroleum tax revenues have risen in line with incrtases in
tax rates, and collections for indirect taxes were higher than the corresponding period in 1992.
Expenditure restraint has been sustained.
11.   Otlook. Though growth performance is likely to remain weak in 1993, it is expected to pick
up once macroeconomic stability is convincingly restored. Our forecast of the most likely scenario-
which is based on good policy and implementation performance-is shown in Table 1. Overall GDP
growth is projected to recover to 5.1 percent in 1994, rising to an average of 6 percent during 1996-2000.
Growth in the medium term will come primaily from agriculture (where the growth potential clearly
exists), mining, and services. Industra growth will follow with a time lag, but the basis of industrial
growth-education, infrastructure, telecommunications, support for development of markets, and import
of technology-must be laid now.



-4-
b.    Environmental
12.   The major environmental issues in Ghana are soil degradation, deforestation, and the impact on
health from mining activities, water contamination, and inadequate sanitation. In the 1980s, 25,000
hectares of forest were lost each year, and indications are that the rate is accelerating. In rural areas, less
than 40 percent of the population has access to safe ddnking water and only 15 percent have adequate
sanitation. Mineral production has polluted the air with corrosive and poisonous gases; the discharge of
heavy metals and cyanide are polluting water with a potentially serious impact on human health.
Government policies and programs to address these issues will be vital for reducing health risks and for
ensuring the sustainability of overall development. Such government interventions, by preventing the
erosion of fragile but important income sources, can also contribute to poverty reduction. The
Government can sk:ft some of the associated investment and conservation costs to private beneficiaries;
commercial mining and forestry concessions should reflect the arsociated environmental costs to the
country. Subsidies for the use uf fossil fuels, chemicals, and logging, therefore, must be carefully
reviewed for their impact on the environment. Meanwhile, clarification of ownership and management
rights can improve land use. The provision of clean water and improved sanitation, and the control of
toxic chemicals used in mining will greatly reduce health risks in both urban and rural ar3as.
cv     Social
13.   During the economic decline of the 1970s and early 1980s, social ind:^ators deteriorated
markedly. They improved during the ERP. But a substantial further improvement is an essential
precondition for accelerated growth. Ghana's population growth rate is about 2.6 percent per year, and
over half the population is under 15 years of age. Life expectancy is SS years (compared with 51 for
Sub-Saharan Africa) and the infant mortality rate is 85 per thousand live births (compared with 107 for
Sub-Saharan Africa). The adult illiteracy rate is 40 percent (compared with 50 percent for Sub-Saharan
Africa) and the prinary school enrollment ratio has increased to 82 percent in 1990/91 (the ratio for Sub-
Saharan Africa as a whole is 69 percent) (Table 2). While these indicators compare favorably with the
rest of Sub-Saharan Africa's, they are behind the levels attained in East Asia when those countries began
to grow rapidly.
14.   Poverty Assessment. In part reflecting the evolution of the social indicators, a major finding of
the FY93 Poverty Assessment was that Ghana has made considerable progress in reducing poverty under
the ERP. Over this period, Ghana focused on improving the economy-wide structure of incentives, on
liberalizing sectoral policies including agriculture, and on providing inrastructure and basic social
services. The assessment also found thkt poverty in Ghana remains predominantly rural. Some 43
percent of rural inhabitants and 36 percent of all Ghanaians are poor, deriving around 90 percent of their
income from self employment. There are also considerable regional variations. Most of the poor live
in the Savannah, the Volta basin, and mid-coast zones; these areas account for 64 percent of the nation's
poor but only 32 percent of the nation's population. Thus labor-using growth in rural areas can
contribute significantly to increasing opportunities for the poor and to reducing poverty. If accelerated
growth is achieved and distributed proportionately-orbetter-to the poor, then a sustained and significant
reduction in povert can likewise be achieved.
15.   Women In Ghana. Ghanaian women have been, and continue to be, active participants in the
country's labor force, particularly in agriculture, trade, and small scale ma urg. However, the
potential contribution of women to the economy is constrained by a lack of education (school enrollment
ratios and literacy rates for females are lower than for males, particularly in the North) and by legal,
cultal and social barriers that limit their access to land, credit, farming inputs, technology, and support
services. While some women have managed to participate in the formal economy and in high income



'2.5~~~~~~~5
:,~~~~~~~~~1? 19t 9=1018 9019
eolleing watert aIndfelwo  and hedodn8f1 rdc,inaddnt  hi  oshl
t.4wer j  slrtylne I                                       4t9
1. Iheacut Ghnaeiaconm  is hihyepsdtopiefu.nsi               3ol  alct.Cre
Ghn eprt bu-  5preto  D.Piaygosbscal  oosgl  n  me-con o
9perent o     totaleprs).2lhnasnntai.oa eprs aerepn.drpil 3o h EPQ utfo
a er owbase iIthey stlcosiueatnfrcinotoaexot.Gaaialohvlydpdntn
fuel~~~~~~ imors fo7hc  rc  lci  aeamjripc  nGaasetra em   ftas
inut for rwehaiitto and tpr povnrtnlione tne atsoftened   the ipac~th of owdersoert sitsin te It erso
atirides. most ontune tof spreinad loghasoursn oen loewe ouaut phyesicvel dem,andn activte suak Gaa'sne
colletingni wat ers tandS fpe:cwtood anDP hecomardtngaerg of far  prduercinadto tor tu-Sheira househol
16. Thebt Ghanaian eonaetomytndn is hihyrxosed to$ pricflucuaion. ine wrdeb/D mrketiis. Currently
90aoud5 percent o titl exort. Ghanavsrnontraditionalfexportsshavetresponde rapesidyat therms, buteromin
fuel himporet, frwihpiefutation haveo  a major breprs;thdbtevimpct rton Ghias poexterna toermsn tof tade.n
Figurefn 1 y shw1o9 infcn9yGaahsbe5afce.ydciin  omdt  rcs,epcal ic



-6-
Figure 1: Fordpn Aid and Terms-of-Trade Deteioration
(In US$ Million)
800
600 -                                            Net aid flow
400
42~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tnao -trad                     _
20
Net old after
-200 -                                         tonnsftde ls     \
-400.
1984    1985   1986    1987    1988   1989    1990   1991    1992
19.   Regional Integradon. As a member of ECOWAS Ghana fully supports renewed efforts to
advance regional integration. Official trade between Ghana and neighboring countries is low but
unrecorded trade, particularly in consumer goods and agricultural commodities, is flourishing. In effect
there is greater regional integration than is reflected in official trade statistics.
C.    Country Assistance Strategy
1.    Country Objectives
20.   Ghana's adjustment program is one of the most successful in Sub-Saharan Africa, but its growth
rate has not been able to get beyond the 5 percent range. This has permitted per capita income to rise
by about 2 percent per annum, which is barely enough to make a dent in Ghana's poverty. The
Government is committed to accelerated growth and poverty reduction-and to the policy program needed
to achieve it. This entails keeping the macroeconomic situation under control, establishing a favorable
environment for vigorous private sector participation throughout the economy, and investing in the
development of human resources and infrastructure. For accelerated growth and poverty reduction to be
sustainable, sound environmental policies are essential. A noteworthy feature of this agenda is that it
involves virtually no trade-offs among the major objectives. Taken separately, growth is a key to poverty
reduction, and enhanced primary education is a critical ingredient of both growth and poverty reduction;
taicen together, growth and poverty redaction each benefit from gains on the other. In a similar manner,
resolving environmental issues in the Ghanaian context tends to promote the sustainability of growth and
poverty reduction simultanously.



- 7-
2.    IDA Objectives and Strategy
21.   The thrust of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy in Ghana is to help the Government to
achieve these objectives, through the policy dialogue, economic and sector work (ESW), new lending
operations, portfolio management, and donor coordination.
22.   Policy Dillogue. Over the past decade, there has been a marked tumaround In the Bank's
relationship with Ghana. Since the ERP started in 1983, the Bank Group has been the most important
lender to Ghana. This positioned the Bank as an advisor on macroeconomic and sectoral policy
formulation in lending-rfilated areas. But the Government increasingly sought the Bank's advice on
economic and sectoral issues where we were not directly involved, or where our financial assistance was
not being sought. In recent years, the dialogue has concentrated on mncroeconomic issues, structural
reforms in education and agriculture, the fmancial st_,{' - and deregulation of private business activity.
For the coming period, the policy dialogue will focus on: maintaining macroeconomic stability;
promoting human resources development and poverty reduction; building capacity, in particular, of the
public sector to undertake more efte.ctive planning, financing, and implementation of policy reforms and
development projects; increasing the role of the private sector; and improving naural resource and
en uironmental management.
23.   Economic and Sector Work. ESW underpins the policy dialogue. It focuses on di*,nosing
development problems and identifying constraints that can be relaxed through public policies and/or
investments. A major study, Ghana 2000 and Beyond, prepared last year in collaboration with the
Government, outlined Ghana's options for managing the transition from adjustment to accelerated growth
(Box 1). Further ESW will be directed toward sharpening our understanding of, and identifying creative
solutions tor, the constraints to long-term growth and poverty reduction. The FY94-96 ESW program
covers: reviewing public expenditures; assessing institutional capacity; extending and deepening the
poverty assessment; preparing a country economic memorandum; updating our urban development
strategy; conducting a financial sector review; undertaking a growth and environmental study in the
Western Region (see below) and prepanng a rural water supply analysis; taking stock of the industrial
sector; and reviewing public sector management.
24.     nding. Lending is an important vehicle for
the policy dialogue. Over the FY94-96 period, we     T   3: $ha_ of At
anticipate annual lending levels in the neighborhood of      I     .;
US$260-270 million per annum. We intend to rely      U;rid                Share
increasingly on sector investment credits to support    fY62        '"    0
sectoral  policies  and  institutional  development.                       Jr3 47 ,
Adjustment loans, including hybrids, will continue to be    :3 .
used to support policy and institutional reforms, but -
their importance is being phased down; the share of    __ ; -E.          ______._'
adjustment lending over the next three years is projected
to decline to less than 20 percent of new commitments
C(able 3). These adjustment operations would support
policy reforms in private sector development (including privatization), the financial sector, and public
sector management. Meanwhile, the investment lending program is dominated by project loans for
infrastructure and sector loans for private sector development. Agricultural marketing and rural
development are emphasized, with the objective of increasing productivity and diversification. Education,
health, and natural resources management are also significant. If the implementation of the economic
reform remains on track and the country is hurt by a severe exogenous shock, creating a balance of
payments need, the Bank would consider raising the share of adjustment lending above 20 percent. Any



.o1 .'n A4istun t" A2lsie Griitb .hw '''.  :.' . MB,.e. ' ',y.,..:;
0haea 2OcVJ sad Bey`nd a report p~a, onl  ihte(ommr dniidatowI he  e
2~~~~~~~~~ ',,,,  oi l    j"cl                                      f;       ,. '''
.   'o ,u .WWI¢  ::Ya;  .
Zi n Wa sm iunnbveonww.Th  eprtfsd lerdiffrece i ede-aticb r4pm y
edcty i o-.een Ghana and th mot suces  fat-r  ngeonnie  GhraE ttias and   s cndt
.d .. on statXisics compare favoably with those ofas-g'wn  ourie3s    the U.tim   buthywr
: , ,~~~~~~i.,q_=I
PGbana's literc                   t ( tina  ity   e
8Vi114~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Xmp  *t          
is Bst0bhn  eea A   fra tie w asne  cutrels  on this scorei. Qbneavostfoute  lkt i  b :ts puleteer
infimed  iatilntoade suhias obectvndf selyrvipcvt esucstofnne iiftsX groing secotlicsbidies: n
..f.;W   V-, and improv  .a .eeu                                 ......l VAT  .... no-a.wii i i
Goertnryeme tn  poru t     must also otrit loo* k ecntom lessepesv frso  etit
exedturs n sevetol wamoys: byspr wide-OVlngg rxefowis inmany ey reaUsp, a major imped=,,iment
inveltorsmaent . poftS imeilaint exboudt tes Govnimet' attitd towar th  rvt sco¢Aar  f
o~fubasi so iasrices.o Agre ~vrohalve. An olthrsourtes Jif   p.cranyIste1~  f  nprny
destirable as pairt ofgxoveruntn dvltransfr lofb r enterpziaeus.idO ;M ivetit  ofniliai entjtas   k
and spemedy andives e plataing ase also ned     -         - -.                    w
VA~ P. ,A   ,,, : .f
to~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                           .. ... .. .. ... ,, : :'..sN 
Pubuc~ ~ ~ -eo   .aamn. .Su.bs:      5*;iall{
emportat ftok 1 WSf s a 15 percent W' of ()P  remain e`oMftAraiey9in '   xotsnteo  i~
eortedting poubling especditllyu towaradito    tutr eg~hriutr  n  ihre)zapoe
groducELts And n sao~aucaie stonesifatrs (.g1rdyme  rets
inBAbAsk, theyt waaere t:e Saubstanial, the    roeimets inmngn  ulcrsure   ilb  rtTl
achinvingorateidtrwhsfiin   aaeen  nld    h  ulig civil service reaomsacidce  ikiwilil'th..
urimedo iantinpblitie sxpndiurs tndowarbseic socialts sevceut     ewenOna  nd~h
transport, and improve- tax revenue through VAT and non-tax, MYeu    oghbte  ot eoey 
Governument must also contribute to the -economy through inrae.fiinyi   aaigpbi
expenditures in seveal ways: by improving expenditur managemen,spein   pimlmettino
development projects, reorienting expeniditurestoward povet reucionad asigth  uliyan  elvr
of basic social services. Agetrrl  flclatoiisi  rjc  ein  eeto  n   antnaeI
desirable as part of an overall devolution of riesponusibilities. Majo chan4s  fo cnrati
procurement and planning are also needed. 



-9.
significant decline in macroeconomic stability, in implementing structural reform, in reducing poverty
or in improving project implementation, would trigger a reduction in new commitments to as low as
US$160 million per annum.
a.    Areas of Spedal Emphasis
25.    As a first order of business, we are helping the Government to reestablish earlier macroeconomic
gains. In addition, human resources development-particularly through primary education, basic health
care, and literacy programs-will be a key area of Bank support. Private sector development efforts will
be strengthened, with emphasis on promoting nontraditional exports and, more generally, on improving
the overall climate for private sector growth. Attendon will also be given to building domestic capacity
in expenditure management, project implementation, and the provision of public services at central and
local levels. Environmental considerations .111 likewise be a focal point of the Bank's activities in
Ghana, with particular reference to strengthening environmental management of the country's natural
resources. These issues, as reflected in our program, are discussed below and summarized in Table 4.
26.   Hunan Resource Development and Poverty Redution. Our country assistance strategy follows
the prescriptions of the Poverty Assessment for promoting further reductions in poverty. Reorientation
of public expenditures to ensure greater investment in people, cr ical for improving health and enhancing
skills and productivity of labor-the poor's key asset-will facilitate more equitable participation, by
women as well as men, in growth and development. Enhancing government capacity to deliver basic
social services will help ensure access of the poor to those social services, especially in the areas of
health, family planning, nutrition, basic education and safe water and sanitation. The FY94 Public
Expenditure Review and the Extended Poverty Study as well as the Primary Schools Development
Project, and the planned Basic Education, Vocational Educationi and Primary Health and Nutrition
Projects are all focussed on this objective. At the same time, accelerated growth in per capita income
will increase earning oppotunities for the poor, as well as generate resources for public expenditures on
basic social services. Increased growth in agriculture through private sector participation, induced by the
ongoing liberalization of product and factor markets, is a critical component of accelerated growth. This
will also permit the poor to participate more than proportionately in the income gains from growth. The
ongoing Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit and Agricultural Research and Extension Project and the
proposed Agricultural Investment Credit support growth in that sector.
27.   Capacky-Building. There is an urgent need to enhance management capacity throughout the
economy, although the Bank's immediate focus is in public sector management. The Bank is discussing
with the Government and UNDP the joint preparation of a major Capacity Building Assessment in FY94.
The exercise would assess national development capacity, identify weaknesses, and r  are a strategy for
reform. As currently planned, it would cover both the formulation and implemer 'tion of economic
policy and management in strategic sectors and will address issues of salary policy, personnel policy,
*management, and manpower development and the role of technical assistance. Government has sufficient
policymaking capacity, but institutional support for finance and planning is relatively weak. The Public
Expenditure Review in FY94 will focus on expenditure programming, management, and control in
addition to issues of raising public savings. Meanwhile, a Local Government Project is currently being
prepared, building on a recent ESW report on local governments and decentralization. Institution-
building in strategic sectors is a key feature of ongoing projects in agriculture, infrastructure, and the
social sectors, concentating on information management, policy analysis and formulation, and translation
of policy into implementation on the ground. To help build policy-oriented analytic capacity outside
Government, the Bank is supporting the establishment of a Centre for Economic Policy Analysis, based
on prototypes developed in East Asia. Meanwhile, we are also reviewing the way we do business in
Ghana, focussing on country ownership. The Capacity Building Assessment and the Public Expenditure



Table 4: Objectives and Instruments of Country Assistance Strategy. FY94-_6
Maintin mroeconomi o
stblt compowt rmanbv                                             Build capacft                Inereae role of            Imrrove imafts8emnt
etucurW refonms.                  Reduce                     In private and           pfivate sector In economy,      of natmal resoures
Invest In key * ectrs              povety                     public sectorm              inudi  exports               and the environment
Pulcy dbb__
lectern public sector savngs and  Define th:e auses of poverty tKre [CPPR n -June will incdude exxtended Emnphas on oeiminfang testrictive Continuing consutation with the
Instruete for priate   clearly, eorint public eipenditure. disors on acpacity building. :reguationimproving Institional Envionmenta PlannW   Council
borrowinglsaving. ttrengthon  1impmve access of poor to basic           :frae,work. reduoing public sector IEPC) followin up the Nional
ndependencd  of financial system.  social services.                                      involwvement in production, thereby Environmental Action Plan.
openingup opportunities for Private
on   Statg Upat FY5 Educ.on                                         investmentr. 
Public expenrditure Review FY84   Extended Poverty Study (with  Capacity building study FY94 wil  FnancW Sectof Reviow FYS5 in   Westem Region GrowV
CEM FY95 and Public Sector    HROVP) FY94; Urban Sector    cover fornulation and.        association with FPDVP; Industrial Environment Study FY94 (with
Management FY98 wil focus on   StWeg Update FY95; Educ"onl implemntation of economic policy Sector Review FY96.       ESDVP); Preparatorv Sector Work
macro-balance and publio savings. Health Sector Review FY96.  and manageent in strategio                               tor Rural Water Credit FY94.
sectors. Public Expenditure Review
iFY94 wiil focus on expenditure
control and ranagemnt, and on
capacity to implemorent investment
projects.                 L
_ _ _ _ _ _~~                                     ~     ~~~~ ____         _ -
New lending                                                  _
Many projects in infrastructure will Agricultural Sector Investment    Local Government Managemrnert   Private Sector Development FY94; Rural Water FY94; Smnal-Scale  ''
strengthen environment for    FY94; Educational Training;  FY94; Economic Management Sup- Financial Sector FY95; Public  fining FY95; Fisheries FY95;
imnproved private i westment.  Vocational Training FY94; Basic   port fil FY96. Metro Cities  SectorlPrivate Sector Devetopment Natura Resottrces FY96.
Thermal Power VI) FY94,      Education FY95; Social Sector    Development FY96. A nu4iber of  FY96.
Telecomnlrioatlon ll FY95,     FY96.                       projects also inciude major
Intermodal Transport FY96.                                 institution-building components.
Highway Sector FY8S, Public
Enterprise Project fY96.
Portfolio management
Tranche review process under  Supervision of Education and Urban Review of MFED operations under Increase opporturtties for Ghanaian Environmentat Resources Manage-
ongo1ng financial sector (FINSAC)  Infrastructure Projects by RMG  Economric Management Support   consutants to manage projects.  rnent and Forest Resources Man-
and Aoricuttural Sector (AG5AC3  improves contact with benefi-    Project. implernntadon of  Irnproved services and enhanced   agement Projacts strengthen
Adjustment Loans.            ciaries. Restructuring of PH4N It   Agriculture Researeh and Extension credit for Ghanaian exporters under Governrnent's planring capacity in
Projeet,                     Projects which provide key support Private Enterprise and Export  key areas.
for small farmers.           Developent Project.
Donor coordination
Discussions during CG t(June  Localy organized donor group for  Through the Public Expenditure    Active search for cofinancino  Consultations with donors and
1993); Regular'rrithly meetitgs  population, health and nutrition    Review process and with support  sources In Japan, USA IOPIC). and NGOs under the loedership of the
o donors undie Resiedent     already in operation. Work togetheg for a nl w Centre for Economic    European countries ICDCp KfW).   Enviro.nentl Planning Council
Reprosentaoive Review of Ma aro   wi  UNICEF to achieve the goghs  Polrcy AnCysise SPA focus on pomi  oEPCi.
Program in context of SPA.   of World Summit of Children.  lio expenditure reviews and use of
counterpart funds.



- 11 -
Review will be prepared in collaboration with the Government and donors. Indeed, collaboration with
t'he Government on all ESW will be the norm. The Bank will seek increased Government involvement
in project identification and design, and in ex post evaluation, the latter building on an ongoing OED
review of the effectiveness of our past assistance strategy.
28.   Private Sector Development. Though there were significant improvements in the enabling
environment for the private sector under the Third Structural Adjustment Credit, private sector
development in Ghana remains constrained by the predominant role of public enterprises; uncertainty
about Go-7erment attitudes toward the private sector, as manifested in legal and regulatory impediments;
continued financial sector weakness; limited technological capability of private enterprises; and
infrastructure bottlenecks. IDA is addressing these constraints through a multi-faceted approach, which
covers the urban and rural secirs. The recent Private Enterprise and Export Development Project will
assist private exporters by providing technical assistance to facilitate export activity and short-term
finance. Future private sector lending will focus on reforms in the regulatory environment, public
enterprise divestiture, and building technological infrastructure. Financial sector reforms will be
supported through adjustment operations, financial intermediary loans and technical assistance projects;
this support will be contingent upon continuing progress in the privatization of banks and will consist of
measures to strengthen financial regulations, supervision, legal and administrative processes and
procedures. Rehabilitation of the rural finance system will be explored along with its integration with
the formal financial sector. Resource mobilization will be broadened through the development of the
capital market, with emphasis on a more conducive climate for the development of insurance and pension
instruments. Infrastructure investments are likewise essential; although IDA has provided support in prior
years, the rate of infrastructure rehabilitation needs to be increased. In agriculture, we are supporting
small-scale infrastructure, especially feeder roads. In telecommunications, we are supporting the
development of an enabling environment for private sector participation. In electric power, a major study
is underway to determine future developments regarding power imports and exports. Ihe FY93 National
Electrification Project will support power improvements in areas excluding the major cities. Future
lending will support the development of a medium term expansion program and approaches to balancing
hydropower from the Volta dam to avoid excessive reservoir drawdown. In transport, we are supporting
road maintenance and rehabilitation and institution-building.
29.   Natural Resources and the Environment. Growth in Ghana in the medium term will primarily
come from agriculture. But traditional systems have exploited the soils and the forests, with little regard
for their long-term productive capacity. Significant changes in agricultural support services for crop and
animal husbandry are needed. Recently-approved credits in research, extension, and livestock are
directed toward this objective. In addition, the Environmental Resource Management Project contains
a component designed to introduce new soil conservation techniques for small farmers; this has the
potential for much wider application once the pilot phase is complete. Our assistance strategy is also
addressing the major issues identified in Ghana's National Environment Action Plan (NEAP). This
includes support for forest and wetlands management, as well as urban water and sanitation services.
Ghana 2000 and Beyond suggested that the Western Region of the country had some potential for
agricultural growth but was constrained by its fragile environment. The region contains the last
remaining tropical forests in Ghana; development must therefore be managed carefully in light of possible
environmental impacts. We are undertaking a major ESW study in collaboration with the regional
government. Meanwhile, under the on-going Forestry Resource Management Project we are monitoring
deforestation and supporting the implementation of protective measures, including changes in concession
pricing and other elements of the incentive framework. In addition, the Bank is assisting the Government
to evaluate and monitor the environmental impact of mining activities and to develop more
environmentally-responsible techniques. In conjunction with our capacity-building initiative, IDA intends
to support Ghana's Environment Protection Council to more effectively execute its monitoring and



- 12 -
regulatory functions, establish a national environmental information and monitoring system, and safeguard
coastal wetland sites.
b.    Portfolio Management
30.   The Ghana portfolio consists of 33 investment projects and 5 adjustment operations. Since the
inception of the ERP, IDA has committed about $2.2 billion to Ghana-a little over $1 billion in
adjustment lending and almost $1.2 billion in investment lending. Disbursements over the period have
totalled $1.5 billion. As of end-March 1992, the undisbursed balance on investnent operations was
US$700 million, and on adjustment operations was US$160 million. In terns of completed projects,
Ghana's record is good. Seventy nine percent of projects completed by 1991 were rated satisfactory by
OED.
31.   Over the decade since the inception of the
ERP, the rate of disbursements on investment projects  b    im eati; indicatis
gradually declined, reaching 14.5 percent in FY92.
In part the decline reflected the changing composition       .fE -
of the portfolio and IDA's increasing involvement in  X  2  i    .1 9
sectors with relatively weak implementing agencies.    ;   C               79  18X
Meanwhile, over the period, the absolute level of  ;        .      =        1  15E
project disbursmemet did not exceed $80 mfillion in  <ec    .
any given year (Table 5). Limited availability of                              1
counterpart funds was one factor in causing greater  f icTetMs7-Q
IDA  disbursements to  plateau  at this level.              - a. ts              v<; 1
Meanwhile. the number of problem projects also    X                    _h
rose-from three in FY91 to seven in FY92-due in  _______________________________,
part to implementation problems and in part to the
application of more stringent rating standards.
32.   Responding to these developments, we intensified our portfolio management efforts.  In
consultation with the Government, we took step" to restructure slow-disbursing projects, to introduce
standard procurement documents, and to intensify project supervision. Although the average pace of
implementation of IDA projects remains slow, it has improved. Disbursements in the first nine months
of FY93 have increased by 25 percent over the same period in FY92. Increasing disbursement rates on
investment operations will be the key to managing successfully Ghana's transition from adjustment
lending. We have seen less dramatic progress on problem projects. Their number has been reduced to
six, and action plans-including restructurings-are under implementation in most (Table 6).



-13 -
P~~~~~~~w2    PYOI~~~~YO  00iof  no,.
;.: 3                                      ,                             V. '. d 83: -.l.a   .: :
-.R a ....  i                                    .      ......$20.m.........l... : : . ... - U,, ln
,mprovemnt .                    .on.o..I.. .n .. ' E. E
0~~~~~~~qik rbrlgcmoet has fteI bac tgr  b,. tle-
;    XmE~~~~~~~~~~~~~Av
W"dX:~~~~~~~~~~.t~t 2. -opIac -a :xece :y 3.n .$ .n :. 3 ..t .l*" i..^,
Water Sector            2        3     FY99, S. n on. uiebursed *10* m
. . 61~~~~~~~e30.97. Whis pbcsii_
.       . -.:    . ~~~saignifict pobile. Iprat tdc aeudrww.(
ctobeen  r19tod   f by rect  led b tesiwi4
for's . long oWn. "thrato .1 a - os .
Private Investent       S        2     Being upgrideod to 2. Seeond tranohe rjisased. -
Prornotion (SAC l0l)....:
1/     Disbnwmts anmtsro     ha                            o of Match 31,1993.
33.    Improved Implementation. Sustained and across-the-board improvements in implementation will
take time. Initially, we are focusing on the availility of counterpart funds and procurement processes-
two areas which account for the bulk of implementation delays. Counterpart funding and the mechanics
of cash flow management with the Government are on the agenda for the Country Podolio Perfotmance
Review  (CPPR) scheduled for early June. As part of the FY94 Public Expenditure Review, we wi1 also
be looking in detail at the counterpart finance reuiriements of all donor-financed projects as well as
projects within the approved Public Invest3ent Program, assessing the adequacy of cedi allocations and



- 14 -
investigating why release mechanisms fail to ensure that projects receive funds promptly. In the case of
procurement, current contract bidding, evaluation and award processes are already very complex and time
consuming; the increased political accountability of the executive may slow the decision-making process
further. Although use of standard bidding documents has helped, we propose to intensify the work of
advising implementing agencies in the use of these documents, through greater involvement of resident
mission staff. We will also be working closely with the Government on an overall Procurement
Assessment during FY94.
34.   Quality at Entry. At the same time, we are intensifying our efforts to improve quality at entry.
This entails factoring implementation constraints into project design and ensuring adequate country
ownership both on the ground and in the bureaucracy. We also intend to work with the Government to
develop projects with shorter lifespans, which require less crystal-ball gazing and accordingly less scope
for forecast error during project preparation and design. We are also endeavoring to ensure greater
government involvement in project identification and preparation and are looking more critically at
proposals for technical assistance to ensure that they are consistent with tie overall capacity-building and
institutional development strategy. Greater involvement of implementing agencies at the project
design/redesign stage, in highlighting institutional difficulties of execution, will help us to better
anticipate-and to design around- bottlenecks. Upstream participation at the working level will help to
ensure ownership among the people responsible for carrying out the project. We expect the CPPR to
devote a substantial amount of time to this topic.
35.   Role of the Resident Mission. We have significantly increased the role of the Resident Mission
in portfolio management. The Resident Representative and his staff hold regular discussions with the core
ministries on the status of the portfolio and on generic and project-specific problems. All education
projects, and selected projects in other sectors, are supervised by Resident Mission staff. We are
reviewing our portfolio in order to broaden the Resident Mission's responsibility for supervision. The
forthcoming CPPR is being organized by the Resident Mission, including preparation of the
documentation on portfolio implementation. The Resident Mission produces a quarterly Summary of
Operations that highlights problems in each project; this has proved an effective aid to portfolio
management.
c.    UPC
36.   IFC has played an important role in Ghana's private sector development. As of the end of March
1993, IFC's gross loan and equity investments totaled an estimated US$410.8 million. Resources have
been targeted to the mining, tourism, and industrial sectors through direct project financing and through
capital markets. Four projects are being assisted under IFC's Africa Enterprise Fund which provides loan
and equity financing of US$100,000-US$l million for projects with costs ranging between US$250,000
and US$5 million. As of the end of 1991, IFC had assisted 10 small Ghanaian entrepreneurs in
developing marketing and other skills as part of its Africa Project Development Facility. IFC expects
to expand its operations in Ghana with an emphasis on diversification in value-added activities in the
agriculture and manufacturing sectors.
d.    Multilateral Agencies and Donors
37.   IMF. The IMF has supported Ghana's adjustment program through stand-by arrangements,
extended arrangements, SAFs, and ESAFs. Although the ESAF was successfully concluded in December
1991 and IMF financial support for adjustment ended, Ghana and the IMF initiated an Enhanced
Consultation program in 1992. The Government sought the IMF's advise on measures to address the
sharp deterioration in the economy. An IMF mission, with Bank participation, visited Ghana in



- 15 -
March/April 1993 for discussions preparatory to the Article IV Consultation, which is currently scheduled
for mid-June.
38.   Muldlateral Agencies. UNICEF is a major donor in the health sector in Ghana. The Bank is
working closely with UNICEF both on the National Program of Action for Children and in the context
of the ongoing Health and Population Project. In education the Bank has been working closely with the
African Development Bank in helping the Government improve tertiary education.
39.   Aid Coordination. The Bank has played a major role in coordinating Ghana's large assistance
program. It is expected that the Bank's role in the context of the Consultative Group (CG) and the
Special Program of Assistance (SPA) will grow. The next CG meeting is scheduled for late June. It will
allow the Government to engage in an exchange of views with the donor community with regard to
growth strategies and the role of donor support. The meeting will also permit a full discussion of
implementation issues in all donor programs. Implementation will also be addressed in the public
expenditure review that will be undertaken later in 1993 with the full participation of donors. Additional
meetings in Accra may be held throughout the year on a sectoral basis involving smaller groups of
interested donors. Such meetings will also provide a forum for discussing the sector investment programs
being developed in the context of SPA m.
e.    Key Issues for Consideration
1.    Summary Assessment
40.   Ghana has successfully managed a complex adjustment process over a 10-year period. It has
achieved fiscal balance, progress on the social indicators, export growth, and some important sectoral
reforms. More recently, it has successfilly managed a transition to a democratic form of government.
To be sure, the run-up to the elections was costly to the economy, because of unanticipated expenditures,
large wage increases, and related delays in implementation of vital programs. However, the Government
responded quickly and took bold steps to address the emerging macroeconomic imbalances. These are
important achievements. They augur well for the sustainability of the adjustment program. But there
is still much to be done. The first priority is to enhance the climate for private sector development. This
will mean a changed role for the Government-a reduced role in production, offset by increased
investments in human resources development and infrastructure. Increased capacity-building efforts will
be needed to enable the public sector to provide the services essential for crowding the private sector
supply response, which in turn is critical for accelerated growth and poverty reduction. The evidence
also points strongly toward the importa ice of strengthening primary education and literacy programs in
achieving these goals.
41.   Role of IDA. The Bank has played an important role in helping Ghana to develop and implement
its reform program and to coordinate donor assistance. Given the major successes the Government has
achieved-and the unfinished agenda, particularly on capacity building-the Bank's role will increasingly
shift to advising the Government on the formulation of options, leaving much more of the work of
developing the options to the Government, albeit with support as needed from the Bank. The objective
of our efforts will be to promote Ghanaian ownership and capacity. Just as the Government needs to
avoid crowding out private sector initiative, the Bank needs to avoid crowding out Ghanaian initiative.
Meanwhile, vis-a-vis donors, the role of the Bank will increasingly shift to the provision of sectoral
leadership, on the basis of collaborative and diagnostic ESW aimed at developing effective sectoral policy,
expenditure, and institutional frameworks.



- 16-
2.    Critria for Assessing Progres
42.   As noted above, we will move to the low case lending scenario in the event of a serious decline
in the Government's commitment to maintning macroeconomic stability and promoting private sectot
development; to reducing poverty; and/or to improving project implemention. Progress In these areas
will be judged primariy by:
*     Progress on macroecononkc management and private sector development will be judged
by Ghana's success in containing inflation and reviving growth over the course of 1993
and 1994, and by the vigor of Government efforts to remove regulatory and legal
impediments to private investment, both domestic and foreign and to accelerate the
divestiture of public enterprises.
*     Progress on poveny reducdon will be judged by the overall climate for efficient growth
and the orientation of public expenditures toward the delivery of basic social services,
especially primary education and health care.
*     Progress on project implementadon will be judged by the rate of disbursements on
investment operations and by the success achieved in restructuring problem projects,
simplifying approval procedures, and ensuring counterpart funds.
II. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
43.          CwuM/S%= Backrud. 'he Government started the implementation of a major
educational reform program in 1987, designed to restructure the educational system from a 6:4:5:2:3
system to a 6:3:3:4 system; to lengthen the school year - at the primary level from 36 weeks to 40 weeks;
to revise curriculum and learning materials to make them more relevant to Ghanaian conditions, and to
provide substantial inputs designed to increase the effectiveness and coverage of the school system at all
levels. Government also plans to take all necessary measures to increase intakes into primary schools
so that by the end of the century there will be a gross intake rate of 98% of the population of six year
old children. It is also expected that dropout rates will decrease to a grade specific average of about 2%.
Thus there will be a 46% increase in primary school enrollments between the 1990191 and the 2000/01
academic years, and by the year 2000 the gross enrollment ratio will exceed 90%. This growth will only
be possible if the proliferation of fees and levies on primary school children is controlled and learning
becomes much more interesting and effective. Government has increased its contribution to education
from 1.6% of GDP in 1983 to around 3.6% in 1987 and 3.8% in 1993. Much of this has been devoted
to improving teacher salaries, which were increased by 60% in 1986, and 80% in 1992, with smaller
increases in the intervening years. In real terms, ftis represents a significant increase.
44.          The educational reform program has also received donors' support. IDA, through
components of the Health and Education Project (Cr. 1653-OH), EdSAC I (Cr. 1744-GH), and EdSAC
II (Cr. 2140-OH), has spent or committed approximately US$32 million on primary education since 1987
for the massive in-service training of teachers, the provision of text books and other learning aids,
improvements to the supervision process, and classroom construction through the provision of roofing
sheets and school pavilions. In addition to its support for primary education, IDA is also supporting
secondary and tertiary education and adult literacy. USAID has been involved in supporting many key
software and research elements essential for improving primary student leaning achievement since 1991,
with its US$35 million Primary Education Program, which has as its main condition the maintenance of



- 17 -
the 1989 share of educational recurrent budgets going to primary education. This program is providing:
(a) intensive short in-service training each year to approximately half of all primary teachers in English
and Mathematics; (b) four textbooks to each primary school child (English, Math, Science, and Social
Science); (c) teacher guides and syllabi for all teachers; and (d) essential classroom supplies. The
program is also piloting a number of initiatives designed to increase access and equity in the three
northern regions. Other donors include British ODA for literacy and teacher education for basic
education, ADB for tertiary education, CIDA for basic and technical education, Norway for literacy and
school pavilions for basic education; OPEC Fund for school pavilions and school sanitation. In addition,
World Food Programme (WFP) for school feeding; UNICEF for primary and pre-school education;
Switzerland for secondary school equipment; the Saudi Fund for secondary school development; GTZ
for vocational school development and UNDP and ILO for institutional strengthening. Various non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) have also provided assistance.
45.          Though teachers have been retrained and provided with essential inputs such as chalk,
guides, and stationery; though supervision systems have begun to be put in place; though all students now
have access to a basic set of texts, the effectiveness of the public primary school remains very low, as
does the level of learning achievement of the majority of public primary school students. All these
additional inputs can have very little impact if there is little teaching taking place, or if students'
attendance is very irregular.
46.          The Ministry of Education believes that a key cause of this low level of achievement is
the extraordinarfly low level of instuctional time. The daily official primary teacher workload of 4-1/2
hours is considerably lower than internationally accepted levels. Ihe official teaching hours of 725 hours
per year compared with the average for developing countries of 870 hours is in itself considerably lower.
Moreover, calculations show that actual teaching hours average around 450 and are often lower than 300
hours. Discussions have started between the Government and the Ghana National Association of Teachers
(GNAT) on lengthening the school day, and tentative agreement has been reached on the need to add an
additional hour a day for strengthening the communication skills component of the curriculum.
47.          Actual teaching and learning time is affected by weather conditions and by the
atractiveness of facilities, as many of the schools in the more deprived parts of the country nave no
proper school buildings. Thirty five percent of primary school buildings (3,532 schools) are either in
appalling conditions, or have no classrooms. In all but three regions more than 25% of schools have
nothing that can seriously be called a classroom, and in 14 out of 110 districts more than half of primary
schools are without classrooms. In addition to these schools there are a large number with leaking roofs
and other physical impediments. As part of the preparation activities for this project, a detailed survey
of all these 3,532 schools was carried out, and on the basis of this survey the selection of schools to be
covered by this project took place, largely by eliminating all schools with fewer than 100 students.
48.          Learning time and effectiveness are also affected by other factors such as poor teacher
discipline, local markets, funerals, meetings called by circuit and district educational offices, sports and
ceremonial occasions and time taken off by the teachers each month to collect salaries. These problems
are accenuated by an almost complete lack of school level supervision by the headteacher, and the high
private costs of schooling.
49.          In addressing these concerns, Government has prepared a letter of primary education
development policy which includes the changes expected over the next three years, particularly those
related to increasing instructional time, expanding enrollments and improving educational effectiveness.
Of particular importance is the elimination of the collection of all fees and levies on primary school pupils



- 18-
not specifically approved by the Ministry of Education. These unauthorized fees and levies seem to be
one of the main causes for a fall in P1 intakes in 1991192 of 4.2%, the first fall since 1983/84.
50.          PjEQec   bjectiy. The overall goal of this project is in line with previous Bank
involvemf:nt in basic education in Ghana-to increase learning achievements and enrollments in primary
schools throughout the country. In order to accomplish this, the project will have the specific objective
of improving the amount and quality of teaching and learning time in primary schools, particularly as far
as 1,983 of the least well endowed primary schools are concerned.
51.          Project Description. The project, which concentrates on 1,983 of the most deprived
schools, comblnes the implementation of key policy and management changes with investments in
physical inrfastructure:
(a)   policy and mana2ement changes: The inputs will be: (i) increasing the official teaching
hours from 4 hours a day to S hours a day; (i) ensuring that District Education 0YTicers
do not arrange any functions or activities for school teachers during official hours; (iii)
eliminating all fees and levies that are not officially endorsed by the Ministry of
Education and that are currendy imposed on primary school students; (iv) involving
communities in the selection of headteachers; (v) training and re-training of 1,983 school
headteachers in school level supervision; (vi) orientation of key district officials; (vii)
orientation of community leaders from each school area; (viii) training and retraining of
circuit monitoring assistants and circuit supervisors; and (ix) strengthening the Ministry
of Education's implementation, monitoring and planning capacity (including carrying out
a school mapping exercise for 1,500 small schools); and
(b)   investments in physical infrastructure: These will also contribute to increased actual hours
because of the greater ability to hold class during inclement weather. The inputs will be:
(i) constructing 10,977 classrooms (3,019 school pavilions or groups of three classrooms);
(ii) constructing 1,983 headteachers houses; (iii) re-roofing of 1,546 classrooms; (iv)
employing construction supervision and technical auditing consultants; and (v) mobilizing
communities to clear and prepare the sites and rapidly clad the pavilions and make cement
wall blackboards.
52.          The headteacher will play a central role in achieving project objectives, for only if school
based supervision takes place can there be an increase in effective teaching hours and an improvement
in instructional methods be expected. The importance of the headteacher's role in supervision will be
emphasized as part of his/her in-service training, and his/her commitment to this role w!1 be strengthened
through the provision of a house. The headteacher's house is a simple building that will be constructed
by small scale contractors, who will be paid a fixed price once the house is certified as complete by
independent technical auditors. The headteacher will be able to use the house at a nominal rent of 2%
of salary, which will cover maintenance and recurrent expenses, as long as he signs and carries out an
agreement with Government outlining his/her increased functions and responsibilities.
53.          The school pavilion is basically a roof on legs with a concrete slab floor, pre-fabricated
and erected by large scale contractors selected on the basis of ICB. The pavilion is designed to withstand
stong winds, and the ravages of termites. In addition to pavilion construction, those rooms that have
strong walls but a non-existen or leaking roof will be provided with roofing sheets.
54.          Poect Con t The project inputs will interact in a mutually reinforcing way. The
physical infrastructure investments will provide an attractive enabling environment (school buidings for



- 19-
teachers and pupils) and will serve as an incentive mechanism (houses for headteachers). Teachers should
become more willing to work a longer day (through Improved supervision and an increase in official
teaching hours); and headteachers should become sufficiently motivated and skilled to supervise their staff
and to assist in their professional development (through provision of training, adequate supervision by
the districts, and Improved selection process). Pupils, encouraged by their parents, should attend school
more regularly (through elimination of fees not authorized by MOE). This combination of policy
measures, particularly increased time on task and improved instruction, should lead to an enhancement
of learning outcomes and pupil participation not only in the schools supported by the project but also in
the primary school sector at large.
55.          Project Cost and Financin . The total project cost is estimated at US$73.3 million of
which US$65.1 million would come from IDA, US$5.0 million from the Government Budget, and
*         US$3.2 million from community or district resources. The IDA credit would finance 100% of foreign
costs and 84% of local costs, excluding taxes and duties, or 89% of the total project costs, excluding
taxes and duties. Credit funds, which will be disbursed over four years, will be used to finance 3,019
*         triple pavilions at US$41.6 million; 1,983 staff houses at US$16.2 million; roofing materials at US$0.5
million, technical assistance and training at US$5.5 million, and vehicles and other equipment for US$1.3
million. The Government's contribution will be used to cover 10% of the cost of the school pavilions,
and the duties and taxes. Government will also continue to provide US$16.4 million equivalent in annual
reurrent costs to project supported schools. Communities will provide US$3.2 million, of which about
US$0.8 million will be for purchasing cement and nails, and the remainder for unpaid community labour.
Schedule A summarizes project costs and financing; Shidule B presents tables on procurement and
disbursements; Scbedule C presents a timetable of the project's key processing events; and Schedule D
lists Bank Group operations in Ghana. A map is also attached. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 11760-
GH is being distributed separately.
56.          rolect ImWlementation. The project activities will be coordinated by the Coordinating
Unit for Managing External Funding (CU) in the Ministry of Education that is currently responsible for
the coordination of all IDA supported projects and programs. The CU includes a School Building
Section to be headed by a Project Manager. This section will be responsibW fx; monitoring the work of
the supervising and technical auditing consultants responsible for superi3n pavilion insilation and
house constrcon. A university institution will be responsible for developing training programs and
manuals for headteachers. Using the data from a baseline study carried out prior to academic year
1993/94, the impact of the project on the primary education system will be monitored on an annual basis,
especially in the project supported schools. The following are eligibility criteria required of prc,ect
beneficiaries: (a) the headteacher has signed a standard tenancy agreement for the occupation of the house
with the Ministry of Education; and (b) the local community has signed an agreement with Ministry of
Education for school pavilion site preparation and cladding, monitoring of school activities, and removal
of fees and levies unauthorized by the Ministry of Education. The bidding documents for the manufacture
and installation of school pavilions have been finalized by the beginning of May 1993. The project
implementation will start even before effectiveness of the proposed project.
57.           ect Ssabit. Though extending official instructional time, increasing the sense
of community ownership of the school and their involvement in supervision, training the beadteacher and
providing a house as a permanent incentive, and ensuring that an attractive and functional school building
is available, the project will contribute to Increasing learning achievements and enrollments well beyond
its implementation period. The current unit recurrent cost at the primary level averages US$45 per
annum and is projected to fall to US$40 by 1996 as class sizes become more normal. In the 1993 fiscal
year Government has allocated just under CIO billion (US$16.4 million) in recurrent costs to the 1,983
selected primary schools. As only existing schools are being covered and as the average size of the



- 20 -
selected primary schools Is only 178 pupils, and the pupil-teacher ratio is only 31:1, there can be
considerable expansion of enrollments in the project schools with no significant increase in Government
recurrent budgets. There wIll be no additional teachers needed, textbooks can, for some years, be
provided out of the proceeds of textbook revolving funds, and local communities will be responsible for
school maintenance.
58.          Lessons from Previous IRA Involvement. The project is drawing on the policy and
Institutional experience under EdSAC I and II, and on the implementation experience from EdSAC I (Cr.
1744-GE), under which 2,000 single classroom pavilions were installed by one contractor in under 600
days. An evaluation of the program by the Mianstry of Education found it to be a rapid and effective way
to provide school classrooms. However, four problems were identified which have been corrected under
this project. First, communities were slow in cladding the building largely because they were expected
to use large quantities of purchased materials (mainly cement). Second, the original pavilions were
somewhat over-designed. Third, the erection of a pavilion for each classroom separately rather than in
blocks of three added signiflcantly to the total costs. Fourth, the price fluctuation formula left too much
freedom to the contractor. The project is also drawing on the experience from the Community Secondary
Schools Project (Cr. 2278-H), under which 150 senior secondary schools are being constructed with
community involvement. Under that project, communities were provided with two payments prior to the
c' mpletion of school facilities on the basis of reports from a technical auditor. Many communities took
one or both installments and then were slow in actually completing the buildings. Thus under this
project, payment will only be made on completion of the (much less cosdy) headteacher's house.
59.          Rationale for IDA Involvement. The Bank's growth and poverty reduction strategies in
Ghana both hinge centrally on supporting Government efforts to increase the coverage and quality of
primary education. IDA has played a central role in the financing of the educational reforms in Ghana
in recent years with two sectoral adjustment credits, and four projects totalling around US$170 million.
No other donor has either sufficient resources to help the Government solve the primary school facility
problem, nor the long established relationship with the Ministry of Education necessary for an effective
policy dialogue. Since 1987, some of the equity and instructional goals of the reform program supported
by IDA have been jeopardized by the fact that in the more deprived areas, the effectiveness of the
primary education system is u-nacceptably low. The project supports the Bark's policies for primary
education by: (a) enhancing the learning environment through increased instructional time; (b) improving
motivation of teachers through improved working conditions; (c) strengthening educational management
through training of headteachers in school supervision and strengthening of information systems; (d)
improving equitable access through rehabilitating some of the least well endowed schools; and (e)
complementmg other projects and Interventions designed to address other aspects of improving
educational effectiveness and equitable access (Edrimary Education A World Bank Policy Paper, 12).
60.          Agree  Action. Government has presented IDA with a signed letter of Primary
Education Development Policy which outlines its achievements since the beginning of the educational
reform, and the key new policies it will introduce over the coming several years. Government has agreed
to implement a program to increase both official and a     instructional time stardng from the 1993/94
academic year, and to this end, has already issued circulars to District Education Officers and
Headteachers on the steps that they must take to increase actual daily teaching hours. In addition, during
negotiations, Government (a) agreed to eliminate by January 1, 1997 in a phased manner the collection
of all fees not approved by the Ministry of Education; (b) agreed to carry out a baseline study prior to
academic year 1993194 to serve as a basis for establishing a monitoring system; (c) confirmed the the host
community will execute an agreement with MOE before the construction of any classroom pavilion can
take place; (d) confirmed that it will require as a precondition to permitting any headtea:her to occupy
a newly constructed house that the headteacher execute with MOE a tenancy agreement in a form and
substance satisfactory to IDA; and (e) agreed to carry out a mid-term review between July and December
1995. As conditions for credit effectiveness, Government will have: (a) appointed with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA, the Project Manager and his/her two deputies; (b) appointed the



-21 -
construction supervisors who will have stated work on surveying at least 50 project sites; (c) selected
the tecncal auditors; (d) selected contractos for the manfacture and instalation of at least 2,000 triple
pavilions; and (e) completed the first orientation program for 660 district officials. As SnaiioQ of
dlibimien    against contracts for the manufacture and erection of the school pavilions, Government will
have established a project account, in a commercial bank, and have deposited US$400,000 equivalent In
the account.
61.          Monigtring Indicators. A system of monitoring relevant intermediate indicators is being
established to track progress during implementation. In order . establish this system, it will bs necessary
to collect additional baseline data on the 1,983 schools being supported, to find out the nunber of days
and hours the school was open during the previous year; the official teacher absences during the previous
year; the intake level; and the grade-specific dropouts during the year. These same indicators would then
both be regularly monitored in the 1,983 project schools.
62.          Enviromental Asc. The project, involving the construction of durable classrooms
and houses for rural schools, which are designed to make the greatest possible use of locally available
materials will not have a negative impact on the environment especially since all houses will be provided
with sanitary facilities, and all schools will be encouraged to construct such facilities. The expansion and
improvement in basic education Is likely to have a positive environmental impact. Tbis project does not
involve resettlement. It is assigned the enviromnental category "C".
63.           ggm Obiecdve Ctgdes. The project's major contributions to the Bank POC are
human resources development and the reduction of poverty.
64.          Proiect Benefits. By extending instructional time, increasing the sense of community
ownership of the school and its involvement in supervision, training the headteacher and providing a
house as a permanent incentive, and ensuring that an attractive and functional school building is available,
the project should result in a significant improvement in enrollments, learning outcomes, teachers'
performance, and community interest, especially for the 1,983 schools selected to benefit directly by this
project.
65.          Riska. There are three main risks. First, the Ghana National Association of Teachers
(GNAT) and its members might not cooperate in increasing daily instructional time to something like
international levels. Second, there might be some delays in procurement, i.e., in the award of the school
pavilion contracts. Third, there may be long delays in communities cladding the pavilions. The first risk
is being addressed by sensitizing GNAT officials and members to the current sitation of extremely low
learning outcomes of prin ary school students and its impact on Ghana's education system and future, and
by constructing 1,983 headteachers' houses as an incentive. The second risk will be mitigated by the high
level of support for this project in Government, up front preparation of the bidding documents, and
selection of contractors for the manufacture and installation of at least 2,000 triple pavilions by
effectiveness. The third risk is being addressed by using a prior format agreement between the
Government and the district and local communities, by frequent technical supervision, and by organizing
community mobilizadon workshops.
66.          Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 17, 1993



-22 -
SchWule A
EPLICX O,HANA
PRIMARl SCHOQ1LDEVIBQPR          l PROJlff
SuMua of rioe  CMt and FinSing Plan
(USS million)
aect Cast Estimates:
A. Management and Training:
Project Management and Coordination        1.6          0.4          2.0
Training and Orientation                   1.9          0.1          2.0
B.  Physical Infrastructures                   38.0         20.4         58.4
C.  Taxes and Duties                            0            0           0
Total Base Costs                          41.8         20.9         62.7
Physical Contingencies                          3.7          2.0          5.7
Price Contngencies                             LI            £.          i2
TOTAL PROJECT COS                         48.7         24.6         733
Financlng Plan (US$ Million):
La          Foreig        ,z
IDA                                            40.5         24.6        65.1
Government of Ghana/Community
Participation                                                      U
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       48.7         24.6         73.3



-23 -
REPU8LIC Of GHANA
PRiMArY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
tUVSs MlttlXn eqy1v8LGntC inctuaing ¢ontingenc1es)
TOTAL
ProJect Element                    ICe          LC3         OTHER           N.S.F.               COST
1. Wok
1.1 School Pavilions              46.20                                      3.20  m/            49.40
(41.60)                                                       (41.60)
1.2 Headteachers Hoses                                      16.20                                16.20
(16.20)                             (16.20)
2. fecdk
2.1 Vehicles Office                            0.20          0.07                                0.27
equipi  and Trainirng                      (0.20)       (0.07)                              (0.27)
"aterials
2.2 Roofing Materials              0 52                                                          0.52
(0.52)                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(0.52)
3. Consulta13si
3.1 Project Supervision,
leo entation and
Monitoring support                                       3.58                                3.56
(3.58)                              (3.58)
4.1 Local TraininfVAorkshops                                (1.90
-                               *~~~~~~~~~~~1.90)                   " .90'
4.2 incremental Operating Costs                              1.06                                1.06
(1.06)                              (1.06)
4.3 Taxes and Duties                                                         0.35  y             0.35
TOTAL                                72        0.20         22.P1            3.55                73.3s
IDA Firn,cim,                    (t 12)       (0.20)       (22.81)                              (65.10)
Note: Totals may not addf up da to rouWing.
FifAres fn parentheses are the respective  unts financd by the IDA credit.
Nl. . P. w Not Senit-Mmkied.
fCounfty pertafef         US$3.2 mfilion euivalent.
ovemvint: UsSO. S mlon euivalent.



- 24 -
$$h2dule B
Page 2 of 2
S_eme fnuMSedul
Amount of the Credit
Allocated               Percent of Expenditures
CatgozwoLEzndiurm                     (USS Mijion)         tQ be Financed by IDA
1.  Civil Works:
A. School Pavilions A/            38.60                  90%
B. Headteachers Houses            14.00                  100%
2.  Roofing MaterIas                   0.50                  100%
3.  Vehicles and Office                0.20                  100%  Foreip exp.
Equipment                                                90%  Locl exp.
4. Tedcnical Assistance and
Studies                            3.00                 100%
S.  Local Train   and
Training Merials                   1.80                  100%
6.  Jicremenal Operatng Costs          1.00                  100%
7.  Unallocated
Total Credit Amount               L1Q
iV   As a condition of disbursement against this category, the Goverment will have deposited
US$400,000 equivalent in a Project Account.
timad Crdit isbursemesn
(US$ Million)
IDA Fin4               E1            EX           EYl          EY           FY9 E
Anmual                  12.8          23.8         18.2          9.3           1.0
Cumul_tive              12.8          36.6         54.8         64.1         65.1



-25-
Schedul C
RElBED= OF 9HAN,&
XOLM VzzUDn
Timetble of K;E-enYs
(a)    Time taken to prepare the
project:                          3 months
(b)    Prepared by:                      Govenment, with IDA assistance 1/
(c)    First IDA mission:                February 1993
(d)    Appraisal mission:                April 1993
(e)    Negotiatons:                      April 1993
(t)    Planned late of
effectiveness:                    October 1993
(g)    Relevant PCRs and PPARs:
PCR. Health and Education Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1653-GH). June 1992. Report
Number: 11080-GH.
j/     The project was prepared by Mr.IMmes. Nicholas Bennet (Principal PlannrA and
misson leader, AF4GA), P. Stephens (Project Officer, AF4GA), and J. Anger
c heearh Analyst, AF4PH).



- 26 -
agbdue n
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRMR 2OSCHOOLI DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
okm           o       Pa           s       u        xs
Cfi 31746                         SONMWA#b3i199am
L_7"                                                                             _      .um a
ACM             a                  ACt                                         UN     OAD
Q.=ssa  ~                          Pfaxed&upeiA                                 005        GA
1-00            64     Ohm        aqenh .                             '         569      GJO  '
0.143*     ,    e4       ahm       hpseul.hbS          *.                       40O0       Gos
0dm             85      Oh         Rwou.ms                                      401        0
CL2M                                                                                  am.3.amIpmM?  0
0.47            84       a.m    himui ut                                       2040       050
A4220                               A m    _                                    2*10       0
Ct.21-7          ?4 SAC                      t
et. 77                             AwnX t R2" 4.50                                         0
ua-W            8?     Ohm        MCI                                           U0 G       00
C0.191          64      Om         PfmuhI3mA4s                                 100m       0i0
C&1911-l  69    ~ohm         poibm1suremsduI                               640       000
0.08            89      Oh         SACU                                         210        05
0               64      Ohm        TamdOISal                                    25.0SW     30                      Z
0.161                   (Rawh       hmlablmiaab                                 lam8       an
0.180           8       cuOm       btA4mIuu2wm.Ehb                              111       Isi
e.119           s?      abaf           atD                                      am         58
C.165                              Fa a3m dSia ma 0                                       20
0.181           80      ohm        PdekyWeak100                                            .
0r.121          8       Om         Wale.SuMPAtat.h.400                                    1
0.14            8       Oam          a mm                                       1D0        84
c0.191          89     a                flt         s       oo                  340       236
cf-1            go      abo        VR*dq"                                       an         Q
0f.2401         go      ohm       aPIItbaSw(Uor                                 4050      5.2
et.219 sit              OUm        ARdAOP                                         10      1.3
0.2140  '    90  Ohm      U4'jsdooa.*apolji.ff                         5010      2050
0r.25           90      ohm                                                     VAGa 15   62.2
C260             1      ohm            hm"                       Sdt            1
0r.2192         91      Oma                                                                to1SSlRbEmaE95  55
CtL62193        91      Ohm        Mua*Poba4 21                                            in0
0.6             91      Oh           P R._ Maamm a                              2510      11W
0.4  *    91   Ohm        Pibs~MODA. Isesmad                          1200        495
0f.fM            2         m          mmatuNam8qD.                               6.0       0.09
c&         a     a      Oaa               -rwAu                                 4.70       4
cr0.3           902     O          NaL     .Ra.r                                20.40     3
0.2426                  1          Ns*   -4k3mM 3*a su1130
L2               9cn 3ahs                             o                         4         42a
04?                     Ohmue n                                                            w
Ctt92   n  a      R     _     =                             * J~~u4   m*J
CLas           'n   ohm               t       -=D                                          w
lUALeaIiymk                  0                                 0*       n o8 6_ 0
cvmF2                                                                    v  Gt
Ca2JU * SAO. deP e SoUw a sou u.
ACM2Ot                   t1 eEd 
QCa    Ioam        CLU                                                       M



-  27  -
Page 2 of 3
GHANA
SrATEMENT OF IMC KrIESl12Z
(As of MaJ    3t.  93)
O    dlia Gros Comibtmts
Fial                                                                 Amont in US mWon
Year            Borrower                 Type of Busine            Loan    Equti          Total
16         AsA      M"                 mng                          5            -         5  v
Cowl.
64          zetaain ooi                                                -       45 4u
we     apinmdon
196  Ctaadbla*B.opa               Minig                          -        .4         0Qt
R"aon
199        caaad      o                 Ming                           -       0.4          0.4
19S9       Owatiuos                     MmuaeBaab                      -       09           0.9
Am LM.
a9n        W     NStauMLt              S&eaMdba                      32          -          3
196        Caa,,_lous                  MIg                          47.       0.5          46*3
990        Asb"G*U&                    Min                          700          -         70 '4
Coip. a
a990    Idum                            Ng                             -        0            0
1991       Ala(A)                      A                             03          -          03
a9         Phido nLauaist (AM     Q        S                                     - 
19         Hotel 1mma_                  lowim                        4.2         -          4.2
(Obha) Ltd
1991       DisptIlan(A)                TOM                           Q2          -           2
1991       Cadlsopm                     Mi_B_                        0   04   e
RwoemtV
Coutinantd                  Mooiatba                     10         0*          10
lS91       Ohanal                        F _Aiulm                      -                    OA4  0
19on        enia                        D _owa, H                              0.2          Q2
Diwoul Hom
1991       Appiah-M a(M)                SapM                         0.9         -          0.9
19on        duapriauU                   MIg                         35           -         3S"
1991        ae  (AM)                    Cud)uf                        U          - _Q
1990        Ht1i la(ma p)              T eoS                          U3         -          L3
191        wabowswelf                   SaaIM4                       2.          -          20
1,992      AahatlGodta(swp)             MiIn                         64          _          4.
1993       ?olytez(ABI)                lluda Dsp                     0.4         -          QA4
1n93       SMI-Pdtwo  (AFP)             htls     d                  10           -*
1993       CaiFa (AM)                   Adbm                         OA4         -          0.
199S        JdaaiGeodiGl(A33P)          MIg                        150          1_  54
1993          au    asngQ0                                                     0            0.
TOta gM  C_uitmt                                                      59.3,        .         410A
Low  ep.,eat. £uwuauan     . amdu-of                                 27.9       4*L
rut c.wiuouwau Mel by WC                                             IMA       ~         ~ m
TOa  aa                                                                4.8                    4246
_nvaa6mt a      tPgowe but uasigpd a .f  mb 1M99
19S2       V Pus(A)                     ASb-                         0           -          0.3
191        Achimanes    y                                                      Lear M,  is  1  4.5
1993       pbaausplas                   Cosuaimal                   0Q2          -          02
199        Omimco                      ManufasIing                   .                     0.5
b(_       ~         ~~~~~ Q5     3          1 .s
-as   C^Mu   -  LS          L
V is~auJuu.mm.
As .t um



- 28 -
$Sedule D
Page 3 of 3
CiANA - ILEMENTATIOSSUES
While Ghana's overall disbursement performance continues to compare favorably with other countries
in the Region, disbursements On investment lend;ng have been declining since FY89. An increased focus
on imple on, complemented with actions to address generic as well as project issues, resulted in a
reversal of the trend In FY91. Key actions taken to Improve performance included a Country
Implementation Review in May 1991, which led to a breaktbrough in the simplification of procurement
procedures and the approval process, and follow-on sector implementation reviews. The Resident Mission's
supervision capacity was strengthened, and its portfolio monitoring activities increased. Intensive supervision
and mid-term reviews were used to redesign slow-moving projects in accordance with Bank policy.
Anticipated political changes, along with uncertahity over possible shifts in personnel, led to a slow-down
in actons to address implementations problems, as reflected in lower disbursements in FY92. Nonetheless,
continuing efforts to improve performance, including another CIR planned for early June 1993, are expected
to bring activities back on track after the setting-in period of the new government. The CIR will include
discussions on management of counterpart funds, procurement procedures, and practical aspects of
strengthening implementing agencies. The status of projects which are particularly slow-disbursing is
discussed below.
DoC=a Rehabiliao  (FY88). To address the administrative problems that had led to slow
implementation, project administration has been tightened, clear working relationships between implementing
agencies have been established, and mechanisms have been put in place to monitor progress. However,
difficulties with procurement procedures and cost increases in the roads component have caused continued
delays in implementation. Following a mid-term review in March 1992, various components of the project
have been redesigned and action taken to re-allocate credit funds.
Mining Sector Rehabilitation (PY88). The SGMC rehatilitation component has been lagging
subsntially, owing to slow decision making on joint venturing and rehabilitation of the mines.
Cofinanciers' meetings were held in March and July 1991, and in October 1992. They resulted in: a) the
downsiZlng of SGMC which represents significant progress that allowed the appropriate preparation of plans
to close the non-viable mining operations; and b) an agreement in November 1992 on the divestiture of
SGMC's two major mining operaions. Another cofinanciers' meeting is being planned for early June to
address progress of divestitures, and requirements for restruchtring the project.
Forestr  Resources Management (FY89).  Implementation problems included weak project
management, shortage of professional staff, and government uncertainty about the likely effectiveness of the
technical assistance program. Actions have been taken to enhance staff training, seek approval for an
increase in incentive packages, and restructure the technical assistance program. Project management has
now improved, implementation procedures have been simplified and action taken to reallocate proceeds.
Rural Financ (FY89). Disbursements have improved during the last twelve months. Recent
changes in the cost of funds to participating banks and the removal of subloan ceilings are expected to
increase disbursements.
Water Sector Rehabilitio (FY90). Preparation of town water supply plans, hydrological reports
and engineering designs are proceeding well, and, after much delay, procurement of equipment for the
ZImmediate Action Plan" has been arranged with delivery expected over the next six months. The
mechanism for annual adjustment of the tariff structure has also been established, and progress is being made
in developing improved financial amangement and O&M practices in GWSC and in reducing arrears
payments and unaccounted-for-water. While the acting Managing Director is doing a good job, operations
continue to be hampered by lack of experienced senior managers at headquarters and qualified engineers and
accountants in the regions.
May 12, 1993



18D 24783
BURKINA FASO
GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
7 49  \  WEST  / /tt { t   ij  ,    ' \     \        Numbers in red refer to
08                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the numnber of primary
)  \  t    o   < /m?  lNd:    s > %KX   {       -nunV~~~~~~~shols upprte b
the project by region.
o          /          -  k-PMARYROADS
aoho~  X     )SECONDARt ROADS
\~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~         ~     ~~    ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iEITW ROADS  6 e    
= RMWAYS
t REOION HEADQURERS
)0o  7  woaB\                     t°!   s S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NMONALCAPrL
REGION BOUNDAES
INTE\I JTIONAL BOUNDAIES
COTET 
/                                        0 Wt   o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 10 o 30 0 SO W
254~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
f   00
S~~~~~~E
205~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARL1R



