Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19525
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2508-GH)
June 29, 1999
Human Development 3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January 31, 1999)
Currency Unit            =       Cedi
US$1.00                  =       Cedis 2,373
SDR1                            US$1.33
US$1                     =       SDR.75
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BESIP          Basic Education Sector Improvement Programme
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
DflD           Department for International Development
EdSAC II       Second Education Sector Adjustment Credit
EMIS           Education Management Information System
FCUBE          Free Compulsory Universal Basic Education
FPMU           Funds and Procurement Management Unit
GES            Ghana Education Service
GNAT           Ghana National Association of Teachers
GOG            Government of Ghana
IDA            International Development Association
lEC            Information, Education and Communication
MOE            Ministry of Education
MTR            Mid-Term Review
NGO            Non-governmental organization
PMU            Projects Management Unit
PSDP           Primary School Development Project
PTA            Parent/Teacher Association
SIF            Schooling Improvement Fund
SMC            School Management Committee
SPAM           School Performnance Appraisal Meeting
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib (AFR)
Country Director:  Peter Harrold (AFC 10)
Sector Manager:   Helena Ribe (AFTH3)
Task Team Leader: Josephine Woo (AFTH3)



FOR OFFICMIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Cr. 2508-GH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................................................I
INTRODUCTION ....................................................................1
A.  COUNTRY CONTEXT ....................................................................1I
B.  IDA'S ROLE IN THE GHANA EDUCATION SECTOR ....................................................................2
PROJECT  OBJECTIVES ....................................................................2
A.   STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ....................................................................               2
B.  ACHEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ....................................................................3
IMPLEMENTATION  EXPERIENCE AND  RESULTS ..................................................................6
A.  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .....................................................................6
B.   SUSTAINABILITY ....................................................................7
C.  BANK PERFORMANCE .....................................................................7
D.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE ....................................................................8
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATION AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED ...................9
A.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES ....................................................................9
B.   FUTuRE OPERATION ...................................................................9
C.  K EY LESSONS LEARNED ....................................................................9
STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table  1:   Sunimary of Assesments ........................................................                                       12
Table 2:   Related Bank Credits ........................................................ 14
Table 3:    Project Timetable ........................................................ 15
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actual Amounts ............... 16
Table 5A: Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................................... 17
Table SB: Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................................... 17
Table 6:    Studies Included in Project ..................                            ...................................... 18
Table 7A: Project Costs ........................................................ 19
Table 7B: Project Financing ......................................................... 19
Table 8:   Status of legal covenants ........................................................ 20
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Staff inputs ........................................................                                  26
Table  10: Bank Resources: Missions ........................................................                                     27
Appendices:               A. Summary of Borrower's contribution to the ICR
B. Map of project sites (IBRD Map No. 24783)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Cr. 2508-GH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report for the Primary School Development
Project in Ghana, for which Credit 2805-GH in the amount of SDR 46.9 million (equivalent to
$65.1 million) was approved on June 10, 1993 and signed on July 26, 1993, and became effective
on January 21, 1994.
The credit was originally scheduled to close on December 31, 1997, but this date was
extended to December 31, 1998. The final disbursement took place on May 18, 1999. At
closure, there was a total undisbursed balance of SDR 10,316,223 (US$ 13,821,160).
This Implementation Completion Report was prepared by Ms. Rosemary Bellew of the
Africa Human Development Group (AFTH3) and Ms. Janet Leno (AFMGH), with technical
support from Ms. Miriam Ruminski (AFTH3). It was reviewed by Mr. Tsri Apronti (AFMGH),
Mrs. Josephine Woo (AFTH3), and by Mrs. Helena Ribe (Sector Manager, AFTH3) and
Mr. Peter Harrold (Country Director). The Government of Ghana contributed to the preparation
of the report by providing relevant data and preparing its own evaluation of the project, based on
the report of an external consultant.
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's completion mission in October 1998.
Findings of the Government's external consultant review were discussed with Government
during the mid-term review and restructuring mission of the Basic Education Sector
Improvement Program (BESIP) in early April 1999, and the draft ICR was discussed formally
with the Ministry of Education on May 11, 1999. The main objective of the discussions was to
understand the extent to which the project accomplished its development objectives, and how the
lessons leamed from this experience could be built into the restructuring of BESIP and into the
Government's broader program to support primary education. The ICR is based on the Bank's
Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, a consultant report commissioned
by the Bank, and the findings of a field survey conducted in 24 project and non-project schools
by the Government's external reviewer. It also incorporates comments received from
Government at the May 11 meeting and from an internal review meeting held on May 25, 1999.
An institutional assessment of the Ministry of Education and Ghana Education Service
conducted in February 1999 and other relevant reports prepared by the Government of Ghana
were also incorporated in the ICR.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Cr. 2508-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.     Since 1987, IDA has been active in the education sector in Ghana, having financed
projects totaling US$ 291.6 million. This financing has been provided to nine separate
operations,, covering every sub-sector from primary through tertiary education.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Statement of Project Objectives
2.     The project's main objectives were to: (a) improve learning achievement, especially in
the 1,983 least-endowed schools targeted by the project, and (b) increase primary school
enrollment. The first was to be achieved by increasing instructional time; providing housing to
head teachers and training them in school supervision and management; and involving
communities in head teacher recruitment and school supervision. Enrollment increases were to
result from halting unapproved fees and levies; constructing 11,000 classrooms; and
strengthening MOE's capacity to plan, implement and monitor school construction activities.
Following the project's Mid-Term Review, the project was restructured to support the
Government's Free, Compulsory, Universal Basic Education Program (FCUBE). This expanded
the institutional development objective to include improved system monitoring through an
education management information system (EMIS). It also broadened the scope of activities to
improve learning outcomes to include the provision of books and instructional materials, training
of pedagogic staff, a Schooling Improvement Fund (SIF), and an information, education and
communication (IEC) program.
Achievement of Project Objectives
3.     Learning Outcomes. The project had a positive impact on learning achievement,
although it remains low. Data from Performance Monitoring Tests suggest that PSDP schools,
and especially SIF schools, scored higher in mathematics and English tests than non-project
schools.



4.     Teacher and Head Teacher In-Service Training. The results of this training were
unsatisfactory because the training is not being put to use at the school level. MOE's final
project evaluation suggests that old practices remain the norn.
5.     Provision of Textbooks. Due to the absence of data on prior availability of textbooks, it
is not possible to determine the extent of improvement. At project closing data suggest that the
ratio of books to students ranges across grades between 1:1 and 1:2 in mathematics, and 1:3 and
1:8 in English, with a severe shortage of science books in grades 1-3. These ratios are confirmed
by historical data on book orders.
6.     Instructional Time. Although MOE in 1993 issued directives to increase daily school
hours from four to five, and to cancel extra-curricular activities during these hours, the policy
was rarely enforced. While the school day increased to five hours in most schools, still only 50%
of school time is being used for instruction due to persistent teacher absenteeism, lateness, and
extended period of recreation. Pilot SIF schools showed the highest level of instructional time at
66% of required hours.
7.     Provision of Head Teacher Housing. This appears to have been an ineffective strategy
to improve performance, judging by the lack of improvement in teacher performance and school-
level supervision. Although it is estimated that 90% of the houses are occupied by head teachers,
to date only 13% of rent due has been paid.
8.     Enrollment. No enrollment targets were set. While the enrollment growth rate was
below that of population growth, enrollment growth in project schools is better than the national
average and similar non-project schools. Enrollment growth appears highest in SIF schools.
9.     Abolition of Fees and Levies. Imposition of fees and levies persists, and students are
turned away from school for non-payment, in contravention of official policy.
10.    Construction of Classroom Pavilions. Construction was implemented as planned,
although sample data indicate that at least one-third of the pavilions have not been cladded,
leaving many schools with either "dwarf walls" or no walls at all.
11.    Community Involvement. Results of project strategies to increase community
involvement have been limited, except in the SIF schools, for which results are highly
satisfactory. The objective of increasing communities' sense of ownership of the schools, and
teachers' sense of accountability to the community has not been achieved in most schools.
12.    Capacity Building. The range of orientation sessions (for district officials and
community members) and training courses (for head teachers, teachers, circuit supervisors) was
carried out much as planned, but the impact of these efforts is negligible. The plan to conduct a
school mapping exercise was not carried out. The EMIS, however, is making progress in
automating information and building capacity to collect and produce education statistics.



iii
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
Major Factors Affecting the Project.
13.   In terms of project implementation it is important to distinguish between the
circumstances that prevailed during the project's first three years and the period of the final 18-
24 months, which resulted in the cancellation of a balance of US$ 14 million of credit proceeds.
Other factors are of a more systemic nature.
14.    During the early years, senior MOE officials demonstrated strong commitment to
increase instructional time by issuing directives to lengthen the school day and increase the
number of official instructional hours. However, changes at the top of MOE led to a weakening
of commitment to these objectives. In addition, commitment was low at the implementation
level, as project preparation did not adequately involve the GES. Further, capacity and
procedures for procurement were adequate during the first three to four years, which led to
timely delivery of project inputs.
15.    During the latter period of implementation, new approval procedures brought
procurement to a halt and demoralized qualified procurement staff, who either left or had their
contracts discontinued. In addition, implementation capacity was not sufficient to handle the size
and complexity of the new FCUBE program, which came on stream less than three years into
implementation of PSDP.
16.    Declining ownership, weak communication and ineffective coordination apply to both
phases of PSDP. Throughout, GES staff (particularly teachers) were not sufficiently aware of
the objectives and content of either the project or of FCUBE. This was exacerbated by frequent
leadership changes in both MOE and GES, and in the absence of effective communication and
coordination, ownership slipped. These problems were heightened by the increased number of
donors that came into the sector with the advent of FCUBE, and the weak management and
coordination mechanisms set up under that program. Finally, lack of accountability rendered the
implementation of MOE directives ineffective.
Sustainability
17.    Sustainability of the project's modest achievements is uncertain. If they are to endure, a
renewed commitment to basic education will need to be demonstrated by the administration and
teachers, and greater effort made to involve communities in the management and development of
the school (as is now being done through the School Performance Appraisal Meetings, or
SPAM). Accompanying measures such as systems of accountability, maintenance and financial
provisions for non-salary recurrent costs are essential to the sustainability of project investments.
Bank Performance
18.   The Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory, although uneven. Preparation should
have devoted more time and attention to teachers and the critical need to have their support. The
move from identification to appraisal in two and a half months did not allow for sufficient
consultation with teachers beyond formal discussions with the Ghana National Association of



iv
Teachers (GNAT). More time should also have been given to community consultation regarding
the role communities were to play in cladding (i.e., filling in the walls of) the pavilions and in
selecting head teachers, and to head teachers in the design and siting of their houses. Support
was adequate during appraisal and supervision, and in working toward the coordination of donor
efforts, even though real progress has been slow. Procurement support was particularly helpful,
and Bank flexibility during the mid-term review was also positive. Less Bank support and input
are evident on the policy side, which generally proceeded less smoothly than the project's
physical components. Although the Bank repeatedly drew Government's attention to
implementation and counterpart funding gaps, the Bank should probably have been firmer in
raising policy issues and stressing concern for Government's lack of diligence. In retrospect, the
Bank was too optimistic about the Government's capacity to implement the larger and more
complex FCUBE program, of which PSDP became a part.
Borrower Performance
19.    Overall Borrower performance was unsatisfactory, despite a number of areas in which
performance was positive. It was highly satisfactory in the delivery of physical inputs until the
final 18 months of implementation. The selection of schools for project support was generally
efficient, transparent and promoted equity by targeting assistance to the most deprived schools.
And procurement and financial management was competently executed during the early years of
the project. However, institutional commitment was unsatisfactory. While some high level
officials demonstrated commitrnent to the project and the wider reform agenda, MOE and GES
as institutions have generally not followed up to ensure compliance with directives or effective
application of training. In addition, counterpart funding was a problem, particularly during the
last two years.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Assessment of Outcomes
20.    The overall assessment is unsatisfactory, although performance was mixed. Project
outcomes are rated satisfactory with respect to leaming outcomes and enrollment in project
schools, particularly in the SIF pilot schools. In all other areas, such as institutional
development, community partnerships outside SIF schools, improved teaching and improved
supervision, the outcomes are unsatisfactory.
Future Operation
21.    Several project strategies and activities have been extended in the context of a
restructured Basic Education Sector Improvement Program. These include targeting vulnerable
districts, expansion of the SIF, expansion of EMIS, continuing support for capacity building in
program development, management and implementation. Future IDA support for civil works
will be conditional upon satisfactory community input at the design stage. On the policy side,
MOE has begun to give renewed attention to monitoring teacher attendance and compliance with
the official instructional time policy.



v
Key Lessons Learned
22.    The following lessons have been learned from this operation:
Focus on the school and teachers: Teachers must be given a chance to contribute to the
design of education initiatives so that these initiatives capture teachers' priorities. Top-
down administrative approaches must give way to much more bottom-up design to
foster greater impact and sustainability at the school level.
Community participation: Overall, outcomes were disappointing in terms of
community ownership and teacher accountability in most schools. Nonetheless, in the
SIF schools it is clear that the increased involvement of the community in the
development of the school and the establishment of partnerships between the
community and school staff is linked to positive performance on all indicators (i.e.,
instructional time, teacher and pupil attendance, number of exercises given in maths and
English, and test results).
Link between program design and institutional capacity. The complex design and
broad objectives of FCUBE did not match the capacity within MOE and GES to
implement the program effectively. The relationship between these factors needs to be
carefully assessed and adjustments made to phase implementation while building
capacity. There is also a need for an institutionalized effort to build management and
implementation capacity at all levels if development objectives are to be achieved.
Teacher incentives: There is little evidence to suggest that provision of housing as an
incentive to encourage head teachers to come to school on time and to increase their
motivation was effective. Housing might be an issue in certain cases, but a diversified
and less-costly approach might be more effective. The proposed access courses for
locally-selected teacher candidates are a move in this direction.
Strategies to increase enrollment: Significant investment in expanding access to the
same product for all children is not sufficient. More adapted, targeted nonformal
approaches to provision of basic education need to be developed to respond to the needs
of those currently out of school.
Prioritization of goals and strategies: The objective of universal basic education will
remain elusive unless persistent attention is accorded to reaching all primary school-
aged children. Similarly, implementation of priority strategies such as increasing
instructional time must be sustained over time until they are integrated into normal
business practices.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2508-GHl)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION
A. COUNTRY CONTEXT
1.    A 1995 Government report, "Ghana: Vision 2020," outlines a national development
strategy for the coming two decades. Its goals are accelerated economic growth, improved
quality of life for all Ghanaians, and reduced poverty. The associated strategies are macro-
economic stability, higher private investment, broad-based social and rural development, and
direct poverty-alleviation efforts. Political liberalization during the past five years has improved
civil liberties, enhanced government transparency, and fostered accountability. But it has also
brought greater political instability as a strong government ceded some control to the new
Parliarnent and consensus-building with new stakeholder groups has become a necessary part of
the policy formulation process. In the economic sphere, fiscal imbalances and inflationary
pressures worsened, although performance started to improve in 1997. Inflation dropped from
71% at end-1995 to 21% at end-1997 and the economy expanded at a 5% rate. Recent
agreements by foreign financiers to invest in mining, banking, teleconmnunications, and free-
zones for export production are encouraging. With an average per capita GDP of $410 and over
31% of the population living below the poverty line, the goals of Vision 2020 respond to tangible
national needs. They also imply a major supporting role for human resource development.
2.    Ghana has given very high priority to education during the 1990s. Following a
comprehensive education reform launched in 1987, the education sector has consistently received
between 35% and 40% of the government's budget. The reform has restructured primary and
secondary education, including curriculum revision and a shortening of the pre-university cycle
from 17 to 12 years. It has also expanded secondary education, launched a national adult literacy
program, increased the number of universities and polytechnics, and emphasized science
education throughout the system. In 1994 a policy of "free, compulsory and universal basic
education" (FCUBE) was introduced, leading to the official abolition of all fees for primary and
junior secondary education. Education system management is being steadily decentralized to the
district level and greater community involvement has been encouraged. Although performance
indicators have improved in comparison with the pre-reform period, significant difficulties
remain. Learning outcomes for all levels are poor, enrollment growth is slow, and students are
inadequately prepared for employment.



2
B. IDA'S ROLE IN THE GHANA EDUCATION SECTOR
3.    The main goal of Ghana's education development effort has been to improve the quality
of education and expand access on a financially sustainable basis. Bank support for this program
has been substantial, totaling US$ 291.6 million since 1987. Following an initial emergency
Health and Education Project (Cr. 1653-GH, US$5 million for education), re-structuring
assistance was extended through the First and Second Education Sector Adjustment Credits
(EdSAC-I, Cr. 1744-GH, US$34.5 million; EdSAC-II, Cr. 2140-GH, US$50 million). EdSAC-I
focused on restructuring the educational system, increasing efficient use of resources, and
initiating reforms at the primary and junior secondary education levels. EdSAC-II consolidated
reforms in basic education and extended them into senior secondary education.
4.    Subsequent investmnent credits targeted specific sub-sector development: primary
(Primary School Development Project, Cr. 2508-GH, US$65.1 million), secondary (Community
Secondary Schools Project, Cr. 2278-GH, US$15 million), tertiary (Tertiary Education Project,
Cr. 2428-GH, US$45 million), adult literacy (Literacy and Functional Skills Project, Cr. 2349-
GH, US$17.4 million), and vocational training in the informal sector (Vocational Skills Project,
Cr. 2695-GH, US$9.6 million). In 1996 a multi-donor Basic Education Sector Improvement
Program supported implementation of free, compulsory, and universal basic education (Cr. 2885-
GH, US$50 million). Recently, Ghana became a pilot participant in the Bank-led African Virtual
University and World Links programs, which seek to incorporate modem information and
teleconimunications technology into secondary and tertiary education.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    The intended outcomes of the Primary School Development Project were: (a) improved
learning achievement throughout the country, and particularly in the 1,983 schools targeted by
the project which were among the least well endowed, and (b) increased primary school
enrollment. To improve learning outcomes, the specific objectives of the project were to
increase the amount, and improve the quality of, instructional and learning time through: (a)
policy measures to lengthen the school day and ensure that official hours are used for instruction,
(b) the provision of housing to head teachers and training them in school supervision and
management, and (c) the organization of community involvement in head teacher recruitment
and school supervision. To increase enrollment, in addition to improvements in learning, the
project aimed to: (a) halt unapproved fees and levies, (b) construct about 11,000 classroom
pavilions to replace many of the most dilapidated structures in the country with safer and more
attractive structures, and (c) strengthen the capacity of MOE to plan, implement and monitor
school construction activities.



3
6.    After the mid-term review (MTR), the project was restructured to support the
Government's Free, Compulsory and Universal Basic Education Program (FCUBE). This
expanded the objective of institutional development to include improved system monitoring
through an education management information system (EMIS). It also broadened the scope of
activities to improve learning outcomes and community involvement by adding the provision of
books and instructional materials, training for pedagogic staff, a Schooling Improvement Fund
(SIF)1 and an information, education and communication (IEC) program.
7.    The project's objectives, particularly at the start, were very clear and remain pertinent for
the sector. The level of implementation risk that the project presented initially was relatively low
but increased considerably when the PSDP was restructured in support of FCUBE, which was
also being supported by another IDA credit of US$ 50 million (Basic Education Sector
Improvement Program, BESIP).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.    Achievement of project objectives is mixed. The targeting of the least well-endowed
schools and delivery of physical inputs in the early years of the project are rated as satisfactory.
Where community participation was high, results were also significant. Other interventions were
not implemented as planned and did not have the impact intended.
9.    Learning outcomes. The project had a positive impact on learning achievement, although
it remains low throughout the country. Data available from Performance Monitoring Tests
suggest that PSDP schools, and particularly those benefiting from the SIF program, scored higher
in English and mathematics tests than non-project schools. Substantially higher scores were
obtained for grades 1 and 2 where the percentage of correct answers in English for PSDP-SIF
schools was 41% and 56%, for PSDP non-SIF schools 27% and 33%, and non-PSDP schools 8%
and 23%. In mathematics the percentage of correct answers for PSDP-SIF schools was 62% and
53%, for PSDP non-SIF schools 44% and 35%, and for non-PSDP schools 26% and 24%.
10.   Teacher and Head Teacher In-Service Training. The results of investments in the training
of school personnel were unsatisfactory because teachers, head teachers and supervisors are not
putting the training to use. MOE's final evaluation of the project suggests that old practices
remain the norm -- lesson plans are very inadequate; few practice exercises are given to students;
external supervision focuses mainly on staffing and enrollment rather than pedagogical support
to teachers; and internal supervision and support by head teachers is weak.
11.   Theprovision of textbooks was added after the project's MTR. In the absence of data on
the prior availability of textbooks, it is not possible to determine the extent of improvement.
SIF provided grants to school communities intended to cover 80% of the costs of community-designed schooling
improvement programs (SIPs). The credit financed local NGO technical assistance to support communities in
their development of the SIPs, as well as the cost of the grants themselves. Eligible expenditures included
infrastructure, specialized furniture, instructional materials, teaching assistance, recreational facilities, minor
repairs and equipment.



4
Distribution was problematic, as head teachers were required to pick up books from the district
education offices. Because they were often not reimbursed for their travel, fewer were willing to
make the effort over time. At project closing, data suggest that the ratio of books to students
ranges across grades between 1 :1 to 1:2 in mathematics, and 1:3 to 1:8 in English, with a severe
shortage of science books in grades 1-3. Historical data on book orders confirm these ratios.
Quantities supplied have been inconsistent with student numbers, with maths books being
adequately or over-supplied while English and science books have been under-ordered. The
adequate availability of maths books may in part explain the better achievement in this subject
compared with others.
12.   Measures to increase instructional time. In 1993, MOE issued directives to schools to
increase the school day from four to five hours, and to cancel extra-curricular activities during
those hours. It also instructed district offices to desist from calling any type of teachers' meeting
or athletic event during school hours. The policy was rarely enforced. Although the school day
increased to five hours in most schools, at best only 50% of school time is used for instructional
purposes due to persistent high levels of teacher absenteeism, lateness, extended periods of
recreation, and continued organization of meetings by district offices. Pilot SIF schools showed
the highest level of instructional time at 66% of required hours. Enforcement of the directives
through monitoring and supervision was ineffective because there were no sanctions for lack of
compliance, and many head teachers and supervisors were unwilling to report teachers knowing
that no action would be taken.
13.   Judging by the lack of improvement in teacher performance and supervision, the
provision of head teacher housing was an ineffective strategy to improve head teacher
performance as school-level supervisors. In terms of actual occupancy, the results vary by
district. On average, 90% of the 1,983 houses constructed are reportedly occupied by head
teachers. In some cases, such as the Tolon District, only 20% of the houses are occupied by head
teachers. Lack of occupancy is due to insufficient space, siting the houses on the school
compounds which are distant from main settlements, lack of electricity and water, and use of the
houses for other purposes. It is likely that these problems could have been minimized if there
had been greater consultation with the end-user prior to initiation of the civil works program.
Rent deductions also did not occur as planned. To date only 13% of rent due has been paid.
14.   Enrollment. No enrollment targets were set. Although enrollment increases were below
the rate of population growth, enrollment growth in project schools was higher than the national
average and similar non-project schools.2 Available data suggest that between 1995 and 1998
project schools registered an enrollment increase of 2.5% a year, with SIF schools achieving a
growth rate of 4.7% annually, and higher in the later years of the project. Average annual
enrollment growth nationally between 1994 and 1997 (1998 figures are not available) was 0.7%,
and for similar non-PSDP between 1995 and 1998 average annual growth was -0.1%. The
decline in enrollment in similar non-project schools is partly attributable to student transfers to
2 While the project-financed pavilions did not provide additional school places, they were expected to lead to
increased enrollment by replacing dilapidated structures with new facilities that were attractive, safe, and able
to offer protection from the rain. Throughout the rest of the system, it was expected that enrollment would
increase as a result of halting the proliferation of unapproved fees and levies, and enhancing the accountability
of teachers and schools to communities.



5
project schools, as the pavilions constructed under PSDP were more attractive than the run-down
classrooms in nearby schools. (It should also be noted that data for 1997/98 are particularly
unreliable, due to initiation of the computerized school census pilot program.) In all cases, girl's
enrollment increased less than that for boys.
15.   Abolition offees and levies. With few exceptions, the imposition of fees and levies
persists. This includes fees imposed by schools, district assemblies, and PTAs. In 1993 the
official maximum was fixed at Cedis 250 per student, equivalent to Cedis 933 today. This
compares with actual fees ranging between Cedis 2,000 and 8,000. Students are turned away for
non-payment in contradiction to official policy.
16.   Classroom pavilions ("roofs on legs") were constructed as planned and generally
attracted more students. Enrollment increases varied by district. Sample data suggest that at
least one-third of the pavilions have not been cladded (i.e., filling in of the walls by
communities) due either to insufficient community resources or other priorities. Some uncladded
pavilions are in use; others such as those in the Tolon Kumbungu district are not due to the
inappropriateness of the uncladded structures to windy weather conditions.
17.   Community involvement. Results of project strategies to increase community
involvement have been limited, with the exception of the SIF program for which results are
highly satisfactory in the pilot schools. Based on available information, community mobilization
and involvement in the development and supervision of schools was significant in the SIF
schools. School Management Committees (SMCs) were created and functioned. Parents, SMC
and PTA leaders report that they regularly visit the schools, have contributed a substantial
amount of community labor to clad pavilions, constructed latrines and offices, and assisted
teachers in finding housing. Some districts, particularly in the north, experienced more problems
with the ability of the community to provide resources for similar activities and with teacher
absence. In such cases, communities requested additional assistance and expressed a preference
for student teachers who would be amenable to living in the community.
18.    Outside the SIF schools approaches to community involvement do not seem to have
been very effective. For example, community involvement in head teacher selection generally
did not materialize as planned, as representation by community members was replaced with
representation by district assembly members who are not elected and often are not from the
community. Community mobilization for the cladding of pavilions was effective mainly in
communities with sufficient resources. The objective of increasing communities' sense of
ownership of the schools and, in turn, teachers' sense of accountability to the community has not
been achieved in most schools.
19.   Capacity Building. Capacity building touched on a range of functional areas, including
ministerial capacity to conduct school mapping; district-level capacity to supervise small
construction activities (i.e., the head teachers' houses); community capacity to play a role in
school management; and school-level capacity to supervise and support teachers. At MOE, the
school mapping that had been envisioned in the project was never carried out, although the EMIS
was introduced late in the project. It is making substantial progress in automating information
and building district and central capacity to collect and produce education statistics. At the
district level, orientation was carried out as planned, with mixed results in terms of the quality of



6
civil works supervision. Community orientation on the new role in school management also
took place as planned but, as noted, the active community role in the selection of head teachers
did not materialize as expected. And at the school level, the training of head teachers, teachers
and circuit supervisors and production of a head teacher's manual were carried out, but the
impact in terms of changes in teacher perfornance has been negligible.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
20.  In terms of project implementation it is important to distinguish between the
circumstances that prevailed during the first three years of the project and those that intervened in
the final 18-24 months which resulted in the cancellation of a balance of US$ 14 million of the
credit proceeds. Other factors are of a more systemic nature.
21.   Strong commitment from senior MOE officials in the early years of the project to increase
instructional time was reflected in MOE's prompt communication of directives to lengthen the
school day, and increase instructional time through a ban on non-instructional activities during
official school hours. However, this high level of commitment was not matched at the
implementation level in part because project preparation and implementation did not adequately
involve the participation of the GES, the Ministry's implementing agency. Moreover, even at the
Ministry level, commitment to ensuring that these policy directives were implemented waned
considerably during the final years of the project. The FCUBE policy documents do not mention
the issue of instructional time as a strategy to improve learning outcomes.
22.   Capacity andprocedures for procurement were adequate during the first three to four
years of implementation, which enabled the timely delivery of project inputs. During the latter
18-24 months of the project, MOE introduced new procedures that required at least eight
approvals at all stages of the procurement process (including terms of reference, bid documents,
short lists, evaluation panels, results, and contracts). This effectively brought procurement to a
halt as many key signatories were often away, and documents were lost in the process. Staff
morale suffered, and qualified procurement staff either left or had their contracts discontinued.
23.  Implementation capacity was insufficient to manage the large and complex FCUBE
program. Once FCUBE came on stream, the relatively narrow objectives of PSDP became part
of the more ambitious objectives and activities of FCUBE. Less than three years into
implementation of PSDP, when 62% of the credit had been disbursed, an additional IDA credit
of US$50 million became effective to support FCUBE. Other development partners became
substantially involved as well, conirnmitting about US$200 million in additional funds for basic
education, about half of which had not been programmed during the planning of FCUBE.
Implementation problems were immediate. Staff were pulled in various directions for
implementation of FCUBE activities, and donor demands on their time increased. The problems
due to the complexity of FCUBE were exacerbated by the faltering commitment to increasing
instructional time and the diminishing procurement capacity noted above.



7
24.   Declining ownership, weak communication and ineffective coordination apply to both
phases of PSDP. Throughout, implementing staff of the GES, particularly teachers, were not
sufficiently aware of the content and objectives of PSDP or of FCUBE. This might partly
explain the general lack of monitoring and follow-up in areas such as rent deductions for
housing, and monitoring and supervision more generally. Frequent leadership changes in both
the MOE and the GES exacerbated these problems. In the absence of effective communication
and coordination, ownership of the project slipped. Coordination problems were also
exacerbated by the increased number of donors in the sector and the ineffectiveness of the
management and coordination mechanisms set up under FCUBE.
25.   Lack of accountability rendered the implementation of directives issued by the MOE
ineffective. Head teachers and circuit supervisors did not often help to increase instructional
time, and often shielded non-performing teachers. Many district offices continued to organize
non-instructional activities during official school hours. Further, when poor teacher performance
was reported to higher levels of the system, action was rarely taken.
B. SUSTAINABILITY
26.   Sustainability of the project's modest achievements is uncertain. If they are to endure, a
renewed commitment to basic education will need to be demonstrated by the administration and
teachers, and greater effort made to involve communities in the management and development of
the school to ensure community ownership and the accountability of teachers to their school
communities. Stronger commitment on the part of district assemblies will also be required.
Accompanying measures such as systems of accountability, maintenance and financial
provisions for non-salary recurrent costs are essential to the sustainability of project investments.
C. BANK PERFORMANCE
27.    Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory, although uneven. Preparation should
have devoted more time and attention to teachers and the critical need to have their support. The
move from identification to appraisal in two and a half months did not allow for sufficient
consultation with teachers beyond formal discussions with the Ghana National Association of
Teachers (GNAT). More time should also have been given to community consultation regarding
the role communities were to play in cladding the pavilions and selecting head teachers, and to
consultation with head teachers in the design and siting of their houses.
28.   The Bank team provided adequate support during appraisal and supervision and played an
active role in working towards the coordination of donor efforts, even though real progress has
been slow. This support, particularly in the area of procurement, helped curtail slippage. The
results are evident in the achievement of the physical objectives of the project. The Bank also



responded flexibly at the Mid-Tern Review.' This resulted in agreement to use credit funds for a
broader range of activities in support of the project's objectives and to include under the credit
additional pavilions for deprived primary schools that had been left out of the original list. Less
Bank support and input is evident on the policy side, which generally proceeded less smoothly
than the physical components of the project. Although the Bank team repeatedly drew
Government's attention to implementation and counterpart funding gaps, the Bank should
probably have been firmer in raising policy issues and stressing concern for Government's lack
of diligence. In retrospect, the Bank was too optimistic about the Government's capacity to
implement a larger and more complex FCUBE program.
D. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
29.   Borrower performance was rated unsatisfactory overall, although some aspects were
satisfactory. Performance was highly satisfactory in the delivery of physical inputs until the last
18 months of implementation. The selection of schools for project support was generally
efficient, transparent and promoted equity by targeting assistance to the most deprived schools.
Procurement and financial management was competently executed (although with less success in
district tendering and construction supervision).
30.   However, institutional commitment to the project weakened significantly over time,
leading to a loss of focus on the central issues of instructional time and of teacher/school
accountability. While a few individuals within MOE and GES demonstrated high levels of
commitment to PSDP and the broader reform agenda, MOE and GES as institutions have
generally not followed up on directives and investments to ensure their effective application and
use. Compliance with a number of legal covenants was poor, including the timely completion of
a baseline study to allow monitoring of instructional time and teacher absenteeism; conduct of a
school mapping exercise to underpin future assistance to the smallest and most dilapidated
schools; ensuring community compliance with written agreements to clad pavilions; district
implementation of the head teacher tenancy agreements; and monitoring the imposition of fees
and levies not approved by MOE. Further, throughout the project, but especially during its last
two years, counterpart funding was a problem, with releases sometimes coming up to a year late.



9
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
A. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
31.   Overall project outcomes are rated unsatisfactory, although they are rated satisfactory
with respect to learning outcomes and enrollment in project schools, particularly in the SIF pilot
schools. In light of these favorable outcomes, it seems fair to conclude that PSDP schools would
have been worse off today without the project. However, in many areas -- such as institutional
development, community partnerships outside the SIF schools, improved teaching and improved
supervision -- the outcomes are unsatisfactory. In the absence of better support systems for
teachers, systems of accountability with sanctions for inadequate performance, greater
attention to what goes on in schools and classrooms, and sustained implementation of SIF-type
approaches to community involvement, the sustainability of these modest achievements is in
doubt.
B. FUTURE OPERATION
32.   The following strategies and activities initiated under the project have been extended in
the context of the restructured BESIP. First, BESIP civil works continues to target vulnerable
districts. Second, the Schooling Improvement Fund will be expanded to an additional 200
schools (also targeted at vulnerable districts) over the next two years, building on lessons learned
from the pilot. Third, the EMIS is being expanded to provide computerized school census data
nationwide. Fourth, BESIP is also continuing support for capacity building in program
development, management and implementation. In addition, Bank agreement to finance a
second phase of the BESIP civil works component will be conditional upon evidence of
community input early in the design stage. On the policy side, MOE has begun to give renewed
attention to the monitoring of teacher attendance and compliance with official policy on
instructional time.
C. KEY LESsoNs LEARNED
33.    Focus on the school and teachers. PSDP as well as FCUBE were designed centrally
with very little if any input from or consultation with teacher, who are the main service providers
and whose changed behaviors are key to attainment of stated objectives. Evidence suggests that
most teachers, even managers, were unaware of the objectives of PSDP. More regular and
sustained communication can partially address this problem. In addition, teachers must be given
the chance to contribute to the design of education initiatives if these are to capture their
priorities. Top-down administrative approaches must give way to a much more bottom-up
design to foster greater impact and sustainability at the school level.



10
34.    Community participation. Overall, outcomes were disappointing in terms of community
ownership and resulting teacher accountability. Nonetheless, the SIF schools demonstrated a
clear link between increased community involvement in the development of the school and
positive performance on all indicators (i.e., instructional time, teacher and pupil attendance,
number of exercises given in maths and English, and test results). This approach merits the
support being shown through expansion of the SIF and a number of other community-based
initiatives (e.g., the DflD-supported SPAM approach, the UNICEF-supported ChildScope
schools and USAID Partnership Schools). It will be important for MOE to assess the specific
features of all these programs with a view to eventually harmonizing the lessons learned from
each into a coherent policy. In this context, the roles of the School Management Committees,
PTAs and school staff will need to be clarified. In addition, future Bank support to school
construction activities will be conditional upon evidence of community input.
35.   Link between program design and institutional capacity. Although the implementation
problems faced by PSDP in the final 18-24 months of the project were associated with a number
of factors (including changes in key policymakers, declining professional capacity within the
PMU, and donor overload toward the end of the project period), chief among them was the
mismatch between the very broad objectives and complex design of FCUBE and the limited
capacity of MOE and GES to manage that program. Careful assessment of the relationship
between the demands of program design and capacity to deliver needs to be undertaken during
preparation, and adjustments made to phase implementation while building program
management capacity. Related is the need for an institutionalized effort to build management
and implementation capacity at all levels. This includes not only development of human
resources but also of more effective and streamlined processes for decision making, greater
delegation of operational decisions to line managers, and streamlined implementation
procedures. Community-school partnerships can help to improve school performance, especially
when complemented by recognition of good perfornance and sanctioning of poor performance
by school-level personnel.
36.    Teacher incentives. Housing was provided as an incentive to encourage head teachers
to come to school on time and increase their motivation. There is little evidence to suggest that
this strategy was effective. Although 90% of the houses are now occupied by head teachers, this
has not led to a decline in teacher absenteeism or an improvement in teacher performance, as
expected. While housing might indeed be an issue in certain cases, a diversified and less-costly
approach might be more effective. Research in Ghana and other countries suggests that
alternative approaches -- such as ensuring the provision of teaching and learning materials,
recruitment into teacher training from difficult-to-staff areas, and pre-service training that
focuses on the needs of teachers who will be posted to rural areas -- could be more cost-effective
approaches to ensure that all schools are staffed with teachers who are motivated and willing to
stay in rural schools for a reasonable period of time. Ghana could benefit from examining the
experiences of other countries in this regard. The proposed access courses for locally-selected
candidates, to be provided under FCUBE, are a move in this direction.
37.    Strategies to increase enrollment. Despite significant investments in expanding access,
enrollment increases barely exceeded that of population growth for most years even in the best
performing SIF schools. Nationally, since 1992 intake into P1 has not exceeded population



11
growth. These trends cast doubt on the effectiveness of the project's strategies to increase
enrollment by expanding access to the same product for all children. An estimated 40% of
children who should be in primary school are not. It is important to know who the out-of-school-
children are, where they are, and why they are not in school, so that more adapted and targeted
approaches can be developed to reach them. This might entail greater financial support for the
poorest, and/or diversifying the nature of educational content and delivery. Project experience
indicates that developing an appropriate strategy to address the needs of these groups is essential
if the goal of universal primary education is to be achieved. Ghana could learn from the
experiences of a number of neighboring countries (e.g., Mali, Burkina Faso) in the provision of
non-formal approaches to this problem.
38.   Prioritization of goals and strategies. The PSDP focused on expanding access to, and
improving the quality of, primary education through a narrow range of interventions. With the
advent of FCUBE, however, Government education goals expanded to encompass universal
basic education, and the earlier goal of reaching all primary school-aged children was to some
extent lost. The same is true for strategies -- while increasing the amount of learning time was
initially considered key to improving learning outcomes, by the end of the project this no longer
appeared as an FCUBE priority objective. The project has shown that implementation of priority
goals and strategies needs to be sustained over time if change is to take place. MOE's renewed
commitment to enforcing and monitoring compliance with its instructional time policy is
reflected by inclusion of this objective in the revised FCUBE logframe and in MOE's priorities
for school-level monitoring.



12
STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actual Amounts
Table SA:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 5B:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A:   Project Costs
Table 7B:   Project Financing
Table 8:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10:   Bank Resources: Missions



13
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of             Substantial     Partial       Negligible    Not applicable
Objectives
Macro Policies                  0             O        -
Sector Policies                 O             0              0              0
Financial Objectives            1             0              0       
Institutional Development       a1            o1             E              o
Physical Objectives            11             0              0        
Poverty Reduction               01                                          El0  
Gender Issues                   Cl_ _                       5 
Other Social ObJectives         O                            O2
Enviromnental Objectives        O                    0              1Q
Public Sector Management        1_  _.                      0 
Private Sector Development      O             Ol             0              El
Other (specify)                 O             O              O              O
B. Project Sustainabiy            Likely              Unlikely              Uncertain
0 - O--0
Highly
C. Bank Performance                Satisfactory     Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                  0                    0                       E0
Preparation Assistance          Ol                   O                        1
Appraisal                       E l                                          El
Supervision                    a_  X                                        0
_  _  _   _  _            ~~~~Highly
D. Borrower Performance            Satisfactory     Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                     0                    0El 0
Implementation                  O                    El                     0
Covenant compliance             O                    El                     0E
Operation (if applicable)       0                    E                      E
Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome           Satisfactory     Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory
_ _ _ __    _  _           E l                   E l



14
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Credit Title         Objectives                                Year of       Status
approval
Completed Operations
Cr. 1744-GH     Education Sector Adjustment. To support education  1987    Completed
system reform.
Cr. 2140-GH     Education Sector Adjustment II. To consolidate   1991      Completed
education system reform and extend it to the
senior secondary level.
Cr. 2278-GH     Community Secondary School Construction. To      1992      Completed
support rural commnunities in constructing 140 new
SS schools.
Cr. 2349-GH     Literacy and Functional Skills. To support       1990      Completed
Government' mass literacy program.
Cr. 2428-GH     Tertiary Education. The project supports the first  1993   Completed
phase of the government's tertiary education reform
program, with stress on: (a) quality improvement in
teaching and learning; (b) improved management;
(c) increased autonomy with accountability for the
universities; and (d) a gradual expansion of
enrollments.
On-going Operations
Cr. 2695-GH     Vocational Skills and Informal Sector Support.   1995       Ongoing
To improve informal sector productivity and
reorient vocational training to a demand-driven
system.
Cr. 2885-GH     Basic Education Sector Investment Program. To    1996       Ongoing
improve the teaching & learning outcomes; access
to primary & junior-secondary education (esp. for
girls & the poor); efficiency in resource
management & financial sustainability.



15
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project cycle               Date planned           Actual Date
Identification                     Not Available        February 1, 1993
Preparation                        Not available         February 8, 1993
Appraisal                          Not available        April 13, 1993
Negotiations                       Not available         April 26, 1993
Letter of Development Policy       Not available        May 5, 1993
Board Presentation                 Not available        June 10, 1993
Signature                          Not available        July 26, 1993
Effectiveness                      July 1993            January 21, 1994
Project completion                 June 30, 1997        June 30, 1998
Credit closing                     December 31, 1997    December 31, 1998



16
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL AMOUNTS
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year         Appraisal estimate            Actual amount            Actual amount
as % of total
disbursement
1994                         12.8                          2.5                        5%
1995                         36.6                         11.7                      22%
1996                         54.8                         32.0                      60%
1997                         64.1                         47.2                      89%
1998                         65.1                         53.1                      99%
1999                          n.a.                        53.2                     100%
n.a: not applicable
Source: SAR for the appraisal estimate and Loan database (June 14, 1999) for actuals.
Note: The original closing date, December 31, 1997, was extended one year to December 31, 1998. The total credit
amount of US$53.2m is based on the exchange rate US$/SDR when the credit was negotiated. At the time of credit
closing, an amount equivalent to US$13.8m was undisbursed.



17
TABLE 5A: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PROJECT YEAR
Project Component                 TOTAL               REMARKS
I INPUT INDICATORS                  App.       Com.
A  TRAINING PROGRAM                                      _
1. General Orientation Training.              _
- Key District Officials           660        787   I/    Participants
- Local Community Leaders         6,000     5,949   1/    Participants
2. Community Mobilization For
Circuit Monitoring Assistants       500       503   1/    Participants
and Circuit Supervisors
3. Primary School Management      2,000      2,619   I/   Head teachers
& Teaching Methods                            _
4. Training of Trainers for above   350        749   1/    Participants
B  CONSTRUCTION PROG.
1. School Pavilions               3,019      3,727          Unit of 3
2. Cladding of School Pavilions   3,659      2,908  =        Unit of 3
3. Head teacher Houses            1,983      2,178           Houses
- Southem Regions                 1,609     1,756  _         Houses
- Northem Regions                  374        422            Houses
4. Roofing of Schools             1,546       999  _        Classrooms
C MISCELLANEOUS                                           _______
1. Vehicles                          14            l_    Pick-ups/4X4
2. Prod. Of Training Materials
- Headmasters Instructional       3,000     3,000            Copies
Manual                                           _
- "Do it Yourself' Clad. Man.     2,500     2,500            Copies
- Easy to follow drawing of       2,500     2,500            Copies
Village Headmaster Houses
PROCESS INDICATORS
it
1. Increase in Official              4          5          Hours/day
Instruction time
2. Reduction in fees & Levies:
PI - P2                        250     1,000-         Cedis per c/y
_______ ,__   7,500
P3 - P6                        500     1,000-         Cedis per c/y
l__ __ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ _   _7,501
I/ Totals refer to number of participants undertaking training programs which are carried out
periodically.
c/y: child per year; App: Appraisal; Com: Completion
TABLE 5B: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
OUTPUT                1994/95    1995/96       1996/97    1997/98    1998/99   Average change over
INDICATORS                                                                        the period
Total Public         1,920,800   1,955,700    2,027,000   1,960,000          --                    -0.7%
Primary Enrol.
PSDP sample                          2,148        2,196       2,194       2,256                    1.65%
Non-PSDP                             1,088        1,021       1,081       1,046                   -1.30%
sample
PSDP/SIF                              844           890         919         969                    4.70%
sample



18
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Purpose as defined at
Year       Study         appraisal/redefined      Status          Impact of study
1993/94  Baseline Study  Provide benchmark data   Study report  The process of data
on Project    on project schools in order completed in  management and
Schools      to evaluate impact of    1995.           analysis led to extensive
project interventions.                  delay in study
completion, and focused
attention on the need for
an effective education
information
management system
(EMIS).
1995     Mapping of    To help identify school    Mapping study    Study has not been
approximately  amalgamation options and  was to be    carried out.
1,500 smaller  the need for rehabilitation  conducted as part
primary       of school facilities.   of the EMIS.
schools.
1997/98  Evaluation of   Evaluate the impact and    Mid-term   The study was effective
School        lessons learned from the   evaluation   in highlighting issues at
Improvement   School Improvement Fund completed in July  the school level which
Fund pilot    pilot in three districts.  1997.        affect the quality of
schemes.                                              education and learning
outcomes, and
recommended actions to
mobilize teachers and
communities, with
support from the district
education offices. The
study, which was
conducted in
collaboration with DffD
and shared with other
development partners,
contributed to the move
towards a more
participatory approach to
education sector
reforms.-



19
TABLE 7A: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Million)
Category                        Appraisal estimate                   Actual costs
Local     Foreign                 Local      Foreign
Costs    Currency     Total       Costs     Currency      Total
1. Civil Works
A. School Pavilions                    23.2       15.4       38.6        22.8        12.9        35.7
B. Head Teachers Houses                13.6        3.4        17.0        8.2        2.3         10.5
2. Roofing Materials                       0.0       0.5        0.5         0.0         2.3        2.3
3. Vehicles & Office Equipment             0.0       0.2        0.2         0.0        0.9         0.9
4. Technical Assistance & Studies          1.8       1.3        3.1         2.4         1.7        4.1
5. Local Training & Training Materials     1.8       0.0        1.8         2.1        0.0         2.1
6. Incremental Operating Costs             1.1       0.0        1.1         0.7         0.0        0.7
7. Duties and Taxes                        0.3       0.0        0.3         0.3         0.0        0.3
8. Unallocated                             6.9       3.8        10.7        0.0        0.0         0.0
TOTAL                                     48.7      24.6        73.3       36.5        20.1        56.6
Source: SAR for the appraisal estimates and Project accounting (June 14, 1999) for the actual costs
n.a.: data not available.
TABLE 7B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ Million)
Source                    Appraisal estimate                         Actual costs
Local      Foreign                  Local Costs    Foreign
Costs     Currency       Total                     Currency       Total
IDA                   40.5        24.6         65.1         33.1          20.1         53.2
Government/
Community
Participation.              8.2         0.0          8.2         3.4           0.0          3.4
TOTAL                   48.7        24.6          73.3        36.5          20.1         56.6
Source: : SAR for the appraisal estimates and Project accounting (June 14, 1999) for the actual costs
At the time of closing, there was an undisbursed balance equivalent to US$13.8m.



20
TABLE 8: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-  Original   Revised
nant   Fulfill.    Fulfill.
Section    type     Date       Date      Status         Description of covenant         Comments
2.02 (b)    01                            C         Borrower to open and maintain in   None.
dollars a Special Account in a
commercial bank
2.03        10      12/31/97   12/31/98    C        Closing Date for the project       Closing date was
extended for one
_____________        _________                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~year.
3.01 &      09                            C         Borrower to carry out the project in  None.
Sch.4                                               accordance with the Implementation
Program: (a) Implementing Unit to
furnish to IDA work programns and
budgets for project implementation.
3.01 &      09                            C         (b) Implementing unit to furnish to  None
Sch.4                                              IDA reports regarding progress in
I_project implementation.
3.01 &      05                            C         (c) staffing of Implementing Unit to    None
Sch.4                                              include a project manager and two
__________  ______ _________                      deputy project managers;         _
3.01 &      12      12/31/93              CD/CP   (d) implement a program to monitor    Although standard
Sch.4                                              instructional time, intakes,        statistics are being
enrollments, dropouts, attendance and   gathered through
learning time of primary school   the EMIS,
students;                         instructional time
is not monitored.
3.01 &      09     08/31/93               CD        (e) complete a baseline study of   Report completed
Sch.4                                               beneficiary schools;               in March 1995.



21
Cove-  Original    Revised
nant    Fulfill.     Fulfill.
Section     type     Date         Date      Status          Description of covenant            Comments
3.01 &       12      01/01/94                CP         (f) implement information campaign    Periodic public
Sch.4                                                   regarding impact of student fees and    announcements
levies on primary school intakes and    were made and
enrollments;                          information
campaigns were
carried out, but
fees and levies
have continued to
___________ _________ ______________________________________             proliferate.
3.01 &       10                    _                    (g) implement recruitment procedures   Procedures were
Sch.4                                                   for primary school head teachers      followed in most
requiring applicants to meet minimum   of the schools, but
criteria and serve for four years, and    the role of
establish selection panels that include   communities was
local community leaders;              often handled by
district officials
residing outside
the community.
3.01 &       10                               C         (h) prepare and implement training    Training was not
Sch.4                                                   programs for primary school head      put to use.
____________           teachers;
3.01 &       10                               C         (i) prepare and implement orientation   None
Sch.4                                                   programs for district level officials
and community leaders;
3.01 &       10                               C         (j) prepare and implement training    Training has not
Sch.4                                                   programs for circuit officers to      been put to use.
increase capacity to support and
monitor classroom construction
activities and effective primary school
management;_
3.01 &       10                              NC         (k) conduct a detailed school mapping   To be included for
Sch.4                                                   of approximately 1,500 small primary   future work as
schools to help identify school       part of EMIS.
amalgamation options and need for
rehabilitation of school facilities;



22
Cove-  Original   Revised
nant   FulfilL     Fulfill.
Section    type     Date       Date      Status        Description of covenant         Comments
3.01 &      10                           C         (1) require as precondition to the  About 30% of
Sch.4                                              construction of any classroom      Abons 30%    ot
pavilion that the host community  pavilions were not
execute with MOE an agreement     cladded as agreed.
specifying the community's
obligations;
3.01 &      10                           C         (m) employ qualified construction  The quality of
Sch.4                                              supervisors in sufficient number to  supervision was
supervise construction of classroom  highly variable.
pavilions;
3.01 &      10                           CP        (n) require as precondition to     Agreeents were
Sch.4                                              permitting any head teacher to occupy  Agnent re
a newly constructed house that the  signed but rent
head teacher execute with MOE a   only 13% of
tenancy agreement;                districts.
3.01 &      10     12/31/93              C         (o) employ a technical auditor to  Condition of
Sch.4                                              monitor construction of head teacher's  effectineof
houses;                           effectiveness.
3.01 &      10                           CP        (p) ensure that the host community  Some
Sch.4                                              shall provide all necessary labor and    com e
additional material for installation of   communities have
roofing sheets for classrooms.    requirement,
leaving some
schools with
dwarf walls or no
walls at all.
3.03 (a) &    01                         C         Borrower to open and maintain in   Condition of
Sch.1                                              Cedis a Project Account in a       disbursement
Para.3 (b)                                         commercial Bank.                   under Category
(1) (a).
3.03 (b)    01                           C         Borrower to deposit into Project  None.
Account before each fiscal quarter
sufficient funds to pay the Borrower's
counterpart contribution.



23
Cove-  Original   Revised
nant   Fulfill.    Fulfill.
Section    type     Date       Date       Status        Description of covenant          Comments
3.04 (a)    04                             CP       Borrower to provide estimate of     Borrower
expenditures and counterpart funds  provided only
required in succeeding fiscal year.  partial estimates
for fiscal year
1998.
3.04 (b)    04                             CP       Borrower to adopt and implement a    Borrower did not
budget for project implementation  adopt and
each fiscal year.                  implement this in
1998.
3.05        10                            CP        Borrower to implement program for    Directives were
increasing actual instructional time of  sent but were not
primary school students.           monitored and
thus not enforced.
3.06 (a)    12                             CP       Borrower to take action to ensure that  MOE directives
no new fees or levies are imposed on   were issued but
primary school students.           not monitored or
_____  ________  _________   ____________________________   im plem ented.
3.06 (b)    12      01/01/97               CP       Borrower to imnlement program t     MOE formally
eliminate all fees and levies imposed    announced that all
on primary school students other than   unapproved fees
those approved by Ministry of      be abolished.
Education                           ihis was not well
monitored or
enforced.
3.07        09                             C        Borrower to (a) carry out jointly with   MTR was carried
IDA a mid- term review of the      out in Nov./Dec.
progress made in car-ying out the  1995 and
project and program; (b) prepare and   comprehensive
provide to IDA a report on the status   reports were
of the project and program; and (c)  prepared on the
prepare an action plan after the review  status of the
for further implementation of the  project. Action
project and program.               plans were
reviewed every 6
months.



24
Cove-  Original   Revised
nant   Fulfill.    Fulfill.
Section    type     Date       Date      Status        Description of covenant          Comments
4.01 (b)    0l                            C         Borrower to furnish to IDA certified    None.
audit report on the Special Account
within six months after end of each
fiscal year.
4.01 (c)    01                            C         Borrower to ensure that records and    None.
accounts reflecting statements of
expenditure are properly maintained,
and are audited and attested to in the
annual audit reports.



25
Key:
Covenant Type:
I = Accounts/audits                            8. = Indigenous people
2. = Financial Performance/ revenue generation  9. = Monitoring, review and reporting
from beneficiaries                        10. = Project implementation
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds    11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
4. = Counterpart funding                            other resource allocation
5. = Management aspects of the project or     12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
executing agency                                regulatory/institutional action
6. = Environmental covenants                  13. = Other
7. = Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C   =  Complied with
CD = Complied with Delays
CP  =  Complied with partially
NYD = Not yet due
NC  = Not complied with
SOON = Compliance expected in reasonably
short time.



26
TABLE 9: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of Project cycle        Estimated               Actual
Weeks        US$       Weeks       US$
('000)                ('000)
Preparation to appraisal      n.a.         n.a.      17.2       39.2
Appraisal                     n.a.         n.a.       5.9       10.1
Negotiations to Board         n.a.         n.a.       8.4       19.2
Presentation
Supervision                   85.6        169.2    124.6       244.8
Completion                    n.a.         n.a.       5.2        8.0
TOTAL                        85.6        169.2     161.3      321.3
n.a.: not available
Source: World Bank Cost Accounting System (FACT) June 16, 1999.



27
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating by type
State of               Num.   Days    Specialized
Project                 Of       in     Staff Skills   IP   DO      CLC    PMP    CF         PP   TP    TAP    SP    ODL
Cycle       Mo/.yr.   Pers.    Field    Represented                                 ___
5
Supervision 1     08/93     3              OA; PP; PO    2      1       3         3      1      2    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   100%
Supervision 2     08/94     3       12    PO; ES; PP    2       2       2         2      1       2    n.a.   n.       n.a.   85%
Supervision 3     11/94     3       12    PO; ES; PP    2       2       2         2      1       2    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   75%
Supervision 4     03/95     3       13    SOO; PO;       2      2       2         2      1      2    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   72%
HIRE
Supervision 5     08/95     4       10    SPO; PO;       2      2       2         2      1       2    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   62%
HRE; PS
Supervision 6     06/96     7              ES; A; SPO;   2      2       2         2     2       2    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.    0o%
TITS; P0;
HRE; PS
Supervision 7     06/97     4       10    TM; PO;        2      2       2         2     2       2    n.a.   n.a       n.a   30%/9
HRE; ES
Supervision 8     11/97     4        6     TM; ES; PO;  2       2       2         2     2        2    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   84/o
PA
Supervision 9      4/98     4        8     PO(2); ES;    2      2       2          3    2       3    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   24%
FA
Completion         9/98     5        3     LSE; TM;      2      3       2          3    2        3    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   22%
_     PO; ES; FA                 _  _                                              -       -
TOTAL                       40      74    _____=_=
Specializations: ES: Education Specialist; FA: Financial Analyst; HRE: Human Resource Economist; LSE: Lead Specialist Education; OA: Operations
Analyst; PO: Project Officer; PP: Principal Planner; PS: Procurement Specialist; SOO: Snr. Operations Officer; SPO: Snr. Project Officer; TM: Task
Manager (Project Officer); TTS: Teacher Training Specialist; (2): Two people with the same specialization
Types of problems for performance:
CF: Counterpart Funds; CLC: Compliance with Legal Covenants; DL: Disbursement Lag; IP: Summary Implementation Progress Rating; DO: Project
Development Objectives; ODL: Original Disbursement Lag; PMP: Project Management Performance; PP: Procurement Progress; SP: Studies Progress;
TAP: Technical Assistance Progress; TP: Training Progress.
Performance Rating: 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory; 4: Highly Unsatisfactory; n.ap. = not applicable; n.a. = Forn 590 not
available



Attachment I
Page 1 of 5
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY SCHOOL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2508-GH)
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
1.0  INTRODUCTION
This is the project completion report for Ghana Primary School Development Project for
which Credit 2508 GH in the amount of SDR46.90m (equivalent to US$ 63. 1Om) was
approved and signed in July 1993. The project was to have closed in June 30, 1997. It
was extended to December 1998 to ensure full physical completion. The credit finally
closed on December 31, 1998.
2.0  DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES OF THE PROTECT
The objectives of the Project are to increase the level of learning and enrollment in
primary schools, through increased teacher instructional and student learning time,
improved quality of instruction and upgraded school facilities.
Improving the effectiveness of primary school headteachers in school supervision
activities through:
a) strengthened recruitment procedures
b) provision of manuals and guidebooks
c) training
Implementation of a programme to increase community involvement in primary school
management (in particular with respect to classroom construction activities, selection of
headteachers, and supervision of teachers and headteachers) and execution of related
orientation programmes for district level officials and community leaders.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of MOE to plan, implement and monitor school
construction activities through the strengthening of the SBS's operational capacity, the
preparation of a detailed primary school mapping study and other measures.
3.0   ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE ON THE DEVELOPMENT OBTECTIVES
3.1   Enrolment
*  Enrolment is growing in bothProject and SIF schools while it is declining in the non-project schools.
*  The PSDP, Non-PSDP and SIF schools recorded an average growth rate of 1.7%, -1.3% and
+4.7% over a period of 3 years from 1995 respectively.



Attachment 1
Page 2 of 5
*  Similar trends in enrolment growth rate were observed gender-wise over the same period with
SEF schools having the highest growth rate for both boys (11.4%) and girls (7.9%).
3.2   Pupils' Attendance
*  Average attendance made by pupils in all the 3-type schools was not very encouraging.
However, the SEF schools recorded higher average attendance of 58 (87%) out of the 67 times
schools were opened while both the PSDP and Non-PSDP obtained a score of 54 (81%) out
of 66 times the schools opened.
In weekly terms pupils attended school for 4 out of 5 days in a week on the average last term.
3.3   Staffing Characteristics
*  The ratio of trained to untrained teachers in the 3 school types which was 84% and 16% was
consistent with the national figure for 1996/97.
3.4   Teacher Attendance
e  Teacher absenteeism was still a serious problem. In a nationwide survey conducted in June
1997, responses from 103 districts indicated that teacher absenteeism was very serious in 7
districts, and quite serious in 45 districts. This means that teacher absenteeism was serious in
52 out of the 103 districts representing 50.5% of the districts surveyed.
*  In another study conducted in 24 schools using the time book it was found that teachers, like
the pupils attended school 4 out of the 5 days, on the average, in a week.
3.5   Instructional Time
*  About 92% of the schools were using the 5 hour instructional schedule thereby showing an
upward movement towards the new policy.
*  There was confusion as to whether or not the 5 hour instructional schedule, include the time
for break periods.
*  On the average, teachers teach less then 50% of the subjects specified on the time-table
daily.
*  Late start of first lesson, extended break periods and no teaching especially after break
resulted in loss of about 123 minutes (45%) instructional time on the average.
* The SIF schools utilized a higher amount of the instructional time than the two types of schools.



Attachment I
Page 3 of 5
3.6   Instructional Quality
*  generally, lesson notes lacked vital components such as scheme of work and teaching aids
*  Very low number of exercises in Mathematics and English are given by teachers. E.g. A minimum
of 3 (13%) and a maximum of 7 (30%) of written exercises were given in English over 23 days
period. For mathematics 7 (30%) to 10 (43%) on the average were given over the same period.
* The SIF schools had a relatively higher number of exercises (Maths - 15, English - 9) than the
other types of school.
3.7    Pupils" performance
*  Pupils' performance, using the Baseline Study Result for 1997/98, is remarkably higher in the
project than the non-project schools, with the SIF schools producing the best results.
* Results for English on the average were 34.4% for SIF, 25.9% for PSDP and 19.8% for non-PSDP
schools. In Mathematics SIF had 33.4%/O, PSDP 22.5% and non-PSDP 15.7%.
*  The average score for the SIF schools were slightly better than the nationa CRT mean score of
33.9%' and 29.9% for English and Mathematics respectively.
3.8    Supervision
 Internal supervision of teachers' work in the school by the headteachers is weak.
*  External supervision by circuit supervisors of the schools is equally weak.
*  Though circuit supervisors visited the schools three times termly, on the average, they did
very little to check the management and instructional lapses that characterized in schools.
*  No proper inspection of teachers' classroom work is done.
3.9    Fees and Levies
*  All schools, apart from those in the Tolon district charge fees above the approved textbook
user fees of C250 per pupil.
*  The fees and levies paid in all the schools is on the increase and ranged from Cl,000 to
C7,500 per year.
3.10   Infrastructure
*     All the pavilions earmarkded for erection in the schools have been put up.
*     Pavilions in some schools have not been cladded e.g. Tolon. and Tano district.



Attachment 1
Page 4 of 5
* Some of the pavilions in Wiawso and Ajumako are half cladded i.e. dwarf wall type.
* Pavilions in Offinso district are fully cladded, painted and provided with locks.
*  All the cladded and uncladded pavilions are being used as classrooms except those inTolon-
Kumbungu district.
*  Out of a total number of 1,983 headteachers' houses to be completed under the project 1,980
are complete and are being occupied.
*  Preliminary results of a survey conducted on the occupancy of theheadteachers' houses in 32
districts selected from six regions show that about 90% of the houses are occupied by the
headleachers themselves, whilst a further 4.6% of the houses are occupied by other teachers.
However, the survey revealed that only 18% of the rent due had been paid as at June 30,
1998.
3.11   SIF Package
*  The SIF incentive package had made tremendous impact on enrolment, use of instructional
time and pupils' achievement.
* SIF schools are leading in almost all the issues specified above among the 3-type schools.
3.12  Community Ownership
*  Sense of community ownership was higher in the project schools than the non-project schools
with SIF communities exhibiting the highest sense of commitment and ownership.
*  SMC and PTA executives visit schools in both Project and SIF schools between 10-15 times
on the average per term. The average visit paid to the non-project school was 1-2 per term.
*  Only schools in the Tolon district do not have SMC's established.
4.0    GENERAL LESSONS LEARNED
We have learned a number of lessons from this project. Key among these are the following: -
1. The MOE/GES structures responsible for monitoring education delivery at the district and
community levels have not been effective because of the low level of accountability within
the system. It is therefore necessary to implement the new Performance Monitoring System
that has been introduced by the Inspectorate Division of the GES and which involves annual
testing of Primary School Children and the conduct of School Performance Appraisal
meetings (SPAM) in all school communities to provide feedback on School performance,
identify problems affecting teaching and learning, design strategies for improving teaching
and learning and set performance targets for the ensuring year.



Attachment 1
Page 5 of 5
2. In spite of the effort made by the Ministry to supply textbooks through the USAID funded
Primary School Programme (PREP) to all Primary Schools since 1992, there were still critical
shortages of textbooks in Primary Schools. The procurement of more textbooks for basic
schools under Cr. 2885-GH (BESIP) is therefore timely.
3. Educational projects designed using the "Bottom Up Approach" with the full participation of
the intended beneficiaries such as the SIF packages have a greater chance of succeeding than
the traditional "'top down" approach used in designing PSDP (Cr. 2508-GH). The SIF
initiative has been a tremendous success and therefore should be implemented nationwide.
4. The size of the classroom pavilions constructed under cr, 2508-GH meant for a maximum of
36 pupils have proved to be too small. It has therefore become necessary to increase the sizes
of classrooms being designed under BESIP to cater for about 46 pupils. Also, in spite of the
incentive packages put in place to motivate District Assemblies and communities to clad their
pavilions there are still a number of communities who for various reasons including poverty
have not been able to clad their pavilions. The Ministry may have to consider assisting
vulnerable communities to clad their pavilions.
5. There was room for improvement in the structure, location and facilities provided under the
headteacher housing scheme. The concerns expressed by teachers and teachers'organisation
have therefore been taken into consideration in the teacher housing scheme to be provided,
under Cr. 2885-GH (BESIP).
5.0 GENERAL COMMENTS ON THE ACHIEVEMENT OF THE PROJECT
In physical terms, the project fully achieved its set objectives of:
I. Upgrading the facilities at about 2,000 primary schools through:
a)  the construction, with community participation, of about 11,000 classroom pavilions; and
b) the construction of about 2,000 headteacher houses, with ventilated latrines.
2. Rehabilitation and installation of roofs for about 1,550 classrooms at about 600 primary
schools.
The project was much less successful in tenns of the policy objectives, especially in the areas of
appropriate use of instructional time and teacher absenteeism.
However, in the pilot programme of Schooling Improvement Fund (SIE), the results have been
tremendous and it is important that the Ministry as soon as practicable replicate it across the country.
23RD APRIL, 1999



IBRD 24783
3V                          2                           1-                          0V                           V-                             2
BURKINA FASO,
GHANA
9OLGATANDA                                               PRIMARY SCHOOL
QPPER15 in i   k        duDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(;3  '  \W E-ST   ,un ors 'n red re{o.r to
fie inuber of prirnorjr
~zFoDDIS sioppor-ied by
Y.[.rv  8   /y       CX        tZrNoSir          \ * )        \             tbe picoect by region.
PRIMARY ROADS
PLI    u               ...-SECONDARY ROADS
- -  TERTIARY ROADS
RAiLWAYS
Zobzv<zobau ug * t  i)  REGION HEADQUARTERS
)oChorhe  R#-   >   ~ busunu1LDobuLgr,  p*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
REGION BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
At.b b.                                              0     20  40    0       IL0
254
FORID ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ARI19 



