Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
Repwn No.13138
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAIRE
HIGHER EDUCATION RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1839-ZR)
JUNE 13, 1994
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
DESU               Departement de lEnseignement Superieur et Universitaire
PUZ                Presse Universitaire Zairoise (Zaire University Press)
HIP                Higher Pedagogical Institute
HTI                Higher Technical Institute
ESU                Enseignement Superieur et Universitaire
OZAC               Office Zairois de Contr6le
OFIDA              Office des Douanes et Assises
SDR (DTS)          Special Drawing Rights (Droits de Tirages Speciaux)
MESURS             Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur, Universitaire et de la Recherche
Scientifique (Ministry of Higher Education)



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 13, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Zaire
Higher Education Rationalization Project (Credit 1839-ZR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Zaire - Higher Education Rationalization
Project (Credit 1839-ZR). Part I and EII were prepared by the Africa Regional Office and Part II
by the Borrower.
The project objective was the formulation and adoption of a long-term higher education
strategy. This was to be achieved through strengthening educational administration, in-service and
foreign training, studies, development of University research, provision of teaching materials, all
supported by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Some studies were completed, but were never
synthesized into a strategy for higher education. Civil disorder lead to shutdown of the institutes for
higher education. Institutionalization of the PIU, and some foreign training were the most successful
project components. Project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, institutional development as modest,
and the sustainability of results achieved as uncertain.
Part II reflects well on the maturity of the PITU. It agrees with the thrust of the PCR, but
provides additional insights into project difficulties, including a low level of Bank supervision (and
the implicit support it provided) for the second half of the project.
The completion report provides an adequate description of project implementation.
Since the country conditions preclude field work, a desk audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. fts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
HIGHER EDUCATION RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1839-ZR
CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary ...............................................................i
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE .1
I. Project Identity                     .....
II. Background                        .....
IHm    Project Objectives and Activities              . . . . .               2
IV.  Project Preparation and Design                   ..... 4
V. Implementation                             .....6
VI.  Project Costs and Financing                    ..... 8
VII. Project Results                           ..... 9
Vm. Participant Performance                         .....  12
IX. Lessons                         .....14
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                         17
I.   Introduction                      .                                    17
II. Project Design                     .....17
III. Project Execution                    .....18
IV.  Participant Performance                      .....   19
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table I    IDA Credit Relevant to the Project ....................................  25
Table 2    Planned and Actual Dates of Project Timetable ....................................   26
Table 3    Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ....................................  26
Table 4    Planned and Actual Component Completion Dates ................................... 27
Table 5a   Project Costs (by components) ....................................    33
Table 5b   Project Costs (by disbursements category) ....................... ............. 33
Table 5c   Project Financing              ....................................  33
Table 6a   Studies and Analyses ....................................             34
This document has a restncted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance ofteir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2                                                          Contents (cont'd)
Table 6b Library Books Distribution .36
Table 6c Personnel Trained .37
Table 7a Compliance with Credit Covenants .38
Table 7b   Status of Compliance with Implementation Program .39
Table 8a   Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weeks .40
Table 8b  IDA Mission Data by Stages of Project .40
Table 9    Annual and Cumulative Disbursements .41
Table 10 Exchange Rate Fluctuations .41
Table 11   Planned and Actual Allocation of Credit (in SDRs) .42
Annex I   Annual Estimated and Actual Disbursements .43
Annex II  Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle .45
Annex HI Disbursements by Category .46
Annex IV  Planned and Actual Project Financing .47
Annex V   Cumulative Disbursements and Disbursements Profiles .48



REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
HIGHER EDUCATION RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1839-ZR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Zaire Higher Education
Rationalization Project (PRESU) for which Credit 1839-ZR in the amount equivalent to US$11
million (SDR 8.5 million) was approved on July 7, 1987 by the Board of Executive Directors. On
April 8, 1992, disbursements on the Credit were suspended in accordance with the Departmental
decision at the time of the annual country implementation review that year to clean up the Zaire
portfolio in light of poor project performance resulting from a sharp deterioration in the political
and economic situation in the country. In addition there was the closing of universities and
training institutions, lack of commitment from the Government and lack of compliance with
several conditions in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), including the non-provision of
counterpart funds. On October 22, 1993, a substantial portion of the remaining Credit (SDR
1,590,627) was canceled and the suspension was lifted on the rest (SDR 421,904) to help
undertake some urgent final activities (synthesize the recommendations of completed studies,
complete foreign fellowship programs and prepare audit and project completion reports). The
Credit was closed as scheduled on June 30, 1993. The last disbursement was made on January
12, 1994. The undisbursed balance of SDR 63,505 was canceled.
2.    This PCR was prepared jointly by the Population and Human Resources Division of the
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary and Parts I and III) and by the Borrower (Part II)
3.    This PCR was based, inter alia, on the President's Memorandum, (there was no SAR), the
Development Credit Agreement, the project preparation report, the project working papers, the
project supervision reports, correspondence between the Association and the Borrower and the
comments of project officers.






REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHER EDUCATION RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1839-ZR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Background and Objectives
1.    Higher education in Zaire faced three main problems in the early 1980s: (i) pressing
demand for access to the system; (ii) growing mismatch between job market needs and training
programs; and (iii) excessive unit costs given public resources available. The limited success of
the 1981 government decentralization of academic, financial and personnel management in higher
education institutions led to the convening of a Round Table on Higher Education in June 1984.
Its task was to formulate a comprehensive strategy for the development of higher education in
Zaire that would emphasize: (a) administrative effectiveness and efficiency at all levels; (b) the
provision of universal (and good quality) primary education at the earliest possible date (in order
to build a solid foundation for further studies); and (c) the strengthening of secondary and higher
education programs and improvement of their relevance to the economic and social environment,
with concomitant cost recovery programs. It was in this context that, between September 1986
and June 1987, the Government formulated the Higher Education Rationalization Project. Its
general objectives were:
(a)   to formulate and adopt a long-term higher education strategy geared to the training
needs of the economy;
(b)   to halt the very serious decline in management of the higher education subsector so
that existing scarce resources could be used more efficiently; and
(c)   to halt the decline in educational quality  so that minimum  acceptable
teaching/learning standards could at least be maintained.
2.    The   project  included  the  following  five   components:  a)  improving
administration/management; b) upgrading teaching/learning; c) strategy development; d) provision
of priority teaching materials; and e) project management. Activities under these components
involved mainly studies and analyses of the management and administrative systems and processes
in the country's post secondary institutions.



ii                                               Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
Project Implementation
3.    The project was implemented over six years as planned. The Credit was closed as planned
on June 30, 1993 and about 80 percent was utilized. Overall, performance on the Credit was
unsatisfactory. Several activities suffered from delays during implementation and some were
either barely implemented or not implemented at all. Delays were mainly due to: a) the need to
involve external consulting firms in lieu of local firms as initially planned, a factor which also
increased implementation costs; and b) a Government decision to computerize administrative
procedures in the sector which led to modifications in the content of the planned administrator
training programs and made it necessary to revise project activities 15 months after project start.
In later phases, the non payment of counterpart funds by the government and the deterioration of
the country's political and economic situation towards the end of 1991, led IDA first to suspend
the signature of all new service contracts and, later, to cancel some 20 per cent of the Credit. As
a result, only 25 of the 35 initially programmed activities were carried out, including 11 of 18
planned studies.
Project Results
4.    The results of the project were disappointing in terms of its main development objectives.
It was not possible to formulate and adopt a new strategy for the development of higher education
prior to the closing of the project. The anticipated impact of project activities on the operation
and management of higher education institutions and their training capacity was, in any event,
undermined by the country's political and economic turmoil which has had critical negative impact
on higher education. It has therefore not been possible to halt the decline in management and
educational quality notwithstanding the provision under the project of training, educational
materials and library books.
5.    The project however achieved the following results in relation to its main objectives:
(a) strategy development: all necessary elements for the formulation of a higher education
strategy are in place: project studies have been synthesized; a technical comrnission to develop a
higher education strategy has been established by ministerial order; operating standards and
guidelines, as well as various strategy scenarios have been made available to the commission's
technical experts by the Project Office; (b) management: 7 of the 11 studies carried out
proposed new administrative tools and management procedures or improvements to those
existing; as these involve practices that are relatively independent of structures, they will remain
valid in the post crisis period; (c) educational quality: (i) 26 doctoral fellowships were awarded
to candidates selected among teaching staff in strategic disciplines in establishments of higher
education; these training activities have resulted in some 10 successful dissertation defenses so far
and in the development of cooperative inter university projects between the departments of the
host and home universities; (ii) some 50 Higher Technical Institute and Higher Pedagogical
Institute teachers received supplementary training in French and Mathematics, as did the librarians
of all higher education establishments in library science; (iii) more that 55,000 library books as
well as numerous teaching and laboratory materials were distributed to 13 institutions.
Notwithstanding these achieved results, the project outcome remains unsatisfactory in terms of



Evaluation Summarv                                                                      iii
the attainment of the projects' development objectives. A higher education strategy is still to be
developed; the management of the system has not improved and educational quality continues to
decline.
Institutional Development
6.    Institutional development was a major focus of the project and was pursued through the
project's main objectives of management strengthening, higher education strategy development
and improvement of educational quality. However, institutional development goals were only
partially attained. One of the successful accomplishments was the Project Unit (PRESU Office)
established under the project. It recruited relatively well motivated staff: and operated relatively
well during project implementation. The project Unit was generally efficient in stimulating and
monitoring local and foreign consultant team activities, in establishing and managing the doctoral
fellowship program, and in developing work programs, activity reports and making sure that
audits were prepared on time. The Project Unit has also acted effectively as a credible and
strategic institution in the re-deployment of higher education activities in Zaire. If it can be
sustained beyond this period of crisis, it could be a major asset in future sector development
activities. At the moment, the Project Unit is still operating though under difficult conditions. It
is determined to continue operating and assist in finalizing a higher education strategy and help in
its adoption and implementation.  Another institutional development accomplishment relates to
the relative strengthening (or the provision of the ingredients for strengthening) some higher
education institutions. Institutions like the HPIs, the HTIs, the Universities and PUZ have been
strengthened through restructuring, staff training, skill transfer by some international consultants,
learning-by-doing through the provision of consultancy services and research,  and/or the
provision of library books and teaching/laboratory materials.   Furthermore, the various
institutional analyses undertaken under the project, like the preinvestment study on agronomy and
forestry and the analyses on staffing practices, on educational statistics and financing and on
private institutions, have produced recommendations to address institutional issues.
Project Sustainability
7.    All those project activities relating to the training of staff for positions of administrative,
technical and teaching responsibilities may have sustainable effect. There was also much learning-
by-doing among various local agencies and consultants involved in the project. Moreover, the
transfer of knowledge by the technical assistance specialists involved in the PIU has led to its
strengthening and if the Unit is preserved and survives beyond the current crisis, it could be
instrumental in the future for strategy development and the development of future IDA
operations. The provision of books, laboratory equipment and teaching materials may also have
sustainable effects on the quality of instruction if they can survive the current crisis. The risk
associated with stealing and looting is quite high but hopefully much of these materials will be
available in the post-crisis period. It is therefore uncertain whether or not project achievements
will be sustainable.



iv                                               Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
Conclusions and Lessons
8.    Despite 25 of 35 activities being carried out and disbursements of about 80% of the
Credit, the results of the project were disappointing in terms of the project's main development
objectives. The anticipated impact of project activities has been undermined by the political and
economic crises confronting the country. Poor performance during project implementation was
also due to the complexity in design, inadequacy and repeated delays in the payment of
counterpart funds and a lack of commitment on the part of the senior officials of the DESU.
Performance on the project was overall unsatisfactory; the institutional development impact of the
project is partial and it is uncertain whether or not project achievements will be sustainable.
The main lessons to be drawn from this project can be summarized as follows:
(a)   Borrower ownership, sustained  commitment and  participation  of major
stakeholders are crucial to successful implementation. Though in the beginning
ownership and commitment by central ministry and institutional authorities were
relatively high, about two years after approval of the project, a change in major
actors both within the Ministry and the Project Unit led to a substantial drop in
commitment. This was evident from the total lack of respect for various Credit
covenants.  It would have been useful to provide more time during project
preparation for consensus building and the involvement of beneficiaries, and their
participation should have been encouraged in subsequent stages of the project
cycle.
(b)   The organization and timing of stakeholder participation is crucial for their
successful involvement. For this project, the use of task forces and Think-Tanks
essentially made up of stakeholders in the sector sometimes worked against the
project goals of objective analysis and effective strategy development. This is
perhaps surprising and may seem to go against recent wisdom. But it is a matter
of organization and timing. In this case, analysis might best have been given over
to consultants (national and international) whose recommendations could then
have been tested for feasibility on representatives of different institutions and
interests.
(c)   Project design should be as simple as possible; this greatly improves the chances of
successful implementation and achievement of immediate project objectives which,
in turn, may influence the attainment of long-term development objectives.
(d)   A high turnover of staff responsible for project implementation in the Borrower's
implementing agencies as well as those responsible for project monitoring and
supervision at the Bank may be detrimental to the success of a project. The need
to learn and re-learn and changes in commitment and understanding of the project
mean that much valuable time will be lost.



Evaluation Summary                                                                   v
(e)   Adequate preparation and close supervision should problems arise during
implementation, are key to project success.   Supervision missions should be
fielded at appropriate and regular intervals to address emerging problems; they
should also ensure reasonable continuity in staff and comprise the necessary
specialists competent in the fields covered by the project.
(f)    The participation of local consultants needs to be encouraged and in the case
where individual local and foreign consultants have to be contracted to work
together, as was the initial strategy for implementation in this project, sufficient
provision would need to be made for the management and logistical support of
such teams.
(g)   The following practices were effective in ensuring project implementation:
(i) dissociation of recruitment and payment of local experts from the availability of
counterpart funds paid by the Government; (ii) splitting the project up into a
number of separate activities that could be carried out independently; (iii) frequent
need for IDA approval (selection of consulting firms, action plans, training
program contents, service contracts); while this tended to increase implementation
time, it provided for quality control.
(h)   Although it is generally preferable for a Project Unit to be integrated into a
government administrative unit in order to enhance sustainability, in the special
context of Zaire higher education in the 1980's the Project Unit's financial and
administrative autonomy was a positive factor for project implementation.
Nonetheless, the Project Unit's experience demonstrates that it is not possible to
operate effectively without coordination with and support from senior government
officials.  Hence, even in the absence of formal institutionalized relations,
cooperation between Project Unit and key government functionaries is crucial for
successful implementation.
(i)    When, as in this case, a project's implementation strategy allows for the
modification of activities during implementation, adequate contingency planning
must be done in order to provide enabling technical and financial resources.
Project Unit resources were not completely adequate for the unplanned activities
of drafting and rewriting of TORs for certain project activities revised during
implementation.
(j)    Problems encountered in assessing needs for books and equipment in different
institutions and the subsequent non utilization of those books and equipment in
certain establishments show the limitations of an exclusively need-based assistance
strategy. Assistance ought to be a function not only of observed lack of resources,
but of predictive institutional performance assessments as well.






REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHER EDUCATION RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1839-ZR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
L     PROJECT IDENTITY
Name of Project:         Higher Education Rationalization Project (HERP)
Credit No.:              1839-ZR
Regional Vice Presidency:   Africa Region, Department m
Country:                 Republic of Zaire
Sector:                  Education
IL   BACKGROUND
1.1     Shortly before the October 1986 preparation mission for the project, Zaire had signed,
on May 28, 1986, a second two-year stand-by arrangement with the IMF. Partly because extemal
assistance was insufficient, the previous stand-by arrangement (1983-85) had met with limited
success, but it was felt that the long-term prospects of the country were good if efficient
resources utilization could be ensured, and that the Government had demonstrated that it was
capable of implementing a stabilization program. The donors were expected to provide extemal
assistance at concessional terms to finance the public investment program.
1.2    In late 1986, problems and constraints in the education sector taken as a whole were as
follows: (a) rapid population growth (3.2% annually) was making it necessary to increase outlays
for primary education to the detriment of higher education; (b) quality of education was on the
decline; (c) internal efficiency was low; (d) poor management practices were a major obstacle to
efficient use of human and physical resources; (e) cost control measures were non existent; (f) the
employment situation deteriorated because graduates did not possess the skills to meet the
demand in the labor market and in certain fields more of them were being produced than could be
absorbed; and (g) financial constraints blocked improvements to the quality of education.
1.3    The higher education sector (3 universities and 34 higher technical and pedagogical
institutes administered by the Department of Higher Education [Departement de lEnseignement
,Superieur et Universitaire - DESU]) had an enrollment of 38,500 in 1984/85, corresponding to a



2                                              Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
gross enrollment rate of 1.2%. Enrollments increased annually by 8 per cent from 1981 to 1985.
Subsector development was confronted with three main problems: (i) pressing demand for
education; (ii) growing mismatch between employment and training; and (iii) excessive unit costs
given public resources available.
1.4    The Government was aware of these problems from the early 1980s and attempted to
resolve them in 1981 by decentralizing the academic, financial and personnel management of
institutions of higher learning. The limited success of decentralization led to the organization, in
June 1984, of a Higher Education Round Table to review problems and propose solutions. The
need for a comprehensive strategy for the development of higher education was recognized. This
government-initiated approach to development of the project ensured ownership right from the
beginning. At that time the Government planned to include higher education in a Second
Technical Assistance and Training Project which, with IDA support, was to focus on improving
administration and management in the primary and secondary education subsectors under Credit
1519-O-ZR. Later, the Government requested that a separate technical assistance and training
project be developed for the rationalization of higher education.
1.5    It was understood that any development strategy for the education sector would address
the major problems confronting the sector and stress (a) administrative efficiency and
effectiveness at all levels; (b) universal primary education as soon as possible; (c) improving the
quality of secondary and higher education given their impact on economic and social development
and establishing concomitant cost recovery programs. Discussions with Government on the need
for more efficient administration seemed to have made satisfactory progress.  Whereas
implementation of the former three IDA-financed education projects had been marked by irregular
and incomplete payment of counterpart funds, the Government had agreed to give priority to the
payment of these funds for current projects at a meeting of the Consultative Group of Donors in
1986.  In September 1986 it had introduced legislation to stimulate the self-financing of
institutions of higher education and decided to cut lodging, food and transport subsidies to
university students beginning in 1986/87.
m.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITES
1.6    Project objectives. The Higher Education Rationalization Project, prepared between
September 1986 and June 1987 and covered by Development Credit Agreement 1839-ZR signed
in late August 1987 had the following objectives:
(a)   to formulate and adopt a long-term higher education strategy geared to the training
needs of the economy;
(b)   to halt the very serious decline in management so that existing scarce resources are
used more efficiently; and
(c)   to halt the decline in educational quality so that minimum  acceptable
teaching/learning standards could at least be maintained.



Part]: ProjectReviewffromiDA'sPerspective                                            3
1.7     The   project  included  the  following  five   components:  a)  improving
administration/management; b) upgrading teaching/learning; c) strategy development; d) provision
of priority teaching materials; and e) project management. Activities under these components
involved mainly studies and analyses of the management and administrative systems and processes
in the country's post secondary institutions.
1.8   A)    Management and Administration
(a)   Auxiliary Logistical and Management Services: i) analysis of teaching load and
student/teacher ratio; ii) analysis of staffing practices for administrative, technical
and maintenance personnel and development of appropriate staffing norms and
procedures; iii) improvement in the organization of the maintenance and auxiliary
services of the University's Logistical Support Unit (Intendance Generale); and
iv) strengthening of educational statistics services.
(b)   Strengthening of Administration and Management: i) internships abroad for
senior university and institute administrators; ii) local training sessions for 20
trainers initially and, subsequently, 3 month training sessions for 300 education
establishment managers and 250 support staff in educational management including
budgeting, personnel management and university administration.
(c)   Financing and Cost Recovery: i) surveys and proposals for tapping potential
sources of non government financing, in particular the private sector; ii) feasibility
study on establishing a student loan program; iii) introduction, on a pilot basis, of
evening courses in the three universities following the Open University concept;
iv) unit cost analysis in higher education and proposals to improve budget planning
and cost control.
1.9   B)    Teaching/Learning
(a)   Training: i) retraining for HPI and HTI teachers and senior grade secondary
school teachers; ii) establishment of a merit bursary program for academically
deserving students experiencing financial need.
(b)   Development of University Research:  i) analysis of university research and
publication activities and proposals for their improvement; ii) stimulation of
research activities through the award of 30 one-year and 10 six-month fellowships
for doctoral level studies abroad in medicine, management, agriculture and
engineering; iii) reorganization through a unified organization approach of the
Zaire University Press (PUZ); and iv) improvement of library services through staff
training in library science.
(c)    Modernization/Innovation:  i) several situation analyses and preinvestment
studies aimed at modernizing medicine, agriculture and nutrition faculties and



4                                              Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
departments; i) professionalization of the higher pedagogical institutes; and
iii) creation of a specialized graduate program in accounting and management.
(d)   Internal Efficiency: i) analysis of the causes of student dropouts; ii) survey of
student living and economic conditions with recommendations for improvement.
1.10  C)    Formulation of a Development Strategy for Higher Education: i) assessment
of long-term needs for higher education training; ii) analysis of enrollment trends in higher
education along with the establishment of criteria for creating new establishments and selecting
sites; iii) synthesis of all project sponsored studies and formulation of recommendations for a
middle and long-term strategy for developing the higher education sector.
1.11  D)    Teaching Materials: purchase of approximately 50,000 library books and other
teaching and laboratory equipment for 13 institutions, including the 3 universities.
1.12  E)    Project Administration.  This component covered the operating costs of:
i) Project Unit operations, ii) Auditing, iii) Management Committee (responsible for approving
budgets, annual work plans and Project Unit annual reports); iv) Studies Steering Committee
(responsible for monitoring project studies and analyses); and v) costs of logistical support for
foreign consultants.
IV. PROJECT PREPARATION AND DESIGN
1.13    After project identification by the Government assisted by a Bank team, project
preparation was undertaken by a team of UNESCO and ILO experts. These experts also
participated in the Bank appraisal mission. The project was prepared in response to the need
i) for a comprehensive and coherent strategy for the development of higher education; and ii) for
the strengthening of that educational subsector's institutional capacity so as to establish a solid
base for the reform to follow. These concerns were consistent with IDA policy concerning
education and human resource development. The project objectives reflected these concerns
which were shared by IDA and the Government at whose request and with whose participation
the project was prepared. Central ministry and institutional staff were actively involved in project
preparation and policy dialogue in order to ensure conmmitment. An adequate assessment was
made of country commitment and local support during project preparation but no attempt was
made to look beyond the present and to develop mechanisms to help sustain that commitment.
Consequently, a quick and high turnover of high-level ministry officials and an inadequate level of
involvement of beneficiaries (representatives of students and parents) in project planning, quickly
led to a loss of the initial official commitment generated. In fact, there was little done towards
consensus building among the various constituencies (including the beneficiaries). Furthermore,
though an accurate assessment was made during project preparation and appraisal of the
institutional capacity and the weaknesses in implementation capacity identified, not enough was
done to address these weaknesses. The little that was done was concentrated in the Project Unit
(which functioned relatively well), but many of the other agencies involved in implementation
(DESU, the Universities, the HTIs and the HPIs and so on) continued to face difficult problems.



Part l: Project Reviewfrom IDA's Perspective                                             5
1.14    Thirty-five separate activities (arranged under five components) were planned to achieve
project objectives. This large number of activities led to a complex operation especially given the
weak implementation capacity. Activities under Components a, b and d were expected to
contribute to achieving institutional strengthening objectives while component c activities were
aimed at the development of a long-term strategy for the subsector. Relations among general
project goals, specific objectives and component activities were not explicitly articulated in the
project, nor were objectives or activities specified in terms of required outcomes beyond
production of reports. Strengthening of administrative and teaching capacity was based on a
conventional personnel training and management development approach. System-wide
organizational structure and governance system analyses -with the exception of financial
management- were not excluded but not explicitly called for in the project's objectives.
Design
1.15    Each of the 35 project activities was designed as an independent activity with its own
objectives, tasks, personnel -including secretarial staff- costs, terms of reference and clearly
delineated  roles and  responsibilities.   This was designed  to  ensure  flexibility  during
implementation because it was possible to proceed with some activities even when others were
experiencing difficulties.
1.16    The project's implementation strategy called for use of local expertise (67 staff-years)
with limited recourse to international consultants (7 staff-years) primarily for short-term support
activities. The use of specialized consultants or consulting firns to recruit and manage consultants
was not envisaged nor, as in many other projects, made a condition for Credit effectiveness. The
implementation of project activities would be entrusted to a Project Unit responsible for
overseeing consultant teams, coordinating field activities and providing logistical support.
However, only incidental attention was given to the establishment of the necessary conditions,
whether technical or financial, for such a Project Unit to deal with the unforeseeable but probable
contingencies that might be encountered with this approach.   For instance, during the
implementation period, the Project Unit had an average every year of only 3 high-level staff who
were supposed to do everything (with the help of a Principal Technical Adviser).
1.17    To protect against drift or blockage, the following were established: a timetable of 18
priority activities with related deadlines over a 3-year period so as to facilitate monitoring; a
decision to finance 90 per cent of project expenditures from the Credit in order to avoid effects of
possible delays in the payment of Government counterpart funds; a decision to allow financing
local consultant salaries with Credit funds; establishment of two monitoring committees. Other
conditions reflected sector policy reform objectives: limiting first year admissions in the higher
education subsector; cost recovery through increased tuition fees; continuing policy of non-
subsidization of lodging, meals and transportation of students in higher education; and elaborating
and reviewing a three-year rolling program for public expenditures in the sector ensuring that
adequate amounts were budgeted annually for higher education (see para. 1.25 as well as the table
on compliance with Credit covenants in Part III for details on compliance with sector reform



6                                                Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
conditions). However, no attempt was made at identifying and setting targets for a set of critical
performance indicators to help monitor progress.
V.  IMPLEMENTATION
1.18    After Board approval and signature of the Credit, effectiveness was delayed by about a
year notwithstanding the fact that conditions of effectiveness were quite straightforward. These
conditions included opening a project account in a Commercial Bank and making an initial deposit
of USD 20,000, establishing a Management Committee and a Studies Steering Committee and
establishing and staffing a Project Unit, including the recruitment of a Principal Technical Adviser.
All these conditions were quickly met except the recruitment of the Principal Technical Adviser.
After a long selection process was finished and an offer made to the best candidate, he desisted.
It was then decided to recruit the second person on the list. All these led to delays in declaring
the Credit effective.
1.19    Even before implementation began, the need to change the project's implementation
strategy and use specialized firms to both recruit and manage expert consultants and coordinate
implementation in the field was recognized for a substantial proportion of project activities.
Major changes in both Zaire (changes among senior officials at DESU and the appointment of a
new Project Director in 1989) and the Bank (with a new Division Chief and Task Manager
following reorganization in 1987) tended to facilitate these changes. It took time for the new
players on both sides to get familiarized with the philosophy and objectives of the project, and
when they did, it was thought necessary on both sides to make changes to the project. It was
decided that the project's 35 activities be regrouped under seven lots, of which four were to be
redirected to outside specialized consulting firms. This decision resulted in: i) funding shortfalls
because of the unforeseen costs; (ii) unprepared local agencies being given the responsibility for
preparing technical and financial proposals without prior strengthening; and (iii) a revised project
implementation schedule.
1.20    The costs of contracts negotiated between the Project Unit and foreign firms far
exceeded budget provisions; two of these failed to gain IDA approval (lots 1 and 3). Despite
Project Unit assistance, the two local agencies whose services were retained for lots 2 and 5 were
incapable of submitting technical proposals within the required time frames. Meanwhile, the
Commissioner of Higher Education proposed the replacement of short-term training of 550
officials in educational management (Activity A2) with an operation to computerize management
procedures across the board in the higher education sector. These events prompted IDA to
propose a complete revision of project activities.
1.21    Revision took place in November 1989, one year after the project became effective. It
resulted in the cancellation of certain activities and the transfer of others to the Project Unit with
reduced financing and without use of outside expertise.  The bulk of project activities was
rescheduled to be carried out in 1990 and 1991. Government counterpart funds paid in 1990
matched closely the amounts requested or required, but this was the only year that this occurred.



Part I: Project Review from IDA's Perspective                                       7
1.22    In September 1991, certain conditions not having been met by the Borrower, in
particular having paid counterpart funds erratically in 1991, IDA suspended the signature of new
contracts between the Project Unit and the consulting firms or agencies of the Higher Education
Department. This terminated the just started retraining of HTI and HPI teachers and canceled the
organizational diagnostic study and three preinvestment studies which had been reassigned
towards the end of 1990 after having been de-prioritized in the 1989 revision.
1.23    The political events in late 1991, the nonpayment of counterpart funds and the shutdown
of teaching activities in most public institutions caused first a suspension of disbursements in April
1992 and then a partial cancellation of the Credit (SDR 1,590,627) in October 1992. A detailed
plan was approved to enable the Project Unit to finish some on-going and important activities, in
particular the doctoral fellowship program, the preparation of the synthesis of studies carried out
and the formulation of a higher education strategy by a technical committee. The synthesis of
studies was completed in early 1993, but the strategy committee was not able to complete its
work within the allotted time. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1993 as scheduled.
1.24    The President's report adequately identified the following as major project risks: (i) the
Government's sustained commitment to make the institutional and policy modifications required;
(ii) weak execution capabilities of the agencies involved; (iii) continued pressure for rapid
enrollment increases and poor student conditions; (iv) low civil service remuneration which could
cause low morale; and (v) risk of delays because of the lack of counterpart funds. To offset these
risks, the following things were done or obtained: (a) close involvement of central and
institutional authorities in project preparation and policy dialogue; (b) Government assurances on
sector reforms and the implementation of actions agreed upon, including agreement on an
implementation program; (c) establishment of a Management Committee and a Studies Steering
Committee to monitor implementation and assist in quality control; and (d) raising IDA's
contribution to 90% of the total project cost in order to minimize the risk of delays due to a lack
of counterpart funds.
1.25    An unstable political and socio-economic environment was never considered a potential
risk. Not enough consensus building took place, leading to a hastily prepared operation in which
commitment was never sustained. Government assurances meant very little more than words.
Many sector reform conditions were never respected. Student recruitment into higher education
continued to increase, probably by some 8-10% in 1990-91 (instead of the 3% agreed upon), after
a similar increase in the previous year. After preparation and discussion of a three-year rolling
public expenditure program in 1988, 1989 and 1990, none was prepared in the following years.
The 1990 discussions had highlighted some problems linked to enrollment growth.  The
Presidency was pushing for the creation of a new university, the Libenge University in Haute
Zaire, and new premises for the Higher Technical Institute for Information Sciences with a tripling
of its capacity.  Several DESU officials indicated that technically these new projects were
unreasonable especially given the bad state of the existing institutions which needed rehabilitation
but could not voice their feelings openly.  The Bank, through aide-memoires prepared by
supervision missions and letters to the Government, advised the Government against these
projects and the political interference accompanying them. The political and socio-economic
problems that followed in Zaire led naturally to the abandonrnent of the projects. Meanwhile,



8                                              Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
though the Management Committee worked relatively well and met regularly, the Studies
Steering Committee was virtually useless. It met twice at the start of implementation but never
met again. Its composition was a major problem (three foreigners that needed to be brought into
Zaire from abroad for meetings and three nationals, the 3 Presidents of the Universities'
Management Boards). For a committee that was to look into the technical and intellectual
content of the studies to be undertaken under the project, the three nationals were not appropriate
because they were mainly political figures (notwithstanding the strong intellectual background of
some of them). With regard to the counterpart funding problem, it has always been a problem in
Zaire. Only 3% of the promised 10% was disbursed for this project.
VL PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
1.26    Total project cost, including contingencies, was estimated at some US$12.17 million, of
which US$3.75 million in local costs and US$8.42 in foreign exchange. The IDA Credit was for
US$11 million and the rest was to be financed by the Government. Of the total credit, US$9.3
million was actually disbursed during project implementation. Some 20% of the Credit was
canceled in October 1992 following suspension of disbursements in April of that year. Tables 5a
and 5b of Part m shows estimated (at appraisal), revised (in November 1989) and actual
disbursements under the Credit.
Credit Allocation
1.27    Table 11, Part m shows the original allocations of credit proceeds as contained in the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA). These can be compared with actual allocations which
are also presented on the same table. The table indicates that more was spent than originally
planned for categories 2 (vehicles and equipment), 3 (textbooks) and 5 (operating costs), with a
substantial cost overrun for category 2 (of about SDR 587,714). There was an unspent balance
of about SDR 243,122 for category 1 (technical assistance including local consultant). Much less
than originally allocated was also spent for training (with an unspent balance of SDR 1,281,654).
1.28    The main reasons for the significant shortfall in training included: (i) the decision to
replace the short-term training of 550 in educational management with an operation to
computerize management procedures across the board in the higher education subsector; (ii) the
September 1991 suspension of contracts for the retraining of HPI and HTI teachers; and
(iii) elimination during project revision in November 1989 of some training that was planned for
secondary school teachers. The decision to replace the educational management training with a
computerization operation seem to have been a bad decision. A valuable training activity was
never undertaken and the envisaged computerization operation ran into difficulties since it was
not well prepared. In fact, the planned computerization was never carried out.



Partl: Project Review from IDA's Perspective                                       9
Project Financing
1.29    Table Sc shows that the Government contributed only 3 percent of actual expenditures
instead of the 10 percent committed. About 80% of the IDA Credit was actually disbursed.
Disbursements followed the appraisal pattern closely albeit with a one year lag, and compared
reasonably to standard disbursement profiles (see chart (Annex 6) at end of this report). They
rose steadily from FY88 and reached a peak in FY91 when a cumulative total of about 67% of the
Credit had been disbursed. After that, annual disbursements fell precipitously. In FY93 and
FY94, the unstable political and socio-econornic environment as well as the suspension of
disbursements and cancellation of a substantial portion of the credit meant that only about 5% of
the Credit was disbursed in two fiscal years.
VIL PROJECT RESULTS
1.30    Although a good number of project activities were carried out and nearly 80% of the
Credit utilized, the project achieved few of its objectives. This disappointing outcome must be
viewed in light of the country's political circumstances that took a heavy toll on the higher
education system starting in academic year 1990/91. The virtual collapse of the sector resulting
from causes external to the project has made it impossible to measure the impact of the activities
related to institution building and training. Neither these circumstances nor the weaknesses
detected during project formulation can, however, justify the non formulation of a development
strategy for higher education. This lack of fornulation of a strategy and the project's overall poor
performance led to a deterioration of the rating for the project's overall status from a 2 after the
first supervision mission to a 4 towards the end of the project.
1.31    In fact, the objective of formulating and adopting a higher education development
strategy (Component C of the project), which was the main objective of the project, was not
attained either before the closing of the project in June 1993 or as of the date of this PCR.
Nevertheless, all necessary elements for the formulation of a higher education strategy are in
place:  the 11 completed project studies have been synthesized; operating standards and
guidelines, as well as various strategy scenarios and a simple model for estimating the recurrent
costs under new strategy proposals, were made available to the Higher Education Sector Strategy
Committee established by the Project Unit to ensure planning and long-term policy analyses at all
levels of education. Efforts to formulate a higher education strategy have continued since project
closing. Building on the framework of the Higher Education Sectoral Strategy Committee, a
Government technical commission to develop a higher education strategy has been established,
with financial support, by ministerial order in July 1993.
1.32    The project objectives of institutional capacity  development and management
strengthening (Components A and B) cannot be evaluated in terms of impact on the institutions
but only in terms of the implementation rate of planned activities and of their relevance for the
future. Though none of the project's development objectives can be claimed to have been fully
attained, the achievement of major ingredients for the attainment of those objectives leaves some
room for hope with regard to the future. The many results obtained during implementation and



lo                                              Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
the hopes for attaining the development objectives led to a rating of 2 for development objectives
throughout the implementation period. The following sections indicate the major results obtained
in relation to each major development objective.
Higher Education Strategy Development:
1.33    Studies. Eleven of the 19 studies and analyses originally planned were carried out; 2
were eliminated at the 1989 project revision and the remaining 6 were not carried out by the
Closing Date. Four of the studies carried out relate directly to the objective of higher education
strategy development. Though the seven other completed studies relate directly to the objective
of management strengthening and institutional development, they could and should also be useful
in strategy development. Meanwhile, it is rather fortunate that the studies not carried out are
those that, under the existing circumstances, would have lacked relevance (preinvestment or
establishment of new structures), whereas the conclusions of those carried out remain relevant
despite the current difficult circumstances because they involve procedures and management
methods.
1.34    Private education studies. The study on private education could not be completed.
Given the paralysis of public higher education and existing trends toward decentralization, the
outcomes of such a study could have provided useful guidelines for the private establishments that
have proliferated since the onset of the current crisis. It is hoped that the future development of a
higher education strategy will take this trend and the need to promote private higher education
institutions into account.
1.35    Preinvestment studies. Only one of the four planned preinvestment studies was carried
out (for agronomy); the relevance of that study's conclusions will have to be re-examined in the
light of the future higher education strategy.
Management Strengthening:
1.36    Management Studies. Seven of the eleven completed studies relate to the objective of
management strengthening and institutional development. They yielded management instruments
or procedure prototypes for use by higher education administrators. These outputs are a definite
achievement and will be valuable if used in the near future.
1.37    Other Activities. The implementation of a series of "organizational" activities was
terminated before completion. They included a diagnostic study of organizational structures and
processes, a pilot project in data-base management and an in-service training program in
maintenance procedures. Meanwhile, the replacement of the short-term training program for 550
officials of the subsector in educational management and statistics by a computerization operation
was a major blow to the attainment of the management strengthening objective. Not only was
crucial training not undertaken but the computerization operation never really took off, apart from
the purchase of a few computers. Furthermore, the establishment of a merit bursary program for



Part]: Project Reviewfrom IDA's Perspective                                        11
academically deserving students experiencing financial need was not carried out but remains an
idea for the future.
Improvement of Educational Quality:
1.38    Training. Three of the six training activities were carried out, one completely (librarian
training), one largely (doctoral training) and the third very partially (retraining of HTI and HPI
teachers) due to the suspension of the signature of new contracts. Among the training activities
not carried out, one was eliminated during project revision (training of secondary teachers - B 12),
one was replaced at the request of the Minister (short-term management training for 550 officials
and training in educational statistics). It is a pity that the training of secondary teachers was
eliminated since this activity would have contributed to improving the quality of secondary
education and subsequently the quality of students entering into higher education. The replaced
management training program would have also helped in the improvement of the management of
the system and eventually in the improvement of educational quality.
1.39    Of the ten completed doctoral dissertations, three were successfully defended in
medicine at Kisangani and Lubumbashi, a first in the history of those schools. Six cooperative
inter university projects established on the basis of relations developed during doctoral training
between host and home universities appear promising. All reports indicate a great willingness on
the part of university assistants, teachers and institute librarians to participate in properly overseen
rehabilitation activities when those activities are efficiently managed.
1.40    Books, Equipment and Teaching Materials. More than 55,000 books along with
other laboratory and teaching materials were distributed to the 13 sector institutions. Under the
present circumstances their impact can only be symbolic. The growing disaffection of officials has
meant that, in a number of establishments, books and materials have remained without being
unpacked since their arrival in early 1991. In addition, training in the use and maintenance of
certain materials, although required and planned, was not carried out.
Institutional Development
1.41    Institutional development was a major focus of the project and was pursued through the
project's main objectives of management strengthening, higher education strategy development
and improvement of educational quality. However, institutional development goals were only
partially attained. One of the successful accomplishments was the Project Unit (PRESU Office)
established under the project. It recruited relatively well motivated staff and operated relatively
well during project implementation. The project Unit was generally efficient in stimulating and
monitoring local and foreign consultant team activities, in establishing and managing the doctoral
fellowship program, and in developing work programs, activity reports and making sure that
audits were prepared on time. The Project Unit has continued to operate after the project was
closed notwithstanding the difficult political and socio-economic environment in Zaire today. It is
determined to continue operating and assist in finalizing a higher education strategy and help in its



12                                               Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
adoption and implementation. Meanwhile, institutions like the HPIs, the HTIs, the Universities
and PUZ have been strengthened through restructuring, staff training, skill transfer by some
international consultants, learning-by-doing through the provision of consultancy services and
research, and the provision of library books and teaching/laboratory materials. In fact, the
various institutional analyses undertaken under the project, like the preinvestment study on
agronomy and forestry and the analyses on staffing practices, on educational statistics and
financing and on private institutions, have produced recommendations to address institutional
issues (like manpower inadequacies, coordination problems, gaps in planning, monitoring and
evaluation systems, need to reorganize and restructure and problems of financial management).
These could be exploited in future when things get back to normal.
Sustainability of project achievements.
1.42    All those project activities relating to the training of staff for positions of administrative,
technical and teaching responsibilities will certainly have sustainable effect if they remain within
the higher education system in Zaire. There was also much learning-by-doing among various
local agencies and consultants involved in the project. Moreover, the transfer of knowledge by
the technical assistance specialists involved in the PIU has led to its strengthening and if the Unit
is preserved and survives beyond the current crisis, would be instrumental in the future for
strategy development and possibly for the development of future IDA operations. The provision
of books, laboratory equipment and teaching materials may also have sustainable effects on the
quality of instruction if they can survive the current crisis. The risk associated with stealing and
looting is quite high but hopefully, much of these materials will be available in the post-crisis
period. It is therefore uncertain whether or not project achievements will be sustainable.
VIIL PARTICIPANT PERFORMANCE
1.43    During project preparation and initial implementation, the services rendered by the
World Bank division responsible for the project were prompt and efficient; supervision missions
were frequent until April 1990. Only one supervision mission was undertaken between April
1990 and the time the project was closed in June 1993. The unstable political and socio-economic
situation in Zaire towards the end of 1991 was largely responsible for this. It should however be
noted that following the project revision in 1989, not enough supervision resources were allocated
to this project by the Bank to respond as rapidly as was necessary to the Project Unit's proposals
resulting from revision. In certain cases this delayed project activities somewhat. In fact the
complexity of the operation and the large volume of correspondence it generated required close
supervision and consequently ample supervision resources which did not seem to have been made
available. The consequent slow response time to correspondences and fewer supervision missions
led the borrower to perceive a certain lack of enthusiasm for and subsequent "abandonment" of
the project by the Bank. For a project whose overall status, availability of counterpart funds and
compliance with legal covenants ratings deteriorated from 2 during the first supervision missions
to 4 towards the end of the project (and therefore identified as a problem project), a greater
supervision effort would have been required.



Part l: Project Review from 1DA's Perspective                                       13
1.44    The Project Unit was generally efficient, primarily in stimulating and monitoring local
and foreign consultant team activities, in establishing and managing the doctoral fellowship
program and in revising TORs for the modified activities following revision. The work programs,
activity reports and audits were regularly sent to IDA on time. Unfortunately, there appears to
have been a lack of Project Unit leadership and inadequate follow-up regarding the preparation of
a higher education development strategy. The main conclusions of the major studies, although
not completely synthesized, were known as early as May 1991; it is believed that notwithstanding
the September 1991 IDA suspension of new contracts and the turbulent political situation,
technical groups could, with appropriate leadership, have formulated strategy proposals as early
as the end of 1991 or early 1992. Likewise, the DESU did not perform effectively with regard to
project conditionalities.  Notwithstanding the regular reminders in the aide-memoires of
supervision missions, there was a total lack of compliance with the sector reform conditionalities
contained in the Credit Agreement. These included a continuation of the policy of not subsidizing
lodging, meals and transportation of students in higher education, containing enrollment growth
rates to a level agreed to with IDA until a strategy is formnulated and adopted, and agreeing on a
three-year rolling program for public expenditures in the sector. In this connection, it was
undoubtedly handicapped by the constant changes of Ministers and other high-level officials.
During the six years of project implementation, there were twelve different Ministers in the
Ministry of Higher Education. At the Bank too, there were many changes though not as regular
as in DESU. During the six years of project implementation, there were four Task Managers for
this project.
1.45    The various consulting firms fulfilled their mandate with due professionalism and in
compliance with contract specifications. There were nevertheless some gaps in the quality of
presentation of some of the submitted reports.
1.46    The Higher education specialized agencies that participated in the project were
competent, particularly in training activities. Existing delays were invariably due to the lack of
familiarity of personnel who were not professional consultants with the various formal aspects of
preparing technical and financial proposals and with project management techniques.
1.47    The project's Management Committee met regularly but less frequently than planned.
The monitoring meetings did their job of submitting the Project Unit management to critical
review, of ensuring the transparency of project activities and of informing officials of the
objectives and outcomes of the project.
1.48    The project's Studies Steering Committee met twice and was not convened again owing,
first, to the delay in carrying out the studies and, subsequently, to impediments caused by the
general situation of the country. Project revision was carried out without the committee being
consulted although this was one of its key responsibilities. Each committee member received a
complete set of study reports as well as the synthesis prepared by the Project Unit. Only one
member sent comments and on only one of the studies. The composition of the committee was
itself problematic (3 nationals and 3 foreigners). The 3 nationals were political figures although



14                                                Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
they were supposed to provide technical and intellectual leadership. Bringing in the foreigners for
meeting also posed problems.
IX. LESSONS
1.49    Despite 25 of 35 activities being carried out and disbursements of about 80% of the
Credit, the results of the project are disappointing in terms of the project's main development
objectives. Also, the anticipated impact of project activities has been undermined by the political
and economic crises confronting the country. Poor performance during project implementation
was also due to the complexity in design, inadequacy and repeated delays in the payment of
counterpart funds and a lack of sustained commitment on the part of the senior officials of the
DESU. Performance of the project was overall unsatisfactory and the outcome so far is also
unsatisfactory; the institutional development impact of the project is only partial at this point and
it is uncertain whether or not project achievements will be sustainable.
1.50    The main lessons to be drawn from this project can be summarized as follows:
(a)    Borrower  ownership, sustained  commitment and  participation  of major
stakeholders are crucial to successful implementation. Though in the beginning
ownership and commitment by central ministry and institutional authorities were
relatively high, about two years after approval of the project, a change in major
actors both within the Ministry and the Project Unit led to a substantial drop in
commitment. This was evident from the total lack of respect for various Credit
covenants.  It would have been useful to provide more time during project
preparation for consensus building and the involvement of beneficiaries, and their
participation should have been encouraged in subsequent stages of the project
cycle.
(b)    The organization and timing of stakeholder participation is crucial for their
successful involvement. For this project, the use of task forces and Think-Tanks
essentially made up of stakeholders in the sector sometimes worked against the
project goals of objective analysis and effective strategy development. This is
perhaps surprising and may seem to go against recent wisdom. But it is a matter
of organization and timing. In this case, analysis might best have been given over
to consultants (national and international) whose recommendations could then
have been tested for feasibility on representatives of different institutions and
interests.
(c)    Project design should be as simple as possible; this greatly improves the chances of
successful implementation and achievement of immediate project objectives which,
in turn, may influence the attainment of long-term development objectives.
(d)   A high turnover of staff responsible for project implementation in the Borrower's
implementing agencies as well as those responsible for project monitoring and



Partl: ProjectReviewfromlDA'sPerspective                                                15
supervision at the Bank may be detrimental to the success of a project. The need
to learn and re-learn and changes in commitment and understanding of the project
mean that much valuable time will be lost.
(e)    Adequate preparation  and close supervision  should  problems arise during
implementation, are key to project success.   Supervision missions should be
fielded at appropriate and regular intervals to address emerging problems; they
should also ensure reasonable continuity in staff and comprise the necessary
specialists competent in the fields covered by the project.
(f)    The participation of local consultants needs to be encouraged and in the case
where individual local and foreign consultants have to be contracted to work
together, as was the initial strategy for implementation in this project, sufficient
provision would need to be made for the management and logistical support of
such teams.
(g)    The following practices were effective in ensuring project implementation:
(i) dissociation of recruitment and payment of local experts from the availability of
counterpart funds paid by the Government; (ii) splitting the project up into a
number of separate activities that could be carried out independently; (iii) frequent
need for IDA approval (selection of consulting firms, action plans, training
program contents, service contracts); while this tended to increase implementation
time, it provided for quality control.
(h)    Although it is generally preferable for a Project Unit to be integrated into a
government administrative unit in order to enhance sustainability, in the special
context of Zaire higher education in the 1980's the Project Unit's financial and
administrative autonomy was a positive factor for project implementation.
Nonetheless, the Project Unit's experience demonstrates that it is not possible to
operate effectively without coordination with and support from senior government
officials. Hence, even in the absence of formal institutionalized relations,
cooperation between Project Unit and key government functionaries is crucial for
successful implementation.
(i)    When, as in this case, a project's implementation strategy allows for the
modification of activities during implementation, adequate contingency planning
must be done in order to provide enabling technical and financial resources.
Project Unit resources were not completely adequate for the unplanned activities
of drafting and rewriting of TORs for certain project activities revised during
implementation.
(j)    Problems encountered in assessing needs for books and equipment in different
institutions and the subsequent non utilization of those books and equipment in
certain establishments show the limitations of an exclusively need-based assistance



16                                                   Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
strategy. Assistance ought to be a function not only of observed lack of resources,
but of predictive institutional performance assessments as well.



Part II: Project Reviewfrom the Borrower's Perspective                     17
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM THIE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Translation)
L   INTRODUCTION
2.1     The Higher Education (ESI) Rationalization Project is a very complex, large-
scale project involving all academic and administrative aspects of public and private higher
education in Zaire.
2.2     Although the splitting of the project into four main components (with a fifth
component on project management) to be carried out in six or seven lots reflects the
exhaustive nature of the areas and aspects to be covered by project studies, the content of
the components, the qualitative and quantitative level of various necessary resources, and
their mobilization were not always satisfactory, even though more than 70% of project
objectives were achieved.
2.3    In point of fact, the haste in which the project was conceived was responsible for
several failings that necessitated midstream modifications and at times major changes to
lot composition, as well as gaps, insufficiencies and poor performance by certain parties
involved in project execution that prevented the project from fully achieving its objectives
within the scheduled time frame.
Ir.   PROJECT DESIGN
2.4     The complexity of a project split into four components to be carried out in six
lots, each comprising several activities, meant a large number of parties were involved in
implementation, a great deal of time on preparation, and lengthy contract negotiations.
2.5     Thus, although the project was formalized in June 1987, the studies contract
under lot 1 was not signed until April 2, 1990, following more than a year of negotiations
and several rounds of changes to lot composition. This held back project implementation
by more than a year.
2.6     The relatively short time spent on project design, preparation and finalization
resulted in:
(a)   several changes to the components and lots for project studies, the most
important of which was the major overhaul in October 1989, as a result of
which certain activities were shifted from one lot to another for reasons of



18                                        Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
logic, others were eliminated for lack of relevance to higher education and
to project objectives, still others were scaled back to make them
compatible with the resources available, and the terms of reference for
others were totally reworked, making them new activities not envisaged
during project design;
(b)   frequent woefully inadequate distribution of project funds: inconsistencies
between the real cost of certain activities and their original budget, causing
frequent budget reshuffling, scaling down of certain activities and even the
elimination of others owing to changes in the terms of reference that each
time had to be approved by IDA in accordance with an overly long and
occasionally tedious process;
(c)   poor estimates of the conditions for the implementation and coordination
of activities in the field had the same consequences as those described in
(b).
IIL PROJECT EXECUTION
2.7     Project activities required resources of various types: human, physical, financial
and organizational, whose quantity, quality and availability were not always sufficient and
even sometimes adversely affected the performance of those party to project
implementation.
(a)   Human Resources
Although the rigorous application of selection criteria for executing
agencies enabled the Project Unit to recruit the best consulting firms after
approval by IDA, we ultimately regretted several experts used by those
firms but who did not perform satisfactorily, even though their CVs were
very impressive or the strongest of those submitted to the Project Unit and
IDA. The firms apparently sold their reputation and not their technical
expertise or know-how.
For various reasons, the Project Unit had to use second-string experts
when those initially selected were no longer available at the time project
activities actually took place. The causes for this would include:
-     the duration of contract negotiations;
-     modification of the terms of reference for the activities;
-     reluctance of the experts to make field visits.



Part 11: Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective                      19
This occurred for activities for which the terms of reference inexplicably
required foreign expertise, even before a lack of local expertise was
ascertained.
*     The very nature of certain contracts limited the mandate of the executing
agency to making a report on the study carried out, regardless of the value
of the report and the experts that did the study. This type of contract
hardly motivates the consulting firms to seek out higher-quality experts
who would necessarily be more expensive to them.
*     The underfunding of certain activities prevented the executing agencies
from hiring the best experts in their area of study.
(b)   Financial resources
2.8     The greatest handicap  facing  project execution  was the  insufficiency,
unavailability in due course and the irregularity of funds, especially those provided by the
Government. This moreover ultimately caused a suspension of the Credit, thereby slowing
down the implementation of the project and causing it to fall further and further behind
schedule. See Table 1: Quarterly disbursement of counterpart funds by the Ministry of
Planning under the Investment Budget.
IV. PARTICIPANT PERFORMANCE
2.9     Participant performance of the entities and bodies involved in project execution
was as follows:
A.    The Bank (IDA)
Cumbersome approval procedures for new terms of reference.
The defects in project design resulted in modifications requiring new terms
of reference that had to be approved by IDA. The cumbersome procedures
for approving TORs and IDA's slow response time made it seem like the
voluminous documentation we had so carefully prepared was no more than
an annoyance to the task managers, who seemed overwhelmed by the
complexity of the task. The new terms of reference for the series of
preinvestment studies were approved 14 months after being sent to IDA
and could no longer be carried out despite their importance.
Project monitoring by the World Bank mission has left a great deal to be
desired since 1990 with regard to the regularity of missions. Although in
1988 and 1989 two monitoring missions visited Kinshasa each year, 1990
and 1991 saw one apiece, while in 1992 there were none. The problems in
Zaire towards the end of 1991 could have partially been responsible for this



20                                       Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
abandonment of the project by IDA, which moreover remained almost totally
mute in response to the abundant correspondence from the project
throughout that period, without any evaluation being done until its
suspension.
2.10    We would however note that the monitoring missions organized by IDA enabled
the project to find solutions to several questions to which Washington did not respond;
some terms of reference were approved on the spot and certain activities and their budgets
reworked, and the administrative procedures followed by the Project Unit could be
directly rectified. Likewise, some of the problems in the relations between IDA and the
Project Unit and between the supervisory ministry and project management were cleared
up by these missions that on each occasion confirmed the autonomy of the administrative
and financial management entrusted to the Project Unit by the ministerial order governing
the Unit's establishment and thereby protecting it from certain potentially damaging
interference.
2.11    It should lastly be stressed that the relations between IDA and the project were
sometimes too mechanical and followed a logic that was at times difficult to reconcile with
the sociocultural reality of the environment surrounding the project, which gave rise to
frustrations and demoralizing misunderstandings.  More frequent direct consultation
between IDA and the Project Unit would have without a doubt brought about the most
rapid solution to certain unnecessary roadblocks.
B.    The Government
2.12    Regrettably, for various reasons, the performance of the Government (through
its ministries and other specialized offices) had a less than encouraging impact on project
execution.
(i)    Ministry of Higher Education
Overly frequent changes in the incumbent Minister of Higher Education
made it totally impossible for the Minister to sufficiently grasp the broad
outlines of the project so that it could receive the requisite assistance and
support.
In fact, of the 12 ministers that the project worked with in six years of
existence, barely 2 can boast that the project made any substantial headway
as a result of their positive and substantial intervention in either the
establishment or reorganization of activities without changing the
fundamental objectives. Thus, the recommendations in the aides-memoires
prepared by project monitoring missions went virtually unattended at that
level and for all intents and purposes the same recommendations were
reformulated at the end of each mission, namely compliance with the
general terms of the Credit Agreement (personnel growth not to exceed



Part lI. Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective                         21
3%; room and board, transportation and fellowships for students to be
eliminated; tuition fee paid by parents (minerval) to be increased
considerably in real terms). None of these conditions has been met since
the start of the project.
Even though the prolonged shutdown of the institutes of higher education
and the gradual suspension of instruction at that level had virtually no
impact on project activities, the project was deprived of certain baseline
data. This also impeded the efficient implementation of certain actions to
bolster the higher education system planned by the project (rehabilitation of
libraries and laboratories, refresher training for teachers and provision of
microcomputers and telecommunications equipment for the administrative
offices, etc.).
The Ministeres direct supervision of the Project Unit, despite its numerous
advantages, sometimes did not sit well with the Secretary General, the
senior ESU official, who sometimes had views or took action damaging to
the project.
(ii)   Higher Education central administration and establishments
2.13    The central administration services of higher education, as well as that of the
establishments, were not sufficiently involved in the design and implementation of the
project, despite our recommendation to the various executing agencies to maximize the
use of ESU personnel, even as interviewers or in other phases of the studies related to
their areas of activity, in order to initiate them to the idea of the impending changes and to
make them accountable, if only psychologically. Two main reasons were responsible for
this negative attitude on the part of the executing agencies:
*     the need to maintain their independence vis-a-vis the supervisory ministry
with a view to safeguarding their management autonomy;
the generally inadequate training at all levels of those to whom this task is
to be entrusted may compromise the reliability of the findings.
2.14    The result is that the project, to date, has had virtually no impact on the system
and has had no effect on its much lamented management practices. The purposes and
objectives of the project were often unknown or sometimes misunderstood by the central
authorities, unlike the schools and certain other entities outside of ESU, which constantly
have to consult project staff and the plethora of data it accumulated.



22                                         Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
(iii)   The Project Unit and its ancillary entities:
Project Unit
The financial and administrative autonomy given to the Project Office by the
ministerial order governing its establishment and organizing its operations enabled
the Unit, with the assistance of the supervision missions, recommendations of the
audit firm and sometimes the Monitoring Committee, to follow IDA guidelines as
closely as possible, especially as regards financial management.
*     Studies Steering Committee
Entity devised to ensure ongoing scientific evaluation of the project and overall
consistency of project activities. If necessary, the committee was to propose any
refocusing of studies during project execution.
A cumbersome structure that had difficulty in bringing its members together for
meetings, the committee never functioned (three members from Zaire, one from
France and two from Belgium).
It was replaced by a more streamlined structure composed of three members from
Zaire (the three chairman of the Boards of Administration), plus the ESU
Secretary General (ESU senior administrative official), the Director of the Office
of the Minister of ESU (representing the supervisory authority), and the project
director and planning advisor.
This second entity was able to carry out all the functions entrusted to the former
and at less cost, through the assistance of IDA specialists and the support of the
supervision missions, which were able to provide an external point of view to
project assessments.
*     Monitoring Committee
This committee, composed of a representative from each ministry and any other
major entity, would potentially have a positive impact on project execution in
resolving certain practical difficulties was set up essentially to review and approve
the annual project budgets at the start of the fiscal year and evaluate physical
execution of the project in comparison with budget performance at the end of the
fiscal year.
Unfortunately, the committee misunderstood its role; it repeatedly tended to go
beyond its jurisdiction and sought continuously to alter project components and to
restructure project entities, tasks that had been entrusted to other existing and fully
operational structures (Studies Steering Commnittee and supervision missions).



Part II: Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective                       23
2.15    Thus, even though its members came from diverse backgrounds, the committee
did not succeed in resolving any of the project's problems vis-a-vis the ministries of origin
of its members (Planning, Finance, Budget, Civil Service, Office of the President of the
Republic and Office of the Prime Minister). All of the project's practical problems
resolved within the offices and ministries were done so thanks to direct contacts between
the Project Unit and those offices and ministries.
(iv)   Ministry of Planning
*     The centralized management of the investment budget which includes the
counterpart budget by the Ministry of Planning was vastly undermined by
its cumbersome procedures. In point of fact, allocations to the Project Unit
under the investment budget were never disbursed either in full or within
the time frames agreed in the Credit Agreement. In certain years - 1988
and 1991 - the project was entirely without its budgeted funds. This
prompted the letter of September 13, 1991 from IDA suspending the
signature of any new contracts by the Project Unit.
Ideally, an entity independent of the Government should manage the
investment budget.
*     The sliding three-year programs that the Project Unit requests each year
from the Ministry for transmission to IDA in accordance with the general
conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement never became available.
(v)   Ministry of the Budget
The budget projections prepared each year by the Project Unit based on the
cost of activities or the minimum required by the Credit Agreement were
never used by the Ministry in determining the budget allocations.
Often (except in 1990), a minimal amount representing a small percentage
of the budget requested was arbitrarily allocated to the project.
(vi)   Ministry of Finance
The total exemption on import duties that was to be extended to the
project for all its procurement (abroad) as well as exemption from taxes
met with difficulty in application, contrary to the IDA/Government
agreements.
In point of fact, considerable political pressure had to be brought to bear
with OZAC and OFIDA before the project was able to take possession of
the works and scientific equipment ordered for the ESU establishments.



24                                           Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
*     The total paralysis during two years of the entire banking system  and
galloping inflation since that time ultimately compromised the last chances
for implementing the project on schedule.



PartlIII. StatisticalInfornation                                                                              25
PART m.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.      Sector -Related IDA  Credit
Table 1: IDA Credit Relevant to the Project
Credit
Credit Title      Amount   Purpose                           Year of       Status      Comments
(US  S                                    Approval
I _____________    millions)                                                                                  I
First Education    6.5         To contribute to financing the    1971      Closing     Implementation delays
(Credit 272-ZR)                construction, the rehabilitation            date        and goals reduction due
and the equipment of                       Dmember  to inflation, rising
secondary school teacher                    31, 1981    costs, devaluation of
training institutes, the training                       the Zaire, delays in
of teacher trainers and of                              counterpart funding and
inspectors for primary and                             two wars; in addition,
technical education;                                    poor quality
development and improvement                             architectural plans,
of selected technical school                            poor communications
programs; Department of                                 between architect firn
Education study to improve                              and equipment
lmanagement system.                                     suppliers, poor project
management by project
office that had little
l ____________     ________     _____________________         _________     ________    M inistry   support.
Second Education   21          To support Government policy   1976         Closing     Implementation delays
(Credit 624-ZR)                of rural development through                date        due to inflation led to
construction of 5 teacher                   September  restructuring of the
training facilities, equipment              30, 1982    project in 1981;,
of 6 agricultural technical                             government financial
schools and one Superior                                incapacity led to project
lnstitute on Agriculture,                               cancellation with
technical assistance and                                USS 18.8 million
bursaries for these                                     undisbursed
establishments. The project
financed a) the planning of a
subsequent project and b)
measures to strengthen the
administration, management
_______________ __________  and financing of education                                                        l
Third Education    9           To assist the Ministry of     1984          Closing     Implementation delays
(1519-ZR)                      Primary and Secondary                       date:       due to the inadequacy
Education in improving its                 March 31,  and tardy disbursement
capabilities in planning,                   1991        of Government
administration and                                      counterpart funds,
management of the system                                delays in recruiting
and, thereby, its ability to                            consultants and
provide more efficient and                              numerous turnovers in
higher quality education.                               long-term expertise and
the poor quality of
. ~       _. ________________________ _ .,  .cernain  experts.



26                                                 Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
B.    Proiect Timetable
Table 2: Planned and Actual Dates of Project Timetable
Activity              Planned Date             Actual Date
Preparation                    October 1986            October 1986
Pre-Appraisal/Appraisal        January 1987            January 1987
Negotiations                    April 1987               May 1987
Board Approval                  June 1987               July 7, 1987
Signature                                             August 25, 1987
Effectiveness                  October 1987             June 1, 1988
Loan Closing                  June 30, 1993            June 30, 1993
Final Disbursement             July 31, 1993           January 1994
C.    Credit Disbursements
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (in million US$)
FISCAL YEAR            1988   1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
A. Appraisal Estimate           1.20   3.80   7.50   9.00  10.50  11.00  11.00
B. Actual Disbursement          0.18   1.53    4.1  7.66   8.76   9.16   9.26
C. Actual as a % of Appraisal   15.0  40.3   54.7  85.1   83.4  83.3  84.2
Estimate                   I_I_I
Date of last disbursement: January 12, 1994.



PartIll: Statistical Infonnation                                                          27
D.    Project Implementation
Table 4: Planned and Actual Component Completion Dates
Project Components and Activities      Planned          Actual        Months of Delay
Completion     Completion
A. MANAGEMENT/
ADMINISTRATION
A.1. Auxiliary logistical and
management services
ActivityA.1.1.                        August 1989    July 1991        23
Analvses of facultv teaching loads
Activity A.1.2.
Analyses of staffing practices for    June 1989       July 1991       25
administrative, technical and maintenance
personnel
Activity A.1.3.                       March 1990      Not executed
- Analysis of Purchasing and
Maintenance procedures
8
Activity A.3.1.                       February 1989   October 1989
- Training of 20 trainers
Activity A. 3. 1.                     Feb. 1990       Not executed
- Training of 100 maintenance workers
Activity A. 1.4.
-Analysis of educational statistical  June 6, 1989    July 1991       24
services
Activity A. 1.4.                      January 1991    September       No delays
Two 1-year internships in educational                 1990
planning IIEP Unesco/Paris



28                                                  Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
Table 4: Planned and Actual Component Completion Dates
Project Components and Activities     Planned          Actual        Months of delay
completion     Completion
A.2. Strengthening of Administration
and management
Activity A.2. 1. 10 Internships abroad for  March 1990  Not executed
senior universitv and institute
administrators
Activity A. 2.2.Training of trainers  February 1989   Not executed
Activity A.2.3. 12 specialized training    July, 1991  Not executed
sessions for administrators - in computer
applications
Activity A.2.4. Management training  February 1991   Not executed
sessions
New Activity A.2.2. Purchase of micro-   December 1991  Not executed
computers
New Activitv A.2.3. Organizational   September       Interrupted
Diagnostic Study of Higher Education  1991           indefinitely
management and governance
New Activitv A.2.4. "Piloting"       October 1992    Not executed
computerized data-base management in
certain Institutes
A.3. Financing Alternatives and Cost
Recovery for the Sector
Activity A.3.1. Study of private     February 1990  Interrupted
institutions                                        indefinitely



Part I11: Statistical Information                                                       29
Table 4: Planned and Actual Component Completion Dates
Project Components and Activities     Planned         Actual        Months of delay
Completion     Completion
Activity A.3.2.                      May 1990       July 91         15
Activity A.3.3. Experimental evening  March 1991    Not executed
courses following the Open University
concept
Activity A.3.2. Analyses of non-     May 1990 and   July 1991       15
government financing sources and     June 1990
Activities.
June 1990      July 1991       14
A.3.4. Feasibility of establishing a
student loans prograrn.
Activity A.3.5. Analysis of costs and  February 1989   July 1991    28
expenditures in the Higher Education
sector.
B.1. TEACHING AND TRAINING
- Activity B. 1.1. Retraining teaching staff September  Partially   18 to 24
in Institutes of Higher Education.   1989           implemented
- Activity B. 1.2 Secondary teachers in-   July 1989  Not executed    Canceled at project
service training in French and                                      revision in November
Mathematics                                                         1989.
- Activity B. 1.3. Merit bursary program   June 1991  Not executed
B.2. Research Development
- Activity B.2. 1.                   July 1989      Not executed
- Studv for improving university research
and publications



30                                                  Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
Table 4: Planned and Actual Component Completion Dates
Project Components and Activities     Planned          Actual        Months of delay
l _______________________________      Completion      Completion
- Activity B.2.2. Doctoral fellowships  November 1990  December 1992  25
-Activity B.2.2.                     Originally      Ongoing
- 6 month research bursaries/Inter   unplanned but
university cooperation               approved by
IDA
- Activity B.2.3. a                  April 1989      Not executed
Support for Zaire University Press
(PUZ)
- Activity B.2.3. b
Study trip for the director of Zaire  Unplanned    November 1989
University Press
- Activity B.2.4. b                  Unplanned       November 1989
Study trip for the heads of the three
University libraries
B.3. Modernization and innovation
- Activity B.3.1.a                   October 1989    Not executed
Preinvestment study in Medicine
- Activity B.3. 1.b                  October 1989    August 1991     23
Preinvestment study in Agronomy
- Activity B.3. 1c                   March 1990      Not executed
Strengthening of teaching
(professionalization) in HPI
- Activity B 3. 1. d                 March 1990      Not executed
Preinvestment studv in nutrition



PartIII.: Statisticallnformation                                                        31
Table 4: Planned and Actual Component Completion Dates
Project Components and      Planned Completion      Actual        Months of delay
Activities                                  completion
- Activity B.3.3. Pilot Training  December 1989     Not executed
sessions in accounting and
management
B.4. Internal efficiency       March 1989           July 1991       29
- Activity B. 4. 1. Analysis of
student retention levels/dropout
-Activity B.4.2.               March 1990           July 1991       17
Analysis of student living
conditions
C. STRATEGY
DEVELOPMENT
- Activity C. 1.               July 1990            January 1991    6
Assessment of demand for Higher
education graduates
- Activity C.2.                 July 1990           July 1991       12
Analysis of regional disparities
and capacity
- Activity C.3.                May 1990             June 1993       25
Syntheses of project sponsored
studies for sector strategyl
development
- Activity C.3.                July 1990            Not yet
Formulation of a Higher                             completed
Education sector development
strategy



32                                                  Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
Table 4: Planned and Actual Component Completion Dates
Project Components and Activities      Planned          Actual        Months of delays
._________________________________      Completion      Completion
D. PURCHASE OF EQUIPMENT,             August 1990     March 1991
LIBRARY BOOKS AND OTHER
TEACHING MATERIALS
E. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
- Studies Steering Committee         Establishment   Established     Established on time
of a condition    prior to      but met only twice (in
of effectiveness  effectiveness  1988 and 1989)
- Monitoring Committee                                               Established on time
and met once annually
between 1988 and
1992 (except in 1989
when they met twice)
- Audits                             By June 30th    By June 30th    Submitted regularly
each year.      each year.



Part II:. Statistical Information                                                                            33
E.      Project Expenditures and Financing
Table 5a: Project Costs
(By components) in million US$
COMPONENT               COST ESTIMATE AT   REVISED ESTIMATE                      ACTUAL COST
APPRAISAL                (November 1989)
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total  Local    Foreign   Total
Improving Management             0.79     0.92    1.71    0.89        0.85    1.74      0.02      0.83   0.85
Strengthening Teaching/          2.00     4.13    6.12    1.34        2.80    4.14      0.44      1.70   2.14
Training
Higher Education Strategy        0.18      0.17    0.35    0.10       0.31    0.41      0.06      1.41   1.47
Development
Priority Teaching Materials      0.13      1.70    1.83    0.02       3.53    3.55      0.02      2.40   2.42
Project Administration           0.26     0.42    0.68    0.67        0.54    1.21      1.30      0.66   1.96
Coordinaton of Consultant                                   0.37      0.44    0.81      0.00      0.76   0.76
Teams
Contingencies                    0.39      1.08    1.47    0.00       0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00
TOTAL                            3.75      8.42   12.16    3.39       8.47   11.86      1.84      7.76   9.60
Table 5b: Project Costs
(by Disbursements Category) in million US$
COMIPONENT              APPRAISAL ESTIMATE   REVISED ESTIMATE                       ACTUAL
(November 1989)         DISBURSEMENTS
Local   Foreign Total    Local   Foreign Total    Local   Foreign Total
TechnicalAssistance                1.55    1.50      3.05    2.01     2.02      4.04     0.10    3.08     3.18
TrainingandFellowships             1.08    2.31      3.39    0.27    4.01       4.26    0.13    0.60    0.73
Equipment,vehiclesand              0.16    2.96      3.12    0.02    2.32       2.35    0.31    3.42    3.73
equipment and textbooks                I
Adnunistration                     0.57    0.57      1.14     1.09    0.12      1.21     1.30    0.66     1.96
Contingencies                      0.38    1.08      1.46        -       -         -        -       -        -
TOTAL                              3.74    8.42     12.16    3.39    8.47      11.86     1.84    7.76    9.60
Table 5 c: Project Financing in million US$
Sources           Planned                      Revised                        Actual  |
|  Amount   |        _%          Amount   |         _%         Amount       __%_1
IBRD/IDA                        11.0           90             10.9           92              9.3           97
Govemnmentt                      1.2           10              1.0            8              0.3            3
TOTAL                           12.2          100             11.9          100              9.6          100



34                                                  Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
F.    Project Results
Table 6a: Studies And Analyses
Study or Analysis       Objective as defined at                    Status
Appraisal
A. 1.1. Analysis of   Analysis of faculty teaching loads   Executed by consultant and norms
faculty teaching loads   and student/teacher ratio to  established along with procedures and
establish staffing norms.       measures for implernentation.
A. 1.2. Analyses of   Analyses of staffing practices to  Executed and recommendations
staffing practices for    redefine roles and functions as well formulated to control the application
administrative,       as staffing norms.               of existing norms and procedures and
technical and                                         to formulate certain roles and
maintenance personnel.                                 functions.
A. 1.3. Analysis of   Strengthening of services and    Activity not carried out
purchasing and        procedures.
maintenance procedures
A. 1.4. Analysis of   Strengthening of these services  Analyses carried out and
educational statistical   through made to measure training.   recommendations for reinforcement.
services.                                              Training not carried out.
A.3. 1. Study of pnrvate  Analysis of pnrvate institution  Identification of the various types of
institutions          operations and procedures        private institutions. Incomplete due to
political events.
A.3.2. Analysis of non   Analyses and recommendations as   Executed and consultant
government financing   to potential non government sources  recommendations made to Project
of financing: private sector and  Unit.
increased tuition fees
A.3.4. Feasibility of  Feasibility study for establishing a   Executed and consultant
establishing a students'  student loans program.       recommendations made to Project Unit
loan program                                           including measures to implement such
a program.
A.3.5. Analysis of costs  Study unit costs and purchasing  Executed and consultant
and expenditures      procedures primarily at          recommendations made to Project Unit
establishment level.            including measures for reinforcement.
B. 2. 1. Analysis of  Analysis of university research and  Not executed
university research   publishing activities to provide
____ __   reinforcement.
B.3 .1.a Preinvestment  Analyses and recommendations to   Not executed
analysis in medicine  reinforce and modernize medical
studv programs.
B.3. 1 b Preinvestment  Analyses and recommendations to   Executed and consultant
analyses in agronomy    reinforce and modernize study  recommendations made to Project Unit
and forestry          programs in Agronomy and         including measures for reinforcement
Forestrv.                       and cost estimates.



Part III. Statistical Information                                                        35
Table 6a: Studies And Analyses
Study or Analysis       Objective as defined at                    Status
Appraisal
B.3.1 .c Analysis of    Analyses and recommendations to    Not executed
level of professional    reinforce and modernize and
training in Superior    professionalize study programs in
Pedagogical Institutes   Superior Teacher Training Institutes
B.3.1 .d             Analyses and recommendations to    Not executed
Preinvestinent analyses  reinforce and modernize professional
in Nutrition         programs in nutrition.
B.4. 1. Analyses of  Analyses of the causes of student    Executed and consultant
student              non persistence (dropouts) with   recommendations made to Project Unit
persistence/dropout    recommendations to redress.    to counter dropout rates. Seminar not
rate                 Implementation seminar based on    held.
recommendations
B.4.2. Analyses of   Analyses of student living conditions  Executed and some consultant
student living       with recommendations for         recommendations made to Project Unit
conditions           improvements
C. 1. Assessment of  This study intended as a          Executed and consultant
need for Higher      complement to the Zaire manpower  recommendations made aiming
Education Training   study. Assessment of need for     qualitative, quantitative and structural
Higher Education graduates in    characteristics of higher education
public services and in higher    programs.
education institutions so as to
recommend measures to devise a
better fit between training and job
market conditions.
C.2. Analyses of     Analyses of regional disparities and   Executed and consultant
regional disparities  capacity in higher education so as to  recommendations made to Project Unit
and capacity in higher  recommend criteria for planning and  for planning and creating institutions.
education.           creating institutions of higher   Methodological recommendations
education.                       were also made for implementing a
pernanent capacity analvsis function.
C.3. Synthesis of    Synthesis of project sponsored    With local consultant help Project
project sponsored    studies for sector strategy       Unit synthesized all study documents
studies for sector   development by the project's      separately and globally including
strategy development   Studies Steering Committee.     consultant recommendations for sector
Targeting of activities for follow up.  improvement and development.
Recommendations for a middle and   Different strategy hypotheses were
long term strategy for sector    formulated by the Project Unit for
development to be considered at a    consideration by the reflection group
final three day Round Table      responsible for recommending a
meeting.                         Round Table for the development of
the sector.



36                                                Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
F. Project Results (Continued)
Table 6 b: Library Books Distribution
Site (Institution)                       Libray B oks
Description        Status (number)
1. Universities                     Various subject areas                27,100
2. Higher Pedagogical Institutes    Various subject areas                19,340
3. Higher Technical Institutes      Various subject areas                 5,550
4. Other Higher Education Institutions Various subject areas                500
TOTAL                                                                 52,490



Partl II: StatisticalInfonnation                                                                           37
F.      Project Results (continued)
Table 6 c: Personnel Trained
Training Activity        Training Objective    Status                       Comuents
A. 1.4. Educational      Training of two       One complete and one         One planner left Zaire to work in
statistics and planning  planners at IIEP      incomplete planners training at  Zimbabwe; the second did not
(UNESCO) and 1       IIEP                          complete his training for health
month training for 90                              reasns.
statistics clerks.
A.2.2/3/4 Management    Three month training   Not executed as planned      See Table 4
training                 sessions for 20
trainers followed by
three month training
sessions for 300
establishment
management
personnel and 250
support staff.
B. 1. 1 Retraining of    Three-month training   One month training session for  See Table 4
Higher Institute teachers   sessions in French,  55 Higher Institute teachers: 31
Math, Physics and    in French and 24 in Math.
Biology for 128
Superior Institute
teachers
B. 1.2. Retraining of    Two month training    Not executed                 See Table 4
secondary school teachers  sessions in French and
Math. for 450
secondary school
teachers: 225 in
French, 225 in Math.
B.2.2. Research and      3 I-year fellowships    26 fellowships were awarded:   6 doctorates obtained of which 3
doctoral fellowships     for doctoral studies  11 in medicine, 6 in         are from Zaire universities (a first
abroad in medicine,    engineering, 4 in mathematics,  for the granting institutions) 7
agronomy,            2 in agronomy, 2 in geography   doctorates are in progress, 2
mathematics and      and one in management         fellows were suspended for
engineering and 10 6-  studies. Four fellows were  disciplinary reaons, 2 canceled
month research       unable to leave the country due  due to events and 3 fellows failed
bursaries in the same   to economic and political  in their programs.
disciplines          events. The research
fellowship program was
canceled.
B.2.4. Training of       Seminars and/or       An 8-day orientation seminar    Positive evaluation of sessions by
University and Institute    courses in library  for 34 participants and one 5-   participants.
Librarians               science for approx. 30   week training session for 31
persons.             participants led by chief
librarians of Kisangani and
Lubumnbashi Univ.



38                                                          Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
G.      Status of Credit Covenants
Table 7a: Compliance with Credit Covenants
Section       Conditions/Stipulations          Date due    Status of Compliance
3.01 b        Update priority actions program.  Annually     Partial compliance: 01/89 and 03/90
l_______  (DCA Annex IV )
3.01 c        Establish a Staff Project Unit   Condition of   Full compliance: Project Unit (including
5.01b                                          effectiveness  coordinator) was fully operational in June
Suppi. Ltr 2                                                 1988.
3.01 d        Establish Project Fund in a      Initial       Partial compliance; 1987: initial deposit
5.01a         coommercial bank and make Initial    deposit - a  payment of 5.000.000 Z (about USD 45,000)
deposit of 20,000 USD and further   condition of   1988: nothing deposited
deposits of 45,000 USD at the   effectiveness;  1989: 121.759 USD
beginning of each quarter in    further        1990: 207.000 USD
counterpart funds.              deposits to be  1991: nothing deposited
made          1992: 26.266 USD
l_____________ ________________________________  quarterly _quarterv
3.02          Storage dispositions and annual  Continuous    Partial compliance. Control of book storage
Annex V Sect  stock control for materials and  and annually  in July and August 1989; on site control of
I             vehicles                        for stock      reception in July and August 1990 for books
Parts A Al 2                                   controls      and in May and August 1991 for teaching
l __________                                   ___________    materials and  equipment.
3.03 and 3.05   Discussion with IDA on three year   Annually  Partial compliance. triennial programs
public spending program for                   transmitted and discussed for 1988, 1989 and
education sub-sectors on the basis             1990. None transmitted after 1991.
of annual program transmitted by
the Project Unit and of annual
budget allocation and
disbursements for the higher
education sector.
3.04          Discussion with IDA on enrollment  Annually    Information transmitted February 1989 and
Suppl. Ltr.    increases in first year higher                June 1990. Enrollment rates not contained to
No. 4         education prograns which are to be             3% in either year. Other years not available:
l____________ contained to 3% annually                       Institutions virtually closed in '91 and '92
3.06          Transmit to IDA cost recovery    Annually      Non compliance. Cost recovery program was
Supplem. Ltr.  program and amount of tuition fees            not developed. Tuition fees increased to
No. 5         which are agreed to increase from              5.000 Z in 1989/90 and to 50,000 Z in
1.000 Z in 1987/88 to 2.000 Z in              1990/91. Given the rate of inflation this is
1988189 and to 3.000 Z in 1989/90             below real levels recommended.
l _______________    in  real terms.
3.07          Transmit to IDA annual work plan    Annually by   Full compliance except for year 1993.
Supplem. Ltr.  including training plan, recruitment  November 1
No. 6         of consultants and schedule of
Committee meetings.
3.08          Creation of a Management         Condition of   Full compliance
5.01 c        Committee and of a Studies       effectiveness
Supplem. Ltr.  Steering Comnuittee.
No 7
4.01          Audit each fiscal year. The project   Each liscal    Complied with
accounts and fumish to IDA a copy   year
of the audit report no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal
I year.



Part I: Statistical Infonnation                                                        39
Table 7b: Status of Compliance with Implementation Program
Action                             Date             Status/Comments
A. Three-year rolling public expenditures  Decenber 31, 1988         Programs agreed
programs for education sub-sectors agreed                        upon but never
with the Borrower.                               _               adhered to.
B. Hiring of consultants for strategy     December 31, 1988          Met on time.
development studies, including training-
employment and location map for higher
education establishments.
C. First draft of training-employment study  December 31, 1989      Met on time.
furnished for comment to the Association.
D. First draft of the higher education location    March 31, 1990   Not met.
map furnished for comment to the
Association.
E. Draft long-term higher education strategy    July 31, 1990       Not met.
for higher education development furnished
for comment to the Association.
F. Above long-term strategy adopted by the  October 31, 1990        Not met.
Borrower taking into account the comments
of the Association.                        _
G. Program for cost-sharing improvements  June 30, 1988             Not met.
furnished for comment to the Association.
H. Above program applied in acadernic year    July 31, 1989 and each July  Not met.
1988/89 and annual reports thereon     31 thereafter
furnished for comment to the Association.
I. Recommendations of studies on: (1) staff  December 31, 1989       Not met.
inventory and establishment of norms for
utilization of administrative and teaching
personnel: and (2) student flow and
graduate emplovment.
J. Report indicating improvements made or  June 30, 1990            Not met.
proposed for I. (1) and (2) above furnished
for comment to the Association and
recruitment program for experts and
fellowship trainees.
K. Annual work program for following      November 1 in each year of  Met, regularly
calendar year furnished for comment to the   project             submitted.
Association.
L. Report on previous calendar year's activities  March 31 each year  Met, regularly
under the Project furnished for review and                       submitted.
comment to the Association.
M. Furnish to IDA semi-annual progress    December 31 and June 30    Met, regularly
reports.                               each vear                 submitted.



40                                                  Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
H.    Use of IDA Resources
Table 8a: Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weeks
Project Phases                              IDA FISCAL YEAR
1988        1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994 Total
Preparation & Pre-     37.40                                                          37.40
appraisal
Appraisal              28.70       _                                                  28.70
Negotiations            1.701                                                          1.70
Negotiations to Board   9.10                                  _                        9.10
Supervision             6.30    39.80    15.40    13.40   9.20      4.20      0.60    88.90
TOTAL                  83.20    39.80    15.40    13.40    9.20     4.20      0.60   165.80
Table 8b: IDA Mission Data by Stages of Project
MISSIONS              Date                    No. of Persons and             Person/Days
-l______________ _ t                         |Specializations Represented
Prior to Agreement    I_ ____X
Identification        October 13-29, 1986     EP, EE, A                      48
Preparation           August 30-September 12  UNESCO team and ILO
and October 14-19, 1986
Pre-                  June 27-July 1, 1987     EP, EE, A,  UNESCO/ILO        63
Appraisal/Appraisal                           (EQUIPRO)
Final Appraisal       June 22-July 1, 1987     EP                            15
SUPERVISIONS
Supervision I         October 1987            EP
Supervision II        Feb. 22-March 1, 1988    EP, C                         18
Supervision III       October 5-17, 1988      EP                             12
Supervision IV        April 2-19, 1989        EP                             15
Supervision V         October 25-Nov. 2, 1989  E, C                          16
Supervision VI        March 17-31, 1990       E, C, C                        42
Supervision VII       March 6-19, 1991        E, EP                          26
Total                 _                                                      255
Key:     A - Architect       C - Consultant      E - Economist        EE - Education
Economist
EP - Education Planner



PartIIII: Statisticallnformation                                                    41
Table 9: Annual and Cumulative Disbursements (in SDRs)
FISCAL YEAR         ANNUAL        CUMULATIVE         ANNUAL           ANNUAL
DISBURSEMENT DISBURSEMENT  DISBURSEMENT  DISBURSEMENT
AS A % OF       AS A % OF
TOTAL       TOTAL CREDIT
DISBURSED
88                135,041.00       135,041.00            1.97             1.59
89              1,028,641.00     1,163,682.00           15.03            12.10
90              1,963,912.00     3,127,594.00           28.69           23.10
91              2,548,040.00     5,675,634.00           37.22           29.98
92                811,835.00     6,487,469.00           11.86            9.55
93                283,364.00     6,770,833.00            4.14            3.33
94                 75,035.00     6,845,868.00            1.10            0.88
TOTAL DISBURSED          6,845,868.00      _                    100.00           80.54
CANCELED                 1,654,132.00                                            19.46
TOTAL CREDIT             8,500,000.00             _                             100.00
Table 10: Exchange Rate Fluctuations
Currency            :  Country      :   Zaire (Z)
Currency            :  Country      :   Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
Date of Effectiveness    June 2, 1988
Last Disbursement      January 1994
Year
1885         1SDR  =  1.10US$                 1 US$ =           55.79Z
1986         1SDR  =  1.23 US$                1 US$ =           71.10 Z
1987         1SDR  =  1.42 US$                1 US$ =          112.40Z
1988         1SDR        1.35 US$             1 US$ =          187.10 Z
1989         I SDR  =  1.32 US$               1 US$ =          381.60 Z
1990         1 SDR  =  1.41 US$               1 US$ =          740.20 Z
1991         1 SDR  =  1.43 US$               1 US$ =       15,587.00 Z
1992         1 SDR  =  1.37US$                1 US$ =      645,549.00Z
1993         1 SDR  =  1.38 US$               1 US$ =   4,199,349.00Z*
*: Annual average includes estimated data for some months.



42                                                           Zaire: Higher Education Rationalization Project
Table 11: Planned and Actual Allocation of Credit (in SDRs)
COST         ORIGINAL           ACTUAL            ACTUAL    ACTUAL AS A
CATEGORY    BREAKDOWN ALLOCATION DISBURSEMENT DISBURSEMENT    % OF
(For. Exch. VL      (DCA)           (in SDRs)          (in USS)        ORIGINAL
Local)                                                            ALLOCATION
I ) Consultant's,
Specialist's and
Expert's Services:                     2,600,000.00       2,356,878.00         3,184,573              91
Foreign Consultants    IOOFE/80L
Local Consultants       95L
2) Vehicles and          100F/80L         1,100,000.00       1,687,714.00         2,331,660              153
Equipment
3) Textbooks             i-OF/80L         1,100,000.00       1,136,702.00          1,502,491             103
4) Training              I OOF/80L        1,800,000.00         518,346.00           711,347               29
5j) Operating Costs      1OOF/80L           700,000.00       1,054,161.00          1,444,237             155
6) Refinancing P423 ZR   100F/80L           300,000.00          61,278.00            83,582               20
7) Unallocated                              900,000.00
8) Fund BCZ Kinshasa
TOTAL                                  8,500,000.00       6,845,868.00         9,258,100               81
N.B: Canceled in October 1992: 1,590,627 SDRs
Canceled January 12, 1994:    63,505 SDRs



ZAIRE HIGHER ED. RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
CUMULATIVE EST. & ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(in USS 000)
$ (Thousands)
12
10
8
CUM  DISBURSEMENT
6                                                     APPRAISAL ESTIMATE
ACTUAL
4
2
0
1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994
IDA  FY                                                     E
t 1 -4



ZAIRE HIGHER ED. RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
ANNUAL ESTIMATED & ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(in US '000)
$ ( Thousands)
3
ANNUAL DISBURSEMENT
2-                                                   APPRAISAL ESTIMATE
i-- AC'I1LJAI,
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
IDA FISCAI YEAR
orri



ZAIRE HIGHER ED. RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
STAFF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE
(in staff-weeks)
APPRAISAL
PREPARATION/PRE-APP
NEGOTIATIONS TO BD                                37.4
10.8
SUPERVISION
889
Total number of staff-weeks *165.8                                      -



ZAIRE HIGHER ED. RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORY
(in million SDRs)
*  E Q u  p   X | o t  -  _   i  t t O r * v ~~~~~~~~~~~~g    &  ' - c  I  3                                      2 a  TA
V.  h                                 3 I                     . ,      . Ist S             3                                             
( To3 t a l o t S D R 8 5 o r n; | I | o n )                     a(:- T3U A L
To.   OOO~~~~~~~~S   51   I~V    ~
0 5
T- 7;%,                      8%,1     0                  1 7 %             r, -g  50  02
AP P RA I "A LFE%DTMAFF (D(-A)                          (Total    SDP6 85 million)
(Total of SDR8 50 mnillion)
z
z
1-



ZAIRE HIGHER ED. RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
PLANNED & ACTUAL PROJECT FINANCING
(in million USS)
million US$
14
12 
10
SECTION
8                                                  IDA CREDIT
GOVT COUNTERPART
C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0
PLANNED      REVISED      ACTtLAL
DISBtURSEMENT



ZAIRE HIGHER ED. RATIONALIZATION PROJECT
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS & DIS. PROFILES
(in percentages)
120 
100 
BO
CUM  DISBURSEMENTS
HIGHER ED. PROJECT
60
PROFILE TA PROJECTS              c
40 [               M                       LIPROFILE ALL SECTORS
20
0
1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8
IDA FY
Dis. profiles for Zaire from All-in-i ZI



