Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
It. /\z]( r  i  w.  I (I~~ ,' 'I-'(A Ty;i ,e ()A 10li  Report No. 9731
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1312-TA)
JUNE 28, 1991
Infrastructure Division
Southern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -  Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
TShl.O                US$0.11
US$1.0             =  TSh9.40
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                    -  39 inches = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               -  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (kM2)           0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                    0.01 km e  2.25 acre
1 cubic meter (m3)             -  35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter (1)                    -  0.26 US gallons (US gal)
1 liter (1)                    -  0.22 Imperial gallons (Ig)
1 Imperial gallon (gal)            1.2 US gallons (US gal)
1 cd                           -  liters per capacity per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFYA               - Ministry of Health
ARDHI              -  Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development
CIDA               -  Canadian International Development Agency
CN                 -  choo nzuri (ventilated improved pit latrine)
CTB                -  Central Tender Board
DCC                =  Dar es Salaam City Council
DCS                -  Dar es Salaam Water Corporation Sole
DSSD                  Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Department
GOT or Government -  Government of the United Republic of Tanzania
ICB                -  International Competitive Bidding
KfW                   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, Federal
Republic of Germany
LCSE                  Low-Cost Sanitation Engineer
LGSC               -  Local Government Service Commission
MAJI               -  Ministry of Water (now merged into MWEM)
MIS                =  Management Information System
MWEM               -  Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
NUWA               =  National Urban Water Authority
ODA                -  Overseas Development Authority, United Kingdom
PIU                -  Project Implementation Unit
PMO                =  Prime Minister's Office
PPF                -  Project Preparation Facility
RWSG-EA            =  Regional Water and Sanitation Group-East Africa
SIDA               =  Swedish International Development Agency
TAG                -  Technology Advisory Group
TANESCO            =  Tanzania Electric Supply Co. Ltd.
UNDP               e  United Nations Development Programme
WHO                   World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICUAL USE ONLY
TH1E WORLD BANK
Washengton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
ONlce C Dirwtn CNeIraI
Opuuauans El'awutknn
June 28, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Tanzania -
Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Project
(Loan 1312-TA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Tanzania - Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Project
(Loan 1312-TA)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this ti.ia.
Attachment
'~~
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1312-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE.   ...... o...............                                ..........................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ... .... , .... ........ .. ............. . ............... iii
PART Is    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ................ ......    1
A. Project Identity ... ........ ,........ to...    ....o.....o...........1
B. Background ..... 0.... ......... *....0...... ....*..... .....    ..... 
C. Project Objectives and   Description.  .............................    1
D. Project Design and   Organization............................    3
E. Project Implementation .**-** .........to.............................. . too               4
F. Project Results .... o..... .... ..... .... to.........    ....0..........5
G. Project Sustainability.   - ..... .    ... . ....  ... ...*too....... .                     7
H. Bank Performance. . ..........                   ...................................   .    8
I. Borrower Performance ... ... ..   O.. ............... ..... . . . .                         8
J. Project Relationships.# ..... ................. .... . . . . ..........                     9
K. Consulting Services ..*....9..... o... .*..... ..... .o.................   9
L. Project Documentation and Data ....... ...............................   10
PART II:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PEPRSPECTIVE .....................   11
A. Evaluation of the Bank's  Performance ............................  11
B. Bank's Performance During Project Implementation .... .....   ....... ..  11
C. Evaluation of the Borrower's  Performance.**.* ...................   12
D. Relationship Between  IDA and Borrower                        .........   17
PART III:   STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................. ............... . ......   18
A. Related Bank Loans andlor Credits ................................                         18
B. Project Timetable ......... ..**..... ..... ..................... too.  18
C. Credit Disbursements .........                ....t .... .   ............. . .  18
D. Project Implementation......   ..o..  ......... ................. ....   19
E. Project Costs and Financing .......... ........................... *                       20
F. Project Results. * ....    ..........                      ....*.....   .....    22
G. Status of Covenants ....... ...... . .......... ........... ...... 24
H. Use of IDA Resources.... .......... ....... t .......    25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITAAION PROJECT (CR. 1312-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is a report on the completion of the Sewerage and Sanitation
Project in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, for which a credit of SDR20.6 Million
(US$22.5 Million) equivalent (Credit Number 1312-TA) was approved in March
1983.  The borrower was the Goverrment of the United Republic of Tanzania
(GOT). The project was implemented under the control of a Project
Implementation Unit under the Ministry of Water (now Ministry of Energy,
NMinerals and Water).  The credit was closed in December 1988, one year later
than the original closing date. Closing was delayed to allow the electrical/
mechanical workshops to be completed together with training of workshop
personnel. There was a cancellation of about US$350,000 from the credit in
August 1989 due to tardiness in preparing and submitting disbursement re-
quests.
Parts I and III of the report were drafted by IDA while the
Borrower prepared Part II. The draft report has been reviewed by the GOT and
their comments are reflected in the final version of the PCR which is
submitted herewith.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final super-
vision mission of the project, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report; the Credit Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



iii
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1312 TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
During the 1970's sewerage and sanitation services to Tanzania's
urban population of approximately two million people deteriorated,
particularly during the period 1974-78 when town and city councils were
abolished--including the Dar e. Salaam City Council and its sewerage and
sanitation department.
At the time of appraisal, the condition of both waterborne and on-
plot sanitation in Dar es Salaam was very bad, causing serious pollution and
health risks. The basic cause was assessed as poor operation and an almost
complete lack of maintenance.
The objectives of the project were therefore to rehabilitate the
defunct sewerage system; to focus primarily on low-cost sanitation facilities
to serve the majority of the population; and to develop services,
institutions, management and financial practices required for the sewerage and
sanitation facilities to be properly planned, constructed, operated and
maintained in the future.
Implementation Exgerience
In general, rehabilitation of the sewerage infrastructure
proceeded well, under the control of a Project Implementation UJnit under the
Ministry of Water, MAJI, (previously ARDHI) using both foreign and local
engineers and contractors. However, as a result of the high connection costs,
only about 200 new sewerage connections out of a target of 600 had been made
as at the end of the project.
The Low Cost Sanitation component was less successfully implemented.
Against an original target of 30 working pit emptiers, the Dar es Salaam
Sewerage and Sanitation Department (DSSD) was operating only 14 pit emptiers
at the project close. Twenty-two other emptiers were being operated by the
Dar es Salaam City Council Health Department. Only about 660 out of a planned
3600 low-cost pit latrines had been constructed by the close of the project as
the target population could barely afford the cost of installation.
Implementation of the DSSD institution-building and financial-
capability components was hampered by a combination of poor project design
(that is, the lack of an adequate h:.   and instituticnal framework for DSSD),
bureaucratic inertia in counterpart m&azager recruitment, resistance to tariffs
based on cost-recovery, and expatriate technical assistance which was
generally not of a high calibre and became demoralized. However, a number of



iv
sanitary engineers were successfully trained in India, and a number of DSSD
counterparts received training in Britain.
Results
The project's closing date was extended by one year to December
1988.
The objective of restoring the basic sewerage infrastructure was
achieved and the problem of sewage overflows considerably reduced. However,
the objectives with respect to new sewerage connections and new on-site low-
cost latrines were met to the extent of only about 25 percent.
The economic or financial results have been particularly
disappointing. Total revenues in terms of USDollars in 1988-89 were about 1
percent of the le-el forecast in the Staff Appraisal Report. Although there
is very little financial information available, it is virtually certain that
DSSD is losing cash from its operations and that the rate of return is
negative versus an appraisal forecast of about 6 percent.
Project Sustainability
Prospects for project sustainability are poor. Despite a
significant capital outlay, DSSD is losing cash. It is constrained by its
subordination to Dar es Salaam City Council. Evidence is mounting that the
improvement in the pit-emptying serv'ce that occurred under DSSD's expatriate
management is no longer being sustained. The majority of DSSD's vehicles are
once again no longer serviceable. Thus the likelihood is for a gradual
deterioration in the system over the next few years to its previous levels.
Findings and Lessons Learned
The lessons learned include:
(a)   The need for a sound legal and institutional framework,
particularly for a new project or a "resurrected" organization. It is
necessary that management's authority should match its responsibility;
(b)   In retrospect, despite the evident need, the project should not
have been permitted to proceed until the appropriate legal framework was in
place and the resulting institution was in existence, staffed with a core of
potential counterpart managers in place (whose qualifications should have been
acceptable to IDA);
(c)   DSSD should have either been established as a parastatal,
similarly to NUWA, or preferably (to facilitate joint billing systems and the
ability to enforce payments for sewerage through the cut-off of water) as a
division of NUWA. The legislation should have invested NUWA or DSSD with
sufficient power to enable its managerial and personnel practices, its
financial management and tariffs, and its contracts to be determined by its
own quasi-independent board;



v
(d)   To be effective, the expatriats management financed by the project
should have been in executive positions with sufficient freedom to hire and
fire;
(e)   When a borrower has a history of unsound financial policy, it is
desirable that financial practices and policies be corrected as a condition of
credit effectiveness;
(f)   The credibility and reliability of the sector institution to
provide the support services required, such as emptier service, aggravated by
affordability problems and the lack of consumer credit seem to have dampened
enthusiasm for consumer investment in low-cost sanitation systems; and
(g) A more t.torough analysis of affordability in the target area may
have suggested the greater use of self-help and private construction for
installation and possibly greater installation rate.



TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1312-TA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
- Project Name:   Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Project
- Credit Name      1312-TA
- RVP Unit        Africa
- Country         Tanzania
- Sector           Infrastructure--Water and Sanitation
B. Background
1.          Sector Development ObJectives.  Sewerage and sanitation in the
urban areas of Tanzania are the responsibility of the Ministry of Lands,
Housing and Urban Development (ARDHI). While the towns are responsible for
operating and maintaining capital facilities, ARDHI prepares or approves plans
for new investment and supervises project implementation.
2.          At the time of project commencement, only six towns including Dar
es Salaam had partial access to waterborne sewerage; the population served was
about 200,000 out of the total urban population of about 2 million. The
remainder of the urban population utilized septic tanks and pit latrines. As
in the case of water facilities, sewerage and sanitation operations and pit
latrine emptying services declined during the 1970's, particularly during the
period 1974-78 when town councils were abolished.
3.          The objective of the GOT was to emphasize the up-grading of low-
cost, on-plot sanitation facilities to satisfactory hygienic levels, both in
urban and rural areas. Its intention was also to improve waterborne sewerage
services where practical.
4.          Constraints in meeting these objectives included cumbersome
organization, insufficient numbers of qualified staff and limited financial
resources exacerbated by inadequate tariffs and poor billing and collection.
C.  Project Objectives and Description
5.          Project Objectives.  The project was intended as a modest first
stage in a long range program to develop basic sanitation in Dar es Salaam to
meet acceptable standards. The population of Dar es Salaam in 1978 was
782,000 and was expected to reach 2.4 million by 1999. About 90 percent of
the population had its sanitation requirements met by pit latrines and septic
tanks, with the rest of the city served by a waterborne system installed in
1948.



-  2  -
6.          At the time of project appraisal the condition of the existing
waterborne sewerage system was extremely bad, resulting in serious polluti.n
and a major risk to health. Design of on plot sanitation structures was
frequently unsatisfactory, and emptying of pits and disposal of contents was
infrequent and unsanitary, causing serious pollution problems. The basic
cause of the foregoing was assessed as poor operation and an almost complete
lack of maintenance.
7.          The objectives of the project were therefore to rehabilitate the
defunct sewerage system; to focus primarily on low-cost sanitation facilities
to serve the majority of the population; and to develop services,
institutions, management and financial practices required for the sewerage and
sanitation facilities to be properly planned, constructed, operated and
maintained in the future.
8.          More specifically, the project would substantially improve the pit
emptying service for about 70,000 existing low-cost sanitation units. The
project would promote public acceptance and adoption of better standards of
low-cost sanitation and hygienic practices and provide improved latrines for
about 40,000 people. Sewer services to about 6,000 properties would be
restored and such services would be provided to about 600 additional
properties which have access, but are not connected, to the existing sewerage
system. Management services would be engaged to initiate proper operation and
maintenance of the sewerage and sanitation services, to install satisfactory
financial management and cost recovery systems and to train counterpart staff
to perform such functions on an ongoing basis.
9.          Project Components.  The project had the following components:
(a)   rehabilitation and improvement of existing sewerage facilities;
(b)   construction of pit latrines and replacement or conversion of
inadequate existing on-plot sanitation units;
(c)   improvement of DCC's pit emptying service;
(d)   establishment and development of a Sewerage and Sanitation
Department (DSSD) in DCC;
(e)   provision of offices, workshops, equipment and spare parts
required for the management and maintenance of sewerage facilities and
sanitation services;
(f)   training for professional and technical staff;
(g)   technical assistance to ARDHI, DCC, NUWA and TANEOCO; and
(h)   provision of consulting engineering services for detailed design
and supervision of project construction, for additional studies of sanitatien-
related problems, and for preparation of a Stage II project.



.3-
D. Prolect Design and Organization
10.         As a result of several cholera outbreaks in Dar es Salaam in the
)ate 1970's, and the virtual collapse of sewerage and sanitation service in
the city, there was a clear and well-accepted need for this project.
11.         A Master Plan had been prepared in the late 1970's.  However, in
IDA's initial project identification mission, it was recognized that tl..
scheme for sewerage and sanitation proposed in the Master Plan was far too
ambitious in terms of implementation capability and financial capacity. It
was also recognized that the emphasis should be on low-cost on-site latrines
with pit-emptying, rather than on an expansion of water-borne sewerage. Thus,
early in the project cycle, a physical scheme of about 25 percent of the size
envisaged in the Master Plan with emphasis upon rehabilitation of the existing
sewerage plant, construction of low-cost sanitation and a strong health
education component was identified and agreed upon between IDA and the GOT.
12.         The project's emphasis upon low-cost sanitation and health
education introduced a significant element of innovation in which the
Technology Advisory Group (TAG) in Washington and Nairobi were actively
involved.  In addressing the basic sanitation needs of the whole population of
a major city, rather than just the minority served by sewerage, the project
was apparently the first of its type to be financed by IDA.
13.         In the in.itiation, appraisal and review piocess it was recognized
that the major concerns were institutional, organizational and financial
(tariff levels and cost recovery) in the context of the previous dissolution
of the City Council and administrative collapse of its various departments
(such as the sewerage and sanitation department). In addition, the financial
environment was one where principles of market-oriented resource allocation
and cost recovery had not been instituted, with the result that sewerage and
pit-emptying fees were less than 10 percent of breakeven cost.
14.         Other infrastructural services faced the same situation.  However,
whereas water supply was placed under a parastatal agency, the National Urban
Water Authority (NUWA), sewerage and sanitation was structured as a department
of the Dar es Salaam City Council (DCC)--The Dar es Salaam Sewerage and
Sanitation Department (DSSD).
15.         The limitations of existing institutions -within Tanzania were
recognized by a number of Bank personnel at the time, and there appears to
have been some uncertainty as to the most appropriate and effective
institutional framework.
16.         The staff Appraisal Report r.eflects this confusion and
uncertainty. Paragraph 5.10 of the SAR states,
"The proposed DSSD will be a new organization intended to operate
as a semij-autoomous department of DCC responsible for arranging
its ownfinancing through the auspices of DCC and Government in
its early years. NUWA is also a new organization operating in the
same public utility environment as DSSD. If DSSD is to be merged
into NUWA in the future...".



4-
17.         Th&re is a major conceptual error expressed in paragraph 6.05 of
the SAR which states that, n
A major project benefit will be the establishment of an
institution (DSSD)... The institution is expected to be the core of
the future Tan%anian national institution for sewerage and
sanitation".
However, DSSD is ngt an institution--it is only a 4vepartm_n* of DCC.  Indeed,
SAR paragraph 1.21 indicates that one reason for placing DSSD under the City
Council was that "no new legislation will be required".
18.         The reault ot this approach was to give the management of DSSD
responsibility wi    t any authority.  Overall project implementation was the
responsibility of .ae PIU located in ARDHI, whereas DSSD reported through DCC
to the PMO. Evaluation and approval of tenders was the responsibility of the
Central Tender Board (CTB). Hiring of local managerial and administrative
personnel was the responsibility of the Ministry of Local Government because
DSSD was under local government. Tariff increases required the initial
approval of the DCC before presentation to GOT.
19.         The short-term result was extreme frustration on the part of a
succession of expatriate managers; the longer-term result is a lack of
training of intended counterpart managers, lack of financial viability and
accounting systems, little effective organization-building and a consequent
uncertainty with respect to project sustainability.
E. Proiect Implementation
20.         Sewerage Rehabilitation and Replacement.  Essentially the
engineering, installation and supply of all major components were ccipleted--
including sewer cleansing equipment and vehicles; supply and installation of
pumping equipment; rehabilitation of stabilization ponds; ald rehabilitation
of the sea outfall. This portion of the project was essentially under the
control of the PIU using contractors, as specified in the Credit Agreement.
21.         However, out of a target of 600 new sewer connections only about
200 had been made as at the close of the project primarily as a result of the
magnitude of the capital cost for the sewer connection together with the cost
or difficulty to avrange for the related internal plumbing.  This made
connection unaffordable to property owners in the absence of a loan scheme.
IDA urged that such a scheme be developed and offered to the public, but there
is no indication that this occurred before close of the project.
24,         N~Qow Cost Sanitation.  A distinctive feature of the project was to
be the construction of 3,600 pit latrines in the Temeke sectron of the City.
As at the close of the project only about 660 had been constructed--about 50
percent for cash and about 50 percent under a loan scheme. Although at the
end of 1987 it was proposed that this project be extended to other parts of
the City, and that private contractors also be involved, this was not done
before the close of the project. As pointed out by TAG before project
commencement, relative to incomes even this solution at approximately US$600
per installation is beyond the affordability of much of the target population.



- 5 -
A more careful analysis of affordability in the target area might have
suggested extending the scheme to a wider area from the beginning and together
with a greater emphasis on self-help and private construction for
installation, might have led to a greater installation rate.
23.         The project was originally based on the rehabilitation of 14 pit
emptying trucks and the purchase of 16 new pit emptiers--which would have
given DSSD 30 working pit emptiers. It was concluded during the course of the
project that only 6 vehicles could be economically rehabilitated and 8 new
vehicles purchased; and further that Japanese aid would supply 22 new
vehicles. However, as at project close DSSD was operating only 14 vehicles
because the DCC would not transfer the 22 Japanese vehicles from its Health
Department. Thus the revenue earning capacity of DSSD was reduced by about 60
percent--and the official fees charged by the Health Department are
substantially lower than for DSSD. This is a consequence of the unsound
organizational/institutional relationships established for DSSD.
24.         DSSD Staffing and Technical Assistance.  In general, this has
proved to be the most unsatisfactory aspect of project implementation. At the
end of 1987 (6 months after original completion date)--just one year before
the extended close of the project--out of six divisions of DSSD, two divisions
had Tanzanian heads; two divisions had national counterparts in place; two
divisions--namely finance and the electrical/mechanical divisions--had no
counterparts; also, there was no counterpart or deputy for the Head of DSSD.
This was due to the extremely slow service of the Local Government Service
Commission (LCSC).
25.         The expatriate management assigned as technical assistance
experienced great difficulty in hiring staff through LGSC, or in organizing
its day-to-day activities in relation to DCC. In addition, the Finance
division was never staffed by strong and competent people, with the result
that there was no really strong and persistent push for tariff increases and
accounting systems. The combination of the above led to frustration and
demoralization as it became evident that the Technical Assistance team had an
objective they could not achieve. Much of this can be attributed to the
institutional framework for DSSD.
26.         The project provided for the training of seven engineers in India,
which was successfully accomplished. These engineers were assigned to DSSD on
completion of their training.
F. Project Results
27.         The objectives of the project did not change during the course of
the project, although as a result of delays in the credit approval process and
further delays during implementation, the project's closing date set at
December 1987 was subsequently extended to December 1988.
28.         The objective of restoring the previously existing basic sewerage
infrastructure has been achieved. However, there is already evidence of
difficulty in handling ongoing maintenance and repair of pumps in one pumping
station. Nevertheless, many areas of Dar es Salaam which experienced sewage
overflows are now free of this hazard.



- 6 -
29.         The objectives of expanding the number of sewerage connections and
of providing low-cost on-site sanitation have been achieved to the extent of
only about 25 percent. The primary reason for this in both instances is
capital cost affordability and availability for the population, together with
assurance of future reliability of service. This would appear to indicate
that a condition for consumer investment is an assurance of reliability and
credibility of the DSSD service before their confidence is rebuilt to the
point where major capital investments will be made.
30.         The objectives of initiating proper operation and maintenance of
the sewerage and sanitation services, of installing satisfactory financial
management and cost recovery systems and of training counterparts to take over
have been met to only a very limited degree. In particular, the financial
objectives have not been met, and the objective of creating a viable
institution has not been met. This is due partly to the organizational
arrangements for DSSD as discussed under Project Design and Organization.
31.         The health education component was functioning; a health education
specialist was provided to DSSD as per project design and counterpart DSSD
staff were trained both locally and overseas. Public health education
activities were being actively undertaken as at the close of the project.
32.         The financial and accounting systems and controls are weak.
Although audited accounts for the project have been provided to IDA for the
years 1987-88 and 1988-89, these refer only to annual capital expenditure
additions to the project. There is very little information available to IDA
on which to evaluate the financial performance of DSSD operations, and
therefore the indicated financial results are based on information provided in
the Borrower's Project Completion Report (PCR).
33.         In 1988-89, the financial position was as follows, as compared
with the staff appraisal report forecast for 1987:



.  7  -
Per Borrower's PCR           Per Staff Appraisal
(1988-89)                      (1987)
TShs('000)   US$('0O)1'      Thhs('000)  USO('C000)
Total Sewerage
Revenues                3,223          26           38,032         4,046
Total Low Cost
Sanitation              4,050          32          22,002          2,341
Low Cost
Construction            1,709          14
Miscellaneous
Revenue                   781           6            1.484           158
TOTAL REVENUES          2.763        _ 78           61.518        6.545
Expenditure              50,310         402          'li,063        4,368
Income before
Interest              (40,547)       (324)         20,445         2,177
l/ Exchange Rate at December 31, 1988:  125TShs - US$1.00
'l Exchange Rate at June 30, 1982: 9.4TShs - US$1.00
34.         There is insufficient information available to perform a
meaningful financial analysis.  However, it is apparent that revenues are
running at a level of a little more than 1 percent of what was projected in
USDollar terms, and the economic and financial rate of return are almost
certainly negative--as compared with a forecast economic return of 6.9 percent
on the sewerage component and 5.9 percent on the low-cost sanitation
component.
35.         The difference in revenue generation and resulting rate of return
is due to a persistent unwillingness by the DCC to adopt and collect tariffs
based on cost of service, combined with an overestimation in the SAR of the
growth in sewerage connections, pit latrines, the number of pit-emptiers, and
the number of revenue generating trips per vehicle. The latter factors are
accentuated by the refusal of DCC to place some 20 pit-emptiers under DSSD.
G. Project Sustainabilitv
36.         The evaluation of project design and organization, project
implementation and project results leads to the conclusion that prospects for
project sustainability are poor.
37.         Despite a significant capital outlay, DSSD is losing cash.  It is
constrained by its subordination to Dar es Salaam City Council. Evidence is



- 8 -
mounting that the improvement in the pit-emptying service that occurred
earlier in project implementation is not being sustained. The majority of
vehicles is once again no longer serviceable.
38.         Thus the likelihood is for a gradual deterioration in the system
and service over the next few years to its previous levels.
H. Bank Performance
39.         In general, the impression is that IDA performed well through the
early stages of the project cycle. The project risks were well identified,
and the overall scope and approach to the project were appropriately defined
at the time of project identification. TAG contributed usefully in the
emphasis on low-cost sanitation and health education.
40.         However, it would appear that both during appraisal and
negotiations there were errors in judgment. As mentioned under Project
Design, the SAR did not establish an appropriate institutional and legal
framework for DSSD--despite the advice of other IDA staff.  The proposal to
combine sewerage billing with electricity and/or water on the same bill when
these are three unrelated service providers, without adequately considering
the implications was also ill advised. At negotiations--despite the advice of
senior members of the Loan Committee--IDA did not insist on two lesser
conditions which would, nevertheless, have improved performance:
(a)   the raising of tariffs prior to credit agreement;
(b)   counterpart management in place prior to credit effectiveness.
41.         IDA also accepted the Borrower's argument that consumers should
not pay more until service is improved. The relevant issue is whether
consumers are paying an equitable tariff for the service they are now
receiving and have received in the past. The consequence of IDA's approach
was continuous procrastination with respect to the implementation of
appropriate or reasonable tariffs recognizing cost recovery.
42.         During supervision, IDA's performance may be regarded as "mixed".
As a result of supervision out of both Nairobi and Washington, with both TAG
and RWSG-EA involved, it appears as though IDA has from time to time delivered
mixed signals to the Borrower or its PIU. It also appears that, from 1983 to
late 1987, very little pressure was brought to bear by IDA on the Borrower to
either raise its tariffs, to recruit competent counterpart staff or to
facilitate the activity of the technicr.l assistance management team. This may
have been the result of comparatively infrequent supervisory missions
(approximately every six m3nths) and a lack of continuity of staff,
particularly financial analysts.
I. Borrower Performance
43.         It would appear that the PIU under ARDHI and later under MAJI
performed its role in an acceptable manner, facilitating the execution of the
consultancy and construction contracts for which it was the coordinator.



44.         However, the LGSC and the DCC have not been very helpful to the
execution of the project.
45.         For example, the LGSC received its first request to recruit
managerial counterparts in August 1984. But, it was not until May, 1986 that
the first counterpart was provided. A number of staff were hired by LGSC
without DSSD's involvement and proved totally unsuited to the job, by LGSC's
own admission. Delayed hiring of counterparts has been one of the project's
major weaknesses. Two of the counterpart positions--for finance and for
electrical/mechanical--had not been filled after over 3 years, suggesting also
that LGSC's salary and conditions of service were unattractive to qualified
technical professionals.
46.         DCC has generally provided very little support.  It has obstructed
requested tariff increases; it has diverted 20 pit-emptiers from DSSD to its
Health Department; it has delayed the consolidation of DSSD into a properly
functioning depot.
J. Prolect Relationships
47.         There was a combination of diffuse organizational responsibility
for the project on the part of the Borrower and fairly frequent changes in
supervisory responsibility on the part of IDA. As a result, the project has
not been able to benefit from consistent supervision which would have been
particularly helpful in dealing with the financial and institutional issues.
K. Consulting Services
48.         The consultants and contractors responsible for the basic sewerage
and treatment components performed their functions adequately although delays
in the provision of training for station operators and maintenance technicians
occurred in Contract No.2 for the supply and installation of pumping
equipment.
49.         Performance under the consulting services agreement to supply
technical assistance to DSSD was not entirely satisfactory. Partly this can
be explained by the limitations of the project design previously referred to
(Section D). In addition, in a number of instances, inadequate personnel were
supplied which suggests that the remuneration or conditions of service offered
by the supplier to its employees was inadequate to attract good people under
Tanzanian conditions. Furthermore, there appears to have been little support
provided to the team at an institutional level to strengthen their position in
discharging their duties. The contract was let with IDA's approval without
competitive bidding because of the Borrower's wish to use a British
institution with which it had been actively working and which could supply
personnel who would be familiar with the Local Government practices of
Tanzania which followed the British model. In retrospect it would appear that
this contract should have been let on an open competitive basis, with the
requirements for experience of British practice specified.



-  10  -
L. Project Documentation and Data
50.         The weaknesses of the legal agreements for the project have
already been referred to--namely that they reflect the weaknesses in Project
Design, and that the conditions of effectiveness did not include the
requirements for tariffs at cost recovery levels and counterpart management to
be in place.
51.         The usefulness of tha SAR has been limited because the project
fell behind schedule from credit negotiations onwards; the financial data
available at the time of appraisal were virtually non-existent, and the
assumptions underlying the appraisal projections tended to be optimistic
rather than conservative.
52.         Other than the project accounts maintained by the PIU for project
capital cost, there are virtually no reliable data on the project. Audited
accounts available within IDA for the project were for the years 1984-85,
1987-88 and 1988-89; however these provide only a statement of capital
additions to the project within their respective years (without an accumulated
balance for each category). The Borrower's PCR contained an unaudited summary
of revenues and expenditure which has been referred to (Para. 32).



- 11 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Evaluation of the Bank's Performance
Bank's 8erformance during Project Evolution
53.         Project Identification.  As a result of the cholera outbreak and
the prevalence of other diseases related to sanitation in Dar es Salaam and
taking cognisance of the fact that the sewerage system in Dar es Salaam was
not working properly, the Government in 1978 requested IDA assistance with the
preparation of a project to improve and extend the city's sewerage system.
This led to assistance by IDA through the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
(CR. P074-TA) totalling US$1.0 million for the preparation of a master plan,
feasibility studies and preliminary designs for sewerage and sanitation in Dar
es Salaam and technical assistance.
54.         Identification of the project was carried out by the Government
with full participation of IDA. Originally other towns, namely, Moshi,
Arusha, Morogoro and Mwanza were to be included in the studies using the PPF
fuwads; but due to the high costs, the studies for these towns were done using
local funds.
Proiect Preoaration
55.         Preparation of the project was carried out by ARDHI, DCC and IDA
with assistance from TAG (The Bank/UNDP Technical Advisory Group) who were
involved in the low cost sanitation studies for Dar es Salaam and other towns.
Preparation was carried out between July 1978 and March 1981.
56.         Project Appraisal.  One major revision to the original scope of
the project was to exclude the component involving the enhancement of
TANESCO's computer capacity so it could accommodate additional computer needs
by DSSD. The elimination of this component was as a result of TANESCO having
themselves obtained funding from IDA. This led to the decision that computers
would be bought for NUWA and DSSD while carrying out joint billing functions.
B. Bank's Performance during Proiect Implementation
57.         Frequency of Supervision.  During the course of implementation,
IDA frequently sent missions to review progress. These review missions were
very useful and very helpful as they helped to keep project implementation on
course and assisted in early solving of problems. While the timing of the
review missions was appropriate their frequency at half yearly intervals was
not adequate. Reviewing staff from IDA were quite experienced for the work.
However, frequent changes of reviewing staff took place and it was felt the
effectiveness of these missions may have been eroded (the project experienced
a total of six project officers). As such it is felt that considerable time
was being spent by the new mission staff getting familiar with the project but



-  12  -
by the time they had just got used to the project they were moved to other
assignments.
58.         Procurement Procedures.  Specific to the problems created by
procurement procedures of IDA is the construction of VIP latrines. DSSD,
after completing construction of the 100 school latrines, suggested that they
would be in a position to construct the 3,600 latrines using local artisans
(fundis). In the process, the artisans would learn the techniques and be able
in future to carry out construction for other people. IDA confirmed it was
not possible to finance the component from the credit and accepted to finance
only the purchase of VIP kits through competitive bidding. The first and
second trials of obtaining VIP kits through tendering were also not successful
and it was suggested that they be purchased directly from the Buguruni VIP Kit
manufacturing plant which is owned by the Sewerage and Drainage Division in
MAJI. Again IDA indicated this was against regulations and that it would not
finance the component in this event. Use of the Buguruni Plant would have
assisted in the achievement of the long-term sector objectives as the plant
offers material support and training towards setting up and construction of
VIP latrines in other towns. It was not until the middle of 1987 that IDA
agreed in principle to the need for utilizing the Buguruni Plant capacity but
up to the end of the project, no clear approval had been given. This
naturally affected the achievement of the obiectives for this component, as
delay in concluding and satisfying IDA procurement policy resulted in
considerable implementation delays.
Bank's Performance--Lessons Learned
59.         The assessment of the sector priorities and problems at the time
of appraisal was appropriate and the original project emphasis valid. Long
delays in start-up resulted in the project not being fully completed even
after a year's extension in completion date.
60.         IDA insists on international competitive bidding, although in some
instances it may be economical to procure the goods from within the country.
While IDA does not prevent direct procurement within the country, the limits
for which local procurement is acceptable are very low. Also, there are
instances where only one manufacturer exists in the country and it may not be
possible to purchase from this manufacturer because it would be uncompetitive.
Although there are special procurement allowances, it is not clear when and
how one can justify procurement using this arrangement. It is advisable to
revise these rules/requirements as in some instances they limit growth of
local industry.
C. Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance
Borrower's Performance during ProJect Evolution.
61.         Originally GOT's intention was to concentrate upon conventional
sewerage components but due to projects which were being carried out by UNDP
and TAG, recommendations were made to include low cost sanitation in the
studies and subsequently for implementation. Therefore project preparation
was carried out by GOT and DCC with the assistance of IDA, UNDP and TAG.



13  -
62.         Apart from the general improvements to the existing sewerage
system which formed a major part of the project, and the low cost sanitation
or on-site sanitation undertakings, the project was intended to be a vehicle
for institutional change and management improvements. It was in this respect,
that formation of DSSD was planned. It was also planned to appoint expert
managers to initiate proper operation and maintenance of the sewerage and
sanitation systems and to install satisfactory financial procedures,
Borrower's Performance during Project Implementation and OReration
Physical Construction
63.         Phvsical AccomRlishment.  The main changes as compared to the
original targets are as follows:
(a)   Lengths of sewer rehabilitated were less than 130km since sewerage
at areas like Ubungo, Buguruni, and Ukonga could not be rehabilitated due to
high cost;
(b)   Fifteen pumping stations were rehabilitated out of the original
17. Those which were not rehabilitated are the City Centre One which is a
very old station and it was deemed advantageous to bypass it and the Faculty
of Medicine (Muhimbili) pumping station which was new. Also the pond systems
for Ukonga and Buguruni could not be rehabilitated and only seven out of nine
systems were rehabilitated;
(c)   Two hundred new sewer connections were made out of the planned
600. Two main reasons for this were the high cost of new connections and
optimistic projections;
(d)   Another area where performance was poor was in the construction of
pit latrines. While the target was for 3,600 at residences and 100 at
schools, only the 100 demonstration latrines could be constructed fully and
660 at residences using the loan scheme. Major causes for this were lack of
adequate numbers of applicants and procurement problems. Although the
objective of this component in terms of numbers of latrines was not reached,
an awareness was created among the people which will serve as a good starting
point for future operations;
(e)   Four new dumping stations were constructed and one existing one
rehabilitated. These are so located that it is now economical to offer pit
emptying services; and
(f)   Due to the high cost of vehicle rehabilitation, only six pit
emptying vehicles could be economically rehabilitated and eight new ones
purchased in addition to the twenty-two donated by Japan.
64.         Project Delays.  Delays for contracts for refurbishing and
replacement of sewers and supply and installation of pumping equipment were
the result of redesign necessitated by the unknown state of the buried sewers
and pumping stations which were under sewage surcharge. There were
considerable delays in the design of workshop and dumping stations and
subsequent start-up and completion of construction because the consultant had
taken up this job as an additional assignment and did not have ready and



- 14 -
available staff to work on this work immediately. These delays invariably
resulted in increased costs.
65.         Procurement Procedures.  The procurement requirements to be
satisfied for the project were those for IDA and regulations set by CTB
although those for CTB are not clearly known and are not written down. There
were two procurement disagreements with the CTB, the first involved the
construction of the temporary headquarters for DSSD and the second the
construction of cabs and tanks for the rehabilitation of pit emptying
vehicles. As these disagreements could not be resolved for a very long time,
a parastatal organization did the work. This resulted in conflict with IDA
over adherence to its procurement guidelines.
66.         Project Costs and Disbursement Schedule.  At the time of
appraisal, it was estimated that the total project costs would be US$29.1
million equivalent to Tanzania shillings 273.5 million. The actual project
costs have now been worked out to a total of TShl,681.0 million or US$26.7
million. As the actual costs are arrived at using the exchange rates on the
4ate that payment is made by IDA and given that not all of the statements of
d~isbursement had been received at the time of preparation of this report, the
final equivalent total project cost in US dollars may be different from the
above. Approximately 5 percent of the total project costs was financed from
government resources while the IDA credit financed 95 percent.
67.         For the first four years of the project only about 22 percent of
the project funds were expended, with the remaining 78 percent being spent in
the last two years. This was due to the fact that most contracts had been let
by then and no reimbursement claims from the credit were made in the earlier
years. While in the end these later expenditures did not jeopardize the
implementation programme, it is important to mention that had the one year
extension of closing date not been granted about 58 percent of the project
funds may not have been expended. At the original target completion date the
major components not completed included the workshops and dumping station.
68.         Performance of Consultants. Contractors and Supnliers.  The
responsibility of the consultants was for designs, supervision of construction
and rehabilitation works. They also supervised the contractors during
commissioning of the works and initial training of local staff in operation
and maintenance, especially of pumping stations.
69.         There was one problem whereby the consultant delayed the designs
for workshops and depots and dumping stations and this affected the completion
of the related supply and construction work. This problem, however, was a
general problem of the consultants, suppliers and contractors as related to
work schedules. None finished their work in the time programmed, and even
after granting of time extensions to cater for various additions and
unforeseen circumstances, actual completion times were beyond the planned
completion times. Participation by local contractors and consultants was
limited in light of the procurement guidelines used for the project.
Plant Operating Performance
70.         Operating Performance and Problems.  Major operational problems
relate to performance of pumping stations and pumping mains. The Msasani



- 15 -
pumping station has continued to operate unsatisfactorily because of a ceased
motor which it has been difficult to repair adequately locally 4nd a cracked
pump casing. It is believed these problems may have been caused by
indiscriminate dumping of pit latrine/septic tank wastes into the pumping
station, due to the fact that these services are not under one department.
The other main problem is that of frequent bursts of the Mikocheni pumping
main. This pumping main was not rehabilitated in the past exercise but it
passed the tests during the initial pumping tests and it was felt that it was
in order. Sporadic and unreliable electricity supply and corrosion have
contributed to operational difficulties.
71.         Moct of the pumping plants, with the exception of the problem
areas mentioned above, (Para. 70) are working properly and their performance
compares very well with the specifications and expectations. The waste
stabilization ponds for the treatment of wastes are operating adequately.
Analysis of pond sewage before treatment and after shows that pond performance
is within acceptable levels. Also, in the case of the sea outfall, studies
have shown that no pollution of the sea shore can be linked to discharges
through the outfall. Many areas of Dar es Salaam which had been subjected to
sewage overflows which threatened the people's health are now free of the
hazard. Notable examples are the reduction of smells around the Agha Khan
Hospital and sewage overflows at Tazara flats and Airport areas. Thus, there
has been a tremedous improvement in environmental conditions as a result of
this project.
72.         Financial Performance of DSSD.  The financial performance of DSSD
has been very unsatisfactory. So far no sewerage charges have been effected
and charges for septic tenk and pit emptying are still lower than those
recommended by the sewerage tariff study and approved by Government. This has
been caused by DCC's reluctance to accept and adopt the new rates.
73.         During appraisal it had been estimated that total DSSD revenues
from such sources as septic tank/pit latrine emptying, sewer connection, and
sewer unblocking charges would rise from TSh3,632,000 during 1985-86, the
first year of operation to TSh6l,518,000 during the fourth operational year,
1988-89. Actual revenues were very much lower at TSh3ll,220 and TSh9,762,643
during the respective corresponding periods. Overall expenses were slightly
lower with the average annual expenditure being TSh2l,351,768 compared with an
estimate of TSh29,218,800 at appraisal.
74.         For the sector as a whole, delays in carrying out and concluding
the sewerage tariff study meant that levels of tariffs to be charged could not
be ascertained in the earlier years of DSSD's operation. Likewise cut back on
the number of pit emptiers to be purchased and the reluctance of DCC to
transfer some pit emptiers now with the Health Department to DSSD have limited
the revenue generating base for pit latrine/septic tank emptying services to a
level much lower than anticipated.
75.         With unsatisfactory financial performance no attempt has been made
to work out the new financial rate of return as no positive income has been
generated.



- 16 -
Institutional Development and Performance
76.         DSSD was created to provide improved operation and maintenance of
the sewerage and sanitation systems. To assist in setting it up, services of
external agencies were used to provide expatriate technical assistance staff
whose responsibility was to determine and establish systems for DSSD and train
local counterparts. There were some positive achievements by the experts but
frequent personnel changes aggravated by the inadequacy and poor performance
of some of them hindered achievement of objectives. DSSD is now run and
managed entirely by local staff who, in spite of limited service experience,
have made impressive improvements in budgetary controls and procedures,
inventory controls, and plant operation and maintenance programs.
Improvements in financial systems have been rather nominal and nothing has
been done on billing and collection using computers. Most of DSSD's functions
are being computerized including stores, sewer connection charges, and
estimates.
77.         DSSD has almost grown to full capacity.  Operational staff are
required, however, for the newly completed workshops and depots. Recruitment
of middle- and higher-grade staff has been hampered by the bureaucratic
procedures of the Local Government Service Commission and exacerbated by
uncompetitive salaries and lack of fringe benefits. Nevertheless, DSSD has
been able to maintain in part most of the key staff that have already been
employed. Turnover has been low. Training of staff has also been successful.
So far a total of about 12 people from senior personnel categories have been
trained overseas. In addition, in-country training courses have been given to
operational staff. The objective of setting up a department to take over the
rehabilitation works is largely successful.
Borrower's Performance--Lessons Learned.
78.         The original project designs were well conceived and the only
areas of the project which could be considered as not having had adequate
preparation could be those in which implementation has been very nominal.
These include service connections and construction of VIP latrines. While
targets in this respect may have been realistic, underlying problems of
implementation including the understanding of peoples' willingness to apply
for loans to build VIP latrines and sewer connections given the prevailing
economic difficulties may not have been adequately studied. In addition,
delays in implementing revised tariffs after approval by Government did not
help to improve the financial performance of DSSD.
79.         Assistance to local contractors and local consultants to obtain
contract awards could not be increased in light of procurement guidelines
which were being used for the project. In future, however, consideration
needs to be made to giving more preference to local contractors and
consultants both in preparing the shortlist or prequalification and in tender
or proposal evaluation. In order to build local technical self sufficiency
there is greater need to support the local institutions and enhance their
growth. Future projects could also consider mandatory joint ventures between
local and foreign consultants and contractors.



-  17  -
D.    Relationshij between IDA and B0rrower
80.         The need for strengthening the implementation capacity of the
executing agency was acdequately addressed. Scheduling of plocurement and
constructional activities was fairly realistic and there were no major
differences between the Borrower and IDA regarding standards for civil works
or equipment.



- 18 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
This was the only credit in the sewerage and sanitation sector at
the time of completion.
Part of the Technical Assistance component for NUWA was
transferred to Credit 1687-TA which is due to close in December 1990.
B.  Proiect Timetable
Planned           Revised          Actual
Item          .               Date               Date             Date
Identification                      -                             Jul 1979
Preparation                   Jan 1981                            Apr 1981
Appraisal Mission             Jun 1981                            Jul 1981
Credit Negotiations                              May 1982         Aug 2-11, 1982
Board Approval                Dec 1981           Jul 1982         Dec 21, 1982
Credit Signature                                                  Mar 17, 1983
Credit Effectiveness          Mar 1983           Jul 15,1983      Sep 1, 1983
Credit Closing                Dec 31, 1987                        Dec 31, 1988
Credit Completion             Jun 30, 1988                        Dec 31, 1988
C.  Creit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$'000)
Bank Fiascal Year    1983   1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Appraisal Estimate    1,700  6,600  13,000  18,300  21,600  22,500  22,500  22,500
Actual                 0  2,300   6,000   9,000  10,700  13,600  18,100  20,300



-  19   -
D.  Project I_lementation
Indicators                     Actual Estimates                   Actual
Project Cost - Total US$H       29.1                                    25 4
a Total TShsM    273.5                               * 1,659.5
Completion Date                June 30, 1987                      December 31, 1988
Closing Date                   December 31, 1987                  December 31, 1980
Sewerage Rehabilitation        Rehabilitation and replacement   Rehabilitation and replacement
and Upgrading                  of about 130km of sewers and       of about 85km of sewers and
pumping mains                      pumping mains.
Repair of sea outfall and          Repairing of the sea outfall
construction of screen bypass      and construction of screen
and intake structure               bypass and intake structure
Rehabilitation of 17 pumping       Rehabilitation of 15 pumping
stations                           stations
Repair and improvement of 9        Improvement and repair of 7
waste stabilization ponds          waste stabilization ponds
Construction of 600 new sewer    Construction of 200 new sewer
connections                        connections
Low-Cost Sanitation            Construction/tpgrading of          Construction/upgrading 660
about 3,600 l&crines at            latrines at residences and 100
residences and 100 at schools      at schools
Construction tf S new dumping    Construction of 4 new dumping
stations and :hbabilitation of   stations and rehabilitation of
one dumping station for pit        one dumping station
emptying vehtcles
Rehabilitation of 14 pit           Rehabilitation of 6 pit
emptying vehic .s, acquisition   emptying vehicles, acquisition
of 16 new ones                     of 8 new ones



- 20 -
E. Proiect Costs and Financing
Project .osts (US$M)
ARRraisal Estimate              Actual
Local     FX               Local      FX
Item                             Costs   Costs   Total       Costs   Costs   Total
Sewerage                          7.6     4.4    12.0         0.5    11.5    12.0
Sanitation                        2.9     1.9      4.8        0.4     1.8      2.2
Common Services                   -        -       -          0.4     5.4      5.8
Assistance                       10.5      6.3    16.8        1.3    18.7    20.0
to ARDHI                         -       0.2      0.2        -       0.1      0.1
to DSSD                          0.2     2.2      2.4        -       2.9      2.9
Training                          0.5     0.9      1.4        -       0.7      0.7
Tech. Assist. to NUWA             0.5      1.0     1.5        0.1     1.6      1.7
Tech. Assist. to Tanesco          0.1     0.2      0.4        -       -        -
Total Baseline Costs             11.8    10.9    22.7         1.4    24.0    25.4
Physical Contingencies            1.0     0.9      1.9        -       -        -
Price Contingencies               3.1     1.4      4.5
Total Project Costs              15.9    13.2    29.1         1.4    24.0    25.4
FX-US$                            9.3    13.2    22.5         -      24.0    24.0
-SDR                            8.5_ 12.1    20.6          -       20.3    20.3



21  -
Project Financing
Planned
(Credit Agreement)            Final
Source                               (USS 'OQ0)             (USS '000)    {X}
IDA Expenditure Categories             22,500                 24,000      106.7
Government of Tanzania                 6.600                  1.400        21.1
Total                                  29.100                 25.400
Comments:
1.  The Credit was for SDR 20,600,000 which was equivalent to US$22,500,000 at
the time of appraisal. As the result of appreciation of the SDR relative
to the US$, there was an undisbursed balance of SDR 350,000--even though
total withdrawals were equivalent to US$24,000,000.
2.  The total project expenditure was US$3.7 million below plan mainly as the
result of:
' only about 200 out of 600 sewer connections installed;
' only 660 out of 3600 pit latrines installed;
* only 6 out of 14 pit emptiers rehabilitated.



- 22 -
F. Prolect Results
Dilrect Benefits
Estimated
Appraised   Estimated at   at Full Development
Estimate    Closing Date   (5yrs after closing)
New Sewerage connections         600           200
New Pit Latrines              3,600            660               12001'
DSSD Latrine emptiers-
available                      30             14                14
Operational                       28             31
Number of loads
Transported annually       69,048          1,660
Source:  DSSD Progress Report, February to April, 1989
23 5 Pit Latrines constructed per month for loan scheme; assume 5 Pit Latrines
per month for cash; equivalent to 120 per year.
3 2 to 4 vehicles are operational.
415 Trips in 3 months, equivalent to 1660 per year.
Economic Impact
Appraisal          Actual at
Estimate           Final DevelogMent
Economic Rate of Return:
Sewerage                      6.9Z             Negative
Sanitation                    5.9X             Negative
Comments:
1. There are insufficient Data available to perform an economic and financial
rate-of-return analysis.
2. However, continuing cash subsidies from Government, with little prospect
of any real improvement in revenues would suggest a negative financial and
economic return.



-  23   -
Financial Impact
See 1 above
Studies
Purposes as
Defined at Appraisal        Status              Impact of Study
1. Tariff Study             Implement cost              Completed           Not implemented by DCC
recovery
2. Review of                Establish DSSD as an        Completed           Yet to be implemented
Legislation              entity
3. Aerial survey and        Ensure full billing         Completed           Not implemented
Survey of existing       and establish system
connections
4. Solid waste study        Develop proposal            Completed           Not implemented
(requires funding)
5. Detailed design for    Prepare for Phase III         Completed           Not implemented
Phase III                                                                (awaits funding for
next project)



- 24 -
G. Status of Covenants
The status of compliance with the major covenants is as follows:
Deadline for
Covenant                   Subject                     Compliance          Status
Develoyment Credit Areement
Section 3.03 (a)   (1)    Maintain PIU                 Signing             Satisfactory
(ii)    Maintain PMC                Signing             PMC did not meet
regularly
(b)          Staff PIU                   Signing             Satisfactory
Section 3.06        (i)    Complete Survey of          Dec 31, 1988        Completed Dec 1988
Connections                                    No action taken
Section 3.06        C1)    Complete Tariff Study       June 30, 1984       Dec 31, 1987
(il)    Develop New Tariff          Dec 31, 1984        Dec 31, 1988
Structure
(iii)    Implement Revised           Dec 31, 1984        Not implemented
Tariffs
Section 3.09               Acquire land for            June 30, 1984       Actions have been
projects                                       taken
Prolect Agreement
Section 2.02               Adopt MIS and billing       June 30, 1984       As at Apr 1989, not
systems similar to                             implemented
TANESCO
Section 2.03                Introduce loan scbeme      June 30, 1983       Implemented In 1986
for householders
Section 4.01               Maintain separate           Signing             Adequate accounts not
accounts for DSSD                              implemented as at Apr
1989
Section 4 02               DCC shall forward           Annually            Last audited accounts
audited consolidated                           available within IDA
accounts and separate                          appear to be for 1984-
statements for DSSD                            85
within 6 months of
each year end
Section 4.03 (a)           DCC shall charge pit-       FY 1984             Not compliant
emptying tariffs based
on cost recovery
(b)          Not pit latrine                                 Not compliant
emptying unless cash
paid in advance
Section 4.04 (a)           DSSD shall generate         FY 1985             Not compliant
funds of 20 percent of
average annual capital
expenditures



- 25 -
H. Use of IDA Resources
Missions
Stage of          Month/   Number of  Days in   Specialization          Performance   Types of
Prolect Cycle     Year      Persons    Field      Represented           Status        Problems
Through
Appraisal
Project Ident.        7/78         1         4       Sanitary Engineer
(Project Officer)
Pre Appraisal         1/80         1         8       Sanitary Engineer
(Project Officer)
Appraisal             7/81
Board Approval
Post Appraisal        3/82         3         8        Loan Officer
Sanitary Engineer
(Project Officer)
Legal
SuperviLioa
3183                 3        14       Sanitary Engr.                   No            Iptitut'l
Financial Analyst               significant   Manasement
Sr. Urban Project               problems
officer
2/84                 2       18        Sanitary Engr.                                 Institut'l
Financial                       Management
Analyst
9/84                 3       13        Sanitary Engr.
Financial Analyst
Consultant
9/85                 2        9        Sanitary Engineer                   2          Institut'l
Consultant                                    Management
3/86                 3       13        Sanitary Engineer                   2          Institut'l
Financial Analyst               Staffing      Management
Low Cost Sanit. Spec.
11-12/86             2       12        Sr. Sanitary Engr.                  3
Low Cost Sanit. Spec.
5/87                  1       9        Sr. Sanitary Engr.                  2          Inatitut'l
Management
11/87                2       14        Sr. Sanitary Engr.                  2          Institut'l
Pinancial Analyst               Staffing      Management
(Consultant)                                  Financial
Systems
7/89                  1       5        Sr. Sanitary Engr.                             Equipment
Training



