Document of               EL       % t-; I  j
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3423-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$22.5 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
November 29, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
TSh 1.00          =    US$0.11
US$1.00           =    TSh 9.40
US$1.00           =    SDR 0.91
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in relation to a basket of
the currencies of Tanzania's trading partners, the USDollar/Tanzania
Shilling exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report
were made at US$1.00 to TSh 9.40 which was the level set in the most
recent exchange rate adjustment in March 1982. The USDollar/SDR exchange
rate used in this report is that of July 31, 1982.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDHI    -    Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development
DCC      -    Dar es Salaam City Council
DCS      -    Dar es Salaam Water Corporation Sole
DSSD     -    Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Department
MWE      -    Ministry of Water and Energy
NUWA     -    National Urban Water Authority
PMO      -    Prime Minister's Office
TANESCO  -    Tanzania Electric Supply Company, Limited
FISCAL YEAR
Government - July 1 to June 30



- i -               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                United Republic of Tanzania
.
Amount:                  SDR 20.6 million (US$22.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Relending Terms;         US$12.8 million would be onlent to DCC under a
Transfer Agreement for 25 years including 5 years
of grace at an interest rate of 11% p.a.
Project Description:    The project would be the first phase of a
long-range program to rehabilitate the existing
sewerage system and to develop basic sanitation
services in Dar es Salaam. It would focus on
low-cost, on-plot sanitation and the development of
the services, institutions, and management
practices required for improved sewerage and
sanitation. The project would finance construction
of pit latrines and replacement or conversion of
existing on-plot sanitation units; improvement of
the Dar es Salaam City Countil (DCC) pit emptying
service; establishment and development of a
Sewerage and Sanitation Department (DSSD) in DCC;
provision of offices, workshops, equipment and
spare parts; and technical assistance and training
both for DSSD and the National Urban Water
Authority.
Benefits:                The project would improve sewerage and sanitation
services in Dar es Salaam and strengthen urban
water supply services throughout the country.
Risks:                   The major project risk is that DSSD may not develop
promptly enough as an efficient organization
capable of collecting adequate charges for sewerage
and sanitation services. The project has been
designed to minimize this risk by including
considerable training and technical assistance.
Future projects would attempt to maintain the
momentum of institutional development in the
sector.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated                                Local     Foreign      Total
Project Costs:1                                  US$ million…-------
Sewerage Rehabilitation               7.3         6.5         13.8
Low-Cost Sanitation                    3.8        3.2          7.0
Technical Assistance                  0.7         1.2          1.9
for NUWA and TANESCO
Sub-total       11.8        10.9         22.7
Contingencies:
Physical                            1.0        0.9          1.9
Price                              3.1         1.4          4.5
Total           15.9        13.2         29.1
Financing Plan:                          Local     Foreign      Total    %
---------US$ million--  ---
IDA                                    9.3       13.2         22.5   76%
Government                             6.6         -           6.6   24%
Estimated Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year               1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
---------------- US$ million…---------
Annual                      1.7     4.9      6.4      5.3     3.3      0.9
Cumulative                  1.7     6.6    13.0    18.3    21.6    22.5
Rate of Return:              The internal rate of return of the sewerage
rehabilitation component would be about 7%, and
that of the low cost sanitation component,
about 6%. The economic rates of return would
be significantly higher, as a result of major
public health benefits from the project which
are difficult to quantify.
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 3678-TA, dated November 29, 1982.
Map                          IBRD Map No. 16132
1Taxes and duties, included in project costs, are equivalent to US$3.4
million.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A DAK ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
1.        I submic the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of SDR 20.6 million (US$22.5
million) equivalent on standard terms to help finance a Dar es Salaam
Sewerage and Sanitation Project. A portion of the credit (US$12.8 million)
would be on-lent to the Dar es Salaam City Council for twenty-five years,
ILLcluding i,ve ,      D  2 grace, at an annual interest rate of 11%.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1
2.        The last economic memorandum on Tanzania (Report No. 3086-TA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 23, 1981. A revised
memorandum, based on the work of two economic missions which visited
Tanzania in July and September 1982, will be issued in the first half of
1983.
Background
3.        At Independence in 1961, Tanzania (then Tanganyika) was one of
the poorest countries in the world. Almost solely dependent on subsistence
agriculture and a few estate crops, the country had a very modest indus-
trial base (less than 5% of GDP), and a very small number of educated and
trained personnel. For the first six years after Independence, the Govern-
ment's development objectives resembled those of many other less developed
countries, stressing growth in per capita income and national self-suffi-
ciency in skilled manpower, based on market forces and capital intensive
agricultural projects. This approach had a number of drawbacks, such as
high investment costs in the agricultural sector, and led in the Govern-
ment's view to unacceptable economic and social conditions, such as widen-
ing income differentials and unequal opportunities for advancement in the
rural areas. In response to this situation, the national development
strategy was reassessed in 1967. The new priorities, enunciated in the
Arusha Declaration and related policy statements, were directed towards
establishing a socialist society, with greater emphasis on broad-based
rural development, self-reliance in development efforts, and the intro-
duction of mass education.  To accomplish these ends, the State, with
1This section is substantially the same as that in the President's
Report on the Sao Hill Forestry Project - Phase II, dated March 24, 1982.



-2-
guidance from the Party2, was expected to play the leading role,
especially in the reform and creation of appropriate institutions. This
led in the late 1960s to the nationalization of large-scale industry,
commerce and finance, the creation of numerous parastatal bodies, the
formation of ujamaa (cooperative) villages, the decentralization of
government (1972), and the mass campaign of villagization (1974-76).
4.        Despite some disruption arising from these major institutional
changes during the period, Tanzania managed to show improvements both in
social welfare and in macroeconomic performance. Primary school enroll-
ments increased by more than 50%, life expectancy rose by almost 5 years,
and access to safe water increased in both the rural and urban areas. GDP
grew by 4.4% per annum from 1966 to 1973, investment averaged 24% of GDP
from 1970 to 1973, and domestic resource mobilization improved with recur-
rent revenues rising from 15% of GDP in 1967/68 to 19% in the mid 1970s.
However, the productive sectors grew slowly and the rate of return on new
investments (which was centered on the industry and transport sectors) was
poor. Perhaps the principal disappointment was in agriculture, the domi-
nant sector in the economy, which grew by only 2.3% per annum from 1966 to
1973. This growth was also uneven among regions and precluded any narrow-
ing of rural-urban income differentials. Tanzania made rapid progress
towards localizing key posts in the economy, but large gaps in manpower
requirements remained. Dependence on foreign aid to finance both domestic
investment and the widening balance of payments gap also increased. By
1973, the issues which were to be so important for Tanzania throughout the
1970s were becoming clear: How quickly could a country with limited
trained personnel develop a strong and efficient centrally administered
economy? The Government's emphasis on equity was often at the expense of
efficiency and incentives; how long could the country afford these costs?
What could be done to improve the growth rate of the monetized, productive
sectors?
5.        The oil price increases and world recession of 1973-74 coincided
with two years of below average rainfall in Tanzania. Agricultural produc-
tion also was affected by disruptive changes in the rural areas at this
time (decentralization and villagization), and there was a serious short-
fall in foodgrain production. The Government was forced into the world
market, making large purchases of foodgrains for cash. Export crop
production also fell during this period and the barter terms of trade
dropped by about one-third during these two years. As a result, the
current account deficit rose from US$118 million in 1973 to around US$340
million in both 1974 and 1975. Domestically, the recurrent budget fell
into deficit and Government bank borrowing rose from TSh.416 million in
1973/74 to TSh.1061 million in 1975/76.
6.        The Government prepared a program to deal with at least the
short-term effects of the crisis and was able to receive some assistance
from the IMF and a program loan from the Bank. Under this program, import
2The single mainland political party at the time was TANU, but in
February 1977, it merged with Zanzibar's Afro-Shirazi Party to form the
Revolutionary Party, or Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).



-3-
levels were tightly restricted, wages were frozen, government development
expenditures3 were redirected towards the productive sectors, and the
Tanzanian shilling was devalued by 10% against the SDR. Producer prices
for food crops were substantially increased and at the same time, the
National Milling Corporation (NMC) was instructed to purchase a number of
drought-resistant crops such as cassava, sorghum, and pigeon peas in addi-
tion to the usual foodgrains like maize. While these steps were taken to
increase food production, they also discouraged the production of export
crops, weakened the financial position of NMC and required the banking
system to extend large amounts of credit to NMC. Aside from the devalua-
tion, little scope was given to market forces and Tanzania made no basic
changes in its system of administered prices and government controls. The
basic weaknesses of the economy persisted: declining export volumes,
limited trained manpower, disappointing growth in the monetized and
productive sectors, and poor maintenance of existing capital stock and
infrastructure, especially in agriculture and transport.
7.        Nonetheless, the Government program, boosted greatly by the
coffee boom of 1977, additional foreign assistance and reasonable weather
for agriculture, was able to keep the economy in balance until 1978.
During 1978, the overly stringent import controls were relaxed at the same
time as the terms of trade began to deteriorate again. The balance of
payments went into deficit and foreign reserves were drawn down. Then, in
October 1978, the country was invaded by forces from Uganda. The resulting
war, the oil price increases of 1979 and flooding and drought in different
parts of Tanzania led to a worsening balance of payments deficit and the
Government built up major arrears on its import payments for the first time
since Independence. The domestic budget fell heavily into deficit as
expenditures (led by defense) rose by 50% from 1977/78 to 1978/79 and
revenues improved by only 10%. As a result, Government borrowing from the
banking system increased from TSh. 600 million in 1977/78 to more than
TSh. 3,000 million in 1978/79. Such borrowing was the major factor in
money supply growth, which exceeded 53% in this period.
8.        According to the official National Accounts statistics, GDP in
constant prices has risen by 4.7% per annum since 1966, and by a slightly
higher rate of 5.1% per annum over the past six years. However, this
latter trend assumes an 8.6% per annum increase in subsistence agriculture,
which seems somewhat overstated in the light of Bank Group project
experience and the known marketed surpluses of food. Assuming a more
realistic growth rate of 4.0% per annum for subsistence agriculture,
overall GDP growth since 1973 would also be reduced to 4.0% per annum.
With population growing by around 3.3% per annum, this implies an increase
in per capita GDP of only 0.7% per annum.  There also has been a change in
the structure of the economy over the past six years, away from the
productive monetary sector and towards subsistence and service activities.
Excluding public administration, commercial services and trade, the
monetary sector has grown by only 2.3% per annum over the past six years,
3Government development expenditures account for about two-thirds of
public sector investment, which in turn accounts for 50-60% of total
investment.



-4-
well below the population growth rate. This change in the structure of the
economy has been a major factor hampering the Government's efforts to
mobilize domestic resources.
9.        Although Tanzania has sustained a high investment ratio, this has
not been matched by a similar success in the mobilization of domestic
savings or in the return on investments. Up to the mid-1970s, foreign
savings had financed 20%-40% of domestic investment. However, the depend-
ence on foreign savings rose sharply to more than 60% of domestic invest-
ment during the crisis years of 1974-75 and again from 1978. The major
shortfalls in domestic savings have occurred in the Government sector,
where they have actually been negative in some years since 1975. The low
return on investments is reflected in the incremental capital-output ratio
for the monetary sector, which was around 4.5 at the start of the decade
and rose to between 6 and 7 by 1980.
10.       Agriculture remains the most important sector in Tanzania,
accounting for 90% of total employment, 50% of GDP and 80% of exports. The
long-term trend growth rate of agricultural production has hardly kept pace
with population growth and apparently has fallen in more recent years as
the initial expansion of export crop production (through the mid-1960s) has
been reversed. This poor performance cannot be adequately explained by the
limitations of the natural environment. Although the importance of rural
development has continuously been highlighted in Government statements,
including the Arusha Declaration and successive plans, this has not always
been reflected in the allocation of resources to the agricultural sector or
in policy formulation and implementation. The general direction of the
Government's post-Arusha agriculture strategy has also tended to emphasize
the transformation of the institutional structure of rural development
(through the formation of villages and increasing public involvement in the
sector) over measures designed to improve agricultural production direct-
ly. Many of these institutional changes were introduced too rapidly, with-
out careful planning or sufficient recognition that by themselves they
could not compensate for inadequate incentives and shortages of skilled
manpower and managers. More recently there has been a greater awareness of
the role of incentives, and recent price adjustments attest to the Govern-
ment's willingness to use them to influence the pattern of agricultural
production. The trend towards greater public involvement in agriculture
has also continued and with the resultant proliferation of parastatals and
increasingly complex structure of administration, the available manpower
has been stretched even more thinly. This has resulted in weakened capaci-
ty for policy planning and implementation, especially in the areas of
research and extension, and deficient distribution of fertilizers and other
on-farm supplies and equipment. Another factor underlying the poor
performance of agriculture has been the deterioration of transport
services. Road, rail and water services have declined owing to a lack of
spare parts, poor maintenance and inadequate planning and management.
The Current Balance of Payments Crisis and Medium Term Prospects
11.       The slow growth in agricultural production, transport bottlenecks
and external shocks described above have all contributed to the severe
deterioration in the balance of payments over the past three years. Export
volumes have fallen to a level one-third below the peaks of the mid-1960s



-5-
and early 1970s. Furthermore, the terms of trade have declined by 27%
since the coffee boom of 1977, due to a sharp increase in import costs,
especially for petroleum, at a time when the overall level of export prices
has been rising very slowly. Owing to these adverse developments, the
purchasing power of Tanzania's exports in 1980 was one-third lower than in
1977 and only one-half of the 1966 level. Part of this shortfall has been
offset by additional external resources, including a sharp increase in
commodity and program aid to more than US$200 million in 1980, as well as
by drawings under the IMF standby program concluded in September 1980.  But
Tanzania has also had to utilize large amounts of exceptional financing,
including suppliers' credits and an increase in import payment arrears.
Despite this, the volume of imports has had to be severely curtailed, and
in 1981, was still no higher than in the mid-1970s.
12.       Given the recent negative developments on coffee prices and oil
supplies, as well as the limited scope for further exceptional financing,
there is little immediate prospect for an improvement in the balance of
payments. This continuing balance of payments constraint is inevitably
having a debilitating effect on the economy, with lower imports reducing
production and maintenance of existing assets, resulting in further falls
in exports and available foreign exchange. This vicious circle will be
difficult to break, unless there is a substantial injection of foreign
exchange and major changes in domestic policies designed to improve
producer incentives, parastatal operations, import allocations, the
promotion of non-traditional exports, and overall government planning and
budgeting. In March/April 1981, the Government introduced a number of
significant measures--such as higher producer prices for coffee, sisal and
tobacco and the establishment of a Special Agricultural Account at the Bank
of Tanzania to ensure that a substantial proportion of foreign exchange
earnings are returned to the agricultural sector. This Export
Rehabilitation Program was supported by a US$50 million credit from IDA
(Cr. No. 1133-TA).
13.       During negotiations of the Export Rehabilitation Credit in March
1981, agreement was also reached on a Memorandum of Understanding on
Follow-Up Measures. These included more restraint and selectiveness in the
public investment program, more emphasis in the recurrent budget on the
operations and maintenance needs of the economy, improved foreign exchange
budgeting, a re-examination of the roles (particularly purchasing mandates)
of the State-owned crop authorities, the introduction of more payment-by-
results schemes in industry and a review of subsidy and cost recovery
arrangements in the public sector. The Government also agreed that an
independent Advisory Group would be established to assist the Government in
preparing a comprehensive program of economic rehabilitation and recovery.
14.       The Advisory Group began work in November 1981 and completed its
Report in April 1982. The Government adopted a large number of its
recommendations and incorporated these in a Structural Adjustment Program
which was issued in July 1982. This Program includes a series of
important initiatives and proposals, many of which have still to be further
refined and implemented. The development budget for 1982/83 has been
substantially cut back for the second year in a row to release resources
for the operations and maintenance needs of the economy. Difficult
decisions have been taken in the light of limitations on available foreign
exchange and physical resources. Factories operating at low capacities



-6-
have been shut down. The price control system has been reviewed and food
marketing arrangements are to be reorganized. The Government has begun to
allocate additional inputs to agriculture through the Special Agricultural
Account established under the Export Rehabilitation Program. Special steps
are being taken to control Government recurrent spending and to reduce
parastatal losses. The functions of key agricultural agencies are being
reduced and will be taken over by other bodies, such as cooperatives. All
of these measures will serve to trim overall burdens on the public sector
and give further encouragement to smallholder production.
15.       However, while the key issues of economic recovery have all been
raised in the Government's Structural Adjustment Program, important
decisions remain to be taken on matters such as the exchange rate and
agricultural prices. Furthermore, the Government has yet to complete the
preparation of specific action programs in key sectors (e.g. transport)
which would have a measurable impact on production. In the most important
economic sector - agriculture - the Government program contains a statement
of objectives rather than an explanation of how financial incentives and
basic services at the farm level will be improved during the next three
years. A Presidential Commission is preparing a detailed set of
recommendations in this area, which should be ready by January 1983. The
program also does not estimate adequately the resource requirements of a
medium term adjustment program and indicate precisely how domestic and
foreign exchange budgets will be administered to support the program.
16.       An economic mission visited Tanzania to have detailed discussions
of the Government program in September/October 1982. The recommendations
of the Government's Agricultural Commission, and sector reports recently
prepared by Bank staff - on agriculture and transport - will also be
discussed with senior Government officials during the next two months.
These discussions should add further substance to general adjustments
already included in the Government program.
17.       Discussions with the IMF on a possible Standby Arrangement are
continuing. Tanzania has had no access to Fund facilities since December
1980, when the Government failed to meet performance targets under a
previous Standby. Following three rounds of discussions in May, June and
August 1982, the Government invited a Fund mission to visit Dar es Salaam
for three weeks in October 1982. No agreement was reached during this
mission, particularly on the appropriate magnitude of an exchange rate
adjustment, and discussions were adjourned for an indefinite period.
18.       Even with a much improved export performance, Tanzania will
continue to face a very difficult balance of payments situation, especially
over the next two to three years. To sustain an increase in per capita GDP
will require increasing amounts of aid in real terms and a careful review
of import requirements, especially those for low-priority projects with
long gestation periods and high foreign exchange costs. Otherwise the
prospects would be for generally stagnant economic activity over the 1980s
as a whole, with a substantial decline in per capita incomes. To avoid
this, there will need to be continued emphasis on export performance and a
concerted effort to improve the level of capacity utilization and effi-
ciency in the economy. Furthermore, this must be done without jeopardizing
vital food production.



- 7 -
19.       Although it may be possible to finance a small portion of the
current account gap through commercial borrowings, the scope for this is
clearly limited; in addition to the difficulties of raising commercial
credit during a period of balance of payments problems, Tanzania simply
cannot afford the heavy burden of debt service payments. Therefore, the
bulk of the financing requirements will have to be met by additional
foreign assistance. Possible sources for this include further drawings
from the IMF (which could add US$100 million per annum), deferred payment
arrangements and other concessional financing from oil-supplying countries,
additional new commitments from traditional bilateral and multilateral
sources, and a continued movement towards non-project assistance.
External Debt
20.       Owing to the very concessional terms on which past aid has been
given to Tanzania and the Government's previous reluctance to use higher
cost commercial loans and suppliers' credits, the country's overall debt
service ratio has historically been less than 10%. However, the debt
service burden is expected to increase as past loans fall due for repayment
and new borrowings, including some on commercial terms, are required to
meet the widening balance of payments gap. Such borrowings, together with
very poor export prospects, could raise the debt service ratio to 15%-20%
during the 1980s. In 1981, it is estimated that the Bank held 14% of
Tanzania's external debt outstanding and disbursed (for the Bank Group, it
was 33%) and the Bank Group received 21% of Tanzania's debt service.
Including Tanzania's share of obligations under East Africa Community
loans, the Bank's exposure was 17% (and the Bank Group share, 36%). This
level of Bank exposure reflects in part the impact of recent debt
write-offs, totalling US$277 million in 1978 and 1979. We are projecting
the Bank Group's share in debt service to fall over the coming decade owing
to the reduced IBRD component in the lending program and the continued need
for Tanzania to borrow funds on less concessional terms from other sources.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA4
21.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1963, 53 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, two of
these on Third Window terms, amounting to US$1024.3 million have so far
been approved for Tanzania.  In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which were extended for the
development of the common services and development bank operated regionally
by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community.  IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were
made to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company
encountered financial difficulties and in 1969, IFC and other investors
sold their interest in the Company to the Government. A new IFC
4This section is substantially the same as that in the President's
Report on the Sao Hill Forestry project - Phase II, dated March 24, 1982.



- 8 -
investment of US$1.7 million in soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by
the Executive Directors on June 8, 1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million
in metal product manufacturing was approved in May, 1979. Annex II
contains summary statements of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments
to Tanzania and the East African Community organizations and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
22.       Bank Group lending in Tanzania has been centered on:  (i)
agriculture; (ii) transport and communications; (iii) industry; and (iv)
education and manpower development. As agriculture and related activities
constitute the largest single sector in the economy, it has received 30% of
the Bank Group's direct lending to Tanzania. The lending program in
agriculture has featured three main types of projects: (a) regional rural
development projects focusing on production and the development of regional
infrastructure, (b) projects centered on specific crops (such as maize,
tea, tobacco and pyrethrum) and (c) projects designed to improve general
support services (e.g. rural credit, grain storage). However in view of
past underfinancing of capital maintenance and replacement in the sector,
new Bank Group lending will focus on rehabilitation and use of existing
agricultural production and processing capacity, rather than on expansion
of such capacity.
23.       Alongside agriculture, there has been a major focus in Bank Group
work on transport and communications. Transportation difficulties are
critical constraints to development in Tanzania. Indeed, the Government's
inability to ensure the timely availability of inputs or the regular
collection of crops has been a major bottleneck to increased production in
the agriculture sector. Furthermore, during the seventies, transport
investments were primarily concentrated around the Tanzania-Zambia Corridor
and since 1977, no systematic investment program has been prepared for the
subsectors which were overseen by EAC Corporations. The major objectives
of proposed Bank Group activities are to develop a more balanced investment
program in transport and communications and to strengthen the ministries
and newly established national corporations responsible for railways,
ports, and telecommunications. In industry, future lending is expected to
provide modest support to well developed financial intermediaries like the
Tanzanian Investment Bank (TIB) which are consolidating their portfolios
and stressing capacity utilization and export promotion. Shortages in
skilled manpower are also a worsening bottleneck to development. Bank
Group involvement in education is expected to emphasize specialized
training and the development of the secondary school system.
24.       In addition to financing specific projects, the Bank Group has on
three occasions provided non-project assistance in support of the
Government's efforts to deal with its balance of -payments difficulties.
The first such Credit was made in 1974, the second in 1977, and the most
recent, an Export Rehabilitation Program Credit (No. 1133-TA), in April
1981.
25.       Project implementation in Tanzania has been adversely affected
during the last four years by the disruptions of the Uganda War and the
country's extreme foreign exchange difficulties, which have resulted in
shortages of fuel and building materials, even when budgetary allocations
for purchasing them have been adequate. External financing agencies have



- 9 -
been increasing the share of direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
covered by project budgets; however, it is impossible to cushion projects
completely, particularly in remote areas, from the ramifications of the
economic crisis. Despite implementation difficulties, disbursements have
remained remarkably steady; Bank Group disbursements grew from US$58
million in FY78 to US$81 million in FY81 and reached US$114 million in
FY82. A comparison with other portfolios in the Eastern Africa Region
indicates that Tanzanian disbursements have been slightly below average for
the Region, ranging as a proportion of outstanding commitments at the start
of the financial year, from 18.9% in 1976 to 15.7% in 1980 (compared with
20.6% and 16.5% in the same years for the Region as a whole).
26.       Supervision missions have been concerned with adapting project
implementation to difficult factors facing the country or individual
sectors, which were not anticipated or have proved worse than expected at
appraisal. A major Country Implementation Review was held in Dar es Salaam
in October 1982 during which Government officials and Bank staff agreed to
recommend the restructuring or discontinuation of several projects which
have faced persistent implementation problems. At the same time it was
agreed that the Project Implementation Monitoring Unit at the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Affairs would be strengthened as a focal point for
further consolidation and improvements in the Bank Group program.
Intensive supervision, and in the case of the Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project, timely assistance from co-financiers have already had some
remedial results. Even in the agricultural sector, where constraints on
implementation have been most severe, there have been important
improvements in some projects, e.g. Dairy Development. However,
considerable work remains to be done during the next six months in
improving project implementation and disbursements. The next Country
Implementation Review will be held in April 1983.
East African Community (EAC)
27.        Developments affecting the East African Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in a memorandum, dated December 29,
1977, (R77-312) and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (Sec M80-364). One
of the positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the
Partner States' decision, taken upon the mediator's recommendation, that
the East Africa Development Bank (EADB) -- one of the former Community's
institutions -- should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has
been enacted.  The three Governments commented on the mediator's proposals
for the three Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981,
and decided to commence negotiations based on the mediator's proposals.
The negotiations started in December 1981 in Arusha and continued in April
1982 in Jinja and September 1982 in Nairobi. The discussions have passed
the fact finding stage and are now focussing on details of a division
formula for assets and debts. While it is generally accepted that both
location of assets and the principle of equal rights of all former EAC
partners should be taken into account, the weight to be given to these
principles from case to case remains the major issue in the continuing
negotiations.



- 10 -
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR
Resources and Institutions
28.       Tanzania is a generally dry country with limited surface and
ground water resources. Three major river basins drain into the Indian
Ocean, Lake Tanganyika and Lake Victoria. The driest regions are in the
center, and in the Rift Valley on the western edge of the country. The
central plateau receives less than 1 meter (m) of annual rainfall but areas
around Mount Kilimanjaro and north of Lake Nyasa receive more than 1.5 m.
29.       The Ministry of Water and Energy (MWE) has responsibility for
management and development of all water resources. However, regional
development plans are reviewed jointly by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO)
and MWE. The water supply system in Dar es Salaam is the responsibility of
the Dar es Salaam Water Corporation Sole (DSC) which reports to both PMO
and MWE. A National Urban Water Authority (NUWA) was established in April
1981 to take over and operate major urban water systems in the country, as
an autonomous and financially self-sustaining entity. NUWA is currently
being staffed to administer Dar es Salaam as its first operating unit in
1982/83, and would receive technical assistance under the project (see
paragraph 46 below).
30.       At the last census in 1978, Tanzania's urban population was about
2 million; of these about 85% had access to piped water. About 1 in 5
urban residents had individual house connections while the rest depended on
public standpipes. During recent years, owing to insufficient public
funds, the expansion of urban water systems has fallen behind the growth of
demand; in addition, operation and maintenance standards have suffered.
Sewerage and Sanitation
31.       Sewerage and sanitation in the urban areas are the responsibility
of the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development (ARDHI). While
towns are responsible for operating and maintaining capital facilities,
ARDHI prepares or approves plans for new investment and supervises project
implementation. ARDHI assumed this responsibility from MWE, by
Presidential Order, following the 1977 cholera epidemic which dramatized
the sewerage problem in Dar es Salaam. Only six towns have partial access
to waterborne sewerage -- Arusha, Dar es Salaam, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora and
Tanga; the population served is about 200,000. The remainder of the urban
population uses septic tanks and pit latrines. As in the case of general
water facilities, sewerage and sanitation operations and pit latrine
emptying services have declined during the 1970s, particularly during the
period 1974-1978 when town councils were abolished. In future, the
Government hopes to emphasize upgrading of low-cost, on-plot sanitation
facilities to satisfactory hygienic levels, both in urban and rural areas.
It also intends to improve waterborne sewerage services for the remainder
of the population, where practical.
32.       Three factors constrain current efforts to improve sewerage and
sanitation services in Tanzania. First, the structure of existing
organizations both in ARDHI and town councils are inadequate for



- 11 -
implementing projects or operating completed systems. Second, there is a
lack of qualified staff. While about 300 administrators and technicians
could be usefully employed in Dar es Salaam alone by the year 1990, there
are very few graduate sanitary engineers in Tanzania and ARDHI's training
institute has only 25 entrants per year. Third, even with low-cost methods
of sewerage and sanitation, the financial implications of national
improvements are very large. The search for less costly but equally
efficient sanitation methods must be continued.
Sewerage and Sanitation Facilities in Dar es Salaam
33.       The population of Dar es Salaam has increased from about 69,000
in 1948 to about 782,000 in 1978 at an average rate of 8.5% per annum. At
least 60% of the population lives in unplanned housing areas, which occupy
about 40% of all residential land. By 1999, the city is expected to have
2.4 million residents. The city's water is treated and piped from three
major river sources. Accurate figures on water distribution do not exist
as metering of both water production and water use is inadequate; however,
existing water sources are considered adequate for Dar es Salaam until
1987 or 1988 without additional river regulation. There are frequent
interruptions of service, however, and in some areas water is supplied only
intermittently. These service interruptions are caused by inadequate mains
(especially in the city center), faulty interconnections between pressure
zones, equipment breakdowns due to poor maintenance and the lack of proper
organization and staff.
34.       The sanitation requirements of about 90% of Dar es Salaam
residents are met with on-plot facilities, namely pit latrines and septic
tank systems. The rest of the city is served by a waterborne sewerage
system introduced in 1948. The city center system discharges through an
ocean outfall just north of the harbour entrance; nine other isolated
systems exist in outlying areas, using waste stabilization ponds and
discharging into local watercourses.
35.       The condition of the existing sewerage system is extremely bad.
The ocean outfall is broken near the shore and only one of the nine waste
stabilization ponds is operating with some degree of effectiveness. Of the
17 existing pumping stations, only one can be operated. A number of major
sewers are blocked completely. Septic conditions, causing serious
corrosion of sewers and dangerous concentrations of gases, can be observed
at several locations. Existing conditions cause a surcharge of sewers and
overflows to storm drains, streams, the harbour and beaches. The result is
serious pollution and a major risk to health. Design of on-plot sanitation
*          structures often is not satisfactory and emptying of pits and disposal of
contents are poorly done, causing serious pollution problems.
36.       The basic cause of the existing sewerage and sanitation situation
is poor operation and an almost complete lack of maintenance, particularly
since 1974, when the City Council was abolished.   Deficiencies in the
original designs of some facilities may also be a contributing factor.
Engineering studies suggest that parts of the present sewerage system would
have sufficient capacity for expanded service if they were restored to a
reasonable condition. The answer to the city's problems in this sector
i-es in improving the institutional base of sewerage services and
increasing revenues from their beneficiaries.



- 12 -
Previous Bank Group Experience in Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation
37.       A Bank loan of $15.0 million (Loan 1354-TA) was approved in 1977
for the expansion of water supplies in Morogoro. This project includes
construction of an earth dam across the Ngerengere River near Morogoro with
tower intake, culvert and spillway; production facilities including
transmission pipelines, treatment and pumping stations, storage reservoirs
and reticulation extensions in Morogoro; management advisory services in
the Ministry of Water and Energy and a contribution to MWE's training
program for the water supply sector. Implementation of this project is
about 2 years behind schedule because of poor performance by the main civil
works contractor for the dam. The contractor has recently been replaced,
and the project is now expected to be completed by June 1984. A
supplementary IDA credit of US$4 million for this project was approvedon
June 24, 1982. (IDA/R82-81).
38.       In addition to the Morogoro Water Supply Project, five IDA
financed projects in the rural development and urban sectors have contained
water supply and sanitation components. These are: the First and Second
National Sites and Services Projects (Credits 495-TA and 732-TA); the
Tabora Rural Development Project (Credit 703-TA); the Kigoma Rural
Development Project (Credit 508-TA); and the Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural
Development Project (Credit 803-TA). No major implementation problems have
been experienced with these components, except in Mwanza/Shinyanga, where
it has been difficult to identify villages willing to make financial
contributions to shallow well construction, owing to the availability of
similar facilities on grant terms from bilateral donors.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government with
assistance from IDA and was appraised in June/July 1981. Two Project
Preparation Facility Advances amounting to a total of US$1.0 million were
approved in July 1979 and May 1980 for the preparation of a master plan,
feasibility studies, preliminary designs and for other technical
assistance. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled: "Dar es Salaam Sewerage
and Sanitation Project" is being circulated to the Executive Directors
separately.  Negotiations were held in Washington from August 2 to August
11, 1982 and the Tanzanian Delegation was led by Mr. Joshua Minja,
Principal Secretary at the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban
Development. A Credit and Project Summary is at the beginning of this
Report and a Supplementary Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Objective and Description of the Project
40.       The project would be a modest first stage in a long range program
to develop basic sanitation in Dar es Salaam to meet acceptable standards
of public health and adequate levels of efficiency. In addition to
rehabilitation of the defunct existing sewerage system, the project would
focus primarily on low-cost on-plot sanitation facilities which will serve
the majority of the population for many years and on the development of the



- 13 -
services, institutions, management and financial practices required for
sewerage and sanitation facilities to be properly planned, constructed,
operated and maintained in the future. More specifically, the project
would substantially improve the pit emptying service for about 70,000
existing low-cost sanitation units. The project would promote public
acceptance and adoption of better standards of low-cost sanitation and
hygienic practices and provide improved latrines for about 40,000 people.
Sewer services to about 6,000 properties would be restored and such
services would be provided to about 600 additional properties which have
access, but are not connected, to the existing sewerage system. Management
services would be engaged to initiate proper operation and maintenance of
the sewerage and sanitation services, to install satisfactory financial
management and cost recovery systems and to train counterpart staff to
perform such functions permanently. The project would have the following
components:
(a) rehabilitation and improvement of existing sewerage
facilities;
(b) construction of pit latrines and replacement or conversion
of inadequate existing on-plot sanitation units;
(c) improvement of DCC's pit emptying service;
(d) establishment and development of a Sewerage and Sanitation
Department (DSSD) in DCC;
(e) provision of offices, workshops, equipment and spare parts
required for the management and maintenance of sewerage
facilities and sanitation services;
(f) training for professional and technical staff;
(g)  technical assistance to ARDHI, DCC, NUWA and TANESCO; and
(h) provision of consulting engineering services for detailed
design and supervision of project construction, for
additional studies of sanitation-related problems, and for
preparation of a Stage II project.
Detailed Features
41.       Sewerage Rehabilitation and Improvement.  Sewerage rehabilitation
would be one of the major components of the project. The existing ocean
outfall and stabilization ponds would be rehabilitated. Once the existing
system has been returned to full physical operation, the quality of the
receiving waters would be monitored continuously as the basis for changing
operating procedures and for future design (Section 3.04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). About 130 km of sewers and pumping mains
would be cleared, inspected, and repaired. The 17 pumping stations would
be rehabilitated and their mechanical and electrical equipment replaced.
Nine waste stabilization ponds with a total area of about 27 ha would be
repaired and improved. In addition, about 600 new sewer service
connections would be constructed. While there is no provision in the



- 14 -
project for extensions to the existing sewerage system, it is expected that
some new sewerage facilities would be required in Stage II. The project
includes consulting services for detailed design of these Stage II
facilities (paragraph 45).
42.       The rehabilitation and construction work would be designed and
supervised by a firm of consulting engineers under contract with ARDHI.  A
contract for such work was signed in December 1981 with Howard Humphreys
and Partners (United Kingdom), and work commenced in January 1982.  New
office buildings for DSSD, its Mechanical and Electrical Division, and
improvements to three existing depots would be designed and supervised by
locally-based consulting firms under contract with ARDHI. Land would be
acquired for the new DSSD buildings, dumping points for pit emptying
vehicles and expansion of the three sewerage depots. Such land acquisition
would be completed before tenders were invited for the works, but in any
case not later than June 30, 1983 (Section 3.09 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
43.       Low-Cost Sanitation.  The project would also focus on low-cost
sanitation. Present waste disposal systems and hygienic practices
contribute heavily to the high mortality and morbidity levels in the city.
Installation and improvement of on-plot sanitation units would reflect the
results of extensive experiments with upgraded low cost sanitation methods
in the city. More than 100 demonstration units have been constructed and
numerous surveys, health education trials and workshops have been under-
taken during the last three years under the auspices of a UNDP-financed low
cost sanitation project (GLO/78/006) for which the Bank Group is the
executing agency.  Further changes in design of the sanitation units are
expected to occur during project implementation, particularly with a view
to reducing costs.  About 3,600 pit latrines at residences and about 100 at
schools would be constructed.
44.       The proposed project would include substantial improvement in
DCC's pit emptying services which are presently unreliable.  Additional
discharge points would be established for pit emptying vehicles; there
would be improvement in vehicle control and emptying procedures; and the
number and maintenance of vehicles would be enhanced.
45.       Technical Assistance and Training.  The project would provide
consulting engineering services, mainly for detailed design and supervision
of construction. It would also include the engagement of long term
personnel by ARDHI and DCC to fill key management and operating positions
at DSSD and to assist with the training of local staff. The Ministry staff
would include a Project Manager and Low Cost Sanitation Engineer, who would
have overall supervisory responsibility for the project (see paragraph
47) and a social scientist, who would advise on the most effective means of
disseminating improved sanitation practices. The full complement of DSSD's
senior staff would be recruited internationally and include a General
Manager; Finance Manager; Sewerage Manager; Low Cost Sanitation Manager;
Transportation/Equipment Supervisor; Mechanical/Electrical Engineer; Health
Education Specialist; and Training Officer. An accounting consultant and
systems analyst would also be provided to the Tanzania Electric Supply
Company, Limited (TANESCO), to allow it to adapt its billing, collecting



- 15 -
and accounting procedures to accommodate the requirements of Dar es
Salaam's water supply, sewerage and sanitation operations. An additional
commercial training officer would be provided to TANESCO to assist with
training of DCC accountants. The selection, qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment of specialists and consultants under the
project would be satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The project woul( finance training for five
civil engineers, two mechanical/electrical engineers, as well as three
health specialists, eleven accountants and forty various technicians.
Counterpart staff at DSSD would receive about thirty months of working
experience with agencies responsible for sewerage and sanitation outside
Tanzania and a total of about six months of short courses inside and
outside Tanzania.
46.       Support for NUWA.  Assistance to NUWA would involve the
engagement of a management consulting firm to select necessary personnel,
help introduce new management systems and initiate senior staff training.
Five senior officers would report directly to NUWA's Director General:
Directors of Operations; Program Planning and Implementation; Finance;
Manpower, Personnel and Training; and the Secretary. Such staff would make
recommendations to NUWA's Board on physical and financial objectives for
urban water supplies, tariff policies, capital development and operations
and maintenance - first in Dar es Salaam, but eventually throughout the
country. As the institution grows, it is possible that NUWA will also be
asked to coordinate the development of sewerage and sanitation services
outside the capital.
Organization and Implementation
47.       The project would be implemented and managed by ARDHI and DCC.  A
Project Management Committee, chaired by ARDHI's Director of Sewerage and
Drainage, and including key staff from DCC would deal with policy matters.
In addition, a Project Implementation Unit, headed by a Project Manager, is
being established in the Sewerage and Drainage Division of ARDHI with
responsibility for procurement, administration and supervision of
contractors and consulting services, project accounts and other project
matters. The Project Implementation Unit would include ARDHI's engineer
for low-cost sanitation. The Project Implementation Unit would have the
following key staff, most of whom are already in place: the Project
Manager, two engineers, an accountant, a technician, and office support
personnel.
48.       During project implementation, DCC would create and develop a Dar
es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Department (DSSD); provide advice
through the Project Management Committee; decide on the location of new
low-cost sanitation units; provide counselling services in public health;
and promote low-cost sanitation programs. Establishment of DSSD was
approved in May 1982 by the City Council, the Prime Minister's Office, and
the Treasury. Appointment of key officers of DSSD would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement). During the early years, DSSD would operate as a
semi-autonomous department of DCC responsible for financing its own
operations. To enable it to do so with a minimum of difficulty, DSSD would



- 16 -
adopt a management information system and billing and collection
arrangements similar to those already operating at TANESCO. TANESCO is one
of the best managed and financially most sound institutions in Tanzania,
and it has recently acquired a new computer with sufficient capacity to
handle DSSD's, as well as NUWA's, data processing needs. DCC would train a
sufficient number of its staff in TANESCO's methods and procedures to allow
the introduction of a similar management information system for its
sewerage and sanitation services not later than June 30, 1984 (Section 2.02
of the draft Project Agreement).  A survey of service connections for
sewerage, water supply and electricity would also be completed by December
31, 1983 to facilitate monthly billing for all three services on a similar
but separate basis (Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). TANESCO would be paid by NUWA and DSSD for the cost of any
training received, as well as monthly fees based on the number of computer
transactions handled. The replication of an already smoothly operating
billing and collection system, combined with the substantial provision for
start-up technical assistance, should prove invaluable in facilitating
DSSD's initial operations.
49.       The technical assistance component for NUWA would be administered
by the Ministry of Water and Energy.
Project Cost and Financing
50.       The total project cost at July 1982 prices is estimated at about
US$29.1 million,including foreign exchange costs equivalent to about
US$13.2 million, or 46% of total project costs. The approximate project
budget is provided in the Project and Credit Summary at the front of this
Report. Price contingencies on foreign costs have been set at 8.0% in
1983, 8.0% in 1984, 7.5% in 1985 and 7.0% in 1986. Price contingencies on
local costs for the same periods have been established at 15.0%, 16.0%
13.0% and 12.0% respectively. Full costs of technical assistance
(including salary, subsistence and international travel) are estimated at
US$7,000 per man-month; 368 man-months would be required. Full costs of
internationally provided consulting services would be US$7,350 per man
month; 83 man-months would be required. The proposed IDA credit of US$22.5
million would finance 100% of the foreign costs, (US$13.2 million) and 58%
of the local costs (US$9.3 million), or 76% of the total costs, of the
project. The Government would provide the remaining US$6.6 million in
local costs. Local costs include duties on direct imports and taxes on
consulting services which are estimated at about US$3.4 million, or 12% of
total project costs.
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       Contracts for rehabilitation of sewerage structures and con-
struction of DSSD's headquarters building, estimated at about US$9.0
million including contingencies, would be let through international compe-
titive bidding (ICB), in accordance with the Association's guidelines.
Eligible domestic bidders would be given a preference of 7.5% in connection
with such awards. The remaining portion of construction for the project
(about US$6.0 million, including contingencies) would consist of minor
works and buildings, for which individual contracts would amount to less
than US$1.0 million. These are not likely to attract foreign bidders and



- 17 -
would be let through local competitive bidding procedures which are
acceptable to the Association. Procurement of equipment and vehicles
(US$3.6 million, including contingencies) would be grouped in appropriate
bidding packages and undertaken through ICB. Qualifying domestic
manufacturers would be given a 15% preference, or one equivalent to the
duty on such items, whichever is lower. Miscellaneous items of equipment
and furniture, in amounts less than US$50,000 and totalling US$0.5 million
would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures. All
contracts for work over US$0.7 million and goods over US$150,000 would be
subject to prior review of procurement documents by the Association.   Any
initial bidding package would also be subject to such review; the remaining
orders would be subject to selective review by the Association after award
of contract.
52.       The credit would be disbursed over six years against:  (a) 100%
of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures on equipment,
furnishings and vehicles (except for the NUWA component of the project);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures for civil
works; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures for
consultants' services, technical assistance and training (except for NUWA);
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures for
technical assistance and equipment for NUWA; and (e) 100% of the cost of
refunding the PPF advance. Expenditures incurred after December 31, 1981
up to an amount of US$0.5 million for the early stages of the consulting
engineering contract for sewerage rehabilitation would be financed
retroactively under the credit (Schedule 1, Paragraph 4 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). These expenditures are necessary to
maintain the momentum of project preparation.
Cost Recovery and Other Financial Provisions
53.       The proposed project would attempt to re-establish sewerage and
sanitation services in Dar es Salaam on a sound financial footing. Current
sewerage charges are well below the level necessary to cover existing
operating expenses of the system, let alone permit proper maintenance and
selective expansion of such facilities. Because they are highly capital
intensive and benefit a relatively small proportion of the population,
sewerage services by the end of the project would be provided on the basis
of full cost recovery. The system of establishing charges would be
revised. These are currently based on estimates of water consumption,
which are unreliable, as only 25% of industrial and domestic water
consumers have fully operating water meters. As charges have not been
adjusted for some time, and it would not be reasonable to increase these
sharply until services are substantially improved, sewerage tariffs would
be raised over a period of two years (FY84 abd FY85), to a level sufficient
to cover costs. As a basis for the final adjustment of charges, the
Government would complete a tariff study and furnish it to the Association
for its review by June 30, 1984. Proposals for a new tariff structure for
sewerage services would be prepared by December 31, 1984, and implemented
promptly thereafter, taking into account the Association's comments on the
proposals (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Beginning in FY85, the level of sewerage charges would be reviewed
annually, and adjusted as necessary to cover all of DSSD's expenses on its
sewerage operations, as well as generate sufficient cash to meet 20% of



- 18 -
DSSD's capital requirements (Section 4.04(a) of the draft Project
Agreement). Pit latrine emptying charges would also be raised by June 30,
1983 so as to meet all operating costs, including interest and an adequate
provision for the depreciation of fixed assets, as well as debt repayments
to the extent that these exceeded the provision for depreciation (Section
4.03(a) of the draft Project Agreement). Payments for pit latrine emptying
services would be made in advance (Section 4.03(b) of the draft Project
Agreement).
54.       DSSD would also be required to meet other financial targets.
Late receipts for sewerage services would not be allowed to accumulate for
more than ninety days (Section 4.05 of the draft Project Agreement) and DCC
would not incur further debt on behalf of DSSD for purposes other than the
project, unless net revenue for the preceding fiscal year were at least 1.5
times DCC's debt service requirements (Section 4.06 of the draft Project
Agreement).
55.       To permit recovery of installation costs for improved pit
latrines, DCC would introduce arrangements satisfactory to the Association
which would allow individual householders to borrow funds to finance the
construction or upgrading of such facilities on their premises (Section
2.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
56.       A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under the Sewerage and
Drainage Division of ARHDI and headed by a Project Manager would have
responsibility for project accounts. To monitor the implementation of the
project and the operational development of DSSD, DCC would submit quarterly
reports to the Association summarizing physical progress, showing actual
project expenditures and forecasting future expenditures based on revised
cost estimates up to completion of the project. The numbers of employees
by categories showing progress of recruitment and training, compared with
the operational staffing plan for DSSD, would also be included in such
reports. Annual reports on operation would include the number of sewerage
connections compared with the previous year; the number of pit emptying
loads transported compared with targets; income statements, funds flow
statements and balance sheets for each of the Piped Sewerage and Low Cost
Sanitation units of DSSD; number of days' billings outstanding compared to
agreed targets; and details of major plant and equipment acquired during
the year. DCC would maintain separate financial accounts on DSSD's
operations and furnish audited versions of these each year to the
Association (Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
57.       The most significant benefit resulting from the project would be
the substantial reduction in health hazards arising from poor sanitation
and malfunctioning of the existing sewerage system and pit emptying
practices. Another major project benefit would be the development of an
institution capable of adequately operating, maintaining and eventually
expanding the city's sewerage and sanitation facilities. The institution
is expected to be the core of a future Tanzanian national institution for
sewerage and sanitation services. About 100,000 people would benefit
directly from the project (60,000 people with an improved sewerage service,



- 19 -
and about 40,000 people with new or reconstructed pit latrines) and the
entire population would benefit indirectly through improved pit emptying
services and the reduction of pollution and health hazards.
58.       One major project risk is the possible failure of DSSD to develop
as an efficiently operating organization to main :ain the rehabilitated
sewerage system and expand the low-cost sanitatiin program. Another risk
is that collections for sewer and sanitation servrices might not reach
satisfactory levels.  The project has been designed to minimize these risks
by including substantial provision for training and technical assistance.
In addition, future projects in the sector would attempt to follow through
on the institutional development achieved during this first phase.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and the Dar es Salaam City Council, and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the Credit are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
60.       Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit would include
(a) execution of a Transfer Agreement between the Borrower and the Dar es
Salaam City Council (DCC) and (b) appointment of key staff at the DCC's new
Department of Sewerage and Sanitation Services (DSSD) (Section 6.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachment
November 29, 1982
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 20-                                           Page 1 of 6
Page 1
TABLE 3A
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AltAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL            945.1                                     HOST RECENT            LDW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOQE
ACRICULTURAL     401.4                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      70.0       130.0      280.OLI              250.8                  1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          41.1        63.0       50.5                 66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    10201.0      13300.0   18650.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    4.8           6.9       11.8                 17.8                    28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          36.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           110.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           10.8        14.1      19.1                  27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         26.6        33.4      44.9                  86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             42.7        44.4      46.0                  44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                             54.3        52.5      50.9                  52.3                    51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       3.0         3.1       3.0                   2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.2         2.7       3.4                   2.7                     2.8
URBAN                                  5.0         6.3       8.7                   6.2                     5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         46.6        46.8      46.3                  47.3                    47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         22.4        18.6       15.1                 19.5                    15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.0         3.1        3.2                  3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)           ..          ..       93.6/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)        ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              95.0       104.0      89.0                  88.7                    90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       90.0        91.0      86.5/d                90.2                    93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              46.3        48.8      47.67d                53.1                    54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           17.8        21.2      20.5/d                18.4                    17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         33.1        25.6       19.4                 26.7                    23.9
HEALtH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        41.7        46.7      51.6                  45.6                    51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              151.5       125.3      102.9                129.9                   118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..        13.0      39.0/e                23.9
URBAN                                   ..        61.0      88. 07o               54.9
RURAL                                   ..         9.0      36.07e                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..       17.0/e               25.8
URBAN                                   ..          ..      88.07:                63.1
RURAL                                   ..          ..      14.07                20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             18216.1     22240.8   17553.1/d             32097.3                 14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        11886.9/f.R  7162.1    2387.57a              3264.6                  2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                595.5/      717.8    499.8/d               1225.0                  1036.4
URBAN                                 55.37j      58.6      81.37d               249.5                   430.8
RURAL                               1532.9/         ..    1191.171              1712.1                  3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   *-         4.4/i
URBAN                                  3.1/h       3.27i
RURAL                                   *.         4.571     5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                  1.8/h        ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   . .
RURAL                                                 *        **



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                                Page 2 of 6
Page 2
TABLE 3A
TANZA1!X-1-CIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA                       REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE^AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)=
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSSD ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY!     TOTAL                 25.0         39.0     104.0                  63.2                      83.3
MALE                  33.0        47.0      113.0                  72.7                     96.1
FEMALE                18.0        31.0       94.0                  50.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          3.0       4.0                  10.2                      15.3
MALE                   2.0         4.0        5.0                  13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                 1.0         2.0        2.0                   6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 22.6             ..       1.6                   7.9                       4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            45.3         45.9      41.4                  47.4                     38.6
SECONDARY                          19.6         18.4      19.0                  26.2                     23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         9.5/g       28.1/i    66.0/c                34.0                      35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.4          2.5       2.6/d                 3.0                     31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         11.3      27.7                  34.8                     71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          0.3       0.3                   1.7                      17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.5           ..      10.1                   2.9                      19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5            ..       0.2/d                 1.1                       0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4734.7       5841.7    7660.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   37.2         36.7      36.0                  34.1                     36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              89.0         86.0      83.0                  78.4                      56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.0          5.0       6.0                   9.2                     17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                46.4         43.9      41.1                   41.4                     37.0
MALE                                 59.1         56.3      53.1                  53.9                      46.9
FEMALE                               34.0         31.8      29.2                  29.1                      27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1       1.2                    1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         24.7
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          50.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          5.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         16.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     147.0                 134.3                     507.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     109.0                  82.9                    200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..            .     125.0                  96.4                    523.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      74.0                  60.4                     203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
-*                       POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      10.0                  39.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      60.0                  69.0
Not available
Ndt applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Eatirnate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1976; /d 1977; /e 1975; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /g 1962; /h 1958;
/i 19677 /.  for Mainland Tanzania only.
May, 1982



- 22---                                                                             ANTNEX I
Page 3 of 6
ni aw seit axcaga
Eonsa: Aie thelb dana oa d.- free s m-lly 1apd the sat a.tb-itaiv d asIiabla, in bd4 aloe be actd that they a,y ant ho in-r
einatlly  nrbabateoc  of lba loch of stnhadwde.d dsfininiooaaa    coacpta ad by diffe-o  onoatia  in nol1-iorto  the data.  Th. data art,
thMala. cefo1 to dasriba order, of  sgtt ., l...at  traM.. anad c-Jctr.,cran  ao  di ffreocas hangou  oounrte..
The rtrcngroupo aro (I) cth              ...coutry group of the onbinot cotty and (2) a coun try group viih o.sha' high.r allragotocoa  thou the country group
of tho otj.hjt country (accept for  "'High Incom    Oil t"rtar:" group o.ane. "Middle taco  North Afric.aacd Oiddle talti chos.- bocause of acrog-r
eocic-citvraiafftuiionf.  I  the rfora,aa anou  deco cba  avr .a nra popooccu  sigh. ta  aiteci  sn   fur snob Indicator and aba  unly aban
eaJority of tha            L.onisi  A groap has data for chat indicator.  Si..c tba  -uvrag  of ino gle atche Indica..r  dapndo on the avalihbility of data
adic con  tifura. cauino     ao ho anercised It relating  -vergaa of u-  indicatr cc  -tha.,  Thaaave-.g. ure only noufu1 ii. copriog tha valu  of
nnindicator on a tIf  aeca  the co..otry cnd rofaranca.groopa.
AUREA (cho-aced soho..)                                                                       PouainearH ..oaritalDn  - total, ur an,tAmn                  opltc   cni
Total - Total a-faco ama c-Wrining laud area ead inlad fir;1979 dotc.                         urban, and papal) diridad by chir- raspaciv  n        rof hospical bada
cartoulloral - tatisca of agricultural an-  uaod c        -raily or partnetly                  aelebatopbi  an  pivtegenrl andIapeotuliod hoapital and ra-
f or cropa. pesu-.-  aaIkt and hinchon gardena or to lie faille; 1979 date.                 hbitacio  catara.Hapicais -o. atablnahstta par=oucy s-f fad
by at bea  one pbyakici.  ta-blilabanc  providiag Prnialy inato-
RTP P   CITA (tSll.- GNP Per capit   a  fitn  Iicrru  eahtpi .ca1-                              dal cae  r  an  Locladed.  ga-l hoepitlel. h.--r   -inida health
cltdby  e    t covarico mtbod ae acI,d Bc  Aca(9840bai)  1960,                            and sdical c..tera.ant pop=aeocy.e-ffnd bya byicia  (but byA
1970. and L99O dae                                                                             eicaL aca.taneot. noac,adia,        tn.)  hbh  tfar t-p "on    Cc -
Action and pronide a liltnd rouga if sdical facities   For stanC-
taNEW! CCISUltftTIo  PRP CAPITA - acoalcoecptotof  cucibnarg   (coal                            tinal purp..o  urban hoopitala intlude VW.R pricipaI/goanpl heapitola.
ondrligaitarcol,.ccrloandtbylr-.ncorogeta liec-                                               anrru-auai.ou                   hrrua pbcrnnleedaedica1nedaator-ity
tIcIy) I   iogoco  ca   qivaleon Pep rapnta; L960, 1970. and 1979                            cotr.Iaiaicd aPint    aeincluded  nlouder cotal.
data.                                                                                       Adiai=   pop H tapial ted - Total n         Ia of'Adalatina   to or dinobarges
fins bo-pinais divided by cho tutoar of hods. 
PPOLUATION ANit VITAL STATISTICS
TtiPpatn,Kid-Tea  (thousade) - Au of July 1; 1960. 1970. etA  1990               HanUSING
daa                                                                                       Averag  lin   of gn      Ihod (ee        pe   oc td)    ct l,uban. and ropai-
Urban Ponitiot(prcn  ofttl              R atio of urban to total population;                  A banahold coaita  f a grnp o   niial   i  hare livingquetr
differen  deflicoan of urbec arc  my affect ceaParebility of data                            and thoir -L. s.i..  A bcarder or lodger soy or sy ttbe icclcdnd in
_cogcounatpiae; 1961. 1970 . aed 1980 date,                                                  the hb..nobold for a.teiet il pnrf.....
Pop..lacien Projacti..e                                                                      Avrs  eutr of          ...rPa pr ....a-tocel,  ra.  nod Irua  -aneree nc
Populat1ion it year 2000) - Currant population projaction  are  oedo  I                     barIf -opon.per ... Iv all urbe, and rura  occpid  coned aa
coral. pouatio  by  Ze. nod see and their soriaicyan  fartIiily.ratee.,                   deolli.ga, repectively.  .alngoclade ne-orooo    crtcurc  ned
Projection paroaItre for aorcliry r          -e ceriL- of tbree  evl  aes"  -             corcpiod Pane.
eg life .e....cte..cy ahirthI_ ..c.n tI    b -conty'. aPer r-ptin incus                Arcen to tEc-tric itr(pie  of d7niline)s2         otl urb,ancorua-
ivianPeia lifa- anpecacy  aiblo          t77.5 yar-Thpre-CoevIoa .-danlva   th  lcniiyinhm    -uriara asP   ..t,
ounrn  u  fertility race 5)00 hove three feela. -acd.eg dclian  itof 1oca, uban, and rura  donllitgtr-pocttv-ly.
fert ility according to bI     flevl and poat molly pl.ianlo  porforonc..
Bach -accry Ie ihen aooigtd ca  of the. ao u        -ioe ctlniota of anriaity         EDUCATIIO
and fertil tty iretA  fop rojciepurpoaea.                                               ndjuoted tnrol1n ortR.,
Stationary nonulontun - loccaionar   pop.latlio chore ia               troha:itr            friary srlol - cte),l  -lie and tr-le - iroa. total   a oad flam
the bieth raeIn.     qo   toho death rate, end elan the.g         ucr   t                   e-oliten  of all agea at the peitary leveI on prceeca,es of repertive
_ian  cotat.nto.. ThnI chievd only after frtilicy r...a decIlne no                          pr~Iny nobool-aga populali...e;  -erIIy c icudet childree aged i-li
the     icstlvlo   ntea   erdcinrt,ot  each gIIonIatretic                                   year. hoc adjuated for differan   ilegt h. of Pr iary educacic; for
of as   alrniol  oc l y.  Tepredationr                   h..uatle.i.h nacoutriaoitb  ceiversal eduralino  erloeify ouced 100 Percen
eacistad  on the basis of the proTjactd thro iaiao  hepplio.                       aic.  aes pupiie arebato  or aoeibh  offUicia   rhon1 Age.
.in he 70cr 2000, and iho race of d-clive of fertility rate to riploce-                   S-eodary apoo     ttl,aeIe  fesl   -  optd  0ooescndr
set lanai.                                                           e~~~~~~~~~~~~~duc.aiiorequi-eaet Ieet. ton f.Iearo of approve  prisr   intucin
Year eo io ,e poultin ia porebd - The year oh-  Iatnienary populaciot                          previdoo go..ara.1 n-eina or teacher ItraInIngI        ocucv   o  ppl
ian pill bereachod.                                                                         ....aily of 12 to 17 yera of oge; correaped..ce co-o. ore g.eerally
Pe Mq   a      id-year puuIacice Par equare ktlooutr (100 bactria.) ofOrtcn   noit   Prrof                           f eooar) - O         ictoe1 i-is-iu lon
coccI are; 1960 -1970 cod 1979 do.trueicecl.iduara.e   te  pSorot  thich operace indepod-
Par enI. . egriouiuo  land - Coarcid as above for  griculitral land                         petly or no dep-ri-tn  of aecoedary   eittn.
oil .y; 190  N1970ad, 199 dace.                                                           fupl-nabr rtio- yiery. nod I c.oidery -!Tel atdeeco onro11ad iv
PoultonAc    tucre (P,rra.) -Children  10-14 yeara), ooking-nge (15-                 priar  en1-reor   evl  divded hy  -utra of teachers In the
yacra). ad retired(iS faead coop) -  percen.itgee of old-yoer pep.. copeapdieg  ovel..
Lacc;16,1970,..ad 1990 daia.                                                              odul Illt...acv race (preiI-Literate adufle fable in rood and trite)
.,aio  ivtiBtIieonc  -cca       evul grovh reipt ot total old-                         Ia apercentge of lot.ladul  popuIlailu  aged 15 yeare and over.
year populaien for 19I0,1W-O   o   970-80.
P    G-etc  i i  Blanetecec)-uban- Ace-o  gr001 rceI of -rbot popu-                 CO9SIOPCInlo
lanto.. for134.  907,an   901                                                             PaqaenaeU  Cars (pe  thaod  pepaet               ..) . feg.r -rer  -oprioe  -co
Crdo Oligh Bate (per the Id) - Aunuol Ioe bpi ha pop thnnd of eid-yo                           a.eeiv   enthyea-peae;00ludeeohlea.  heerre. end
PoPultin  100.190, ced 1980 dote,                                                           alllioryveiet
C-udo leadtac  (0ev  rhou....d) - oc-io  deathe par Ihu.....dof old-year                    Radloeclue  (per Ihvuaed populatnoe) - All cypeo of raceiver  for radio
popolaicon;  AG. 0970, ad 1900 doce-broodrenpar  geerol publlr per  'ho...e.d ofI                                   ruaion; etc1oeeu-
ir6. Bprduc "o Pc-'veag   ec rofduhtrcnne  nhbo   iltaadleer  i   onitoez   t  or then rgiotractoe of radio
her nepoel reproutv eod       d i  si peIr.e....ee  .ga-o- pcfic fey-                        nt  -aslio efoci da   too recn  pr toy not ho  -opr..hbe niece
tin Par;uuly fiv-year average. eedi.g le 1960, 1970, aed 1980.                                                  1 a:rucitaoibd lrnia
FooilyvPlcaiea-AreconA        oou (l)h -ueda) - Acoonluoaberof arcprora                       Oeevea(e  choeodronP'              io)TVrrvi-ra for broadcoet to
of birth-cotrol de~ica cee upicen of -aicnal feily PIl...log Progran.                        getreipuhic per chnu   d populetive;  -vldea ueli .c..ed TO I-civer
faalvlaIIooUt-ai       aroran4ufsrridnoo-  ococg  ofanpried                                  II -oor-oooodi  foar  oeegtriof TV aeiooa .                       I.eff-ci.
`=si of chiId-herin a`ge  15-44 yearo) thu coa  tirthc.-ruu1  de-i-et I.                   -PaprCrueio( i               houeaod1  rrlot) - Sh-t Ih  averge rIpI-
all  pr-nd 00-n  Iv  .:ago. troop.                                                          culeIrci   o  "aiy   roar  iJrreeoc novepoper", defIned coo.peri;odical
pubIli-atio   devoird pri_ariy  00 reoding gero  oats.  It I lcc...idered
FOOD dlgD NUTRfITION                                                                             to be "doily"irfoit oppoore, at leo..t four oiIeenh
lndto of food P-odu-iot Par Conic (1969-71-100)   loden of per capita cinul                 Cioee Anul  tedar  prCpico per Year -Bated or the tuther of
pr-d-cion of all food  cndte.Produ-iloenclodaoea.d and feed and                             tirinto  .Id during the year, i-rludiga doieei..ooa driv-loiaanio
Is oncaede  ya  basin.  C-sditiencoe  prisro  ge                 "S'an  auerce               n  anbi'L.un_c
ianiead of tugar) "hIch are  diblerad cnatelioo(n  coffeeand-
teear  acludtd) .    arogt  p utiio of each conryI  booed on                            LABRO aOCE
tic Al avrg  prdurr price anihi; 196145. 19)0,..ad 1900 data.                        Total Labor Perc- (thonacodo) - Uf...notIrly  -ccine poroot. i-oludiot
Per rapice eupplyofclra  frc.. o  requlrs_ce  - Coap-id fran                                  Ava   fr-e  aId  -anployd boo e- idinih -oeivol  etdooto. aIr
avargy equ-l-aa   of net food eupllo va-ilable in coo-y Per -a icer rt.pplto  ofIaloe.Ofntio  i   ato   onre    r
Par day.  Available aspplit.~oaupriee d-sici  produoici, tprels                              tcoapanable; 1960. 1070 ced 1990 data.
eoprc.-  ad  hagr  i  nich    atecoplio  maclde cobolifeed..nerda.                          Feoe1e (per-ee) - Feselabor forc  -a porce-ieg  of total labor force
quntincle  uaed in  oud prucetieg. eodlouaaaIt diributon    tqire               Agriculture (prcrani  -Lho b      reI. faroing   I..f.rIlly, hooting aid
-ute teee pollute.d by FAM booedniphyailolgi-ol oand  foe norai noil-                         flabhig ae percentage of tocal lab.r furry  1960, 1970 and 19Sf data.
-yi cod healih -oanideriogooccaoaicancir.body acgta   gnldoocc  (,.orc..ci)  U-Lao  forc  Ivnilg  ro1 crur  .cc                                                   ...f.cig
and te  dint.rihucion of pp    aio.an  allying 10 per-oi  foreaatei                           and electricity.  eter cod gao at percn-     eo   oallbrfre
ho.ee:eId level;19615. 1970 and 197) deco.                                                    1160. 1970 and 1980 deco.
Perer -pcc .upply of  -rocin (greas per day) -Pro_tin .o..enI of Pep capita                 Prl roIon(eret      ne,ae   n  feanl  - Prclo ipetiun or
net   ppy o  fod pr dY. atIop        f foud io defiand an abov.Re-                   actiiyItaaecaud0   oe,cl,cd fo.-le labor forrca
qunresni  icr allconcioc ' Nocthlnt.d by USA provide foi aedsso                             roecafllctageDA  ofttl  tale end fe-1a p       tuoion of all.,. ngeropclively;
alloteac. of 60 graz  of coial procetII per day ard 20 gram  of aniocl cod                  1960. 1970 . and 1980 daio.  Thos  ape hate.d on ILO's pariicipaiiorlatee
pule  pronIp.J  of thich 10 grsnudheolepotIn.  Ths  ood-                                    IoeI gesae-anoircreof rho ppulaili,, and 1000 hoae ir-d.  A
rdo are 1-ou  chen chone of 75 grc    f ctal proiri  ai  27 greo  of                      fanetccear   reaPonleooe
aniealProauaaavrgefori,he, -r7d,.propoed byyPAOIIetheybird                                Ec-innlclp..deryrRatio- Ratioof p.p.lari-  -uderl 5 .d 65ntd ver
nol  Pn   ute;191h . 190cd 1577 dta.                                                     to the total labor force
Perreli  potineupl  fne euou   ndplt    ProivJt aupply of food de-
rived tisr.,   cl  an:2dypube  i .!grac  per day; 19615. 1970 cud 1977 data.            INCOMi DInTPItooTIo
Cholgd (noes1b  Basb "'f fear ch,eodl - ActoLl deatho per iho..e.id in                      Perrc.I.ge of Privoc  le-o  (both II c... hetd kind) - BRolined by rich.ni
aggop-  ern.toIrhlldrei lthiouge groupr.forn-tde-elpiogCouv-                       Ip-rrotriheilper.....pooreeo   1 Up-rcanioidyP.....t 4. percoii
-cea dale donne-  fro  life mableo; 1960. 197  and 1900 deco,                               oP f.o. ols
H10AL1                                                                                     fPYnn TOARIT iGOUF 0
Life unccY a   1m   ver) -lAerge outer of yeara of lito rosining                            The follonlog  eoaneare very _ppropi.eoo seue   of I              tery bno
at birth; 160, 197  and  900daca.                                                          oad oheld ha itiaPrepd          I0h ctidrebIe catilon.       ol
Infnt  araliv   aitloP  thoucd) -  nnal deecha ofI lefci coder .e. year               feiteAbniePecy osLai(0)pprie)-rbnedrul-
Actee no late Wlacer (.earer.  of ....rolatic) -tital,= ura. ad rural - Na-                    nutointmadly, cdequei  diot pica ... oetie1 non-fond roqoire-ot  ia act
bar of  ,Peopl  (ncl.uban, and rural) eitbeaatbl  an ..... to ante                          eftordobla.
eater . sPply fIcIndeired         urfaceaner  or unreiedhuionc            -inatooed       fotoatd Balotv  foernv laos L.avel (017 Per caniee) -urbv end pupal1
pacer .-hb 00  heIfro   prtece: oaoa,enea d                                                  Z_n.Iy ole   s  anlreaiv   evry    o I ove  in ca-third cf average per ..plia
pere-outg.n of cheio  -eperive populatlove.  I  an urb    area   public'                    peronai macem  of tho reuntry.  Urb-e level Ia darived frna the rura
fncoatoi or at andpot locted ant tPe thee 20  outer  fr         j a  enn  any be            level tub   Jadjusl for higher rooi of ivot Io urbanaras
conidor.d as being   mihii raena. ble  -ccee. of that hna    truplaIr...                   Rteleated      I PueioBb  Aslt  Ioet  ao  tnl(ecn) - urban
rooaenablo cony. ecald 1y  chac cho hoaneetfe or abersa of tha ho-s-o-hold    and  -orl1  Percen  of pepu1otien Cuohee end rn-1)obar    bsle
do cot hoot cc epod a dieroret- -ni  par   faday  in tocc..g the, baPeep
8 caby' eater needs.
Outer of paeople     te,ab.  nod rua) sevd by entot  dipooaI'
pe.c..tagac of thetr rou    aactv   popslati-a Z.-forac  dipecol -aY include
lb. =ollethc  ed dicoenal  nib Iet iga u       trni,e   o   anga tt
cad  eeeatr by eatap-b.ra  ayeIo  op the  -o  of pit privi  and  ai-
Poennnia an  muscian- PpulactL  divided by o, .e ofpractining phyoi-                                                      toacel  and SanI  Dat  nvinicso
ooe qaclified fre  a fdiral othool on aci-onlp los.                                                                       tro Ial  Aoalyiai  ead Projoutieon  Bapapts-t
Pecoothe eo  beten  orost -Pepinta    Idiveded hramn.  of peetnietag                                                                 Map 1962
si   ad foslo g       .deMs -cns  anite   nee. Pract.Ical        : ane   a~d



- 23 -                                                       ANNEX I
Population         17.5 million (mid-1979)                                                                                            Page 4 of 6
GNP Per Capita:  US$270 (1979)
TANZANIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORSb/
Amount
(million us$ at                                          Annual Growth Rates (7%/)_
Indicator                 current prices)                         Actual                                             Projected
1979           1976      1977      1978       1979      1980-/   1981        1982      1983       1984      1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic productd/ el             4,564.3            6.7       4.7       5.4       3.9       -1.5       3.7       3.6        3.6       3.6        3.6
Agriculture- e2,210.2                                  9.8       7.5        7.4       8.0      -6.1        4.2       3.6        3.6       3.6       3.6
Industry                                549.0           0.9       3.1      -2.2        3.1          -       3.0       4.0       4.0        4.0       4.0
Services                             1,374.8            3.4       5.5       6.5        3.4       4.0        3.4       3.4       3.4        3.4       3.4
Consumption                             4,115.8           1.6      12.3       14.6      -3.4        1.7       4.6       1.9        3.2       3.1        3.2
Gross investment                          958.6          11.5        2.1       3.8      10.9       -6.2       3.6       3.6        3.6       3.6        3.6
Exports of GNFS                           647.9          16.8    -22.8        -2.4      -2.8       -9.6       1.7       7.9        5.2       5.2        5.3
Imports of GNFS                         1,158.0           0.5       4.4       34.9    -19.2         1.3      -2.9      -1.9        2.9       2.6       3.0
Gross national savings                    468.0          64.5      -6.8    -58.0        99.4    -16.9    -23.9         19,0        8.8       9.7       8.8
PRICES
GDP deflator (1978 = 100)                                77.2      92.4    100.9       108.5    124.8    140.4    154.4          168.3    181.8    194.5
Exchange rate (T.Sh. per US$)                             8.4        8.3       7.7       8.3        8.2       8.2       8.2        8.2       8.2        8.2
Share of GDP at Market Priqes (7.)                   Average Annual Increase (%)
(acurent prices)c                              (at constant 1978 prices)
1970      1975      1980       1985      1990      1970-75      1975-80      1980-85     1985-90
Gross domestic productel                                100.0    103.0    100.3    100.0    100.0              4.9          4.1          3.6         3.6
Agriculture-e/                                         36.9      36.9      47.5       47.8      47.9         2.1          5.8         3.7          3.6
Industry                                               15.5      14.5      11.9       12.0      12.3         3.7         0.7          3.9          4.0
Services                                               37.2      37.8       31.1      30.8      30.6         6.S         4.6          3.4          3.4
Consumption                                              81.9      91.7       90.3      88.2       86.4        5.9          6.0          3.1         3.1
Gross investment                                         22.5      21.1       20.0      18.0       18.0        0.2          4.6          2.1         3.6
Exports SNFS                                            -24.0     -18.2    -12.1       -13.9    -15.2         -5.3         -6.2          5.3         5.4
Imports GNFS                                             28.4      31.0       22.5      20.2      19.7        -3.8          4.2         1.1          3.0
Gross national savings                                   18.3       7.8       9.9i      11.6      13.5        -2.4        -3.6          5.7          7.0
As % of GDP
PUBLIC FINANCg                                                       1970    1975      1979
Curreiit -e,re-ue3                                                17.5    20.2    13.5
Current expenditures                                              16.2    20.2    23.9
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                         1.3         -    -5.4
Capital expenditure                                                8.3      11.6     12.7
Foreign financLng                                                  2.0       5.4      6.7
1970-75     1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (,)                                      4.7          4.2          3.6         3.6
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                           1.3          0.8         0.2          0.2
ICOR                                                     5.0          5.5         5.1          5.1
Marginal savings rate                                   -0.1         -0.1         0.1          0.2
Import elasticity                                       -0.8          1.0         0.3          0.8
a/  Estimate
b/  Apart from  trade projectiors, which include small but offsetting amounts of Zanzibar trade, all data in this table are for Mainland
Tanzania only.
c/  Projected years at constant prices.
d/  At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
e/  Historical trend from 1973 to 1979 is based on official estimates, which include subsistence production growth rate of 8.6% per
annum. We estimate that a more realistic growth rate for subsistence production over this period would be nearer 4% per annum,
reducing agricultural growth to 3.4% per annum and GDP growth to 3.6% per annum.



- 24 -                                          ANNEX I
Population        17.5 million (mid-1979)                                                                              ?age 5 of 6
GNP Per Capita:  US$270 (1979)
TANZANIA - EXTERNAL TRADE-'
Amount                                           Annual Growth Rates (7)
Indicator           (million US$ at                                      (at constant 1978 prices)
current prices)                       Actual                   a/                    Projected
________________   1979           1976     1977      1978      1979     1980-    1981       1982      1983     1984      1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports            543.6            7.8    .-9.4       -6.5      6.1    -7.8        2.1      8.5       5.3       5.3       5.3
Major primary products       339.5            9.5    -20.1      -9.7      -0.1    -4.8        3.0      8.8       4.1       4.1      4.1
Others                       204.1            3.3    -18.1       2.7      21.5   -14.0          -      8.0       8.0       8.0      8.0
Merchandise imports          1,099.6          -16.4       7.7      36.8    -18.8      1.0      -3.4      -1.5      2.8       2.8       2.9
Foodgrains                    19.3          -65.2     23.3    -14.7    -42.4   334.0        -3.0    -47.5          -         -         -
Petroleum                    171.7           11.0    -11.5      12.8      -8.9      2.1      -7.9      5.0       3.1       3.3      3.4
Machinery and equipment    515.0            -15.2      25.1     55.1    -10.0    -7.6        -5.4      2.9       2.9       2.9       2.9
Others                       393.6          -13.9       0.7     33.9    -28.9    -7.6         0.7      3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0
PRICES
Export price index                             77.4    106.9    100.0    106.9   122.1    116.6    123.8    136.2    149.4    163.4
Import price index                             81.1      89.5    100.0    118.2   138.2    155.7    173.3    188.5    204.4    220.9
Terms of trade index                           95.4    119.4    100.0       90.4    88.3       74.9     71.4      72.2      73.1      74.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (7.)                Average Annual Increase(%)
(at currenf prices)                          (at constant 1978 prices)
1970     1975      1980      1985     1990      1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Exports                                       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0          -4.5        -5.2         5.6        5.5
Major primary products                       59.2      66.3     69.2      67.6      63.5        0.2        -6.9        5.0         4.1
Others                                       40.8      33.7     30.8      32.4      36.5      -12.9        -1.0        6.8         8.0
Imports                                       100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0           1.8         2.6        0.9         3.0
Foodgrains                                    2.5      15.3      9.2       4.5       3.9      44.8        -5.8       -14.1            -
Petroleum                                     8.5      11.9     12.7      13.1      13.7       4.8            -        2.0         3.9
Machinery and equipment                      35.2      30.8     41.2      38.8      36.9        0.7        11.1         1.7        2.9
Others                                       53.8      42.0     36.9      43.6      45.5       -1.7        -3.3         2.7        3.1
Share of Trade with          Share of Trade with                 Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)    Developing Countries (e/)    Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (X)
1970    1975    1978          1970    1975    1978               1970    1975    1978
DIRECTIDN OF TRADE
Exports                                      54.0    48.2    68.0          40.0    43.3    23.2                 0.6      0.4     0.7
Imports                                      57.9    59.7    74.2          27.3    25.1    17.9                 1.2      3.2     0.8
a/ Estimate
S/ Data are for all Tanzania (Maialand and Zanzibar)



Population      :  17.5 million (mid-1979)                                                                                                                    AITNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 270 million  (1979)                                                       - 25 -                                                            'EXof 6
TANZANIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CA?ITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Actual.!                                                             Prolerted
Indicator                       1970        1976        1977        1979       1979        198G        1981        1982        1983       1984        1985       1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of goods and seroices                    350.4      647.2       669.6       631.2       705.6      740.6       741.8       851.1       979.2    1,123.7    1,286.1    2,289.9
of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                259.3       492.4       547.7      479.2       543.5       572.7       558.2      643.2       744.8       860.4       991.8    1,796.3
Imports of goods and seroices                  377.9       729.6       853.4    1,271.1    1,224.3    1,452.7    1,596.5   1,756.3    1,964.2    2,182.8    2,423.7    3,900-7
of which: %e.bchandise c.i.f.                318.4       630.5       750.3    1,146.5    1,099.6    1,299.1    1,412.9    1,549.1    1,732.6    1,932.3    2,149.2    3,488.1
Net transfero-                                    5.6      -16.4        11.9        19.2        28.1        20.0       21.6        23.3        25.2        27,2       29.4        43.2
Current account balance                         -21.9       -98.8    -171.9       -620.7     -490.6      -692.1      -833.1      -881.9      -959.7  -1,031.9  -1.108.2  -1,567.6
Official grant receipts                           6.2       119.0      135.0       214.1       321.4      380.9       410.4       443.2       478.7       517.0      558.3       820.4
M & LT loamy (net)                               38.1       97.1       162.3       151.1      255.8       329.3       392.7       408.7       451.0      484.9       569.8       772.2
Official1                                     41.2       107.1       168.0      158.1       162.4       196.1       341.9      377.5       439.8       476.6       577.9       775.9
Privstc                                       -3.1       -10.0        -5.7        -7.0       93.4       133.1        50.9        31.2       11.3         8.3        -8.1        -3.6
Other capital                                   -29.8      -67.7        10.5       -14.6        -4.7         2.9       50.0        53.0        50.0           -      -36.0
Change in reserves (--increase)                   7.4      -49.6    -135.9         270.1       -81.9      -20.0       -20.0       -20.0       -20.0       -20.0      -20.0       -25.0
International reserves                          107.5      164.4       300.3        30.2      112.1       132.1       152.1       172.1       192.1      212.1       232.1       357.1
Resernes as months imports                        3.4         2?7        4.2         0.3         1.1         1.1        1.1         1.2         1.2         1.2        1.2         1.1
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Sross disbursements                              60.5      238.2       326.3       382.5      596.9       763.8
Official grants                                 6.2      119.0       135.0      214.1       321.4       380.0
Conceyyional loans                            40.4        9316       149.5      112.6       103.8       179.7
DAC-                                        23.1        5810       73.7        64.1        33.2        33.1
O?EC                                            -        1.0         6.5         1.2        1.2        35.5
IDA                                          9.4        29.0       39.3        24.4        39.0       49.4
Other                                       10.9         5.6',      30.0       22.0        30.4        61.6
Non-concessional loans                         13.9       25.6        41.8        63.4       171.7      204.1
Official enport credits                         -        7.2           -       21.7        32.1         6.8
IBRD                                         4.8        17.1       30.4        31.3        36.6        31.8
Other multilateral                              -          -         3.1         7.6        5.3        14.4
Private                                       9.1        1.2         8.3        2.8        97.7       151.0
EIternal Debt
Debt outstanding and dishbrsed               322.7    1,026.3    1,218.6    1,260.1    1,422.0    1,751.3
Official                                   193.4       965.7    1,158.5    1,201.4    1,266.6    1,462.7
Private                                    129.3        60.6       60.1        58.7       155.4       288.5
Undisbursed debt                             408.4       536.6       560.4      617.5       699.6       679.7
Debt service
Total seroice paymnents                      -26.3       -41.7       -51.2       -49.6       49.7       -98.2
rnterest                                   -10.1       -19.5      -22.3       -24.7       -30.0      -43.7
Pay.ests an 7- asport                           7.5        6.4         7.6         7.9        7.1        13.3
Average interest rate on sea loans-7)             1.6         2.6         3.1        2.6         5.5         4.5
Official                                        1.5        2.3         3.1         2.6        4.0
Private                                        7.0         8.3         9.3         ..         8.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)            38.8        38.0       34.7        35.4        21.1        27.3
Official                                      39.7        39.9        34.7        35.4       27.0
Private                                         7.2        5.0        14.8         ..         9.7
As *. of Debt Outstanding
at End of Nost Recent
Year (1979)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                  28.4
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                                 62.7
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                  3.0
a! Estimate
b/ Excludes official grant receipts.
c/ Includes financing of projected gap on IDA terms.
e



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 16
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year  Borrower           Purpose                    Bank'   TW      IDA'  Undisbursed
Eight loans, one Third Window loan, and nineteen
credits fully disbursed.                                  121.24  29.99  174.74
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                            17.50    1.66
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                               10.20    1.53
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development (Kigoma)                        10.00      --
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                             10.00    4.46
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Mwanza Textile                    15.00                     0.53
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                               6.00    0.86
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                            18.00    5.19
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fifth Education                                   11.00    4.71
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                           7.00                     0.75
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                          9.00    5.57
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                 8.00    0.91
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                15.00                     2.61
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex               11.50             1.17
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex   11.50                         0.74
703-TA    1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                         7.20    4.30
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                         12.00    6.83
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                          15.00    4.57
1498-TA    1977  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank        15.00                     1.56
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                  27.50    6.95
802-TA    1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                  14.00   10.27
803-TA    1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                     12.00    6.00
1607-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                  25.00                    24.50
833-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                  20.00    9.45
860-TA    1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                            14.00   10.75
861-TA    1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                    12.00   11.12
875-TA    1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper                            30.00    3.13
1650-TA    1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper            30.00                    29.26
876-TA    1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                                     20.50   17.85
1745-TA    1979  TDFL       Tanganyika Dev. Fin. Co., Ltd 11.00                        3.49
1750-TA    1979  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank        25.00                    14.97
S-24-TA    1979  Tanzania  Dar es Salaam Port Engineering                     2.50    0.42
987-TA    1980  Tanzania  Tanzania Rural Dev. Bank                           10.00    9.92
1007-TA    1980  Tanzania  Pyrethrum                                         10.00    8.05
1015-TA    1980  Tanzania  Grain Storage & Milling                           43.00   41.39
1037-TA    1980  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                   14.00   12.92
1056-TA    1981  Tanzania  Seventh Education                                 25.00   24.63
1060-TA    1981  Tanzania  Technical Assistance I12/                         11.00    8.21
1070-TA    1981  Tanzania  Coconut Pilot2/                                    6.60    5.14
1133-TA    1981  Tanzania  Export RehablTitation Program2/                   47.10    6.87
1173-TA    1982  Tanzania  Telecommunications I2/3/                          25.30   25.30
1199-TA    1982  Tanzania  Songo-Songo Petroleum TI2!                        20.30    8.47
1206-TA    1982  Tanzania  Technical Assistance III7/3/                      12.00   10.60
1229-TA    1982  Tanzania  Sao Hill Forestry-Phase II7/3/                    12.00   12.00
1271-TA    1982  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply (SupplJ2-3/                    4.00    4.00
Total                                                       275.74  41.49  701.44
of which has been repaid                                  23.15    -      10.03
Total now outstanding                                    252.59  41.49  691.41
Amount sold                                .09
of which has been repaid                 .09
Total now held by Bank and IDA1                            252.59  41.49  691.41
Total undisbursed                                           78.41   1.17  294.03   373.61
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.
7Z/ Sixth replenishment; approximate US$ equivalent of SDR's.
SI Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 16
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
(US$ million)
Loan                                             Amount (less cancellations)
No.     Year    Borrower       Purpose                 Bank'   Undisbursed
Seven loans fully disbursed                           135.80
638-EA  1969    EAHC         Harbours                 35.00       0.52
865-EA  1972    EAHC         Harbours                 26.50        0.35
914-EA  1973    EAPTC        Telecommunications       32.50       0.28
1204-EA  1976    EADB         Development Finance      15.00        1.30
Total                                       244.80       2.45
of which has been repaid                   78.19
Total now outstanding                       166.61
Amount sold                  24.36
of which has been repaid  24.36             0.00
Total now held by Bank                      166.61
Total undisbursed                             2.45       2.45
lNet of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
- 28 -                         Page 3 of 16
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of September 30, 1982)
There are currently 42 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project is nearing completion. Project production is close to
the targets, however, there are uncertainties about cotton yields due to
apparent overestimation of cultivated areas. The aerial survey; evaluation
of spraying trials, including recommendations for more effective spray
regimes; data collection for a farm management study; and general
evaluation of the project, have been completed. Considerable progress has
also been achieved in training village level extension staff, and
rehabilitation or new construction of some 400 km of roads.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
The project has shown significant improvement in procurement, and
maintained a satisfactory execution of physical infrastructure work.
Increased coordination between the various project related agencies and
parastatals at regional level has improved project management. Staff turn-
over has decreased and key staff are largely in place. The coffee
rehabilitation and expansion program is proceeding well and there has been
further increase in the production of beans and cotton. However, official
maize production figures have dropped, due mainly to increased importance
of parallel markets as well as increased movement into other more
remunerative crops such as beans, pigeon peas, etc. Because fertilizer
trials on soil failed to produce conclusive results, emphasis is now being
shifted to cultivation methods, spacing, seed varieties, etc., from which
useful results could be expected in the short term.
'These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this context, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 29 -                       Page 4of 16
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project has faced major implementation difficulties,
including a delay in the procurement of boats for the Kigoma Commercial
Center, a major shortfall in the purchase of boats for the coastal centers
and a postponement of procurement of lake transport facilities (pending
adequate fish catches on Lake Tanganyika). There have also been some
problems affecting the quality of wooden boats constructed under the
project and recently delivered to the coastal center. After considerable
discussion of a possible extension to the project, it was recently decided
that project activities should be terminated.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of Janury 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project was redesigned in order to intensify project
activities during a three-year extension period from July 1979 to June
1982; however, this redesign has had little impact on the production of
food crops because of drought conditions. Inadequate research, extension
and prices have also discouraged proper crop husbandry. Construction of
staff houses and village stores is delayed due to shortage of building
materials. The next supervision mission for this project (scheduled for
December 1982) will assess the impact of any significant developments
which may have occurred in the National Maize Program. If good prosDects
exist for effectively achieving project objectives and disbursing a
substantial amount of the remaining funds, the project's closing date may
be postponed by twelve months.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - March 31, 1983
The project has continued to show overall improvement in its
implementation. Milk production, technical parameters and budgeting
control have improved, and production cost has been reduced. The large
price increase in July 1980 was responsible in great part for the improved
financial position of the dairies. The closing date has been postponed to
March 31, 1983 to permit the project to reach its targetted objectives.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project (Phase I):
US$7.0 million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
This first phase project has been completed. While the Closing
Date was not formally postponed, disbursement of committed amounts were to
continue until September 30, 1982.



ANNEX II
- 30 -                       Page 5 of 16
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0
million Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
February 15, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Closing Date of this Credit was December 31, 1981. However,
the credit account was kept open to allow the project authorities to submit
belated withdrawal applications for two eligible expenditures - security
lighting and firefighting equipment.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-5-TA - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credit2 of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Overall project implementation has improved with the easing of
cement shortages and the improved arrangement for diesel fuel supply.
Specifically, the agriculture, land use, and roads components are making
satisfactory progress and the water resource development has improved.
With close supervision, disbursement of credit funds has also improved.
The Government has submitted proposals for restructuring and extending the
project beyond the current Closing Date. These proposals are being
reviewed and were to be discussed during a supervision mission in October
1982.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Factory
construction is ahead of schedule despite a shortage of cement. However,
the appointment of key staff and the maintenance of up-to-date accounts at
existing cashewnut factories continue to pose difficulties. As with the
First Project, the prospects for operation of the new facilities at full
capacity are rather poor.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979,
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has faced major difficulties. Despite the low volume
of tobacco handled, TAT's administrative costs remain very high. Tobacco
losses during handling remain significant and TAT's ability to organize and
follow through on corrective measures has been limited. It has hence been
agreed that the project should be scaled down and terminated on schedule on
April 30, 1983. Details of which components of the project will be
continued are being finalized between the Government, TAT and the
Association.
2Credit No. 703-5-TA (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special
CTfDA arrangements; Credit no. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                      Page 6 of 16
Credit No. 803-TA - Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project:
US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
March 5, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Although some infrastructure components are proceeding
satisfactorily, and housing and vehicles have been provided, the project's
productive components are not making significant progress. This was due
not only to problems of project implementation but also to general factors
affecting the entire agricultural sector such as the pricing of
agricultural produce and inputs, marketing problems, input supply
constraints, and deficiencies of agricultural services (e.g. research,
extension and credit). The Government has agreed that the project requires
re-design and has submitted proposals along these lines. A joint
Government/Bank/IFAD mission will visit Tanzania in December 1982 to assess
progress and make recommendations on the future of the project.
Credit No. 987-TA - Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB)
Project: US$10.0 million credit of October 24, 1980; Effective-
ness Date - May 18, 1981; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
Despite a delay in TRDB's internal reorganization and its
management's preoccupation with financial problems, project implementation
has started satisfactorily. Because of the high and rising level of
arrears on loan repayment, TRDB's financial position is deteriorating.
TRDB is taking various means to alleviate this problem.
Credit No. 1007-TA - Pyrethrum Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness - April 20,
1981; Closing Date - December 31, 1985
The Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board's operating costs are proving much
higher than expected at appraisal and it may not be possible to reduce them
sufficiently in the course of the project to ensure economic production.
The closure of the extraction plant at Mafinga will result in important
transport savings for TPB; however, these will not be significant enough to
improve prospects for the crop. Urgent steps are to be taken to reduce the
operating costs of TPB and to improve the marketing of its products.
Expenditures for certain new investments (e.g. headquarters building for
TPB, staff housing and possibly some road improvement) are to be
eliminated.
Credit No. 1037-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of August 20, 1980; Effectiveness Date - April 27, 1981;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
The project started slowly due to delays in appointing the
General Manager and the Chief Engineer, but is now expected to gain
momentum. Some start has been made in the tea nursery and fuelwood
planting. The Ukalawa factory site has been selected but the construction
of this facility may be delayed, pending a significant increase in tea
production. Supplier bids for the factory machinery have been received and
evaluated, and orders have been placed.



ANNEX II
-32 -                        Page 7 of 16
Credit No. 1070-TA - Coconut Pilot Project: US$6.8 million
Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness - April 20,
1981; Closing Date - March 31, 1986
Implementation of the project is progressing well, largely due to
the quality of staff in the field.  However, the Mainland Govenment has
decided to allocate only TSh 3 million of the TSh 9.5 million in local
currency needed for the project in 1982/83. Management is hence attempting
to resolve this problem.
Credit No. 1015-TA - Grain Storage and Milling Project:
US$43.0 million Credit of April 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness -
July 15, 1981; Closing Date - June 30, 1987
Because of the uncertainties regarding the organizational
structure and future responsibilities of the National Milling Corporation
(NMC), project implementation has been substantially delayed. Detailed
proposals for the reorganization of cereals handling and distribution have
been submitted to the Cabinet for its approval. The Bank will review these
proposals and assess their implications for a modified Grain Storage
project. A firm Cabinet decision on the organizational changes is expected
before the end of November 1982. A Bank evaluation mission to reappraise
and possibly restructure the project will be necessary.
Credit No. 1229-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project (Phase II):
US$12.0 million Credit of May 19, 1982; Closing Date -
December 31, 1987
This credit, which is a follow-up to the first phase project,
is not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Overall project completion has reached 60%.  Civil works and
procurement of furniture and equipment are progressing well except for
construction work at Mwenge, Ndanda and Kigonsera Secondary Schools.
Workshop equipment has been distributed to sites but tenders for
installation work have to be invited; contracts for supply of science
equipment have been awarded. Progress in construction of VMT houses
remains unsatisfactory. Because of the problems connected with the
building market, the Closing Date of the project will not be extended.
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25,
1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1985
Design work is near completion and physical project implementa-
tion is gaining momentum. Tenders for civil works are under evaluation



ANNEX II
- 33 -                       Page 8 of 16
and some contracts have been awarded. Due to increases in construction
costs, the extent of civil works to be financed under the project is
expected to be below appraisal estimates. Progress towards meeting
educational objectives has been reasonable, and related issues are being
properly identified and addressed.
Credit 1056-TA - Seventh Eduction Project: US$25.0 million
Credit of September 26, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
December 29, 1980; Closing Date - December 30, 1986
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has started providing posi-
tion briefs to respective Directorates of the Ministry of Education. In
addition, briefs on primary education and support services have also been
prepared. Nominations for fellowships for the National Examination Council
and for Teacher Training Colleges are being processed but little progress
has been achieved in recruiting technical assistance. Work for the Teacher
Training Colleges in Zanzibar is ahead of schedule. Sites have been
selected and a team from the PIU visited Zanzibar to carry out preliminary
surveys. Staff houses are now available for use by the faculty of the
Nkrumah College.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project: US$14.0
million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness -
August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Recruit-
ment of project coordinator is being finalized and the consultants for the
rehabilitation of project lodges and hotels, have been appointed. The con-
struction site identified for the Hotel and Tourism Training Institute
(HTTI) proved to be unsuitable because of size and shape, thereby delaying
implementation of this component. An alternative site has been located.
Improvements to the airport terminal were dropped because the Government
was able to secure bilateral financing for a new passenger terminal
building. Vehicles for anti-poaching activities have been received and
allocated to TANAPA and the Ngorongoro Conservation Authority. Tenders for
the supply of radio telephones and binoculars are being prepared.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all
equipment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, it became
necessary to recast the project by amending its scope to address organiza-
tional problems encountered in its implementation. The previous Closing
Date of December 31, 1980 has been postponed to December 31, 1982 to allow
adequate time for completion of the project. The technical assistance
contract with the consulting firm "ORT" expired in November 1979. Three
key advisors (Advisor to Senior Road Maintenance Engineer, Advisor to
Maintenance Administrator, and Advisor to Plant and Procurement Engineer),
currently employed under the Fifth Highway Project, are assisting the
Government in project implementation.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 16
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Although implementation has been slow due to delays in creating
Regional Transport Companies and in procuring trucks, some improvement has
been recorded recently and the Government's contribution to the National
Trucking Company for equity in the transport companies has been increased.
Technical assistance has been extended since 1978; currently about 18
experts are assisting in the project implementation. All five regional
trucking companies were created in early 1981 and a Board of Directors
was appointed, with adequate management staff to support it.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.0 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - December 3,
1980; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This is a follow-up to credit No. 507-TA in the maintenance of
the national trunk road system. All three key advisers and six key local
staff are now in post. However, technical assistance for the Morogoro
Training School has yet to be recruited and an action program for
recruitment and training of staff has yet to be prepared. All 120 students
are receiving training in various engineering colleges overseas and are
making good progress. Contracts for the supply of road maintenance
equipment have recently been awarded.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Credit No. 1173-TA - Telecommunications I Project; US$27.0
million Credit of March 4, 1982; Closing Date - June 30, 1986
This credit is not yet effective. However, physical
implementation of the project is well underway. TPTC's financial position
is also considered acceptable.
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Port Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit of February 27, 1980; Date of Effectiveness
- August 13, 1980; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation is progressing well. The consultants have
submitted a number of reports and drawings to the Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity (THA) for their review and comment. The only major problem is one of
coordination concerning the commissioning of the new oil jetty which re-
quires that the pipe work link to the refinery and the existing network be
completed and ready for use at the same time as the jetty. THA has been
asked to decide on who will design and carry out the actual site work, as
well as finance the foreign exchange costs. The original Closing Date of
September 30, 1981 was postponed a second time in order to complete project
work.



ANNEX II
35 -                      Page 10 of 16
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services Project:
US$12.0 million Credit of Novemger 3, 1977; Date of Effective-
ness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1984
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential
components although overall implementation progress is slow. In order to
accelerate progress on house consolidation under the first project,
initiate cost recovery in squatter areas, and strengthen the Dar es Salaam
City Council, the Government, THB, SIDO, Dar es Salaam City Council, and
the Association have all agreed to reshape the project. The changes
included: addition of management costs for the DCC consolidation unit and
a collecton unit within the Treasury; strengthening of the DCC maintenance
operations; deletion of the Nutrition Extension and MCH guidelines and the
first site; and reduction of THB house loans. Funds for the consolidation
and collection units have been provided through marginally trimming the
demonstration houses, community facilities, THB/ARDHI promotion and
training, and savings on the Finance Study and project preparation. The
reshaping was finalized in July 1982 and recruitment for the new management
unit is underway.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of Janury 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
The Borrower's performance under the project has generally been
good. Water treatment and distribution facilities have been largely
completed. Establishment of a National Urban Water Authority (NUWA) which
is to own and operate major urban water supply systems in the country, was
approved by the Parliament in April 1981. Implementation of the project
has, however, been dominated by the poor performance of the main civil
works contractor for the Mindu dam. After being given several
opportunities to improve his performance, the contractor was dismissed in
August 1981 and a new contract was awarded to the second lowest evaluated
bidder at the time of the original contract award in December 1978. In
view of the major delays and problems which have affected the completion of
the dam, the project's foreign exchange cost increased by about US$11.0
million over the appraisal estimate. Completion of the project is to be
financed by a supplementary credit from IDA (US$4 million) and a grant from
CIDA (US$3.2 million).
Credit No. 1271-TA - Urban Water Supply Project
(Supplementary): US$4.0 million Credit; Closing
Date - December 31, 1984
This project was approved by the Board on June 24, 1982 but has
not yet been signed.



ANNEX II
- 36 -                      Page 11 of 16
ENERGY SECTOR
Credit S-27-TA - Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project:
US$30.0 million Credit of June 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
September 12, 1980; Closing Date - September 30, 1982
Drilling of the onshore well under the project has been abandoned
because of various technical difficulties which were aggravated by manage-
rial problems, particularly the absence of close and effective project
control. Drilling of the offshore well is proceeding satisfactorily.
Little progress has been made on the technical assistance component of the
project, except for the TPDC management and fiscal study, where consultants
are already in the field.
Credit 1199-TA - Songo Songo Petroleum II: US$20.0 million
Credit of January 13, 1982; Date of Effectiveness -
February 23, 1982; Closing Date - December 31, 1983.
This credit became effective on February 23, 1982. Drilling and
testing of the second well, Well SS-8, is now virtually completed. The
Association and the OPEC Fund have agreed to finance a third well for
purposes of confirming the extent of the natural gas reservoir at Songo
Songo.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1750-TA3 - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - February 5,
1980; Closing Date - June 30, 1984
Commitments and disbursements are progressing better than
estimated at appraisal. In the light of the difficult situation in
Tanzania, particularly the severe foreign exchange shortage, TIB is
revising its operational strategy to focus in the near-term on providing
funds which would enable projects to replace, balance, or modernize their
machinery and equipment, improve capacity utilization, promote exports, and
otherwise assist improvement of balance of payments. TIB is also being
encouraged to use a portion of the Bank's loan, on an exceptional basis, to
meet part of the requirements for imported inputs of some of its
high-priority projects which are likely to face very low capacity
operation, or even closure, following meagre allocation of foreign
exchange.
3In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support
of this project is being administered by IDA.



ANNEX II
-37 -                       Page 12 of 16
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Project implementation performance has been acceptable and all
technical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National
Textile Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile
mills, has agreed to institute an immediate action progam to improve the
operating performance of existing mills. The project was technically
completed in October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million. In order
to utilize this amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities, which
are essential parts of the project, and in order to finalize disbursements
on the awarded contracts, the Closing Date was postponed by six months to
December 31, 1981. The remaining balance under the loan will soon be
cancelled.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project was designed to assist the Government in implementing
its program of economic development through financing preinvestment and
feasibility studies for projects in the productive sectors, special studies
for improving efficiency and capacity utilization investments, and training
for Tanzanians in project preparation, implementation, evaluation and
related techniques. Although the credit was virtually completely
committed, consultants' contracts for three sub-projects are still
effective. The Closing Date was hence postponed by 6 months to December
31, 1982 to continue disbursements against these contracts.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and US$11.5
million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of Effectiveness
- July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of
procurement. Because of some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, the project was not completed in July
1982 as scheduled. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly higher
than those contained in the Appraisal Report. The next supervision mission
for this project will review a possible postponement of the Closing Date.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million both of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in spite of
some problems encountered with the awarding of the civil works contract.
No further delay is anticipated in project completion.



ANNEX II
- 38 -                      Page 13 of 16
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million credit and US$30 million Loan, both
of April 6, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - April 15, 1980;
Closing Date - December 31, 1983
Overall project implementation, including arrangements for
project management, has improved.   Project completion is now expected by
mid-1984. Project cost has been significantly reduced with savings in
civil works, equipment and particularly in erection.  The rebidding of the
mechanical, electrical and instrumentation installation contract (MEI) has
resulted in savings of about US$9 million. However, supplementary foreign
funds will be required to finance the conversion of the mill's boilers to
burn wood fuel (rather than coal) and to provide additional start-up
technical assistance.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979; Closing Date - December 31,
1983
The loan is about 70% committed and disbursement is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1060-TA - Second Technical Assistance Project: US$11
millon Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
February 10, 1981, Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on February 10, 1981 and TIB has
requested IDA's assistance in recruiting an agricultural economist and
a chemical engineer for the Technical Assistance Unit. Processing of study
applications is proceeding smoothly; the general training component is also
being implemented satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1206-TA - Third Technical Assistance Project: US$12.0
million equivalent Credit of March 4, 1982; Closing Date -
June 30, 1987
This credit became effective on April 1, 1982.
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Credit No. 1133-TA - Export Rehabilitation Program: US$50.0
million Credit of April 24, 1981; Date of Effectiveness -
May 12, 1981; Closing Date - March 31, 1983
This credit is almost completely disbursed. The new
institutional arrangements for import allocation are working well. A draft
policy statement for both agricultural research and extension has been
prepared and is being incorporated within an overall agricultural policy
document. The target for the Government's own contribution to the foreign
exchange requirements of agriculture was actually exceeded during the
period April 1-June 30, 1981. However, more recent allocations to the
sector have fallen short of agreed levels.



ANNEX II
-39-                       Page 14 of 16
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently four projects in execution in the East
African Community.4
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es
Salaam; two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs,
lighters, cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improve-
ments for both ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep
water berths, modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training
school building and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of
several berths and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold
storage facilities and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a
lighterage quay in Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has
been completed and a joint project completion report was issued in January
1979. Because of shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor
project elements have not been submitted for Bank financing:  the second
phase of modernization of the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar
es Salaam, modernization of the lighterage quay and a training school for
Mombasa. Locally financed contracts have been awarded for these project
elements with the exception of the modernization of the lighterage quay in
Mombasa. General cargo throughput has increased above appraisal forecasts
for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling productivity has improved with
increasing throughput; however, port labor productivity has stagnated in
Mombasa where general cargo throughput has declined considerably. Legis-
lation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority and a Kenya Ports Author-
ity has been enacted. Management of Ports in both countries is competent.
Some US$34.50 million of Loan 638-EA and US$26.15 million of Loan 865-EA
has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds of
October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given below:
4Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding
the East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Directors
dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978, is
given in this Annex. The Closing Date for loans 638-EA, and 865-EA have
passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaranteed by each
Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the Agreement signed
on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report (R77-312), we are
continuing disbursements.



ANNEX II
-40-                       Page 15 of 16
For Loan No. 638-EA                        (US$ million)
Kenya                                      0.7
Tanzania                                   0.6
Total                                   1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                       1.7
Tanzania                                   0.3
Total                                   2.0
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procure-
ment caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation
of headquarters. About US$32.20 million of the loan had been disbursed to
date. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977
among the countries concerned is as follows:
US$ million
Kenya                     2.4
Tanzania                  3.5
Uganda                    0.1
Total                   6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$13.65 million
of the loan has been disbursed to date.



ANNEX II
- 41 -                       Page 16 of 16
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
Fiscal                                                  Amount in US$ Million
Year           Obligor            Type of Business       Loan  Equity  Total
1960 &   Kilombero Sugar      Food Processing            3.96   0.70    4.66
1964       Company
1978     Highland Soap and   Soap Manufacture            1.38   0.36    1.74
Allied Products
Limited
1979     Metal Products       Household Utensils         1.33   0.18    1.51
Limited
Total gross commitments                 6.67   1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                  4.17   0.69    4.86
Total commitments now held by IFC       2.50   0.55    3.05
Total undisbursed                      0.06    _       0.06



ANNEX III
- 42 -                       Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First presentation to the Association:    July 1978
(b)  Appraisal mission                      :    June/July 1981
(c)  Completion of negotiations             :   August 1982
(d)  Estimated date of effectiveness         :   March 1983
II.   Special Association Implementation Actions
The Association has approved two PPF advances totalling US$1.0
million for the preparation of a master plan, feasibility studies and
preliminary designs for sewerage rehabilitation and for other
technical assistance. This advance would be refinanced under the
credit.
III.  Special Conditions
(a) Appointment of key officers of DSSD would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (paragraph 48);
(b) Not later than June 30, 1984, DSSD would introduce a management
information system and billing and collection arrangements
similar to those already operating at TANESCO (paragraph 48);
(c)  A survey of service connections for sewerage, water supply and
electricity would be completed by December 31, 1983 to
facilitate monthly billing for all three services (paragraph
48);
(d) The Government would complete a sewerage tariff study, for
review by the Association, before June 30, 1984. Proposals for
a new tariff structure for sewerage services would be proposed
no later than December 31, 1984 and implemented promptly
thereafter (paragraph 53);



Annex III
- 43                          Page 2 of 2
(e) Beginning in FY85, the level of sewerage tariffs would be
reviewed annually, and adjusted as necessary, to cover all of
DSSD's expenses on its sewerage operations, as well as generate
sufficient cash to meet 20% of DSSD's capital requirements
(paragraph 53);
(f) Beginning in FY84, charges for pit latrine emptying services
would be sufficient to cover operating costs, including an
adequate provision for the depreciation of fixed assets and debt
service charges to the extent that these exceeded the provision
for depreciation (paragraph 53).






IBRD 16132
TANZAN IA                                            -MER 1t
DAR ES: SALAAM
SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
&            ,\   9      §  \ 0 i                   :         D       : j!iiii:,.iii Exlottng Sewe,ed Areros
/    8 _ EOrOsN  Oxidofin P-od.
T\  oke D,sirctb    A,so fo,stO,t - fiOfltOf
Exr/ \  q U.plos,o.d R-r,dontwol Areo.
f                            ~~~~/     , _;      g                  <<                         -      Arle1iol Rrcods
|2  \_ D  ES SwOt  p Cstt -
)\ ,-     Dcrt ys  koon  reg,anol Boundery
)                                                                                    00\5, \/  RSD    E           e:.          ::\ 
(\\                                                             \       _:: 2'          ,0      f  S   ;;3Z\    0    S               ,     
~~~~~~~~~~~~X                           /               ;        D;Z5TnRbA A*ChSne
! ~        ~           +       o                Iv.,       -'-------                                                                       I                        /f 
te <    rANzANIA  la /ndro                                ,               , l}                1                        )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6r~so~ >
1        .-..                                                                                                                                         I ,.s '  -  
S f ' t ~20 3!0 Sooi  . =r .S,, tO) .    MaD szo                                   1e sa



