Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3678-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
November 29, 1982
Water Supply and Urban Development Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =  Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
TSh 1.0              =  US$0.11
US$1.0               =  TSh 9.40
MEASUREMENT EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                     =  39 inches = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)               =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)       =  0.386 square mile
1 hectare (ha)                 =  0.01 km2 = 2.25 acre
1 cubic meter (m3)             =  35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 liter (1)                    =  0.22 Imperial gallons
lcd                            =  liters per capita per day
1 Ig                           =  1 Imperial gallon = 4.545 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFYA                   =  Ministry of Health
ARDHI                  =  Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development
CIDA                   -  Canadian International Development Agency
CN                     -  choo nzuri (ventilated improved pit latrine)
DCC                    -  Dar es Salaam City Council
DCS                    =  Dar es Salaam Water Corporation Sole
DSSD                   =  Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Department
Government             =  Government of the United Republic of Tanzania
HHP                    =  Howard Humphreys and Partners, Consulting
Engineers
ICB                    =  International Competitive Bidding
JTS                    =  John Taylor & Sons, Consulting Engineers
KfW                    =  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau,
Federal Rebublic of Germany
LCSE                   =  Low-Cost Sanitation Engineer
MMM                    =  Marshall Macklin Monaghan Limited,
Consulting Engineers
MWE                    =  Ministry of Water and Energy (formerly
Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals)
NUWA                   =  National Urban Water Authority
ODA                    -  Overseas Development Authority, U.K.
PMM                    =  Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Company
PMO                    =  Prime Minister's Office
PPF                    =  Project Preparation Facility
SIDA                   =  Swedish International Development Authority
TAG                    =  Technology Advisory Group, UNDP P'roject
GLO/78/006
TANESCO                =  Tanzania Electric Supply Co. Ltd.
UNDP                   =  United Nations Development PrograLmme
WHO                    =  World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR
Country Background. ..... . .... ..*. . .1.............
Water Supply Sector.... ...... ................... .*..         2
Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Organizations......              3
Present Service Levels ........................      ..         3
Government's Service Level Goals ..................             3
Sector Constraints ......... . ..... o...... .. ...... .        4
Previous Bank Group Involvement............... 0......          4
II. POPULATION, WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION
IN THE PROJECT AREA (DAR ES SALAAM)
Location and Special Featuresoo.ooo.. ... o .......             5
Regional Development Prospects    ... o...............          7
Sector  Agencies .... ..... .       ....   0  .... . . . 0 ..... .. . .  7
Existing Water Supply System.....oo.ooo ..........              8
Existing Sewerage and Sanitation Systems......o....             8
Population Served and Standards of Service ...... oo            9
Water Supply and Sanitation Services for the
Urban Poor ....................................... o         11
Population Projections and Demand for Sewerage and
Sanitation Serviceso............................             11
III. THE PROJECT
Genesis ........................ oo ......o ... o..            12
Objectives ............... .........................           13
Technological Alternatives ..o...ooo..............             14
Description of Project Components .................            15
Cost Estimateso... ......... ... .  ......  ..... .......      16
Project  Financing............ ........o....... ....... .      18
Implementationoo ...... .o..................... o..o.o ...... o..  18
Resources Aspects..o.    .. o .... o ...... ooo .......        20
Procurement ................................ .   20
Disbursements .o.o... ..o............................ ...o......  21
This report was prepared by Messrs. P. Callejas (Senior Engineer, EAPEW)
and J. Sneddon (Senior Financial Analyst, EAPEW) and is based upon
information obtained during an appraisal mission to Tanzania by
Messrs. Callejas and Sneddon in June and July 1981. The mission was
assisted by UNDP/IBRD Technology Advisory Group Consultants, Dr. Marilyn
Tonon and Mr. Peter Hawkins.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Performance....."..  ......................... .                 21
Future Financial Performance   ........ .. ...........                22
Financing Plan .............................................          25
Project Monitoring Indicators .....................                   27
V.    BORROWER AND IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
Lending Arrangements ............. .  .................. .            27
Organizations ... .. ................... ..... .                      27
Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation
Department (DSSD)            ......................  ....          28
Management and Staff.... ... ........ ....* .                         28
Management Development and Training ......nso.                        28
Management Systems ................................                   29
Audit and Insurance ..................           ................ .   30
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Project Benefits ..................................                   31
Least Cost Solution ............................. ..                  32
Rate of Return and Pricing ................. .......                  32
Impact on Poverty Group...........................                   33
Project Merit and Risks ... .........................                 33
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements Reached             ...............................        34
Recommendation ... .. ...... ..  ....... .......... . . . .  .        35



- iii -
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.    Existing Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Systems.
2.    Project Description.
3.    Project Costs and Program of Expenditures.
4.    Implementation Schedule.
5.    Proposed Allocation of Credit Proceeds.
6.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from Credit.
7.    Financial Forecasts - DSSD Low-Cost Sanitation:  1983-1987.
8.    Financial Forecasts - DSSD Sewerage:  1983-1987.
9.    Sewerage Sector Consolidated Financial Forecasts - 1983-1987.
10.    Notes and Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts.
11.    Project Monitoring Indicators.
12.    Organization Chart.
13.    Annual Economic Cost of Pit Latrines.
14.    Return on Investment and Sensitivity Analysis.
15.    Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File.
MAPS
IBRD 16132: Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Project.






TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR
Country Background
1.01      Tanzania (Map IBRD 16132) is bordered by the Indian Ocean on the
east, Kenya and Uganda in the north, Rwanda, Burundi and Zaire in the west,
and Mozambique, Malawi and Zambia in the south and southwest. Tanzania is
about 0.94 million km2 in area (almost twice the size of France). The
climate is generally tropical with monsoon rains. It is hot and humid in
the low coastal plains which rise gradually to the cooler and drier central
plateau. Except for the narrow coastal belt, most of the country is at an
altitude above 200 m and a large part is at about 1000 m.
1.02      The mid-1980 population was estimated at 19 millionl/ and
increasing at an annual rate of 3.4%; about 16.7 million were in the rural
areas including about 8000 villages; 2.3 million were in the urban areas,
including some 55 towns with populations greater than 5000 and the City of
Dar es Salaam. The urban population has been growing at about 8.7% on
average annually, increasing the proportion of the urban population from 5%
in 1967 to about 12% in 1980.
1.03      Mainland Tanzania is divided into 20 administrative regions each
headed by a Regional Commissioner assisted by a Regional Development
Director. Civil servants in the regions are responsible to the Regional
Development Director who has a rank equivalent to a ministerial Principal
Secretary and who is linked to Government through the Prime Minister's
Office (PMO). Town councils, including the Dar es Salaam City Council,
DCC, (paragraphs 2.05 and 2.06), were abolished in 1974 and brought into
the District/Regional system. However, the councils were re-established in
July 1978.
1.04      Average per capita GNP was estimated at $280 for 1980.
Agriculture contributed 54%, industry 13% and services 33%, to total GDP in
that year. Tanzania is facing its worst economic crisis since
independence; oil price increases (130%) over the past two years and the
necessity to import food, coupled with stagnating exports, have caused
severe economic problems and a chronic shortage of foreign exchange.
The Government is facing difficulties in making the adjustments which may
put the economy back on course and recovery is likely to be a lengthy
process.
1/ World Development Report, 1982



-2-
Water Supply Sector
1.05      Tanzania is generally dry with limited surface and, groundwater
resources. Three river basins exist which respectively drain into: (i) the
Indian Ocean; (ii) Lake Tanganyika and the Zaire river; and (iii) Lake
Victoria and the Nile. Drier regions are in the center of the country and
in the Rift Valley where there are no perennial rivers and groundwater is
scarce. The central plateau receives less than 1 m of annual rainfall but
the areas around Kilimanjaro and north of Lake Nyasa have an annual
rainfall exceeding 1.5 m. Salinity and a high fluoride content in some
aquifers limit the use of groundwater.
1.06      The Ministry of Water and Energy (MWE) has responsibility for
management and development of all water resources. Regiona]. development
plans are submitted to the Ministry of Planning through the PMO which
ensures that MWE comments on the plans. Dar es Salaam's water supply is
the responsibility of the Dar es Salaam Water Corporation Sole (DCS), a
parastatal organization which reports to the PMO but also is under the
technical control of MWE.
1.07      A National Urban Water Authority (NUWA) was estab:Lished by
Parliament in April, 1981. Its establishment followed five years of study
and deliberation. NUWA is in the early stages of formation and will
initially take over the water supply facilities in Dar es Salaam, Morogoro,
Iringa, Mwanza, Moshi and Arusha, and DCS will be dissolved. NUWA is
intended to operate urban water supplies as a reasonably aul:onomous
national entity and particularly to be responsible for its own finance5 as
the Treasury has been unable to allocate sufficient funds to MWE for
adequate operations and maintenance. NUWA should be in a position to avoid
many of the problems encountered by DCS (paragraph 2.17) and, operate on a
commercial basis, as in the case of the Tanzania Electric Supply Company
Limited (TANESCO), its counterpart in the power sector which is also
accountable to MWE. Technical assistance to NUWA would be a component of
the proposed sewerage and sanitation project.
1.08      Every major urban center in Tanzania has a piped water supply
system. An estimated 85% of the 1978 urban population had access to piped
water; the remaining population, usually in the poorer parts of the towns,
obtained water from ponds, streams or shallow wells which often are
polluted. Statistics published by the World Health Organization (WHO) for
1975 indicated that about 17% of urban consumers were suppl:Led through
house connections and the balance, through public standpipes. During
recent years, because of inadequate funds, expansion of urban water systems
has fallen behind the growth of demand and operation and ma[ntenance
standards have suffered.
1.09      WHO has estimated that in 1980 about 26% of the nrral population
obtained water from village systems operated by Regional Water Departments
under the technical direction of MWE. A further 12% drew water from
private and community supplies and protected traditional sources.



-3-
Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Organizations
1.10      Sewerage and Sanitation in the urban areas is under the overall
control and responsibility of the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban
Development (ARDHI). Towns2/ are responsible for operation and maintenance
and ARDHI plans or approves plans for expansion and is responsible for
implementation.   Rural sanitation is the responsibility of the Ministry of
Health (AFYA). ARDHI assumed responsibility for sewerage and sanitation
in 1978 following the 1977 cholera epidemic when the sewerage problem in
Dar es Salaam became a major concern. ARDHI is still in the process of
developing its Sewerage and Drainage Division.
Present Service Levels
1.11      Twenty of Tanzania's 55 towns with populations over 5000 are
regional headquarters, but only six are partially served by waterborne
sewerage - Arusha, Dar es Salaam, Moshi, Mwanza, Tabora and Tanga. The
population served totals about 200,000, 10% to 20% of their residents. The
remainder of the country's population is served by septic tanks and pit
latrines. Efforts have been made since 1977 to improve sanitation and
ARDHI estimates that about 90% of all households in the country have some
form of excreta disposal facility, although many are unsanitary.
1.12      Shortage of funds precludes the rural sanitation problem from
being addressed in a substantial way, although some projects for pit
latrines are being undertaken by UNDP, bilateral and other agencies as part
of rural development.
1.13      The disestablishment of town councils (paragraph 1.03) led to the
neglect of city and town infrastructure including underfinancing of
operations and maintenance and, in the case of Dar es Salaam, dispersal of
experienced staff. Sewerage and sanitation operations and pit latrine
emptying services suffered and virtually ceased during this period.
The existing staff have been endeavoring to improve service since
reintroduction of the councils, but with little success due to the lack of
funds and equipment and because of a severe shortage of qualified staff.
Government's Service Level Goals
1.14      The Government has not established specific sector service level
goals. However, ARDHI has drafted a sector policy paper which is being
reviewed by concerned ministries and which ARDHI hopes to submit for
cabinet approval in the near future. The proposed policy would include
upgrading the low-cost on-plot sanitation facilities in urban areas to
satisfactory hygienic levels. These are the facilities used by 70% to 90%
of the urban population, for whom it would be prohibitively expensive to
provide waterborne sewerage. The policy also would be to expand and
improve waterborne sewerage services for the remainder of the
urban population. Toward this end, ARDHI has engaged consultants to
prepare master plans for sewerage and sanitation for Dar es Salaam, Moshi,
Arusha, Morogoro and Mwanza, including studies of the financial and
institutional implications of such schemes.
2/ Includes the City of Dar es Salaam.



-4-
Sector Constraints
1.15      Three major factors constrain the effort to improve sewerage and
sanitation in Tanzania. The prime constraint is the lack of adequate
organization structures, both in ARDHI and in the town councils, to
implement projects and operate the systems, whether sewerage or low-cost
sanitation.
1.16      The second constraint is the lack of qualified staff,
particularly administrators, engineers, financial managers, accountants and
technicians. Consultants have estimated that about 300 such personnel
would be required for Dar es Salaam alone by 1990. Perhaps 600 would be
required to meet the needs of all the communities for which master plans
are being prepared (paragraph 1.14). At present there are very few
graduate sanitary engineers in Tanzania and Dar es Salaam University does
not have a sanitary engineering program. ARDHI has recently established a
Department of Public Health Engineering at the ARDHI Training Institute
with a three year diploma course and a first year class of 25, an
inadequate number in view of the requirements. A more subst:antial training
program is required. Until indigenous staff are trained, many of the
sector managers will need to be found outside Tanzania.
1.17      The third constraint is finance.  Although the available
resources for sewerage and sanitation dictate that low-cost methods are
used, the resources needed are large.  Theoretical estimates indicate that
if the population served by sewerage were increased by 50% by the year
2000, the financial requirements would be about TSh 2.5 bilLion (about
US$270 million) at 1981 prices. To improve on-plot sanitation facilities
to adequate standards for the remainder of the urban populal:ion could cost
up to TSh 15 billion (about US$1.6 billion) at 1981 prices, based on prices
typical for Dar es Salaam. Raising the local contribution to investments
of such magnitude would require major adjustments to charging and
collection policies for sewerage and latrine emptying services and for the
capital cost of new latrines, but even this would not be enough. The
search for less costly, but equally efficient, methods of providing
sanitation needs to be pursued constantly.
Previous Bank Group Involvement
1.18      The proposed project would be the second Bank Group operation in
Tanzania's water supply, sewerage and sanitation sector. Tlhe first
project,financed by Loan 1354-TA in 1977, was for the expansion of water
supplies to Morogoro. Implementation of that project is about two years
behind schedule because of poor performance by the civil works contractor
for the major project component. There also have been difficulties in
establishing NUWA, a separate entity responsible for urban iwater supply
(paragraph 1.07). Following resolution of these difficulties, five key
personnel are being selected from within the Government or private sector
to fill senior management posts. Once these appointments are made,
consultants will be engaged to assist with recruitment of additional NUWA
staff, train such staff to provide interim advice pending the recruitment
of Tanzanian nationals for key posts. These consulting services would be
financed partially from the proposed credit for the sewerage and sanitation
project.



1.19      In addition to the Urban Water Supply Project at Morogoro, rural
development, agriculture and urban projects financed by IDA have contained
water supply and sanitation components.3/
1.20      There are no major lessons to be learned from the contractor
problems on the Morogoro project; failure in performance could not have
been foreseen or prevented by appropriate remedial measures.
1.21      One lesson to be learned from the Morogoro project is to ensure
the enactment of necessary legislation in the course of project
implementation. In the proposed sewerage and sanitation project for Dar es
Salaam a separate department of DCC (paragraph 5.03) would be responsible
for project operation and ARDHI will be responsible for implementation. No
new legislation will be required, and the administrative steps required to
establish the department have been taken already.
II.   POPULATION, WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION
IN THE PROJECT AREA (DAR ES SALAAM)
Location and Special Features
2.01      The proposed sewerage and sanitation project would be within the
municipal boundaries of Dar es Salaam (Map IBRD 16132). However, the study
area for which a Master Plan for Sewerage and Sanitation has been developed
extends beyond the municipality to the boundary of the Dar es Salaam
Region. The total area of the municipality is about 45,000 ha, and
of the region, about 112,000 ha.4/   As of 1978/79, about 10,400 ha of the
municipal area were developed and about 4,500 ha were designated as quarry
areas or for military purposes. Parts of the municipal area and
substantially all of the region outside are rural in character.
2.02      Dar es Salaam  is the major port of Tanzania and has a good
natural harbour and port facilities. Over the past 100 years it has grown
from a small coastal town to a major city with a large university and is
the principal center of commerce and industry in Tanzania. Although
Dar es Salaam is the present capital of Tanzania, the Government plans to
move eventually to Dodoma.
3/ The First and Second National Sites and Services Projects (Credits
495-TA and 732-TA); Kigoma Rural Development Project (Credit 508-TA):
Tabora Rural Development Project (Credit 703-TA); and the
Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project (Credit 803-TA).
4/ Urban Development Master Plan of the City of Dar es Salaam,
Marshall Macklin Monaghan Limited (MMM), 1979.



-6-
2.03      The population of Dar es Salaam municipality increased from about
69,000 in 1948 to an estimated 782,000 in 1978 at an average rate of 8.5%
per annum. 5/   Surveys carried out in 1979 in the course of
preparing an urban development master plan6/ indicated that the mid-1981
population of the Region could be to be about 1,060,000 comprising:
Residential      908,000
Institutional7/ 68,000
976,000
Rural             84,000
1,060,000
At least 60% of the city population resides in squatter or unplanned
housing areas occupying approximately 40% of all residential land area.
2.04      The city is divided into three districts, 10 sub-districts and 52
wards. Five wards in Temeke District (southern part of the city) have been
selected tentatively as the site of the low-cost sanitation component of
the project and have a total population (1978) of about 200,000.
2.05      Councillors of DCC are elected from the city electoral wards.
DCC has a City Director (City Manager) who is the chief executive
responsible to the council for city operations. He has under him the City
Engineer, Medical Officer of Health, City Treasurer and other officers to
head the various city departments.
2.06      Although DCC is theoretically autonomous, all funds required are
received from the Government as though it were a Government department.
The funds are restricted, as are all central budget funds, and DCC receives
insufficient funds to discharge its responsibilities in infrastructure
maintenance and the provision of services.
2.07      The characteristics of the project area which affect the design
and operation of sewerage and sanitation are subsoil conditions,
groundwater elevations, topography, climate and stormwater flooding
conditions . In general, subsoil conditions for sewerage construction are
not particularly difficult; however, there are areas of high groundwater,
coral limestone or loose sand which increase excavation costs. Sewerage
design is complicated by the generally flat terrain and a number of stream
valleys which dissect the project area. High temperatures encourage septic
sewage conditions, requiring more expensive design standards for sewers and
5/ 1978 Census, Preliminary Report, Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Equivalent data on past growth of the Dar es Salaam Region are not
available.
6/ Urban Development Master Plan of the City of Dar es Salaam,
Marshall Macklin Monaghan Limited (MMM), 1979.
7/  Resident populations at military, police, university and hospital
compounds.



-7-
better than average operation and maintenance of the systems to achieve
adequate treatment and to reduce the hazards and corrosive effects of
septic conditions. Most areas are suitable for pit latrines and septic
tank systems. In some areas, however, low soil permeability, high
groundwater or occasional flooding require special designs and operating
and maintenance procedures for on-plot sanitation - such as larger septic
tanks and leaching fields, mounded pit latrines and good emptying services
- and which increase cost.
2.08      Health information for Dar es Salaam is limited but adequate to
demonstrate that major causes of mortality and morbidity - as they are
throughout Tanzania - are diseases associated with poor sanitation, poor
nutrition and lack of health knowledge. In Dar es Salaam reported cases of
malaria, schistomiasis, diarrhea and hookworm, to name a few, are
dangerously high for a city of about one million people. (See paragraphs 1
and 2 of Annex 1).
Regional Development Prospects
2.09      As the main industrial and commercial center of Tanzania, much of
the future growth of economic activity in Tanzania should be reflected in
Dar es Salaam's development. Therefore, the city is likely to continue
attracting people in search of work.
2.10      The population studies prepared for the urban development master
plan (paragraph 2.03) projected Dar es Salaam's 1999 population at from
2.0 million to 4.4 million with the most reasonable forecast for that year
considered to be about 2.4 million. This takes into account the potential
effects of moving the capital to Dodoma and is based on the assumption that
the Government's decentralization policy will prevent net in-migration from
exceeding about 50,000 annually, the average level of the 1969-1978 decade.
Sector Agencies
2.11      Water supply in the Dar es Salaam Region is presently the
responsibility of DCS, a parastatal organization (paragraph 1.06).
However, NUWA, also a parastatal, is being established and will gradually
assume responsibility for urban water supply systems, including Dar es
Salaam, as soon as it becomes operational (paragraphs 1.06 and 1.07).
2.12      The principal responsibility for sewerage and sanitation in Dar
es Salaam is with DCC, although ARDHI has an important role in policy
making and in project planning and implementation (paragraph 1.10). The
formal relationship between the two agencies is not clearly defined but has
been established adequately for the planning and implementation of the
proposed sewerage and sanitation project. (See paragraphs 3.25-3.31).
2.13      The only substantial relationship between the water supply and
the sewerage and sanitation agencies in Dar es Salaam at present is that
bills for sewer service are based on water consumption figures which DCC
obtains from DCS (paragraph 4.02).



-8-
Existing Water Supply System
2.14      The urban area of Dar es Salaam is served by a piped system
supplying treated water from three major river sources (Annex 1). Water
from these sources is pumped to distribution reservoirs before
reticulation.
2.15      Water production from these sources at present averages between
120,000 to 180,000 m3/d according to various estimates; accurate figures do
not exist because flow meters do not function at any of the treatment
plants. According to MWE officials, the existing water sources are
adequate for Dar es Salaam until 1987 or 1988 without additional river
regulation. After then, lack of river regulation could cause water
shortages during two or three months of the year.
2.16      Groundwater is of limited availability and is not extensively
used for community or agricultural purposes in the Dar es Salaam Region.
However, in some areas industries and institutions use private tubewells to
supplement water supplies from the public system. Domestic water supplies
in rural areas in the region often are taken from shallow wells or local
surface water sources.
2.17      The existing public water supply system does not provide
satisfactory service, in spite of the fact that the installed capacity of
treatment and transmission facilities appears ample (Annex 1).
Unaccounted-for water, due to leaks in the transmission and distribution
systems and to unrecorded water use, may be 50% of water production. There
are frequent service interruptions, and in some areas water seldom is
supplied on a continuous basis. On a number of recent occasions,
substantially untreated water has been distributed because of shortages of
chemicals.  The underlying causes of unsatisfactory service are the lack of
a proper organization and adequate staff for operation and maintenance,
poor inventory management, undersized distribution mains (especially in the
city center) and faulty interconnections between pressure zones. Metering
of water production (paragraph 2.15) and of water use is totally
inadequate. Only 25% of service connections have functioning meters.
Existing Sewerage and Sanitation Systems
2.18      The sanitation requirements of about 90% of Dar es Salaam's
population are met with on-plot facilities, namely pit latrines and septic
tank systems. The existing system (Annex 1), serving the balance of the
population, is of the separate type; i.e. designed for sanitary sewage
only. The city center system (IBRD Map 16132), dating back to 1948,
discharges through an ocean outfall just north of the harbor entrance.
Sewage either gravitates or is pumped to the outfall. In addition, nine
isolated systems have been installed for residential, instltutional and
industrial developments in outlying areas. In each one, treatment is by
waste stabilization ponds with the effluent discharging to local
watercourses.
2.19      The condition of the existing sewerage system is exceptionally
bad (Annex 1).   The ocean outfall is broken near the shore.  Only one of
the waste stabilization ponds is operating with some degree of



- 9 -
effectiveness. Of the 17 existing pumping stations, only one can be
operated. A number of the major sewers are blocked completely. Septic
conditions, causing serious corrosion of sewers and dangerous
concentrations of gases, can be observed at a number of locations.
2.20      The existing conditions cause surcharge of sewers and overflows
to storm drains, streams, the harbor and beaches. The result is serious
pollution and a major risk to health. Until sewers are cleared, few
meaningful examinations can be made to determine flow rates, capacities,
structural conditions and the extent of rehabilitation required.
Similarly, little can be done to measure flows and characteristics of the
sewage.
2.21      The basic cause of the existing sewerage situation is poor
operation and an almost complete lack of maintenance, particularly since
1974 when the City Council was abolished (paragraphs 1.03 and 1.13). Even
since the Council was reestablished in 1978, practically nothing has been
done to improve the situation, except planning. Deficiencies in the
original designs of some existing facilities also may be a contributing
factor.
2.22      As noted above (paragraph 2.20), it is not possible to measure
existing sewage flows. However, the probable average daily flow from the
properties believed to be served in 1979 is estimated to total about 22,000
m3/day with peak flows of about 56,000 m3/day. Engineering studies also
indicate that most, if not all, of the elements of the existing sewerage
systems have excess capacity for the population that could be served by the
existing system, provided that these elements are in reasonably good
condition.
2.23      Industrial and trade wastes in Dar es Salaam are substantially
uncontrolled and untreated. Of about 700 industries in the area, about 30
should be considered serious sources of pollution. The Msimbazi River,
north of the city center, is highly polluted with industrial wastewater.
Existing legislation covering the discharge of pollutants to watercourses
is not enforced at present. New effluent standards drafted by the Tanzania
Effluent Standards Committee are under consideration. There also are water
pollution problems caused by unsanitary disposal of municipal solid wastes
and by periodic surface water flooding in some areas.
Population Served and Standards of Service
2.24      Water Supply.  Substantially all of the population of the urban
sections of the Dar es Salaam region obtain their water in one way or
another from the public  water system.   In some cases this may be
supplemented from other sources (paragraph 2.16).
2.25      In 1980 there were about 35,000 registered individual water
service connections - either to plots with external taps only or to
buildings with full internal plumbing including flush toilets - and about
550 public standpipes.   The actual number of direct water service
connections may be much higher since illegal connections are a major
problem. An estimated 40,000 people (1979) live in residential areas



- 10 -
served entirely by public standpipes. DCS has a plan to phase out public
standposts by 1984, but this appears impractical because of costs and
limited demand for a change in the type of service (Annex 1, paragraph 8).
2.26      Water demand figures developed for use on the sewerage studies
(paragraph 3.02) are 24 to 30 lcd for population using pubLic standpipes,
up to 60 lcd for plots with individual connections but without flush
toilets, and 120 lcd to 240 lcd for middle and high income housing with
full plumbing. Actual service provided often may be less than this because
it is not reliable either as to continuity or the quality of the water
(paragraph 2.17).
2.27      Sewerage and Sanitation.  Sewerage studies (paragraph 3.02)
showed that of the total population of the Dar es Salaam Region in 1979
(932,000) about 12% had sewer service, 10% had septic tanks and 76% had pit
latrines of some type. Altogether there were about 8,400 septic tanks and
60,000 latrines. Of the approximately 109,000 people served by sewerage,
about 30% resided in institutions (army, police, university and
hospitals). Within the urban area the population without access to
sanitary facilities is estimated to be 2%, and in the rural area, 5%.
2.28      There are about 5,800 connections to the Dar es Salaam sewerage
systems, according to DCC. However, DCC's records are poor and it is
believed that numerous unregistered connections exist. The rate of making
new registered connections has been low because of the inefficiency of the
sewerage agency, the cost of the connections and reluctance to connect
because of the malfunction of the systems.
2.29      The quality of the sewer service is poor (paragraphs 2.19 and
2.20 and Annex 1). Low-cost sanitation facilities are described in detail
in Annex 1. The standards of construction and maintenance of most pit
latrines inspected during the sewerage studies was good. Most of the pits
were lined and had impervious concrete slabs which were kept clean.
However, the design of these structures is usually not satisfactory in
terms of controlling odors and breeding of mosquitoes and flies.
2.30      Emptying of the latrine pits and disposal of the contents is
poorly done by the municipal authorities. There is a considerable delay
of several months in providing the emptying service after it is requested.
Then the emptying usually is done incorrectly because only the liquids are
removed; there are both labor and equipment-deficiencies in this respect.
The pit emptying vehicles (vacuum tankers) often discharge their loads at
numerous illegal sites within the city boundary because there are no proper
dumping stations in operation, causing serious pollution problems.
2.31      The sewerage studies disclosed that the commonly used design for
septic tanks in Dar es Salaam is faulty in a number of respects which
reduce the effectiveness and often increase the costs of construction and
maintenance. The emptying of septic tanks is carried out by the same labor
and vehicles which deal with pit latrine emptying and the inefficiency of
the emptying service applies to septic tanks as well. Consequently in some
high income areas there is a demand for connection to the sewerage system.
This demand would propably disappear if emptying service :Eor septic tanks
were substantially better.



- 11 -
Water Supply and Sanitation Services for the Urban Poor
2.32       The absolute poverty income level for urban population in
Tanzania is TSh 1220 (US$147) per capita per year or TSh 102 per capita per
month. There is no specific data for Dar es Salaam but it is estimated
that nationwide 10% of the urban population have incomes below this level.
In Dar es Salaam, most urban poor are located to the south and west of the
city center in unplanned (squatter) areas (Map IBRD 16132).
2.33       There is little factual information on the standards of water
supply and sanitation services available to the poor. However, it is safe
to assume that substantially all the population who depend on public
standpipes (paragraph 2.25) for water supply are poor, plus a large number
of the people who have on-plot water service connections with only external
taps.   Since most water billing is not based on metered water use, many
urban poor obtain their water from neighbors who have service connections.
The urban poor are among the large proportion of the total population who
use pit latrines.   The results of a sample survey of sanitation in
low-income areas of the city are given in paragraphs 14-21 of Annex 1.
2.34       The city wards tentatively selected for the low-cost sanitation
component of the project (paragraph 2.04) are representative of the urban
poverty areas in the city. With a total population of about 200,000, these
wards include several small industries, one dispensary and 18 primary
schools. A mix of planned and unplanned settlements, the wards have among
the poorest sanitary facilities in the city. Most residents draw water
from public standpipes, or buy from vendors, and use pit latrines. Many of
the latrines are in an unsanitary condition, probably because most of the
pits have never been emptied and they are overused. A recent trial by
ARDHI to introduce into the area improved latrines on demonstration basis
was well received by local householders, teachers and party leaders.
Population Projections and Demand for Sewerage and Sanitation Services
2.35       The sewerage and sanitation studies for this project (paragraph
3.02) resulted in recommendations for long-term phased development of
sewerage and sanitation based on projected needs and conclusions as to the
suitability and economics of meeting those needs. The recommended
requirements for sewerage and on-plot sanitation are as follows:
Total
No. of Units
Total Population          Percentage Served            (thousands)
of Region                     Septic  Pit              Septic  Pit
Year    (thousands)           Sewers  Tanks   Latrines          Tanks   Latrines
1979        932                12      10        78              8.4       59.0
1984      1,269                19      12        69             12.3       76.7
1989      1,642                25      10        65             14.0       93.0
1999      2,461                36       9        55             18.3      116.0



- 12 -
2.36      According to the above, about 57,000 new pit latrines and about
10,000 new septic tank installations would be required by the end of the
century. In addition, many existing on-plot units should be upgraded to
acceptable standards. Since it is unlikely that new sewerage construction
would proceed according to the above schedule, the demand for new pit
latrines and septic tanks until 1999 could be 50% higher t'han predicted.
Pilot demonstrations of improved pit latrine designs during project
preparation have indicated adequate interest in these units.
III. THE PROJECT
Genesis
3.01      Faced with outbreaks of cholera and the prevalence of other
diseases related to sanitation in Dar es Salaam, the Government, early in
1978, requested IDA assistance with the preparation of a project to improve
and extend the city's sewerage system (paragraphs 2.19 and 2.20 and
Annex 1). Investigations by IDA staff revealed that existing sewerage
development plans were inadequate. This led to assistance by IDA through
the Project Preparation Facility (CR. P074-TA) in July 1979 and May 1980
totaling US$1.0 million for the preparation of a master plan, feasibility
studies and preliminary designs for sewerage and sanitation in Dar es
Salaam and other technical assistance.
3.02      A consulting firm8/ was engaged by ARDHI in June 1979 to carry
out the studies. The Sewerage and Sanitation Master Plan to meet the needs
of the metropolitan area until about 2010 was completed in. December
1979.9/ The feasibility studies and preliminary designs f'or Stage I of
the least-cost development program, covering the period through about 1986,
were substantially completed in December 1980. The studies included the
institutional and cost recovery aspects of sewerage and sanitation and
recommendations for changes required to achieve efficiently operated and
maintained and financially viable services.
3.03      Originally the Government intended to concentrate upon sewerage -
the conventional water-borne waste disposal system - which now, and for
many years to come, would serve a small proportion of the city's population
(paragraph 2.18 and Annex 1). However, late in 1978, Tan2zania was chosen
for priority attention in a UNDP financed demonstration project
(GLO/78/006), for which the Bank is the executing agency. The UNDP project
assists governments in developing water supply and sanitation projects
which are responsive to the needs of low-income urban and rural areas and
which the beneficiaries can afford. On the advice of the UNDP project
team, the Technology Advisory Group (TAG), the sewerage studies were
expanded to include low-cost sanitation, which now is a major element in
8/ Howard Humphreys & Partners (UK) in association with E'eat, Marwick,
Mitchell and Company (UK).
9/  The Sewerage and Sanitation Master Plan is based on an Urban
Development Master Plan prepared by Marshall Macklin Monaghan Limited
(Canada) in 1979 and financed by SIDA.



- 13 -
the proposed sewerage and sanitation project. TAG members have continued
to advise the Government and IDA on the preparation of the project and are
expected to continue assistance during the implementation stage.
3.04      Preparation of the project has involved several missions by IDA
staff (July 1978, April 1979, January and November 1980 and March 1981).
The appraisal mission was in June/July 1981 and a brief post-appraisal
mission, in March 1982. TAG members visited Tanzania several times in
connection with low-cost sanitation studies in Dar es Salaam and a number
of other towns and also assisted ARDHI, DCC and IDA at the time of
appraisal.
3.05      Financing of a Low-Cost Sanitation Engineer (LCSE) Advisor post
in ARDHI and some equipment and demonstration work on low-cost sanitation
(110 improved pit latrines) - all important in project preparation - was
provided from IDA Credit 732-TA for the Second National Sites and Services
Project. IDA also assisted in arranging a UNDP grant to continue financing
the LCSE post for two years beginning in August 1981. A manager for
project implementation has been engaged by ARDHI with financing from IDA's
PPF (paragraph 3.01).
3.06      IDA involvement in the water supply, sewerage and sanitation
sector stems from interest in assisting with the improvement of
institutions, infrastructure and the supply of basic needs. This sector
involvement has continued for a number of years, both directly, through
lending for water supply, and indirectly, through lending for urban and
rural development projects (paragraphs 1.18 and 1.19). Immediate goals of
these activities are strengthening of sector institutions, rehabilitation
of past investments in infrastructure, improved maintenance and utilization
of existing capacity, improvement of the efficiency, quality and extent of
essential sector services and reduction of the financial burden of these
services on Government through acceptable cost recovery systems. The
sewerage and sanitation master plan and proposed Stage 1 project are
consistent with these goals and with statements of policy by the
Government.
Objectives
3.07      The project would be a modest first stage in a long range program
to develop basic sanitation in Dar es Salaam to meet acceptable standards
of public health and adequate levels of efficiency. In addition to
rehabilitation of the defunct existing sewerage system, the project would
focus particularly on low-cost on-plot sanitation of types which will serve
the majority of the population for many years and on the development of the
services, institutions, management and financial practices required for
sewerage and sanitation facilities to be properly planned, constructed,
operated, and maintained in future.
3.08      More specifically, the project would substantially improve the
pit emptying service for about 70,000 existing low-cost sanitation units.
The project would promote public acceptance and adoption of better
standards of low-cost sanitation and hygienic practices and provide
improved latrines for about 40,000 people. Sewer service to about 6,000



- 14 -
properties would be restored and this service would be provided to about
600 additional properties (paragraph 4.07) which have access but are not
connected to the existing sewerage system.
3.09      Managers would be engaged to initiate proper operation and
maintenance of the sewerage and sanitation services, to install
satisfactory financial management and cost recovery systems and to train
counterparts to take over. About 12 professional staff, 10 accountants and
40 technicians would be trained.
Technological Alternatives
3.10      During project planning, alternative waste disposal systems were
evaluated, particularly conventional water-borne systems (sewerage) versus
low-cost on-plot sanitation. Then a decision was made by AIWHI, in
consultation with IDA that, for cost reasons, sewerage would be a last
alternative in Dar es Salaam, restricted to areas where population
densities or physical conditions prohibit use of on-plot facilities. The
on-plot alternatives provide the same health benefits and a:Lmost the same
convenience as sewerage at a fraction of the construction and operating
problems and costs, provided, however, that the institution and facilities
required to service the on-plot installations (mainly pit emptying and
sludge disposal) are adequate and that the people are educai:ed in basic
personal hygiene.
3.11      Acceptance by the local authorities of the reality that sewerage
will not be widely available in the foreseeable future has an important
additional benefit. Potential future increases in water demand and the
need for future expansion of water production, transmission and storage
facilities will be reduced substantially.
3.12      In areas where sewerage will be used in Dar es Salaam, including
those presently sewered, alternative means of sewage treatment and disposal
were evaluated. The conclusion is that from cost, public health and
environmental standpoints the best solution is to continue with the present
sea outfall for the central sewerage system and with the use of waste
stabilization ponds discharging to local streams for the other systems.
Consequently the existing outfall and stabilization ponds will be
rehabilitated. However, it has been agreed that once the existing systems
are back in operation, the quality of the receiving waters will be
monitored as the bases for changing operating procedures and for future
design. By that time DSSD staff should be capable of performing the
required monitoring.
3.13      The on-plot sanitation units to be installed or improved, and the
supporting services, would be technologically appropriate with due
consideration for financial and socio-cultural constraints. Planning and
design has had the advantage of considerable recent research worldwide,
including by the UNDP demonstration project (paragraph 3.03),
investigations of local conditions (soil, water and climate), local
practices (building and toilet) and acceptability. More than 100
demonstration units have been constructed (paragraph 3.05), surveys have
been made, experiments with health education have been carried out and



- 15 -
workshops have been held involving government officials representing
health, education, municipal and urban development interests. In spite of
this advance work, however, changes in design of the sanitation units are
expected to occur as the result of experience gained during implementation
of the project, particularly changes which would reduce costs.
Description of Project Components
3.14      Project objectives are given in paragraphs 3.07 - 3.09 and the
project is detailed in Annex 2. The principal components are as follows:
(a) rehabilitation and improvement of existing sewerage facilities
(Annex 2, paragraph 1A);
(b) construction of pit latrines and replacement or conversion of
inadequate existing on-plot sanitation units (Annex 2, paragraphs
lB and 6-10);
(c) improvement of DCC's pit emptying service (Annex 2, paragraphs
1B and 11);
(d) establishment and development of a Sewerage and Sanitation
Department (DSSD) in DCC (paragraphs 5.03 and 5.04);
(e) provision of offices, workshops, equipment and spare parts
required for the management, operation and maintenance of
sewerage facilities and sanitation services;
(f) technical assistance to ARDHI and to DCC with development of
DSSD, with health education and extension services and for
additional studies of sanitation related problems including solid
wastes management;
(g) training for professional and technical staff
(paragraphs 3.09 and 5.07-5.09);
(h) provision of consulting engineering services for detailed design
and supervision of construction of this project and for detailed
design of a Stage II project;
(i) technical assistance to help NUWA become operational
(paragraphs 1.07 and 5.10);
(j) technical assistance to TANESCO (paragraph 5.08); and
(k) aerial survey and photogrammetric mapping of Dar es Salaam
(paragraph 5.14).
3.15      There is no provision in the project for construction of
extensions to the existing sewerage systems. However, it is expected that
some new sewerage facilities will be required in Stage II and the project
includes consulting services for detailed design of these facilities.
Also, the project does provide for new sewer service connections to
existing sewers (paragraph 3.08).



- 16 -
3.16       Sewerage rehabilitation is a major component of the project.
However, the nature of much of the work is such (Annex 2) that detailed
requirements will be revealed gradually as the work progresses. Therefore,
the extent and cost of the rehabilitation as a whole is uncertain and
estimates are less reliable than normally considered acceptable when a
credit is made. Consequently, a physical contingency allowance of 20% has
been made for the most uncertain parts of the work. In this respect it
should be noted that the most critical components (repair of the sea
outfall, replacement of pumping and electrical equipment and reconstruction
of stabilization ponds), which form about 65% of the rehabiLitation work,
are self evident and have been studied in sufficient detail to permit
development of reasonably reliable implementation timetables and cost
estimates. The principal uncertainty is the amount of repairs and
replacements required for submerged sewers, manholes and pumping mains (35%
of the rehabilitation or about 10% of the base cost of the total project).
To avoid cost overruns in the event that this part of the work proves to be
substantially more costly than estimated, some repairs would be made on a
temporary basis and the permanent work deferred to Stage II.
Cost Estimates
3.17       The total project cost is estimated at about TSh 273.5 million
(US$ 29.1 million) including foreign exchange costs equivalent to about
TSh 124.5 (US$13.2) million. The estimates are summarized below and shown
in detail in Annex 3 along with an estimated program of annual
expenditures.
PRQJECI ODST SUEtAY
TSH Million           US$ Million
% Foreign % of Tctal
Local Foreign Total  local Foreign Total Exchange Base Costs
A. Sewerage                   68.7   61.2  129.9    7.3    6.5   13.I    47.1       62.5
B. Sanitation                 35.5   29.7   65.2    3.8    3.2    7.C    45.5       30.6
C. Otber Technical
Assistance
TANES(OC                    1.3    2.3    3.6    0.1    0.2    0.4    64.7        1.7
NLMA                        5.2    9.1   14.3    0.5    1.0    1.'    63.9        6.7
Sub-Total Other Technical
Assistance                   6.4   11.4   17.9    0.7    1.2    1.9    64.0        8.4
Total Baseline Costs         110.6  102.4  213.0   11.8   10.9   22.7    48.1    100.0
Physical Contingencies      9.0    8.6   17.6    1.0    0.9    1.9    48.8        8.3
Price Cortingencies        29.4   13.6   43.0    3.1    1.4    4.5    31.6    20.2
TOTAL PRaJECT coSrs          149.0  124.5  273.5   15.9   13.2   29.1    45.5    128.4



- 17 -
3.18      The bases for the cost estimates are described in Annex 3.  The
base costs are at July 1982 prices. Unit prices are from the costs of
recent works, quotations from suppliers and review of market prices by HHP
and ARDHI. The costs of low-cost sanitation components are based on
detailed quantity take-offs and equipment lists and a pilot construction
program for pit latrines. As noted in paragraph 3.16, however, there is a
degree of uncertainty about part of the sewerage rehabilitation component
of the project (representing about 10% of the total base costs) because of
the nature of the work. This is not considered to be a serious problem.
3.19      Local costs include local duties and taxes on direct imports and
consulting services which are estimated at about TSh 31.5 (US$3.4) million
(12% of total project costs).
3.20      Base costs include allowances for spares for rehabilitation and
maintenance equipment of 15% and for vehicles, 10%. Allowances for
physical contingencies have been added to base costs at Various rates: 5%
for vehicles and technical assistance; 10% for equipment, land, new
construction, about half of the rehabilitation work, training and
engineering; and 20% for the balance of the sewerage rehabilitation. No
physical contingency allowances have been included for service connections,
low-cost sanitation units and miscellaneous vehicles since these are
classed as program items. The total allowance for physical contingencies,
is about 8.6% of all base costs except refunding of the project preparation
advance.
3.21      Price contingencies have been applied to the July 1982 base
costs, plus physical contingencies, assuming price increases as follows:
Fiscal Year ending June 30       1983       1984       1985      1986
Local                         15.0%      16.0%     13.0%      12.0%
Foreign                        8.0%       8.0%      7.5%       7.0%
The total allowance for price contingencies amounts to about 21.1% of the
total of base costs except refunding of the project preparation advance.
3.22      The base costs for consulting engineering services and expatriate
advisors is about TSh 61.3 million. Of this, TSh 49.3 million is directly
related to sewerage and sanitation; the balance is for technical assistance
to NUWA and TANESCO.   The costs of the consulting engineering contract for
sewerage rehabilitation (paragraph 3.30) is for 83 man months of expatriate
staff and 119 man months of local support staff. The average base costs of
the expatriate staff under that contract is equivalent to about US$7,350
per man month. The average total cost of 12 expatriate advisors to DSSD
and ARDHI for sewerage and sanitation (368 man months), under two or three
year contracts, is estimated at US$7,000 per man month equivalent.



- 18 -
3.23      The estimates are based on the assumption that most construction
work, including rehabilitation, will be carried out by locally based
contractors. The estimated foreign exchange cost of the physical
components are for imported materials, equipment and some specialized
technicians that would be required. It is assumed that all vehicles,
mechanical and electrical equipment and most pipe would be imported.
Project Financing
3.24      The proposed IDA Credit (US$22.5 million), would finance about
87% of the total cost of the sewerage and sanitation component of the
project excluding taxes, or 76% of costs including taxes. US$2.0 million
would be utilized for financing 85% of the technical assistance for NUWA
(paragraph 3.32)and TANESCO. The balance of the project funds required
(about TSh 62.0 (US$6.6) million, including about TSh 31.5 (US$3.4) million
to cover taxes) would come from internal cash generation and Government
contributions. The proposed IDA financing of the sewerage and sanitation
component is equivalent to 100% of the foreign exchange cost and about 74%
of the local cost component, before taxes.
Implementation
3.25      The project would be carried out jointly by ARDHI and DCC, with
AARDHI having prime responsibility. Policy matters would be dealt with by a
Project Management Committee which has been established. The Committee is
chaired by ARDHI's Director of Sewerage and Drainage and includes
designated key staff from DCC. In addition, a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), headed by a Project Manager, has been established in the Sewerage
and Drainage Division of ARDHI with responsibility for procurement,
administration of contracts with contractors and consulting engineers,
project accounts and other project matters. The Project Manager is being
financed from the PPF. Eventually his contract would be financed from the
proposed credit. The PIU includes an ARDHI low-cost sanitation engineer, a
project accountant and support staff. In addition, ARDHI would engage a
social scientist to assist with the Project and with sanitation activities
in other parts of Tanzania. It has been agreed that the Management
Committee and the PIU will be maintained until completion cf the project
and that the posts of Project Manager, low-cost sanitation engineer and
project accountant will be filled with qualified and experienced personnel
at all times.
3.26      The Chairman of the Project Management Committee and the Project
Manager have played major roles on behalf of the Government in the
preparation of the project since the middle of 1978. They are considered
competent to continue their roles through the implementation phase
provided, however, that the PIU is properly staffed.



- 19 -
3.27       DCC has played a minor part in project preparation due to
institutional problems, including severe staff constraints (Chapter V),
although DCC staff did take some part in preparation of the Project
Proposal dated April 1981. DCC activity during project implementation
would be devoted to: development of the new DSSD (paragraph 5.10) for which
technical assistance would be included in the proposed project; an advisory
role, mainly through the Project Management Committee; decisions about the
location of new low-cost sanitation units; and health education of the
public and promotion of the low-cost sanitation program. Contract staff
for DSSD would be engaged by ARDHI and assigned to DCC.
3.28      ARDHI will enter into contracts for all major project supplies,
equipment and construction. There will be about six contracts for sewerage
rehabilitation. Low-cost sanitation units also will be constructed under
contract with ARDHI in groups of 100 to 500 units. However, ARDHI intends
to transfer responsibility for the construction contracts for low-cost
sanitation units to DCC as soon as DSSD is competent to handle these.
3.29       Detailed design and the preparation of tender documents for
construction of low-cost sanitation units would be completed by ARDHI,
based on preliminary designs and recommendations by TAG (paragraph 3.03)
and a pilot construction program completed in 1982 (paragraph 3.18).
3.30       Sewerage rehabilitation would be designed and construction
supervised by consulting engineers. A contract between ARDHI and Howard
Humphreys (Tanzania) Limited was signed on December 7, 1981 and work
commenced early in January 1982. The consultants and the terms and
conditions of the contract are acceptable to IDA.
3.31      New office buildings for DSSD and its Mechanical and Electrical
Division, plus improvements to three existing depots, would be designed
and supervised by locally based consulting firms, yet to be selected, under
contract to ARDHI. It has been agreed that firms acceptable to IDA would
be engaged under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Until the office
buildings are ready, DCC would provide temporary space for DSSD.
3.32       MWE would appoint a firm of management consultants to assist NUWA
to become operational (Annex 2, paragraph 23). The decision is expected
shortly. The terms and conditions of the contract would be submitted to
IDA for approval. It is expected that the initial stages of the consulting
assignment would be financed from an existing IDA advance from PPF
(CR. PO 93) for preparation of a Second Urban Water Supply Project,
but that the balance of the assignment and other technical assistance
required for NUWA would be financed from the proposed credit for the
Sewerage and Sanitation Project. The consultant may also assist in
adapting the TANESCO management information system to NUWA and DSSD needs.
3.33       Establishment of DSSD in the proposed form (Chapter V) was
approved by the City Council, the Office of the Prime Minister and the
Treasury in May 1982.



- 20 -
3.34      Land use rights would be acquired for the new DSSD buildings,
dumping points for pit emptying vehicles and possibly for expansion of the
three sewerage depots. It has been agreed that any required land and
rights in respect of land shall be acquired as and when needed, or by June
30, 1983 whichever is earlier.
3.35      The implementation schedule for the project is given in Annex
4 and is realistic. Detailed design and preparation of tender documents
for sewerage rehabilitation began in January 1982. The first contract
awards are expected about April 1983. Design and procurement for an
initial trial contract for 100 low-cost sanitation has begun with the
contract award scheduled for April 1983. The sewerage rehabilitation
should be completed by February 1985 and all other construction, by October
1985. Training will continue unitl June 1987.
Resources Aspects
3.36      Rehabilitation of the existing sewerage systems is intended to
improve significantly the quality of local streams and of the sea in the
immediate vicinity of Dar es Salaam. The quality of the effluent from the
restored stabilization ponds (paragraph 3.12) should be satisfactory for
some types of irrigation. However, the quantities of effluent would be
small, by irrigation standards, and investigations during the preparation
of the Sewerage and Sanitation Master Plan (paragraph 3.02) did not produce
any evidence of a-market for effluent near the points of discharge.
Procurement
3.37      Works:  The contracts for rehabilitation of sewerage structures
and for the construction of DSSD's headquarters building, have an estimated
total cost of about TSh 78 (US$8.3) million including contingencies, and
would be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with IDA guidelines. Eligible domestic bidders would be afforded a
preference of 7J% under ICB procurement. The balance of construction for
the project, totaling about TSh 37 (US$4.0) million including
contingencies, consists of minor works and buildings of estimated contract
size less than US$1.0 million scattered throughout the city and not likely
to interest foreign bidders. These works would be procured through local
competitive bidding procedures, which were found at appraisal to be
satisfactory to IDA, and in which foreign bidders would have the
Opportunity to participate.
3.38      Goods:  Equipment and vehicles, totaling about TSh 45 (US$4.8)
million including contingencies, would be grouped in appropriate bidding
packages and procured by ICB in accordance with IDA guidelines. Qualifying
domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15%
or the import duty, whichever is lower. Miscellaneous items of equipment
and furniture, in packages less than US$50,000 and totaling US$0.5 million
approximately, would be procured under local competitive bidding procedures
which were found at appraisal to be satisfactory to IDA.



- 21 -
3.39      Contract Review:  All bidding packages for works estimated to
cost over US$0.7 million equivalent and bidding packages for goods
contracts over US$150,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior
review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of about 80% of
the total estimated value of works contracts, and about 90% of goods
contracts. In addition, the initial bidding packages of any type,
regardless of size, would be subject to prior review by IDA . The balance
of the contracts would be subject to selected ex-post review by IDA after
contract award.
Disbursements
3.40      The proposed allocation of proceeds of the proposed credit is
given in Annex 5. In general, 100% of all foreign exchange expenditures
would be financed from the credit.  Local currency costs would be financed
to the extent of 80% for consulting engineering and other technical
assistance and civil works, and 50% for equipment, furnishings and
vehicles.  Local currency financing by IDA would exclude financing of local
import duties and taxes.
3.41      Forecasts of annual project expenditures are shown in Annex 3.
Actual payments and credit disbursements may occur much later as indicated
by the estimated schedule of disbursements shown in Annex 6. The schedule
of disbursements is based on the country-wide disbursement profile for
Tanzania; the region-wide disbursement profile for the sector is considered
to have an insufficient sample size. The profile was adjusted to eliminate
time required after 95% disbursement and to account for an implementation
period 18 months less than average. The proposed closing date would be
December 31, 1987.
3.42      The PPF advance for preparation of the project would be
refinanced from the proposed credit. Retroactive financing of up to US$0.5
million for the early stages of the consulting engineering contract for
sewerage rehabilitation (paragraph 3.30) and for mapping Dar es Salaam is
recommended. This would cover the estimated costs of those contracts
through about March 1983.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past Performance
4.01      Records of operating costs for both the piped sewerage and pit
latrine emptying services are very poor owing to inadequately designed and
unevenly kept records, particularly during the period 1974-1978 (paragraph
1.13). Therefore, the recurrent costs of these services cannot be
ascertained. Asset values also are not available as records were
disrupted during the 1974-78 period. Efforts are being made by the City
Treasurer and his staff to update and reconstruct these records but
success is unlikely since the task is enormous and qualified staff are
scarce.



- 22 -
4.02      Monthly billing for sewerage services is currently based on the
5,800 connections that were known at end-1973. Connections are known to
have been made since then but have not been recorded. During 1980 TSh
614,000 (US$65,000) were billed in total and TSh 271,000 (IJS$29,000) were
collected, but portions of both the sums billed and collected may have been
for previous years as DCC is billing arrears from 1974. Billing is based
on water consumption estimates, obtained from DCS (paragraph 2.13), of
3,333 gallons monthly per connection at TSh 3.65 (UScts.39)/1000 Ig. On
this basis the annual billing should be a minimum of TSh 850,000
(US$90,000). However, there is no control over the billing, either to
ensure that all known connections are billed or to pursue collection of the
bills rendered.
4.03      Charges for pit latrine and septic tank emptying services
currently average about TSh 20 (US$2.13) (paragraph 4.10). An additional
charge of TSh 240 (US$25.53) per pit is made if sludge has to be removed
manually; and for certain institutions TShs 75 (US$8.00) per load is
charged.  Private customers are required to pay estimated charges in cash
before service is rendered but Local Purchase Orders (LPO's) are accepted
from Government agencies. Apart from despatching the bills and recording
each bill, no monitoring or control systems exist. Outstanding accounts for
Government departments which obtain service on credit (LPO's) are not
pursued.
Future Financial Performance
4.04      The appraisal mission has made financial forecasts for DSSD for
the financial years 1983-87, separated into Low-Cost Sanitation (Annex 7)
and Sewerage Operations (Annex 8). These two forecasts have then been
consolidated (Annex 9) to show the potential future financial position of
DSSD as a whole. The assumptions used in the forecasts are given in Annex
10.
4.05      Charges/Revenues for Sewerage Operations.  Revenue estimation
from billing data is inaccurate because some institutions and major
industries are not currently billed. For FY84, the maximum revenue that
can be hoped for is estimated at about TSh 4.0 million or about 11% of the
revenue target for FY85.
4.06      The sewerage system is scheduled to resume operation during FY85
when it is anticipated that the new financial management and accounting
unit of DSSD will bring a new accounting system into operation. In FY85
and subsequent years revenues are therefore based on internal cash
generation of 20% of capital investment expenditures (paragraph 4.09).
Construction expenditures for Phase II and subsequent phases of the Dar es
Salaam sewerage development are not yet known, therefore the notional
construction expenditures (Annex 8) shown for FY86 and FY87 are about the
levels that could be sustained on the basis of a 20% capital contribution,
using the FY85 charge per connection to calculate revenues from sewerage
charges for each of these years.
4.07      The estimated average monthly charge per sewer service connection
on the above basis for FY85 is TSh 455 (US$48), or TSh 338 (US$36) at 1982
price levels. However, charges are on a base of 5,800 corLnections



- 23 -
(paragraph 4.02) assumed to increase at about 300 per annum beginning in
FY84. The actual number of existing connections may be much higher -
estimates of 10,000 and 24,000 have been made - and the average service
charge could prove to be 50% or more below the above estimate. The
existing number of connections and the potential rate of increase will not
be known until a house-to-house survey (paragraph 5.13) is carried out.
4.08      Although sewerage charges made currently are based on water
consumption (paragraph 4.02), only about 25% of water consumers have
operatinig meters and most water consumption is estimated for both domestic
and industrial consumers. Furthermore, some industries and major
institutions are not even billed for services.   Therefore the present
basis for sewer service charges is not satisfactory. During negotiations
agreement was reached that a study to determine the appropriate structure
and levels of sewer service charges would be carried out and
recommendations resulting from the studies, as agreed by Government and
IDA, would be implemented during 1985.
4.09      The proposed proportion of 20% investment expenditures to be
generated from sewerage revenues is justified because sewerage is highly
capital intensive. Revaluation of the existing sewerage system yields a
gross value of TSh 216 (US$23) million, or TSh 34,000 (US$3,600) per
property served (for 10,000 properties) including TSh 12,000 (US$1,300) for
the service connection, all at 1982 prices. By comparison, the cost of a
pit latrine at 1982 prices is estimated at TSh 3,800 (US$404) (para.
4.04). The capital intensity of sewerage used to benefit institutions,
commercial areas and a relatively small proportion of the population
justifies the operations contributing to future expansion,especially in
view of limited Government budget capacity to provide local costs.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that beginning with FY85, DCC
would fix the charges for sewerage services for each year at levels that
would produce funds from internal sources equivalent to a minimum of 20% of
the average sewerage capital expenditures for that year, the previous year
and the next following year on the understanding that the percentage would
be reviewed following the survey of connections (para. 5.13) and the
sewerage charges study (para. 4.08)
4.10      Charges/Revenues for Low-Cost Sanitation.  Currently the average
charge for pit emptying is Tsh 20 (US$2.13) per load (trip of a vacuum
tanker from the pit latrine or septic tank to the dumping point).
This average is based on charges of Tsh 16 (US$1.70) for domestic and other
small premises, Tsh 75 (US$7.98) for industry and commerce and Tshs 240
(US$25.53) for major institutions. For FY83, forecast revenues are based
on an estimated10/ average load charge of TSh 75 (US$8.00) derived from a
charge of TSh 60 (US$6.38) per load for domestic and other small premises
and TSh 260 (US$27.66) for industry and major institutions. These charges
are currently under consideration by DCC.
4.11      For FY84 and subsequent years, assumed revenues are those
required to cover operating costs including interest and the greater of
depreciation or debt repayment. The average charge per load arising on
this basis in FY84, is TSh 180 (US$19.15), equivalent to TSh 149 (US$15.85)
10/ Mission estimates



- 24 -
at 1982 price levels. Although these charges may appear high, currently
many pit latrines and septic tanks are emptied by private contractors at a
charge of TSh 500-600 (US$53.19 - 63.83) each. Furthermore, pit emptying
for latrines is required only about once every five years.   Agreement
was reached during negotiations that for FY84 and each year thereafter,
charges for pit latrine and septic tank emptying would be fixed to earn
revenues adequate to cover operating costs, interest, plus the greater of
depreciation or repayment of debt.
4.12      In addition to the latrine emptying charges, interest would be
earned on the loans to be made to householders for the upgrading and
construction of pit latrines. The individual loan would average TSh 3800
(US$404) at 1982 price levels for each latrine, for 15 years at 10%
interest annually. The borrower would sign a loan agreement. Equivalent
arrangements should be made for financing sewer service connections. During
negotiations agreement was reached that lending for pit laLrine upgrading
and construction, and for sewer service connections, would be made on these
terms.
4.13      Collections.  Currently little or no effort is made to collect
outstanding accounts either for pit emptying or sewerage charges
(paragraphs 4.02 and 4.03). Because of the difficulties experienced in
obtaining payment for credit, many parastatal and private organizations now
require Government departments and other entities to make advance payment
for goods and services. DSSD would follow this practice fDr pit emptying.
During negotiations it was agreed that no credit will be given for pit
emptying services, all payments being required in advance.
4.14      The proposed DSSD finance/accounting unit (paragraphs 5.10 and
5.11) is expected to be operational using computerized billing methods
before December 31, 1983. Billing would be carried out on TANESCO's
computer with parallel bills being produced for electricity, water,
sewerage charges and debt service for latrine loans. Initial steps have
been taken to form a committee - the financial directors of TANESCO and of
NUWA and DSSD, as soon as they are appointed - to implement the systems.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that Government will arrange that
authority be given to TANESCO, NUWA and DSSD for parallel billing and that
outstanding accounts for sewerage charges and debt service would not exceed
the equivalent of the previous three months billings. After a trial period
of two years the system would be reviewed by the three agencies in
consultation with IDA.
4.15      DSSD Future Operations.  Based on the foregoing and assuming
escalation of operating costs at 11%, 10%, and 9% for 1982, 1983, 1984 and
thereafter respectively, consolidated DSSD revenues will increase in steps
from TSh 3.6 million (US$0.38 million) for FY83 to TSh 61.5 million (US$6.5
million) in FY87, or at an annual average rate of increase of 103%.
Consolidated operating costs over the same period will increase from TSh
13.4 million (US$1.4 million) to TSh 41.1 million (US$4.4 million) or at an
annual average rate of 32%. The operating ratio will be transformed from
369% in FY83, producing an operating loss of TSh 9.8 million (US$1.0
million) for that year, to 67% with an operating income of TSh 20.5
million (US$2.2 million) for FY87.



- 25 -
4.16      Current Assets/Liabilities.  Based on tighter control of
collections, and on continuation of the current DCC practice of paying
before receipt of goods and services, and provided that inventories are
maintained at acceptable levels, the current ratios will increase rapidly
from 1.9 in FY83 to 3.9 by FY87. Cash available in FY86 and FY87 is high
due to the assumption that there would be no capital expenditures for low
cost sanitation in addition to the project. However, there could be some
capital expenditures for vehicle replacements and additional lending for
pit latrines during these years.
Financing Plan
4.17      DCC is expected to invest TShs 251.5 million (US$26.7 million)
for project purposes during the period FY83-87; in addition TShs 10.5
million (US$1.1 million) would be expended for sewer connections in FY86
and FY87 and TSh 133.7 million (US$14.2 million) for Phase II costs. The
total capital investment of TSh 395.7 million (US$42.1 million) would be
financed by Government onlending and grants, towards the cost of the
project. The balance of DCC project financing would be met from internal
cash generation. Government would also provide subsidies of TSh 14.0
million (US$1.5 million) for FY83 and FY84 operations and TSh 111.6 million
(US$11.9 million) towards assumed Phase II expenditures in FY86 and FY87,
DSSD's balance of these costs would come from internal cash generation. On
this basis the financing plan is as follows:



- 26 -
MILL ION S
TSh                 TSh    US$
1983  1984  1985  1986 1987  Total  'rotal  %
Internal Cash Ge(ration     -3.6   3.1  34.9  38.4 39.7  112.5  l2.0  28.4
Contributions for Sewer
Connecttorr                -    4.1   4.5   5.0  5.5  19.1    2.0   4.8
Grcss Internal Cash Gen.    -3.6   7.2  39.4  43.4 45.2  131.6   14.0  33.2
Less: Debt Service aid
Workng Capital         3.9   9.6  23.1  20.6 27.3  84.5   9.0   21.3
Available for Investment    -7.5  -2.4  16.3  22.8  17.9  47.1    5.0  11.9
Goverrunt Equity
- Subsidies               7.5   6.5    -      -   -    14.0    1.5   3.5
- Project                20.9  26.0  13.4   7.1  -    67.4    7.2  17.0
- Phase II                                  55.9 55.7 111.6   11.8  28.2
Total Equity                28.4  32.5  13.4  63.0 55.7  193.0   20.5  48.7
Goviernmert lending ir-
cluding IDACredit        27.9  79.0  56.3   0.5  -   163.7   17.4  41.4
Deduct Surplus Cash           -     -     -   -4.1 -4.0  -8.1   -0.9  -2.0
Total Sources               48.8 109.1  86.0  82.2 69.6 395.7   42.0 100.0
Capital Ex4enditure
- Project                48.6  103.8  76.4   7.1  -   235.9   25.1  59.6
- Loans mae               0.2   5.3   9.6   0.5  -    15.6    1.6   3.9
Total for Project           48.8  109.1  86.0   7.6  -   251.5   26.7  63.5
Sewer Conmections                               5.0  5.5  10.5   1.1    2.7
Phase II Construction                          69.6 64.1  133.7   14.2  33.8
Total Investme:nt Expenditures 48.8  109.1  86.0  82.2  69.6  395.7   42.0  100.0



- 27 -
4.18      Future Financial Position.  The financial position should improve
as soon as the facilities and institutional improvements provided under the
proposed project become operational. DSSD should be able to cover
operation and maintenance costs and generate contributions of 7% to capital
expenditures in FY83-FY87, an improvement over the present situation.
4.19      The debt/equity ratio will be 33/67 in FY87 and the current ratio
will be 3.9, largely due to the inclusion in current assets of surplus cash
of TSh 38 (US$4.04) million that will be available for investment for
new pit emptying vehicles or lending for additional pit latrines. On the
assumption that future capital expenditures will be made prudently, the
financial position would remain sound. However, to safeguard DSSD's
financial situation, it was agreed at negotiations that DCC would not incur
future long term debt on behalf of DSSD without prior consultation with IDA
unless cash generation of DSSD for the preceding fiscal year is at least
1.5 times future debt service, including on the proposed new borrowings.
Project Monitoring Indicators
4.20      The recommended project monitoring indicators are listed in
Annex 11. A completion report would be prepared by ARDHI and DCC.
V. BORROWER AND IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
Lending Arrangements
5.01      The Borrower would be the Government of Tanzania.  About TSh
119.7 million (US$12.8) million of the credit would be onlent to DCC for 25
years, including five years grace, at 11% p.a. interest. About TSh 72.4
(US$7.7) million would be passed on as a grant. TSh 4.4 (US$0.5) million
and TSh 15.0 (US$1.6) million would be passed by Government to TANESCO and
NUWA respectively on a grant basis, covering the technical assistance
components included in the project for these two organizations. Completion
of the onlending agreement between Government and DCC would be required as
a condition of effectiveness.
Organizations
5.02      ARDHI (paragraph 2.12) would have prime responsibility for
implementation of the physical components of the project (paragraphs
3.25-3.31). Assets provided by the project (except private low-cost
sanitation units) would become the property of DCC and rehabilitated assets
would remain the property of DCC. DCC, through the new DSSD (paragraph
3.14), will play a role in the implementation of the low-cost sanitation
aspects of the project and will have responsibility for operation of the
sewerage and sanitation systems. DCC will also be responsible for
establishing DSSD and, in coordination with its parent ministry, the PMO,
recruit the permanent staff required to operate DSSD.



- 28 -
Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Department (DSSD)
5.03      Both the Master Plan for Dar es Salaam sewerage and the Project
Feasibility Report recommended that sewerage and sanitation services remain
the responsibility of DCC until such time as a national parastatal would be
ready to assume this responsibility (at least 5 years). Currently,
responsibility for sewerage and sanitation within DCC is divided among the
City Treasurer, City Engineer, Chief Health Officer and the Chief Workshop
Mechanic. In order to bring commercial management attitudes to the
physical and financial operations and to train the personnel in parastatal
type organizations, it was agreed at negotiations that DCC will form a
separate department to discharge DCC's statutory responsibilities.
5.04      The department, called the Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation
Department (DSSD), would operate on semi-commercial lines. It would be a
self-contained, semi-autonomous department reporting to the City Director,
incorporating all the services and functions including administration,
personnel, finance and accounting, necessary to carry on the sewerage and
sanitation operations. A draft organization chart is given in Annex 12.
Management and Staff
5.05      The General Manager, Finance Manager, Transportation and
Equipment Manager, Sewerage Manager, Sanitation Manager, Mechanical and
Electrical Engineer, Health Educator, Legal Advisor and the Training
Adviser would be expatriates financed from the proceeds of the Credit for
the first two or three years of DSSD operations (Annex 2). The appointment
of the key officers would be a condition of effectiveness.
5.06      Although a draft organization chart is given in Annex 12, the
General Manager would be required to devise the most appropriate
organization for DSSD, which should follow that of TANESCC as closely as
possible to ensure the maximum benefit from adopting TANESCO's management
operating and information systems (paragraph 5.10).
5.07      Staff for other positions would be found from among the existing
staff in DCC or from outside. One of the major tasks of the departmental
management would be the job definitions for staff positions within DSSD
from which a manpower demand forecast can be prepared. Preferably,
counterparts for the expatriate position holders should be identified
quickly but not at the expense of quality as demonstrated by both
qualifications and experience. The quality, volume and time span of
training and experience required to qualify Tanzanians for the staff
positions would be derived from the manpower forecast, and after taking
account of people available to fill the positions.
Management Development and Training
5.08      Staff recruited for technical positions are most: likely to come
from DCC and be conversant with some aspects of sewerage and sanitation
operations. Administrative and accounting staff will be new and
inexperienced in the office procedures that they will be required to
undertake. They will be trained in the operations of TANESCO's management



- 29 -
information system (paragraph 5.10) as adapted to sewerage and sanitation
operations . Management consultants are being provided from project funds
(paragraph 5.11) to adapt the TANESCO systems for DSSD use and they will
assist DSSD management in specifying the type of training, numbers required
to undergo the training and the curricula to be followed. Training would
be at TANESCO's training school in Dar es Salaam and the project funds
include an allowance for the cost of training - including a TANESCO
expatriate commercial training officer - for TANESCO, DSSD and NUWA staff.
5.09      Instruction to be given in the operations, administrative, and
accounting systems will be job specific in the use of the various input
forms for, and output reports from, the computer based system (paragraph
5.11). Clerks will be trained in the new procedures. Accountants will be
taught how to interpret and use the monthly and annual reports. The school
is expected to use experienced staff for such tuition under the supervision
of the TANESCO commercial training officer (para. 5.08).
Management Systems
5.10      The proposed DSSD will be a new organization intended to operate
as a semi-autonomous department of DCC responsible for arranging its own
financing through the auspices of DCC and Government, in its early years.
NUWA is also a new organization operating in the same public utility
environment as DSSD. If DSSD is to be merged into NUWA in the future and
build an effective sewerage and sanitation organization country wide, both
organizations should have the same operating, administrative and management
information systems from the beginning. TANESCO, the major public utility
in Tanzania already operates nation wide and has the basic operating and
management information systems that both DSSD and NUWA can adopt to operate
effectively. The TANESCO system covers project control and monitoring,
contract and capital works job costing, personnel records and payroll,
billing and consumers accounting, inventory control and management, fleet
operation accounting and all the records and periodic reports necessary for
efficient public utility operation and management.
5.11      The system is based on data processing by a computer already
operated by a long established and effective computer department. TANESCO
has acquired a new computer, the configuration of which can be expanded to
meet NUWA and DSSD needs. Some systems analysis assistance would be
required to adapt the existing programs to DSSD and NUWA use; provision is
included in the project to provide technical assistance for this purpose.
A major objective in adapting the existing computer programs for consumers'
billing would be to prepare parallel bills to consumers for electricity,
water, and sewerage and sanitation each month. Coupled with appropriate
sanctions for non-payment, parallel billing of all public utility charges
should improve consumers administration, reduce costs, improve collection
for water, sewerage and sanitation services and impose billing disciplines
currently absent from those operations. However, recourse in the event of
non-payment of sewer service charges and loan installments for latrine
construction is difficult and there is the risk that reaching satisfactory
collection levels could take longer than planned.



- 30 -
5.12      TANESC0 would be paid by NUWA and DSSD both for the cost of any
training and a monthly charge based on the number of transactions processed
for each organization, covering the services provided. These would cover
control of transactions for computer processing, processing and delivery of
reports at terminals and printers located in the offices of each
organization.
5.13      An essential part of the management systems improvement included
in the project would be a door-to-door survey in Dar es Salaam to ascertain
the premises connected to sewerage, water and electricity systems
(Annex 2, paragraph 18). DSSD and DCS consumer records are incomplete
(paragraph 4.02) and require updating before effective billing can be
achieved. TANESCO records are generally good except for some consumer
account/plot number relationships in squatter areas. When the computer
system is ready to record the data, the survey would be carried out by
students under the supervision of representatives of DCC/ARDHI, DCS/NUWA
and TANESCO and under the general direction of an advisor who would design
the survey. The survey should require about 270 man months at a total
estimated cost of about TSh 160,000 (US$17,000) which is included in the
estimated project costs.
5.14      Up-to-date maps of the city would be required for the above
survey. The project would include an aerial survey and photogrammetric
mapping (paragraph 3.14-k), already in progress, at a cost of about
US$250,000 equivalent.
Audit and Insurance
5.15      The audit of DCC is carried out by the Auditor-General of
Tanzania who is acceptable to the Bank as auditor for other projects
implemented by Government departments.
5.16      Annual accounts had been prepared by the City Treasurer to the
end of FY79 but neither the accounts for FY78 or FY79 had been issued
pending the settlement of auditors' comments and queries. City accounting
is in a poor condition as the City Treasurer does not have an adequate
number of qualified staff.
5.17      DCC currently self insures all its assets with the exception of
vehicles for which it carries third-party cover. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that project equipment and materials will be covered by
marine and transit insurance to site including the necessary foreign
exchange needed to replace equipment and materials lost or damaged.



- 31 -
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Project Benefits
6.01      Project objectives are described in paragraphs 3.07-3.09.
Justifications for the sewerage component of the project are institutional
development (paragraph 6.05) and that it would rehabilitate the existing
sewerage infrastructure in Dar es Salaam, improve maintenance and
utilization of its existing capacity and prepare for future extensions to
the sewerage systems to areas where low cost sanitation would not be
appropriate because of population density or soil and water conditions.
The rehabilitation will improve the sanitary conditions by preventing the
direct discharge of untreated raw sewerage to storm drains, streams, the
harbor and beaches (paragraph 2.20). Public health would be improved and
the frequency of occurrence of sanitation related diseases would be
reduced.
6.02      The sewerage systems when rehabilitated, will serve only about
10% of Dar es Salaam's population of about one million. Therefore, the
project would focus particularly on low-cost sanitation which would serve
the remainder of the city's population, and whose present on-plot excreta
disposal systems and hygiene practices contribute heavily to the mortality
ana morbidity profiles of the city. In thus addressing the basic
sanitation needs of the whole population of a major city, rather than just
the minority served by sewerage, the project would be the first of its type
to be financed by IDA .
6.03      Although only 3,700 of the improved pit latrines are included,
out of an estimated total requirement of about 18,000 by 1984 (paragraphs
2.35 and 2.36), the project would be a first step in introducing improved
designs and systematic methods of project implementation. It is expected
that the project would encourage adoption of the improved units by
households and communities in other areas, both within Dar es Salaam and in
other parts of the country .
6.04      Substantially all of the population of Dar es Salaam should
benefit from the project. The most direct beneficiaries would be the
approximately 60,000 people with an improved sewerage service and at least
40,000 people with new or reconstructed pit latrines (paragraph 3.08).
Nearly equal benefits would accrue to the balance of the city's population
through improved pit emptying services and the reduction of pollution and
health hazards now existing because of defunct or inadequate sewerage and
sanitation facilities. The health and personal hygiene education and
promotion component of the project (Annex 2, paragraph 24) also should
benefit people not directly served by the project.
6.05      A major project benefit will be the establishment of an
institution (DSSD) and the development of the services required for
sewerage and sanitation facilities to be properly operated, maintained and
expanded in future.. The institution is expected to be the core of a
future Tanzanian national institution for sewerage and sanitation.



- 32 -
6.06      The implementation of an effective cost recovery system would be
a critical part of the institutional development. Maintenance and
expansion of sewerage and sanitation facilities have been hampered partly
by poor cost recovery in the past, depriving DCC of the funds necessary to
operate and maintain the sewerage system and provide adequate
emptying services for pit latrines and septic tanks.  In the prevailing
situation in Tanzania in which budget funds are scarce, full cost recovery
for both sewerage and low cost sanitation is necessary and is a project
objective (paragraphs 4.07-4.16).
Least Cost Solution
6.07      Project studies - and experience in the world generally - have
established that properly designed and maintained on-plot sanitation
facilities are the least costly means of satisfactory excreta disposal,
costing perhaps 20% of the cost of the sewerage alternative per household
served. In Dar es Salaam the waste disposal program would concentrate upon
on-plot units, limiting the waterborne sewerage system to areas where
population densities or physical conditions prohibit the use of on-plot
facilities (paragraph 3.10 and paragraphs 6 and 7 of Annex 2).
6.08      The project studies also demonstrated that the most economic
solution for the existing sewered areas would be to refurbish and improve
the existing sewerage systems (paragraph 3.12 and Annex 2, paragraphs 14
and 15). The consultants' economic analyses indicated that, over the
30-year master plan period, the proposed sewerage and sanitation plan (with
stabilization pond-strategy) would be less expensive than any of the
alternatives considered at all discount rates below 25%.
Rate of Return and Pricing
6.09      Monthly sewer service charges per connection are estimated to
average between TSh 338 (US$36) and TSh 100 (US$11) depending on whether
there are 5,800 connections or 24,000 connections to the existing systems
(paragraph 4.07). The internal rate of return of the sewerage
rehabilitation component of project would be about 6.9%, taking account of
all capital and operating costs, excluding duties and taxes and shadow
pricing foreign exchange at a factor of 2.13 and local labor at 0.9. A 10%
increase in costs would reduce the return to about 5.2%. A decrease in
revenues of 10%  would reduce the return to about 5.1% (Annex 14).
6.10      For the low-cost sanitation component of the project, the
householders will borrow the cost of the latrine and pay for emptying it
about once every five years. The pit latrine emptying service to be
provided will enable the backlog in latrine emptying to be met by about
1984 when the service becomes fully operational. The cost per load for
emptying is estimated at 1982 price levels at TSh 180 (US$1.9) (paragraph
4.11) based on 69,000 loads annually when the vehicle fleet; is fully
operational. Using revenues derived from these charges and the
householders contributions for improved latrines as the benefit streams,
and the capital and operating costs of the low cost sanitat:ion unit,
excluding taxes and shadow priced for foreign exchange and local labor at



- 33 -
factors of 2.13 and 0.9 respectively, the internal rate of return of the
LCS component of the project is estimated at 5.9%, which is acceptable
because of the benefits which cannot be quantified.   An increase in
capital costs of 10% has no effect on the return. A 10% decrease in
benefits would reduce the return to about 3.2%. Details of the return
calculations are given in Annex 14.
Impact on Poverty Group
6.11      The existing housing and sanitary conditions in the poor areas of
Dar es Salaam (paragraphs 2.32 through 2.34 and in paragraphs 14-21 of
Annex 1) indicate that substantially all of the population benefiting from
the low-cost sanitation component of the project would be within the
poverty group. Low income squatter areas where malfunctioning of the
existing sewerage system and pit emptying practices create gross pollution
and serious health hazards would benefit most from the sewerage component
of the project.
6.12      The fact that the most low income houses are owned by landlords
implies that the project would have a large impact on low income people
renting rooms with the costs of the improved latrines and emptying charges
being recovered in the monthly rents. The annual economic cost per house
is estimated at TSh 394.00 (US$42) and the annual per capita cost at TSh
39.00 (US$4), or TSh 33.00 (US$3) and TSh 3.00 (US$0.32) per month
respectively (Annex 13). About 85% of the families in Dar es Salaam were
estimated in 1980 to have monthly expenditures exceeding TSh 188
(US$22.70).11/ Since about 3.1 families on an average occupy each house
they should each be able to afford the monthly charge of TSh 33.00
(US$3.00) per family for an improved pit latrine.
Project Merit and Risks
6.13      The project will have an appreciable impact on the environmental,
sewerage and sanitation situation in Dar es Salaam and hopefully lead in
time to the continuing improvement of the sector situation throughout
Tanzania.
6.14      Project risks are the possible failure of DSSD to develop as the
efficiently operating organization envisaged so that it fails to maintain
the rehabilitated sewerage system and expand on the low-cost sanitation
pioneering effort. The project includes training and experienced
expatriate assistance initially, in an effort to mitigate this risk and
future projects should continue the institution building endeavor. There
are risks of failure to achieve financial targets, including adequate
collection of charges (paragraph 5.11), and to avoid delays.
6.15      Another major risk is that foreign exchange may not be available
in the future to pay for imported spare parts for the equipment and
vehicles being provided under the project. Lending for a second phase
project would help to obviate such a situation. Close monitoring by IDA
should take place to assure timely availability of funds for these
purposes.
11/ Bureau of Statistics, Household Budget Survey 1976-77, updated to
mid-1980 at 4% compounded p.a.



- 34 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements Reached
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following:
(a)  the quality of the receiving waters to which stabilization ponds
discharge treated wastes and of the sea in the vicinity of the
ocean outfall would be monitored (paragraph 3.12);
(b)  the Management Committee and the Project Implementation Unit
would be maintained until completion of the the Project, and the
posts of of project manager, low-cost sanitation engineer and
project accountant would be filled with qualified and experienced
personnel at all times (paragraph 3.25);
(c)  to assist in carrying out the project, experts would be employed,
whose selection, qualifications and terms and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to IDA (paragraphs 3.15,
3.30-3.32 and 5.05);
(d)  acquisition of any required land or land rights would be
completed as and when needed but not later than June 30,
1983; (paragraph 3.34);
(e)  by June 30, 1984 a study comparing the costs involved in serving
different categories of customers would be completed; by December
31, 1984, proposals for a new tariff structure would be prepared;
and, promptly thereafter, the Government would take steps
necessary to implement the tariff structure proposals taking IDA
comments into account;
(f)  beginning in FY85 sewerage tariffs would be adjusted from time to
time to generate funds from internal sources equivalent to a
minimum of 20% of average sewerage capital expenditures for that
year, the previous year and the next year. (paragraph 4.09);
(g)  beginning in FY84, charges for pit emptying services would be
fixed to earn revenues adequate to cover operating costs, plus
depreciation or repayment of debt, whichever is greater, and
interest charges (paragraph 4.11);
(h)  arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, would be made to enable
householders to borrow funds, under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA, for the construction or upgrading of pit
latrines and for sewer service connections (paragraph 4.12);
(i) payment for all pit emptying services would be made in
advance(paragraph 4.13);



- 35 -
(j) charges for electricity, water and sewer service and for debt
service on loans for pit latrines or sewer service connections
would be billed on a parallel basis and outstanding accounts for
sewerage charges and debt service would not be allowed to exceed
the equivalent of the previous three months billings (paragraph
4.14);
(k) DCC would not incur additional long-term debt on behalf of DSSD
without prior consultation with IDA unless cash generation for
the preceding fiscal year is at least 1.5 times future debt
service, including on the proposed new borrowings (paragraph
4.19);
(1) the proceeds of the credit allocated for acquisition,
construction or rehabilitation of sewerage and sanitation
facilities would be onlent to DCC on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 5.01);
(m)  the proceeds of the credit allocated for technical assistance
would be passed on as grants (paragraph 5.01);
(n) a survey of service connections for sewerage, water supply and
electricity would be made by December 31, 1983 (paragraph 5.13);
(o) the Auditor-General of Tanzania would audit DCC beginning with
FY83 (paragraph 5.15); and
(p) adequate provision would be made for the insurance of imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (paragraph
5.17).
7.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a) execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and DCC (paragraph 5.01).
(b) the appointment of key officers of DSSD (paragraph 5.05);
Recommendation
7.03      With the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for
an IDA Credit of US$22.5 million equivalent including retroactive financing
of consulting services in an amount not exceeding US$500,000 equivalent
(paragraph 3.42).



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECr
Existing Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Systems
Health Information
1.        The major causes of mortality and morbidity in Tanzania are
diseases associated with poor sanitation, poor nutrition and lack of health
knowledge.l/ High rates of various water borne, water washed and vector
carried infectious diseases, a consequence of poor sanitatiDn, include:
malaria, the largest source of mortality and mobidity; schistosomiasis,
with a prevalance estimated at twenty percent nationwide; gastroenteritis
and other diarrheas, which ranked fourth in percentage of hospital
admissions and among the five most common causes of deaths in hospitals.2/
Tanzania has suffered five outbreaks of cholera since 1974; the 1977-78
epidemic killed over 1,500 people.
2.        For decades municipal administrations in Tanzania maintained and
published periodic reports including vital statistics. Owing to the
changes in municipal administration since.1974 (paragraphs
1.03 and 2.21), this practice has not been continued in the immediate past
in Dar es Salaam. However, DCC medical officials compiled a partial report
on the incidence of some of the common communicable diseases in Dar es
Salaam for the period January through September 1979 and which shows
dangerously high levels for a city with a population of nearly one million:
Diseases                           Reported cases
Malaria                                166,000
Schistosomiasis                         19,000
Diarrhoea (excluding cholera)           47,000
Hookworm                                 7,400
Existing Water Supply System and Standard of Service
3.        Two of the three major water supply sources for Dar es Salaam are
on the Ruvu River. The upper Ruvu Treatment Plant, constructed in 1959 and
expanded five times since then, has a capacity of 85,000 m3/d. The lower
Ruvu Treatment Plant, constructed in 1976, has a capacity of 180,000 m3/d
which can be expanded to 270,000 m3/d. Water from these two sources is
pumped to the Kimara and University Reservoirs respectively before
1/   Health In Tanzania, USAID, 1979.
2/   In addition, ankylostomiasis, amolbiasis, giardiasis, hepititis,
filariasis, tinea, and scabies are common.



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
distribution by gravity to the high zones. The third source of water is
the Mtoni Treatment Plant (capacity 5,000 m3/day) located to the south of
the urban area and which draws water from the Buza Reservoir on the Mzinga
River and from the Mtoni River for treatment and pumping into the
distribution system. The high and low zones of the distribution system are
interconnected.
4.        According to MWE officials, the existing water sources are
adequate for Dar es Salaam until 1987 or 1988 without control on the Ruvu
River. After then, when the upper Ruvu Treatment Plant is expanded, lack
of river regulation could cause water shortages during two or three months
of the year. Water production from these sources at present averages
between 120,000 to 180,000 m3/d according to various estimates; accurate
figures do not exist because flow meters do not function at any of the
plants.
5.        The existing public water supply system does not provide
satisfactory service, in spite of the fact that the installed capacity of
treatment and transmission facilities appears ample. Estimates of losses
due to leaks in the transmission and distribution systems range from 25% to
50% of water production. There are frequent interruptions of supply
and in some parts of the system, particularly in the high zones, water
seldom is supplied on a continuous basis. On a number of recent occasions,
substantially untreated water has been distributed because of shortages of
chemicals. Distribution mains are undersized, expecially in the city
center and the interconnections between pressure zones are defective.
Pumps often are broken down and because of poor maintenance their useful
life in Dar es Salaam is only about 10 years. There is no measurement of
water production and metering of water use is totally inadequate. Although
all service connections are supposed to be metered (except public
standpipes), it is estimated that only 25% have functioning meters.
6.        There is no reliable information on the population served by the
public water supply system or of the numbers of people provided with the
available levels of service. However, it is reasonable to assume that
nearly 100% of the population of the urban sections of the Dar es Salaam
region obtain their water in one way or another from this system. In some
cases this may be supplemented from other sources (Chapter II, paragraph
2.16).
7.        Three general levels of water supply service are provided as
follows:
(a) individual full service connections to residences, and
practically all industries, institutions and commercial
establishments, which have fully or partially plumbed
internal systems, including flush toilets;



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
(b) individual plot connections with only an external tap or
partial internal plumbing, but not including flush toilets;
and
(c) public standpipes where water is obtained by householders or
by vendors who sell to households.
8.        According to WCS, there were about 35,000 individual water
service connections in 1980 and about 550 public standpipes. The actual
number of direct water service connections could have been much higher than
35,000 in 1980 since illegal connections are a major problem. From data
developed for the Sewerage and Sanitation Master Plan it is estimated that
there are about 40,000 people (1979) in residential areas served basicaly
by public standposts. WCS has a plan to phase out public standpipes by
1984 but this appears impractical because of the magnitude of the task and
the cost of water service connections (about Tsh 2000 each). In fact, the
number of public standposts has increased since 1980. The difficulty of
achieving 100% individual connections is illustrated by a survey in two
low-income areas of Dar es Salaam where water mains run clkse to most
houses but less than 50% of the households have connections and less than
half of the balance have intentions of getting them.
9.        Water demand figures developed for use on the sewerage studies
are 24 to 30 lcd for population using public standpipes, up to 60 lcd for
plots with individual connections but without flush toilets, and 120 lcd to
240 lcd for middle and high income housing with full plumbing. Actual
service provided often may be less than this because of constraints in the
systems (paragraph 5).
Existing Sewerage and Sanitation System and Standards of Service
10.       The existing sewerage system serves about 12% of the population
of the Dar es Salaam Region and is of the separate type; i.e. designed for
sanitary sewage only. The city center sewerage system (IBRD Map 16132),
constructed between 1948 and 1952, discharges through an ocean outfall just
north of the harbor entrance. Sewage either gravitates or is pumped to the
outfall. Between 1956 and 1959, the city center system was extended
somewhat to the west and south. In addition, various isolated sewerage
systems have been installed for residential, institutional and industrial
developments in outlying area, and in each one sewage treatment is by waste
stabilization ponds which discharge to local watercourses. There are nine
of these separate systems as follows:
(1)  Mikocheni, Regent Estate and Kijito Nyama
(2) University
(3) Ubungo Industrial Area
(4) Dar es Salaam Airport and TPDF Airwing
(5) Pugu Road Industrial Area (Part) and Tazara. Schemes
(6) Mgulani/Kurasini
(7) Buguruni
(8) Lugalo Military Barracks
(9) Ukonga Prison



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
11.       The condition of the existing sewerage system is exceptionally
bad. The ocean outfall has been broken near the shore for years. Only one
of the waste stabilization ponds - at the University of Dar es Salaam - is
operating with some degree of effectiveness. Of the 17 existing pumping
stations, only one can be operated. Some of the defunct stations,
including an important one in the city center, have been out of commission
for several years. A number of the major sewers are blocked completely.
Septic conditions, causing serious corrosion of sewers and dangerous
concentrations of gases, can be observed at a number of locations on the
sewerage systems. Many manhole covers have been removed and others buried
under road surfaces so they have not been located and opened. The
situation is such that until sewers are cleared, few meaningful
examinations can be made to determine their capacities, structural
conditions and the extent of rehabilitation required. Similarly, little
can be done to measure flows and characteristics of the sewage.
12.  .    As noted above, it is not possible to measure existing sewage
flows. However the probable average daily sewage flow from the properties
believed to be served in 1979 totaled about 22,000 m3/day with peak flows
of about 56,000 m:$Iday. There were estimated during the engineering
studies for the proposed project using emphirical methods because of the
data limitations. However, the procedures used were sound and the results
appear realistic. The engineering studies also indicate that most, if not
all, of the elements of the existing sewerage system have excess capacity
for the population that could be served by the existing system, provided
that these elements are in reasonably good conditions.
13.       Of the total population of the Dar es Salaam Region in 1979
(932,000), about 10% had septic tanks and 78% had pit latrines of some
type. Altogether there were about 8,400 septic tanks and 60,000 latrines.
14.       Data regarding housing and sanitation conditions and practices
within the city are generally unavailable, particularly in urban fringe and
squatter settlements where the population is increasing rapidly due to
migration. Given the lack of available information, in 1980 a
non-probability cluster sample of 278 houses in 10 low-income planned and
unplanned areas of the city were surveyed by ARDHI and HHP. This survey
provides the most comprehensive analysis of housing and sanitation related
conditions and practices amongst low income groups in Dar es Salaam and
strongly supports the need for a low cost sanitation improvement in the
city.
15.       Based on the 1980 survey, housing is scarce and considerable
crowding exists. There is an average of 10.9 persons per house, 2.2
persons per room, and average of 3.1 families per house in low income
areas. The most common arrangement is the rental of rooms by the homeowner
who also lives on the property, although a significant proportion of houses



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
(17%) have absentee landlords. More than half of the rooms are rented at
or below 50 TSh per month (for 1981, rental prices would have to be
adjusted upward). Housing shortages result in a mix of ethnic and
religious groups, and family structures. It is not uncommon for families
to rent rooms to strangers.
16.       Sixty-four percent of household heads were regularly employed.
Income is low although no reliable information was availab]Le on income
levels. Most of the population had some education and 38% of family
household heads had 10 or more years of schooling. Only 11L% of household
heads (including both men and women) had no formal education.
17.       Pit latrine slabs are of the squatting type, usually made of
concrete (79%), with a smooth finish, and kept clean. Only 3% of slabs
were observed to be fouled upon inspection. Just over 20% of the slabs
were constructed of mud and temporary materials such as corrugated iron.
Pits are often lined with cement/sand blocks, although the percentage is
not available. The majority of pits have never been emptied (74%), and
many have excreta levels of 0.5 m or less below the slab. Twenty-four
percent report that excreta rises near or over the slab during the rainy
season. Covers for the squat plate are used by only 23% of the houses
surveyed.
18.       The superstructure is frequently made of cement/sand blockwork
(44%); other common materials are mud (15%) and corrugated iron (24%). The
majority of superstructures have no roofs and no door. In fact, the most
frequent complaint about existing facilities is the lack of privacy. Other
common complaints are bad odors (21%), and abundance of fiLies and
mosquitos (31%).
19.       In many houses, particularly those with many members, two
latrines are provided. In some houses owners and tenants have separate
latrines and in other cases, traditions dictate provision of
separate facilities for men and women. Where customs demand separate
facilities, it is unlikely that education will change this preference.
20.       At the present time, construction of the latrine sub-structure is
usually carried out by a local contractor (fundi) who is paid for his labot
and supplied with the needed materials.
21.       Sixty-one percent of those surveyed bathe in the pit latrine
superstructure.   Others tend to use a separate enclosure on the ground
(27%). Water from bathing either flows into the pit, or is channeled
outside of the latrine onto the ground. Sullage from cooking and clothes
washing is disposed of on the ground in more than three-quarters of all
households surveyed. Pools of water are frequently observed in the patio
and areas surrounding the home creating breeding places for mosquitos and
other disease carrying insects. Only 23% of the low-income houses surveyed
had the traditional clothes washing/cooking facility (karo) which provide
sullage soakaways.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 10
TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAII SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Description
1.   Physic&l Co~iaponents
(A)  Sewerage kehabilitation and keplacerient:
(i)      clear, clean, inspect and repair about 130 km of sewers
and pumping mains, including replacement of up tO about
2% of the sewers ana about 8 km of pumping mains;
(ii)     repair sea outfall (1000 mm diameter, about 1.0 km long)
arid construct new screenhouse bypass and intake
structure;
(iii)    rehabilitate 17 pumping stations including
replacing of most mechanical and electrical equipment
and repair of structures;
(iv)     repair and improve 9 waste stabilization pond systems
with a total area of about 27 ha;
(v)      purchase equipment, tools and vehicles required for
rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of sewerage,
including spares;
(vi)     construct about 600 new sewer service connections to
existing sewerage system (see also item 2-A-ii).
(B)  Low Cost Sanitation
(i)      construct and upgrade about 3600 pit latrines at
residences and about 100 at schools;
(ii)     reconstruct  one existing ana construct  about  five new
dumping stations for pit emptying vehicles;
(iii)    rehabilitate about 14 pit emptying vehicles and purchase
about 16 new ones, including spare parts; and
(iv)     purchase vehicles required for administration of the low
cost sanitation program, including spare parts.



- 42 -                 INNEX 2
E'age 2 of 10
(C)   Buildings and Related Furnishings and Equipment
(i)     construct a new headquarter building for DSSD including
basic laboratory facilities;
(ii)    construct a building for the Mechanical and Electrical
Division (M & E) of DSSD including shop and storage
space for sewerage maintenance equipment
(item I-A-v);
(iii)   purchase equipment for central workshop and M & E
Division of DSSD (in addition to I-A-v);
(iv)    improve and extend three sewerage vehicle maintenance
depots; and
(v)     construct a field office for the low-cost sanitation
program.
(D)   Purchase of Vehicles and Equipment for Project Implementation
Tean in ARDHI
2.   Technical Assistance
(A)   hIplementation, Operation anu Liaintenance
(i)     consulting services to designi anid manage sewerage
rehabilitation contract work (item I-A) and provide
training on sewerage maintenance;
(ii)    assistance with surveying and recording of existing
service connections for sewerage, water supply and
electricity;
(iii)   advisors and equipment for the public bealth education
and extension services relating to sanitation;
(iv)    outside experts to staff.key posts in DSSD and to assist
with the training of local counterparts; for these posts;
(v)     specilized training of professional and. technical staff
in schools and universities;
(vi)    detailed design and construction supervision of new
dumping stations (iten I-B-ii), builoings
(items 1-C-i and 1-C-ii) and extensions to depots(item
1-C-iv); and



-43-                     ANNLX 2
Page 3 of 10
(vii)    studies and implementation assistance with respect to
charges for sewerage and sanitation services, billing,
collections, and record and information systems,
including assistance to TANESCO in adapting its
billing/collection/accounting programs for sewerage and
water supply needs.
(viii)   aerial survey and photogrammetric mapping of Dar es
Salac6m;
(B)   Planning for Future Development
(i)     aetailed design of new sewerage for a SLage II
Sewerage/Sanitation Project;
(ii)    additional studies on sewerage, sanitation and pollution
related matters, including solid wastes management and
review and recommendations with respect to legislation
and bylaws.
(C)   Technical Assistance with Establishment of the National Urban
Water Authority (NUWA)
3.        More details on the proposed content of the various project
elements may be found in Project Documents.
Duration and Scope of Project
4.        The implementation period and scale of the project have been
changed considerably during project planning. As proposed originally in the
Sewerage and Sanitation haster Plan Report, (paragraphs 3.01 and 3.02)
Stage I was to be carried out over a five-year period (1980-1984). In
addition to sewerage rehabilitation, it would have included a substantial
amount of new sewerage and the construction or rehabilitation of about
22,000 pit latrines and about 4000 septic tank installations.  The (ost of
the project, after allowing for items which the consultants did not price
and allowing for physical anG price contingencies, was estimaated at about
TSh 600 miliion (USb72 million equivalent).  This project proposal was
clearly way beyond the financial resources and implemenitation and
operational capacities available to the agencies responsible for carrying
out the project and operating the Dar es Salaam sewerage and sanitation
systems.
" 5.        During the later planning stages, ARDHI and DCC agreed to an IDA
recommendation to scale the project back to a three year program and a more
manageable size. In addition to the resource constraints, there were other
justifications for the changes. The project would include a number of



-44-                  ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 10
innovations which should be tried out before embarking on a larger scale
operation.  A considerable amount of the sewerage rehabilitation shoulu be
completed before-much expansion is undertaken. Preparation of a Stage II
project shoula be based in part on experience with Stage I.  And finally,
much institution building is required just to manage the existing systems.
Low-Cost Sanitation
6.        A key decision in project planning was that new sewerage would
have low priority in Dar es Salaam, restricted to areas where population
densities or physical conditions would prohibit use of on-plot sanitation
facilities. It is a well established fact that pit latrines usually have
much lower construction and operating problems and costs than sewerage.
In the case of Dar es Salaam, the initial cost of a properly designed and
constructed pit latrine is estimated to be 60% of a sewer service
connection required to serve an equivalent number of people. When the full
capital and operating expenses of both systems are taken into account,
including the costs of interior plumbing, the spread in the comparative
costs widens considerably.
7.        The on-plot sanitation alternatives provide the same health
benefits as sewerage - although pit latrines usually are less convenient -
provided, however, that they are properly designed and constructed, that
the institutions and facilities required to serve them (mainly pit emptying
and sludge disposal) are adequate and that the people are aware of proper
personial use and care to ensure the health benefits.  The designs and
planning for low-cost sanitation in Dar es Salaam has benefited from much
recent research worldwide, including the UNDP demotnstration project
(paragraph 3.03). In addition, during preparation of the Master Plan,
existing sanitation facilities as well as conditions and practices on
non-sewered properties were surveyed, improvements were recommended and
forecasts were made as to the extent of these types of sanitation units in
future. These recommendations and forecasts have been made after
consideration of soil and groundwater conditionts, income levels, housilng
standards and population densities in all parts of the study area. More
recently there has been considerable field work in Dar es Salaam by ARDHI
involving demonstration units, more surveys and experiments to test both
the physical and socio-cultural aspects of the low-cost sanitation
proposals (paragraph 3.13).
8.        The improved pit latrine proposed for adoption as the key
component of the low-cost sanitation program is a ventilated, screened,
emptyable type referred to locally as the "choo nzuri" (CN). Other designs
are proposed for use under adverse subsoil and. groundwater conditions which
may preclude the CN. The CN is said to provide for excreta disposal with
less nuisance and public health risk than many of the present sanitation
methods because, in addition to screened ventilation, designed to reduce
mosquito and fly breeding, the contents can be hygienically removed from
the pit. Emptying would be required about once every five years. The



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 10
estimated total number of new and replacement units through the master plan
period (to 2010) would average about 3,800 per year. However, the average
during the Stage I project would be only about 1,200 per year while the
program is being established. While the CN is not an experimental unit, it
is being introduced in Dar es Salaam on a trial basis and changes in design
should be expected as the work progresses, particularly any that could
reduce costs. One possible option is to use a "pour flush" cover. Another
is to provide a larger floor area to allow for the common practice of
bathing in the latrine superstructure. Applied research into mosquito
control is being planned and may be funded by WHO.
9.        The low-cost sanitation units to be constructed by contractors
under the project would be concentrated in five wards (Makurani, Kurasini,
Mtoni, Keko and Temeke) located in the southern district in the city
(paragraphs 2.04 and 2.31). Provisions also will be included for
households within the district who which to make their own arrangements to
upgrade suitable existing latrines or build new ones. For such cases, the
contractors would supply kits comprising vent pipe and mosquito gauze,
squat slab and cover and standard construction drawings. The kits would be
stockpiled by the contractors and sold and delivered to the householders by
DSSD.
10.       The project would include the construction of about 100
demonstration low-cost sanitation units at schools in the project area
where toilet facilities are inadequate. This is considered essential for
the education and promotion aspects of the project (paragraph 25).
Additional demonstrations of separate bathing units, double units and karos
(for the disposal of sullage water) would be undertaken at selected places
as part of the promotional campaign.
11.       The proposed project would include substantial improvement in
DCC's pit emptying services which presently is poor (paragraph 2.30 and
Annex 1). This would include the provision of additional discharge points
(dumping points) for the pit emptying vehicles, changes in vehicle control
and emptying procedures, an increase in the number and adequacy of the
vehicles and improved maintenance. Assistance with improvements in the
design of pit emptying vehicles and operating procedures to suit conditions
in Dar es Salaam is being obtained through the UNDP demonstration project
and additional technical assistance and some equipment is expected to be
obtained from SIDA.



-46-                     INNEX 2
Eage 6 of 10
Sewerage
12. The critical decision with respect to sewerage is the type of
treatment and disposal to be used. In Dar es Salaam, sewage either has to
receive complete (primary and secondary) treatment to produce a high
standard effluent for discharge into local streams, or it may be collected
by interceptors and discharged to the ocean through sea outfaLls after
minimum treatment.l/
13.  Several methods of complete treatment were considered but most could
be quickly excluded because of comparatively high costs and operating
complexity required to achieve the required effluent standELrds. The final
recommendation is for waste stabilization ponds. Such treatment is an
accepted method in Dar es Salaam and it should be efficient; prior problems
have been due entirely to design, operation and maintenance deficiences.
14.  The consultants also established that the most economic solution for
the existing sewered area would be to refurbish and improve the existing
stabilization ponds, pumping stations and the sea outfall. In new areas to
be sewered, stabilization pond treatment with effluent discharge to local
streams would be used. However, it is possible that in ful:ure, as
development proceeds in some areas, detailed analyses could establish that
a mixture of pond and sea outfall systems would be best in the long run.
Another possible change in the existing plan is that future comprehensive
oceanographic studies could establish that the pretreatment: of sewage or,
extension to deeper waters would be required for the existing sea outfall
to preserve the ocean environment as sewage flows from the city center
increase.  However, ncither of these possibilities would influence the
design of works to be carried out in the proposed project.
15. The consultants economic analyses in the master plan study showed that
the proposed sewerage plan with the pond strategy, in present value terms
(mid-1979 prices), would be between TSh 190 million (at 10% discount rate)
and TSh 110 million (at 15% discount rate) less expensive t:han construction
and operation of interceptors and sea outfalls to meet Sewerage
requirements over the next thirty years. In fact, the results - although
not carried out to this extent - indicated that the pona sl:rategy would be
less at all discount rates below about 25%. The analyses were made using
1/   Consideration has been given also to the degree of treatment required
for the re-use of wastewater for irrigation purposes. While effluents
suitable for discharge to streams would be satisfactory for irrigation of
many types of crops, no market for such water has yet been identified in
the near vicinity of Dar es Salaam.



~ 47 -                ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 10
shadow prices for direct imports (1.50 ratio of shadow price to par rate)
and for unskilled labor (30% of market value). While some of the
assumptions made in the economic comparisons may be weighted in favor of
the pond strategy, it\appears unlikely more detailed analyses would
significantly reduce the large gap in present value between the two
systems.
16. The capital costs of the stabilization pond option for new sewerage
construction over the master plan period was estimated at about 20% less
than the outfall option at mid-1979 prices. However, over the first five
years of a program to construct new sewerage the construction costs would
be about equal for the two options since the more expensive trunk sewer and
outfall construction would not begin until about the sixth year.
Service Connections
17. Records of existing sewer service connections (estimated at 5,000 to
6,000) are sparse and unreliable (paragraphs 2.28, 4.02 and 4.07). The
inforShtion on water supply service connections in Dar es Salaam, which
will become the responsibility of NUWA, also is poor, and TANESCO is
experiencing difficulties with unregistered connectioIs.  The proposed
project woulci include a field survey of properties to detect and register
existing sewer service connections and to recora properties adjacent to
sewers which could be connected. It is proposed to expand this survey to
obtain equivalent information on water supply and electric power services
as well, particularly since it is intended that these three types of
service would be billed through a joint computer system. The survey would
be carried out by university and high school students (about 270
man-months) during school holidays under the supervision of representatives
of DCC/ARDHI, DCS/NUWA and TANESCO and under the general direction of an
advisor who would design the survey. An aerial survey and mapping,
included in the project, would be used as a base for the assessment of
service connections.
Vehicle and Equipment Maintenance
18. The buildings and depots to be constructed or improved for DSSD under
the project would include provisions for only minimum routine maintenance
of vehicles and equipment. Heavy maintenance and repairs would be carried
out under contract with suppliers. This option is considered to be more
practical and economic than heaving DSSD establish the shops and staff
necessary for most maintenance and repair activities because of the
existing difficulties and costs of trairning and retaining capable mechanics
for DSSD (and DCC as a whole) and spare parts problems which could leave
expensive plant and staff idle sauch of the time.



-48-                    ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 10
Technical Assistance and Training
19. The technical assistance component of the project would include
engagemient by DCC and ARDHI of the following advisors/consultants to staff
key positions required to manage the project, operate the sewerage and
sanitation services of DSSD and assist with training of permllanent local
staff to undertake management and operations:
(a)   For ARIHI:
(i)     Project Manager (paragraph 3.25) for three years
FY83-b5) and about 8 months in FY86;
(ii)    Low-Cost Sanitation Engineer (paragraphs 3.05 and 3.25)
for three years (mid-FY83 through mid-FY86) after
financing of the post by UNDP is completed; and
(iii)    Social Scientist (paragraph 3.25) for three years
beginning about March 1983.
(b)   For DSSD:
(i)     General Manager for three years beginning about March
1983;
(ii)    Finance Manager for three years beginnirLg about March
1983;
(iii)   Sewerage Manager for two and one-half years beginning
about July 1983;
(iv)    Low-Cost Sanitation Manager for three years beginning
about March 1983;
(v)     Transportation/Equipment Manager for two years beginning
about March 1983;
(vi)    Mechanical/Electrical Enginieer for two years beginning
about March 1983;
(vii)   Training Officer for three years beginn:ing about March
1983;
(viii)  Legal Advisor expected to be the legal officer of DCC
who would be sent abroad for a total of about six months
to gain practical experience with sewerage agencies; and
(ix)    Health Education and Extension Specialist for two years
beginning about March 1983.



_ 49 _                  ANNEX 2.
Page 9 of 10
20. The periods of the above assignments are based on various assumptions
including:  the time when the services would initially be required and
funds from the proposed IDA credit would be available; the implementation
timetable and duration of the project; and the length of time required to
establish in-house capabilities of permanent staff.
21. It is assumed that all of the above advisors, except the legal
advisor, would be expatriate contract staff and the cost estimates are
prepared accordingly. However, it is possible that some positions would be
filled on a contract basis by Tanzanians in which case costs could be
somewhat lower.
22. The proposed technical assistance to be provided to TANESCO under the
project would be to adapt its billing, collecting and accounting programs
to accommodate water supply, sewerage and sanitation services (item 2-A-vii
and paragraph 5.08). This assistance would comprise an estimated six
months each by an accounting consultant and a systems analyst. In
addition, funds are provided for TANESCO to engage a commercial training
officer for three years to handle the increased load of training
accountants at its school (paragraph 27).
23.  Assistance to NUhA to help it become opeiational is expected to
involve the engagement of a management consultanting firm to assist NUWA's
management in such iaatters as tne selection of personnel, introduction of
new management systems and initial management training. Part of the costs
may be financed from a PPE advaiice by IDA to assist with preparation of a
Second Urban Water Supply Project. l1owever, additional financing woult be
required and it is proposed that it be obtained through the proposed IDA
credit for the Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Project.
24. The education and promotion element of the low-cost sanitation
component of the project would be carried out by staff of ARDhI's Low-Cost
Sanitation Section (paragraph 3.09) and DSSD under the general direction of
DSSD's Health Education and Extension Specialist (item ix of paragraph 20
above). The objective would be to encourage acceptances, proper hygienic
use, good care and maintenance of properly designed and constructed
low-cost units, whether or not they are constructed as part of the proposed
project. DSSD's four field prograsm officers would play considerable roles
in organizing community activities. They would be responsible for
workshops at ward levels, household promotion and community education
activities. Households expressing interest would be visited by the field
program officers and assisted in making arrangments for the construction of
new units or upgrading existing ones. (See Project Documents).
25. In the initial stages of the low-cost sanitation program, additional
research and development of promotional and educational techniques wouid be
required. It is expected that the Institute of Adult Education (Ministry
of Education) withi the assistance of the Health Education Unit of AiYA and



- 50 -                  ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 10
TAG would undertake the development and implementation of the promotion
campaign. Evaluation and monitoring of coverage would be integral
components of the campaign.
26. The project planning anticipates the value of field trips as follows:
(i) by officials of DSSD, NUPjA and TANESCO to visit two or three reasonably
successful water and sewerage or water and power organizations in
developing countries, particularly where there is a good joint billinig
operation; and (ii) for DSSD and ARDI officials to visit successful
low-cost sanitation prograums outside Tanzania.  Project cost estirmates
include an allowance of TSh 175,000 (base prices) for such visits.
27. The education and training component of the project woulci include
specializedc training of professional and technical staff of DSSD (ana
ARDhl) in schools and universities approximately as follows:
(a)   Civil Engineers - five for four years each abroad;
(b)   Mechanical/Electrical Engineers - two for four years each
abroad;
(c)   LCS Engineer - one for one year abroad;
(d)   DSSD health educators - two for one year each abroad;
(e)   ARDHI social scientist or health officer (for use in other
communities) - one year abroad;
(f)   DSSD Principal Accountant - one for six months abroad;
(g)   Accountants - ten for three years each in Tanzania; and
(h)   Technicians (various) - total of 40 for six months each in
Tanzania.
28.       In addition to ti-e abKve, the counterpart staff of DSSD would
receive a total of about 30 months of experience working with agencies
responsible tor sewerage and sanitation outside Tanzania and a total of
about 6 months of short courses both inside and outside of Tanzaniia.



- 51 -
TMQMNIA                                                                    AM= 3
DAR E8 8AI8/81 s89       AM S8AN21TICN P80R0=                                                 Pge 1 f 10
T.b. 1. 88EiAZE
Detalied Cst Tsble
(T81 '1000)
Qoatity                                      BEse Costs                     Pthy.       Da.
Coat. Duty  Tax S-Y
OrAdt 82/83  83/84 84/85 85/86 Tota  UTit Cost 82/83    83/84   84/85   85/86   Total       Rate Rate  Rate A.anot
1. 1nEsPMl1    CD;B
A.  9083A08 81A011S0ACLaI
1. RElBLns'1N8 ANI)
I     SERI    VacE&fCi
(G01* 0185B                         ND.        1    1    -    -        2    787.5   787.5   787.5          -      -    1,575.0   0.05  0.2  0.25       VH
7 TEN UIPTSCKX                      NO.        2     1    -    -       3       315   630.0   315.0        -       -      945.0   0.05 0.2  0.25        V8
1 TCN PIQ21P 110CX                  ND.        3    -    -    -        3     94.5   293.5         -       -       -      283.5   0.05 0.2    0.5       V8
0.5 TI   VAN                        ND.        4    -    -    -        4      94.5   378.0        -        -      -      378.0   0.05 0.2    0.5       VH
8000R                               ND.        1    1    -    -        2       315   315.0   315.0        -       -      630.0   0.05 0.2  0.25        VH
Rob-Total 8E11;1BILrkTICN AND
BINraWE VEHICII0 3                                                                 2,394.0  1,417.5       -       -   3,811.5
2. RH401LTAOA08  0AID1
BBBABILON AND
N       CE BOUIP                Al!IID5T    -    _    _    _        _           7,862.4        -        -      -   7,852.4    0.05  0.2  0.3       HQ
NEW llrAKE AND lUErAR
SFA O57AIL                      AM          -          -    - -                       -5,187.6   576.4         -   5,764.0       0.2 0.2 0         c
IABILI2ATOaN POD3 A05                          -    -    -      --0577.8  4,622.4   577.8                         -   5,778.0       0.1  0.2    0     0
1W  WAT8                           M1UNT       -    -    -      -      -           4,625.0  9,250.0  4,625.0      -   18,500.0      0.2  0.2    0     c
8EPIA E BR  M4I2                  MMi T       --  3,724.8  1,241.6                                                   4,466.4      0.1 0.44    0     C
0(11ACE 105l350                    188         -     -    _     _-  2,311.1  2,311.1                             -   4,622.2       0.1 0.44   0      0
QEa5 N5D 1EPAIR
P13 tIAI2  AND 1E183            S511-T -          --  5,232.0  5,232.0                                         -   10,464.0      0.1  0.2    0     c
Rob-Toto1 RE010B1LITATIN AND 6N191N1                                                 13,065.2 30,327.9 14,563.9      -  57,957.0
RobTotal  8EiG5 8RE8BILXA1TID                                                           15,439.2 31,745.4 14,563.9      -   61,768.5
B. 01M OaONYIPION
1s0D1BEA0151E  la                     AltllhT                                    1,191.8  4,171.3   595.9       -   5,959.0       0.1  0.2    0     0
MERaVECr 8HDPa                        AMa0        -    -     -     -                      -  1,149.5  1,149.5      -   2,299.0       0.1  0.2    0     c
VE00C0B IEPC08 /E EAlllh                          -              -       -            -     -   649.5   649.5        -    1,299.0      0.1  0.2    0     C
SEBVICE 10DN)   NS                     NO.        -   290  290    -   58D    11.88          -  3,445.2  3,445.2      -   6,890.4        0 0.44    0      a
Rob-Total pmS a        rIaCE1I                                                           1,191.8  9,415.5  5,840.1      -   16,447.4
C. Oll EWIIlTm
EXQUP ANqD FUlRNr1UW FOR
HEEDYR8 AND
810001830 6HDP                     13 A-                  - 247.5   495.0   247.5                                -      990.0   0.1  0.2  0.5       BO
IAHF1/a                               Affl25T     -    -    -    -        --   352.5  1,057.5                       -    1,410.0   0.1   0.2  0.5      HQ
COMPUTER TEL     /o                  A10          -          - 195.0   195.0                                -       -      39D.0   0.10.2       0      BO
Rob-Total a0E0 11E0 1                                                                      442.5  1,042.5  1,305.0      -   2,790.0
D. 01086V1110LES /b
00 V8HA                                ND.        2    -    _      -      2      95.4   198.8        -       -       -      190.8  0.05 0.2 0.3         V8
D1E4E CAB PICISIP                      ND.        2    2    -    -        4     94.5   1890.   189,0         -       -      378.0  0.05 0.2  0.5        V8
1828ND1                                ND.        1    1    -    -        2    233.5   253 5   25335         -       -      507.0  0.05 0.2  0.5        V1
:-DPEDS                                ND:        2    2    -    -        4      18.9    37.8    37.8        -       -       75.6  0.05 0.2  0.5        V8
SRb-Total OT3ER V8ICIES /b                                                                 671 1   480.3                     1 _    1,151.4
E. 0AND 1a                                 62   1,6C0   400    -    -  2,010         1.5  2,40050   605.0       -       -   3,000 0       5   0    0       1A
F. 81101EE381
1801DT0N                              AH183       -    -    -                 _3,425.8  4,276.0   855.2             -   8,552.0   0.1  0.2    0    E0
Oi1   8mNIEUC11N  Aa1/                            -    -    _                 _  _378.4   473.0    94.6              -      946.0   0.1  0.2     0    E2
813T111    l/                         AMOUNT      -60.0    90.0                                             -       -      150.0   0.10.2       0    08EG
8ESla8D SING2                         Al=         -     -                                  -3,172.5 3,172.5         -   6,345.0   0.1  0.2    0    ER
OIER 0011130                          A8          -    -_0-                                         -  5,50C.0      -   5,500.0   0.1  0.2      0      CR
Rob-Total E1100IN81                                                                       3,859.2  8,011.5  9,622.3     -   21,493.0
Total I86 T          mET8                                                                   24,023.8 51,295.2 31,331.3     -  106,650.3
IL.  aT EC   AS.87L511ZNC
A. 10N1087 STAFF AND A1 ISCR
1. A8E/
PFDaE81T M}/ l10101                          12   12   12    8    44         41.4   496.8   446.8   496.8  331.2   1,821.6          0.05  0.2    0      TA
2. 1DSS
G        ISR l/a                  IQ5T1       4    12   12    8    36    41.98    167.9   503.8   503,8  335.8   1,511 3            0.05  0.2    0      TA
P00NC81  M1(8 /a                  10101       4    12   12    8    36    37.52    150.1   450.2   650.2  300.2   1,350.7            0.05  0.2    0      TA
83831/6811M32                     KIAT811     -    15   12    6    25    72.6           -   871.9   871.9  436.0   2,1798.          0.05  0.2    0      TA
=FORT/E/IIIP 08/a                 1           4    12    8    -    24    21.14    84.6   253.7   169.1           -      507.4       0.05  0.2    0      TA
mM&8Bc1iCCAL E0/ /e               ICT         4    12    8    -    24-   56.16    224.6   673.9   449.3          -   1,347,8        0.05  0.2    0      TA
TRAININ CFET(Fi2 1/               10801       4    12   12    8    36        31.6   126.4   379.2   379.2  252.8   1,137.6          0.05  0.2    0      TA
IEI:5L ADVISCa /1001                          2    2    2    -        6        21    42.0    42.0    42.0        -      126.0       0,05002    0        TA
8T13 FEB/a                        YNNH        4    12   12    8    36    29.76    119.0   357.1   357.1  238.1   1,071.4            0.05  0.2    0      TA
ob-Total D888                                                                           914.6  3,531.8  3,222.6 1,562.8   9,232.0
Rob-Total m)N0180T ErAEF AND AV800                                                       1,411.4  4,028.6  3,719.4 1,894.0  11,053.6
B. TRAI6D1
FIELD TRP8                            Aa         -     -          -      -              26.7        -        -      -       26.7        0.1   0    0      11N
RWB A.PORO 01FF/a                    AM18        -     -                              338.7  1,016.3        -      -   1,355.0         0.1   0    0    TRN
R(111L PE831011O1L DBTICN/K          AM8U1T      -362.0   362.0   362.0  362.0   1,448.0                                               0.1    0    0    10N
AClWTAlNSa                           1      88301067.3   157.    157.5   67.5                                              450.0        0.1 0    0    TEN
140ICIAN8110 A/T                                 -88310-   914.0   925,0                                           -    1,850.0        0.1    0    0    TRN
sa N1ta                             A1a          -          -     -     -  -               -    250.0   250.0       -      54.0         0.1   0    0    TEN
ob-Total 102N10L                                                                          795.0  2,710.8  1,694,5  429.5   5,629.7
C. 115NZO PFF ta                        A8          -              -         1-6,580.0                 -        -      -   6,580.0           0   0    0    PPR
Total TE1INCAL A5151ANC8                                                                     8,786.4  6,739.4  5,413.9 2,323.5  23,263.3
Total B1SE0INB  0)0                                                                          32,810.2 53,034.6 36,745.2 2,323.5  129,913.6
Evbear 20, 1952



- 52 -
TW191A                                                                AMEX 3
DTR ES 881f 8DR3 8 AND 08t8   A4 8P                                                     P.W 2 oc 10
Tal 2, 0.8106N
86tdl51 Qoso Th8,le
(TSI '100)
Ou"ty                                      b    O uts                   Phy.       D.
Gont. IDtY Ta   S8i7
Ikdt 82383 83/84 84/8585/86 Total llolt Cot 82/83   83/84    84/85   85/86  Tota    Rat  8te BatR   Accwtn
1.        C1D 6
A. 02E93rN
Btu52C                              NO.      15  245  420   20   7D0          3.4    51.0   833.0  1,428.0  680  2,380.0        00.2   0          86
anuWrm                              ND.      30  550  970   50  1,6C0        3.8   114.0  2,030.0  3,686.0  190.0  6,030.0      0 0.2   0         82
08411 841BC                         NO.      4   70  120    6   2D0          5.8    23.2  406.0   696.0  34.8  1,160.0          00.2   0          00
D1O1E 01589WllION                   NO.       2   35   60    3   100         6.4    12.8   224.0538.0   19.2   640.0            00..2   0         Co
m 8Fw8                              ND.      -   35   65    -    110         3.9        -    136.5   253.5       - 390.0        0 .2   0          cO
DD8I S KM 1N.                                 -   10   550   50   900        0.6        -    184.0   33.0   30.0   540.0        0   .2   0        co
5E80081tT10N4YAWS                   lu 19080 -       -        -         -             6.2    7D.2      4.7             3 1,0    00.2  0           82
9360                               iN.       - 100    -    -182              5.8        - 0.0            -       - 38D.0        0    .2 0         CD
S6b-Tota 1A5M                                                                          287.2  4,269.7  6,782.2  342.0 11,601.0
2. 1184IN S1145                        ND.      -      3    3    -       6   214.16        -   642.5   642.5        -  1,285.0     0.1  0.2   0       82
3. 0m81  OC IN010
DS5D 8083U         A1  A113   -a                    -    -    -       -             112.1   392.3    56.0        -    560.4     0.1  0.2   0       CD
II2C2RIC8 6L  /a 1 ma                                                                      0286.0   238.0            576.0      0.1  0.2    0     8O
7EC1111IERIL5 /e                   A5-             _           _- 1,512.0 1,512.0    - 3,024.0   0.1 0.2  0    82
I  FELD  CFFICE                    AM         -    -     -                         720.1       -        -       -   720.1      0.1  0.2    0      82
Sub-Total 11  CN661511320N                                                             832.1  2,192.3  1,856.0      - 4,820.5
Sob tal 00611106N                                                                       1,059.3  7,104.4  9,280.7  342.0 17,766.5  1
B. ET
BF5T181 AND 2   R.5 E;R
F3AD1W2   198D
.1/E18C 91P /.                    A*821 -27.3    54.6    27.3                                                   -    109.2     0.1 0.2  0.5       8D
1al  Bl }M2t         /a                A0       -     -1-                                       36.8   110.3       -    147.1     0.1 0.2 0.5        8D
CCtfUI      6 T 8i/aL                8AM8       -           - 195.0   195.0                                -            390.0     0.1 0.2   0        EO
&6-5'ta1  37u082                                                                          222.3   2B6.4   137.6        -    646.3
C. V811CLES /b
1. PIT 8YI15113
4IITON                              1O.       7    7    -            14   109.78   765.7   765.7         -       -  1,531.3   0.05  0.2 0.5      V50
N47                                 NO.       -    8    8    -       16    1,095    91.3  8,760.0  8,760.0       - 17,611.3   0.   0.2 0.25       VH
6-utal PIT 5fTlND                                                                      856.9  9,525.7  8,760.0      - 19,142.6
2. a71
81)888                              84.       1    -    -    -        1     95.4    95.4         -       -       -     95.4 0.05  D.2 0.5         V3
U119811                             NO        2     1          -      3    253.5   507.0  2 5            -       - 7605  0.05 0.2 0.5            V8
I 82401358P                         10.       2     1    -     -      3      94.5   189.0    94.5        -       -    203.5 0.85D22404            86
INo=                                ND.       3    3    -    -        6      18.9    56.7    56.7        -       -    113.4  0.05 0.2 0.5         VE
BIC0188                             10.       6    6    -    -       12    2.556     15.3    15.3        -       -    3.7 0.05   .2 0.5          V8
S6WT.t01 am1                                                                           863.4   420.0        -       -  1,283.5
Sub-T<tal VE8D58 /b                                                                     1,720.3  9,945.7  8,760.0      - 20,426.0
D. 1.410/                                  .2    88D  220    -    -  1,100         1.5  1,320.0   330.0        -       -  1,650.0   0.1    0   0       1*
e. 8EN019N18
183 0OIN90                            AYIT    -    -    -         -      -522    65.2    13.1                       -    130.5   0.1  0.2   0       Er
0    C N 10008118                     AM/       -         -     -     - a              202.5   253.1    50.6        -   56.2   0.1  0.2   0         10
ElplFIF5T                             AY0-8           -    -    -        -       4!6.5           9.8       -       -     16.4   0.1  0.2   0       10
VIEICIIS                             A*         -    -    -    -        -482.0   328.0                     -       -   870.0      0D.2   0         10R
8bTotal EN2LEERlli                                                                        741.2   648.2    63.7           1,453.1
Totl  7 T0  OE05                                                                           5,043.2 18,314.7 18,242.0  342.0 41,941.9
II. TINCSL ASSlYiCE
A. O11R45T 67! AM Ibt     FSl
A.nl
P12    Ka1s                       moml8    12   12   12    8    44          4.6    55.2    55.2    55.2   36.8   202.4  0.5 0.2   0              TA
us REM8                          1t8a        6    12   12    6    36         46   276.0   552.0   552.0  26.0  1,656.00.05 0.2   0               28
mL8J1 bS                          YIT        4    12   12    8    36         46   184.0   552.0   552.0  368.0  1,656.0  0.05  0.2 0             TA
8&-Tot AlM                                                                            515.2  1,1592  1,19.2  684.8  3,514.4
2. DMB
_ MR                             Him -13    4    12   12    8    36-  41.98   167.9   503.8   503.8  335.8  1,511.3  0.2  0.2   0               TA
FII  aL tUI/.                    JIIIY      4    12   12    8    36    37.52   150.1   450.2   450.2  3D0.2  1,50.7  0.05 0.2   0               TA
84DX1IION MR                      "M         4    12   12    8    36        66.1   264.    793.2   793.2  527.8  2,379.6  0.05 0.2   0           TA
T8 hp/lqY11 /a                    JIIIE      4   12    8    -    24    49.12   196.5   589A    393.0            -  1,178.9  0.05 0.2   0         TA
MW8ELEMUL EX /.                  1Him        4    12    8    -    2         14.1    56.4    169.2   112.8       -   330.4 0.05 042 0             TA
H8N1 CE1893 ION     2181.8        11M1       4    12    8    -    24    70.28    2B1.0   843.1   562.1          -  1.686.2  0.05 0.2   0         2k
TRANI1 (EnceR  /.                 IMnE       4    12   12    8    36        31.6   126.4   379.2   37942  252.8  1,137.6  0.05 0.2   0           TA
lI41 tttl/                        ISTII1     2    2    2    -        6        21    42.0    42.0    42.0        -    126.0 0.05 0.2 0            18
Sbl-Totl D1BD                                                                       1,284.7  3,77D.2  3,236.2 1,417.6  9,708.7
81-Tta CWI1T SW7 AND 1 BD1B                                                            1,799S9  4,929.4  4,395.4 2,098.4 13,223.1
B. 01058248N82184 I   881.1108           0a -w                                           78D.3   78D.3        -       -  1,560.6   0.1  0.2 0.5        TEN
C. TMDG80
P08880/ 1*---                                                                          26.7       -        -       -  -2.7   0.1   0   0           TM8
88I80RI EbYS/s A                                -    ---                            338.7  1,016.3       -       -  1,355.0   0.1    0   0      5EN
4O41L PF41WL EY13DN /.   *8-                           -- 362.0 362.0 362.0 362.0 1,448.0 0.1 0 0  U8N
ttD SI / A                                      -    -          67.5   157. 157.5   67.5   450.0   0.1 0   0                                      0
T838008                              A/8 -                              - -  -            -  925.0  925.0   -1,850.0  0.1 0 0 D8
N18N   A                             mm         -    _    _    _       _                       250.0   250.0       -    5D.0  0.1 0 0 0            8
856-Total 28P254110                                                                      795.0 2,710.8  1,694.5  429.5  5,629.7
D. P?8YFISW C/.                         R          -    -    -    -                    2,820.0        -       -       -2,828.0       0   0   0        PB8
Total THI:AL A80112N8E                                                                      6,195.2  8,42D.4 6,089.9 2,527.9 23,233.4
Total B 8E  1101                                                                           11,238.4 26,755.1 24,3531.9 2,869.9 65,175.3
lb Additioa,l eh,3   1r          to6 880"93 oR40nN14d I17N8514T
S ita  20, 1982



- 53 -
TANZANIA                                                 ANNEX 3
DAR ES SAIAAM SEI*RACE AND SANITATION PaJE                                Page 3 of 10
Table 3. (Y1ER TRWICAL ASSIS)IKZ
Detailed Cost Table
(TSH '000)
Quantity                           Base Ccsts             Phy.     IDo.
Unit                                    Cont. Duty Tax Stmmxy
Unit 82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 Total Ccst 82/83  83/84 84/85 85/86  Total  Rate Rate Rate Accunt
I. lNVESIMT cMS
A. TANESOD
aFE     TIET44               AM3JNT    -    -    -    - 360.0  360.0                  -     -   720.0  0.1  0.2   0      EQ
B. N1WA
vi E TEREMIS                 AMI       -    -    -    -    -          360.0  360.0     -     -   720.0  0.1  0.2   0      HQ
Total INVESTHfU  (SrS                                                      720.0  720.0     -      - 1,440.0
II. TRiNICAL ASSISrANCE
A. TANESOD
1. FIE  TRIPS               AMUINr    -    -    -    -               60.5      -      -     -    60.5  0.1   0   0    TRN
2. WJLiXANS
ACONrIM                  1M=        3    3    -    -    6  60  180.0  180.0        -      -   360.0  0.1   0   0       TA
SYSTTh ANALYSIS           NEtDNE    3    3    -    -    6  60  180.0  180.0        -     -   360.0  0.1   0   0        TA
Sub-Total (XNRLTANrS                                                360.0  360.0     -     -   720.0
3. aAMERC&L TRAINI10 CFFIXER MaNm     4   12   12    8   36 56.6  226.4  679.2 679.2 452.8 2,037.6 0.05   0   0    TM
Sub-Total TANES'                                                       646.9 1,039.2 679.2 452.8 2,818.1
B. NDUR
FELf) TRIPS                  AMT       -    -    -    -    -          60.5     -      -     -    60.5  0.1   0   0    TRN
TLTANS                      MNT -    -    -    -    -            6,720.0 6,720.0    -     - 13,440.0  0.1   0   0      TA
Sub-Total NU1A                                                        6,780.5 6,720.0    -     - 13,500.5
Total TEC1,ICAL ASSISTANCE                                                7,427.4 7,759.2 679.2 452.8 16,318.6
Total BASINE COSrS                                                        8,207.4 8,539.2 679.2 452.8 17,878.6
September 20, 1982



- 54 -
TANZANIA                                       ANNEX 3
DAR ES SAIAAM SEERtACE AND SANITATION PFLaJECT               Page 4 of 10
Stmnary Acouxnt by Time
(TSH Million)
Base
Costs +
Price
Cont. on
Base
Base Costs           Ccsts  Foreign Emxchage
82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 Total Million)    %    AMDunt
I. S[MAY AOOOLNT
LAND                                3.7   0.9    -    -   4.7       0.5     0.0    0.0
ODNSnUCIN                           7.4  46.8 29.7  0.3  84.3    11.1    32.4   27.3
EWRTPIXNM                           9.3   2.1  1.4    -  12.9       1.5    61.5    7.9
VEHICLES                            4.8  11.8  8.8    -  25.4       3.1    62.2   15.8
RXAINfLN                           2.7   6.9  4.1  1.3  15.0       L.9    57.9    8.7
PPF REFINANGII                      9.4     -    -    -   9.4       [.0   100.0    9.4
TEQINICAL ASSISTANCE               10.3  16.0  8.1  4.0  38.4       4.8    59.9   23.0
EWGINEERlM                        4.6   8.7  9.7    -  22.9        2.9    44.6   10.2
Total BASELINE CWSTS                  52.3  93.3 61.8  5.6  213.0    26.9    48.1  102.4
Physical Contingencias             3.6   8.8  4.8  0.3  17.6         -    48.8    8.6
Price Contirgencia                  2.4  17.8 20.4  2.3  43.0         -    31.6   13.6
Total D1UhJDING ONrINENCIES           58.3  120.0 87.0  8.3  273.5    26.9    45.5  124.5
Taxmes                              7.4  13.4  10.1  0.6  31.5        -     0.0    0.0
Foreign Exdiange                   34.1  52.2 33.7  4.6  124.5       -      0.0    0.0



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 10
TANZANIA
DAR ES SAIAAM SEARA(E AND SANTlATION PRDJ=CT
Project Ccxponernt by Tfri
(TSH Million)
Total
Base Cests
(US$
82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 TSH  Milix)
A. SE1EA4E                               32.8  58.0  36.7  2.3  129.9    13.8
B. SANITATION                            11.2  26.7  24.3  2.9  65.2       6.9
C. OTMER TEMNICAL ASSISTANCE
TANESWD                                1.0   1.4  0.7  0.5   3.6        0.4
NUWA                                   7.2   7.1    -    -  14.3        1.5
Sub-Total OlER aII CAL ASSISrANCE        8.2   8.5  0.7  0.5  17.9         1.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                       52.3  93.3  61.8  5.6 213.0    22.7
Physical Contingncies                    3.6   8.8  4.8  0.3  17.6        1.9
Price Contirgencies                      2.4  17.8 20.4  2.3  43.0        4.6
Total PR=  CODSrS                          58.3  120.0 87.0  8.3 273.5    29.1
Taxes                                    7.4  13.4  10.1  0.6  31.5       3.4
Foreign ExchanF                         34.1  52.2  33.7  4.6  124.5    13.2
Septenber 20, 1982



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 10
TANZAMA
DAR ES SAIAAM SEIERAIE AND SANITAION PROE31CT
Summry Account by Project Ccuponent
(TSH Million)
(IHER TECHNCAL        Physical
ASSISTANCE         Contirgencies
SEWERAGE SANTATICON  TANESX  NUIA Total   %   Anount
I. SEMAR ACOLUNT
LAID                            3.0       1.7        -    -   4.7  3.5    0.2
OJNSJCIWN                      66.5      17.8        -    -  84.3  10.7    9.0
EqTRIPM                        10.7       0.6      0.8  0.8  12.9  6.9    0.9
VEHICLES                        5.0      20.4        -    -  25.4  5.0    1.3
TRAINIWh                        5.6       7.2      2.1  0.1  15.0  9.3    1.4
PPFREFIN  iN311                 6.6       2.8        -    -   9.4  0.0    0.0
TE1HNICAL ASSISTANE            11.1      13.2      0.7  13.4  38.4  6.8    2.6
EW&INEMW,                      21.5       1.5        -    -  22.9  9.7    2.2
Total BASELINE (OSTS             129.9      65.2      3.6  14.3 213.0  8.3   17.6
Physical Contingencies         12.6       3.3      0.3  1.4  17.6  0.0    0.0
Price Contirgencies            26.3      14.3      0.7  1.7  43.0  7.6    3.2
Total INaWDIN CONTNEINMS         168.8      82.7      4.6  17.4 273.5  7.6   20.8
.~~~                                                  _
Taxes                          19.4      11.8      0.1  0.1  31.5  7.2    2.3
Foreign Excwg                  75.2      35.6      2.8  10.8 124.5  7.8    9.7



57 -                     ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 10
TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Assumptions & Procedures
1.   Exchange Rate:  US$ = TSh 9.40
2.   Base Date for Estimates:  July 1, 1982
3.   Base Cost Estimates:
(i)    Except at noted otherwise, unit prices are from costs of
recent works, quotations from suppliers and review of
market prices by HHP as of July 1980 and subsequently
reviewed, and in some cases revised, by ARDHI and the
appraisal team. These have been increased to July 1, 1982
prices by price contingency factors of 44% (25% in 1980/81 and
15% in 1981/82) for local currency costs and 18.8% (10% in
1980/81 and 8% in 1981/82) for foreign exchange costs.
(ii)   The costs of low-cost sanitation components are based on
detailed quantity take-offs and equipment lists prepared by
ARDHI and a pilot construction program for pit latrines carried
out in 1982.
(iii)  The costs of clearing, cleaning and repair of existing sewers
and pumping mains was not estimated by HHP. These costs were
estimated by ARDHI, in consultation with the appraisal team,
using an approximate inventory of existing sewers and mains,
the lengths requiring various types of work (from mere
cleaning to total replacement) and the unit cost of such
work as a percentage of the cost of new sewers and mains (from
about 7.5% for only cleaning to 150% for replacements).
Because of the nature of this part of the rehabilitation work,
the estimated costs can not be made more reliable until the
work actually begins. On the other hand, costs of rehabi-
litating visible parts of the sewerage system (pumping
stations, stabilization ponds, sea outfall, et cetera) are
based on fairly detailed replacement equipment lists and
quantity take-offs.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 10
(iv)   The costs of buildings and related equipment an-d furnishings
for DSSD are based on ARDHI estimates of space requirements.
Land compensation costs are similarly based. The requirements
for pit eraptying vehicles were determined by HIP.  The
requirements for other vehicles for DSSD operations and for use
by ARDHI for project management have been estimated by ARDHI.
The unit prices for vehicles are based on July 1982 quotations
by local dealers.
(v)    The staff months and unit costs of engineering for sewerage
rehabilitation are    based on a firm current consulting
contract for this work. Engineering costs for design and
construction supervision of buildings and dumping stations are
estimated at 10% of the base costs of those structures (4% for
design and 6% for supervision). Engineering assistance with
the repair of existing and the purchase of new pit emptying
vehicles has been assumed to be 5% of the base costs.
The base costs of detailed design of a Stage II project have
been calculated at 4% of a Tsh 160 million project (at base
July 1, 1982 prices). Except for sewerage rehabilitation
engineering (existing contract) engineering expenditures have
been assumed to be divided equally between local currency and
foreign exchange. It has been assumed there would be no
additional engineering costs for low-cost sanitation units,'
ordinary vehicles or sewer service connections since design,
procurement and supervision would be done by technical staff of
ARDHI and DSSD whose costs are included in the estimates under
technical assistance.
(vi)   The estimated costs of technical assistance for ARDHI and for
the development of DSSD are based on the numbers and grades of
expatriate staff required to fill key posts through the project
period and unit costs derived from a firm contract proposal to
provide the staff and on existing contracts AKDHI has with
expatriate staff. Training costs are based on a review of
current overseas training costs of professionals sponsored by
WHO and UNDP and on local training costs for accountants and
technicians (TANESCO School   and ARDHI Institute).
4.   Import Duties and Local Taxes
(i)    It is assumed that import duties and other local taxes will be
payable for all goods and used in the project. Customs duties
and sales taxes used in the cost estimates are those reported
for July, 1982.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 10
Import Duty
(a)  Passenger vehicles with engines over 2250 cc.          120%
(b)  Pipe and materials                                      15%
(c) All other vehicles, equipment, appliances,
furnishings and spare parts                             20%
Sales Tax (on CIF + duty + domestic value added)
(a)  Construction contracts on value added                   none
(b)  trucks and other heavy rolling equipment                 25%
(c) light trucks, vans, passenger vehicles, mopeds
and bicycles                                          50%
(d)  spare parts for above                                    50%
(e)  pumping euqipment and spares                            none
(f)  general equipment                                        30%
(g)  air conditioners                                         75%
(h)  other appliances and office equipment                    50%
(i)  pipe                                                     25%
(ii)    Local taxes on salaries of consultants and expatriate contract
staff of ARDHI and DSSD are based on the tax regulations as
applied in July, 1982; the foreign component of salaries and
fees are taxed at 20%.
5.   Physical Contingencies
(i)    The following allowances for physical contingencies have been
used:
(a)  program items (latrines and sewer service connections):  none
(b) vehicles, rehabilitation and maintenance equipment
and contract staff and advisors:                             5%
(c) construction (including half of rehabilitation work),
equipment and furnishings not included above,
land, engineering and training:                             10%
(d)  half of rehabilitation work:                                  20%
6.   Price Contingencies
(i)    All expenditures are assumed to be made at mid fiscal year
(January 1).
(ii)   Price contingencies are applied to the total of all other costs
(base + physical contingencies).
(iii)  The price contingency allowances are also applied to
all components classified as "Technical Assistance" except
refinancing of the PPF.



-60-                        ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 10
(iv)   For local currency and foreign exchange costs t:he contingency
allowances are:
Fiscal Year               82/83             83/84         84/85        85/86
local %                    15.0              16.0          13.0          12.0
foreign %                   8.0               8.0           7.5           7.0
(v)    Local duties and taxes on imports are escalated at the same
rate as foreign exchange costs.
(vi)   Cumulative escalation factors from July 1, 1982:
FY82/83    FY83/84    FY84/85    FY35/86
(1/1/83)   (1/1/84)   (1/1/85)   (1,/1/86)
Local:        0.075       0.242       0.421       0.598
Foreign:      0.040       0.123       0.210       0.298



|   it   W  f'I!i                   t
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I       I  I 
,     -                  ' Cr '' I~~~~~~~~~~- 
i~~~~~11 -- fsrTFW,r   k{1rtW|   
;F-~~~~~~~~~~~ I ~ V'''_ ' 2
_     _    _   I    I    I  L   -   ~~~I 1  -  L--7a 
y~~~~~~~~~~~~Fi L           F L~ 'F  I  
1~~~                             ~~~~~~~~~ .  1L  o!



-62 -                       ANNEX 5
TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         Plercent of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                          Dollar Equivalents)       to be Financed
(1) Equipment, Furnishings
and Vehicles except                                    ].00% of foreign
for NUWA                          3,500,000           expenditures and
'50% of local
expenditures.
(2)  Civil Works                        8,600,000           1.00% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3)  Consulting Services,                                   1L00% of foreign
Technical Assistance and                               expenditures and
Training except for NUWA          6,000,000            80% of local
expenditures
(4)  Technical Assistance                                   ]L00% of foreign
and Equipment for NUWA            1,600,000           expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(5)  Refunding of Project               1,000,000
Preparation Advance
(6)  Unallocated                        1,800,000
22,500,000



- 63 -                         ANNEX 6
TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from Credit
IDA Fiscal Year          Disbursement      Accumulated         Cumulative
and Quarter Ending       During Quarter   Disbursements   Percent Disbursed
1983
December 31, 1982           0.0                0.0                 0
March 31, 1983              1.0                1.0                 4
June 30, 1983               0.7                1.7                 8
1984
September 30, 1983          1.0                2.7                12
December 31, 1983           1.1                3.8                17
March 31, 1984              1.3                5.1                23
June 30, 1984               1.5                6.6                29
1985
September 30, 1984          1.5                8.1                36
December 31, 1984           1.6                9.7               43
March 31, 1985              1.7               11.4                51
June 30, 1985               1.6               13.0                58
1986
September 30,'1985          1.6               14.6                65
December 31, 1985           1.3               15.9                71
March 31, 1986              1.3               17.2                76
June 30, 1986               1.1               18.3                81
1987
September 30, 1986          1.0               19.3                86
December 31, 1986           0.9               20.2                90
March 31, 1987              0.8               21.0                93
June 30, 1987               0.6               21.6                96
1988
September 30, 1987          0.5               22.1                98
December 31, 1987           0.4               22.5               100
22.5
Assumptions: PPA advance repaid in quarter ending March 31, 1983. Initial
disbursements for project implementation during second
quarter following approval. Closing date is December 31,
1987.



- 64                          ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
DSSD LOW COST SANITATION SERVICES
FINANCIAL FORECASTS   1983 - 1987
INCOME STATEMENT
( TSHS,THOUSANDS)
1983       1984       1985       1986       1987
INCREASE IN LOADS %             0.00      66.67       12.00       0.00       0.00
NUMBER OF LOADS                 36990      61650      69048      69048      69048
AVE PRICE/LOAD               74.9932  180.5515  244.0187  297.2425  318.6479
REVENUE                          2774      11131      16849      20524      22002
INTEREST                           11        287        973       1463       1484
TOTAL REVENUES                   2785      11418      17822      21987      23486
OPERATING EXPENSES
VEHICLE FUEL                      511        995       1382       1506       1642
FUEL/BULK POWER                   511        995       1382       1506       1642
VEHICLE MAINT                     476        583       1891       2772       3021
PERSONNEL COST                   2125       3823       4168       4543       4952
ADMINSTRATION                     313        540        744        882        962
OPERATIONS                       2914       4946       6803       8197       8935
DEPRECIATION                     1727       3746       5353       6608       7203
TOTAL EXPENSES                   5152       9687      13538      16311      17780
OPERATING INCOME                -2367       1731       4284       5676       5706
NET INCOME BEFORE
- INTEREST                     -2367        1731       4284       5676       5706
INTEREST                          269       1731      4284        5676       5706
- CHRGD OPERATIONS                269       1731       4284       5676       5706
NET INCOME                      -2636          0          0          0          0
RETAINED EARNINGS               -2636          0          0          0          0
RATE BASE                       13307      29087      50156      65204      69559
RATE OF RETURN %               -17.8         6.0        8.5        8.7        8.2
OPERATING RATIO %               185.0       84.8       76.0       74.2       75.7



-65-                                   ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
TANZANIA
DSSD LOW COST SANITATION SERVICES
FINANCIAL FORECASTS   1983 - 1987
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
( TSHS,THOUSANDS)
1983      1984       1985       1986       1987     TOTAL
INTERNAL SOURCES
- OF FUNDS
OPERATING INCOME                 -2367       1731      4284       5676       5706      15030
DEPRECIATION                      1727       3746      5353       6608       7203      24637
OTHER SOURCES 1                      3         87       373        566        559       1588
TOTAL INTERNAL
- FUNDS                           -637       5564     10010      12850      13468      41255
OPERATIONAL
- REQUIREMENTS
INCREASE/DECREASE
- WORKING CAPITAL                  905        819        598       463        371       3156
INTEREST CHARGED
- OPERATIONS                       269       1731      4284       5676       5706      17666
DEBT REPAYMENT                       0          0          0         0       2075       2075
OTHER PAYMENTS                     223       5303      9636        547          0      15709
TOTAL OPERATIONAL
- REQUIREMENTS                    1397       7853      14518      6686       8152      38606
INTERNAL FUNDS
- AVAILABLE FOR
- INVESTMENT                     -2034     -2289      -4508       6164       5316       2649
CAPlTAL INVESTMENT
__________________
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION               12104      27632     236U7       3b98          0      67041
TOTAL CAPITAL
- INVESTMENT                     12104      27632     23607       3698          0      67041
BALANCE TO BE
- FINANCED                       14138      29921     28115      -2466      -5316      64392
FINANCED BY
__________
BORROWINGS                        4906      21662      24755       547          0      51870
EQUITY                            9800      11273       3590         0          0      24663
TOTAL CAPITAL
- SOURCES                        14706      32935      28345       547          0      76533
CASH INCREASE/
- DECREASE                         568       3014        230      3013       5316      12141
CASH AT BEGINNING
- OF YEAR                            0        568       3582      3812       6825          0
CASH AT YEAR END                   568       3582      3812       6825      12141      12141
ANNUAL DEBT SERVICE
- COVERAGE                        -2.4        3.2        Z.2       2.2        1.7        2.0
ANNUAL CONTBN
- TO CONSTRUCTION                -16.8       -8.3     -19.1      166.7        0.0        4.0



-66 -                           ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
TANZANIA
DSSD LOW COST SANITATION SERVICES
FINANCIAL FORECASTS   1983 - 1987
BALANCE SHEETS
( TSHS,THOUSANDS)
1983       1984        1985       1986        1987
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS                        -
____________
PLANT IN SERVICE         22285      48088       74662      92165      100460
LESS: DEPRECIATION        4025       8174       14263      22155       31352
OPERATING PLANT          18260      39914       60399      70010       69108
WORK IN PROGRESS          1306       5364        6725       -360        -360
CURRENT ASSETS
______________
CASH                       568       3582        3812       6825       12141
INVENTORIES               1114       2404        3733       4608        5023
TOTAL                     1682       5986        7545       11433      17164
OTHER ASSETS               220       5436       14699      14680       14121
TOTAL ASSETS             21468      56700       89368      95763      100033
EQUITY AND
- LIABILITIES
______________
EQUITY
PAID IN CAPITAL          18154      29427       33017      33017       33017
RETAINED EARNINGS        -2636      -2636       -2636      -2636       -2636
REVALUATION RESRVE         835       2661        6253       11689      17990
TOTAL EQUITY             16353      29452       36634      42070       48371
LONG TERM DEBT
DEBT DUE                  4906      26568       51323      51870       49795
CURRENT
- LIABILITIES
AAB_29811_818
PAYABLES                   209        680        1411       1823        1867
TOTAL                      209         680       1411        1823       1867
TOTAL EQUITY AND
- LIABILITIES            21468      56700       89368      95763      100033
DEBT % OF
- DEBT + EQUITY           23.1       47.4        58.4        55.2       50.7
CURRENT RATIO              8.0        8.8         5.3         6.3        9.2



- 67 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
DSSD SEWERAGE
FINANCIAL FORECASTS   1983 - 1987
INCOME STATEMENT
( TSHS,THOUSANDS)
1983      1984       1985       1986       1987
CONNECTIONS INCREASE %          0.00       5.00      4.76       4.55       4.35
NUMBER OF CONNECTIONS           5800       6090      6380       6670       6960
AVE PRICE/YEAR (TSH)             146        656      5464       5464       5464
REVENUE                          847       4000     34863      36447      38032
TOTAt REVENUES                   847       4000     34863      36447      38032
OPERATING EXPENSES
PERSONNEL COST                  3045       4466      4868       5307       5784
PLANT MAINT                        0          0      2076       2263       2466
FUEL                             160        517       643        704        765
TRANSPORT MAINT.                 170        476       633        690        752
ELECTRICITY                        0        346       754        822        896
ADMINISTRATION                   390        660       984       1073       1169
OPERATIONS                      3765       6465      9958      10859      11832
DEPRECIATION                    4478       5357      9161      10300      11451
TOTAL EXPENSES                  8243      11822     19119      21159      23283
OPERATING INCOME               -7396     -7822      15744      15288      14749
NET INCOME BEFORE
- INTEREST                     -7396      -7822      15744     15288      14749
INTEREST                        1262       5677     10565      12300      12300
- CHRGD OPERATIONS              1262       5677      10565     12300      12300
NET INCOME                     -8658    -13499       5179       2988       2449
RETAINED EARNINGS              -8658    -13499       5179       2988       2449
RATE BASE                      63824      72497    139546    209321    222712
RATE OF RETURN %               -11.6      -10.8       11.3       7.3        6.6
OPERATING RATIO %              973.2      295.6      54.8       58.1       61.2



-68-                             ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
TANZANIA
DSSD SEWERAGE
FINANCIAL FORECASTS   1983 - 1987
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
( TSHS,THOUSANDS)
1983      1984       1985       1986      1987      TOTAL
INTERNAL SOURCES
- OF FUNDS
OPERATING INCOME            -7396      -7822      15744     15288      14749      30563
DEPRECIATION                 4478       5357       9161     10300      11451      40747
CONSUMERS CONTBNS               0       4056       4500      5000       5550      19106
TOTAL INTERNAL
- FUNDS                     -2918       1591      29405     30588      31750      90416
OPERATIONAL
- REQUIREMENTS
______________
INCREASE/DECREASE
- WORKING CAPITAL             586      -2208       7196      -788       1-127      6113
INTEREST CHARGED
- OPERATIONS                 1262       5677      10565     12300      12300      42104
DEBT REPAYMENT                   0         0          0          0      4473       4473
TOTAL OPERATIONAL
- REQUIREMENTS                1848      3469      17761     11512      18].00     52690
INTERNAL FUNDS
- AVAILABLE FOR
-- INVESTMENT               -4766      -1878      11644      19076     13650      37726
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION          36500      76120      52791     77980      69630    313021
TOTAL CAPITAL
- INVESTMENT                36500      76120      52791     77980      69630    313021
BALANCE TO BE
- FINANCED                  41266      77998      41147     58904      55980    275295
FINANCED BY
BORROWINGS                  22954      57321      31544         0          0    111819
EQUITY                      18618      21300       9808     62384      55704    167814
TOTAL CAPITAL
- SOURCES                   41572      78621      41352     62384      55704    279633
CASH INCREASE/
- DECREASE                    306        623        205      3480       -276       4338
CASH AT BEGINNING
- OF YEAR                        0       306        929       1134      4614          0
CASH AT YEAR END              306        929       1134      4614       4338       4338
ANNUAL DEBT SERVICE
- COVERAGE                   -2.3       -0.4        2.4        2.1        . .6      1.5
ANNUAL CONTBN
- TO CONSTRUCTION           -13.1       -2.5       22.1       24.5      19.6       12.1



- 69 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
TANZANIA
DSSD SEWERAGE
FINANCIAL FORECASTS   1983 - 1987
BALANCE SHEETS
( TSHS,THOUSANDS)
1983       1984        1985        1986        1987
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
PLANT IN SERVICE              182856     Z13671      363819      409037      454783
LESS: DEPRECIATION            115295     132182      153239      177331      204742
OPERATING PLANT                67561      81489      210580      231706      250041
WORK IN PROGRESS               30557       94148      16021       81527      142224
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH                             306         929       1134        4614        4338
INVENTORIES                     2743       3205        5457        6136        6822
RECEIVABLES                      141         667       5812        6076        6340
TOTAL                           3190        4801      12403       16826       17500
TOTAL ASSETS                  101308      180438     239004      330059      409765
EQUITY AND
- LIABILITIES
EQUITY
PAID IN CAPITAL                78705      100005     109813      172197      227901
RETAINED EARNINGS              -8658     -22157      -16978      -13990      -11541
REVALUATION RESRVE              6009       12765      19734       37883       57411
TOTAL EQUITY                   76056       90613     112569      196090      273771
LONG TERM DEBT
______________
DEBT DUE                       22954       80275     111819      111819      107346
CURRENT
- LIABILITIES
PAE_284465460
PAYABLES                        2298        5494       5695        7426        7049
TOTAL                           2298        5494       5695        7426        7049
CONSUMERS CONTBNS                  0        4056       8921       14724       21599
TOTAL EQUITY AND
- LIABILITIES                 101308      180438     239004      330059      409765
DEBT % OF
- DEBT + EQUITY                 23.2        47.0       49.8        36.3        28.2
CURRENT RATIO                    1.4         0.9        2.2         2.3'        2.5



- 70 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
SEWERAGE SECTOR CONSOLIDATION
FINANCIAL FORECASTS   1983 - 1987
INCOME STATEMENT
( TSHS,THOUSANDS)
1983      1984       1985       1986       1987
REVENUE                 3621      15131      51712      56971     60034
INTEREST RECEIVABLE       11        287        973       1463       1484
TOTAL REVENUES          3632      15418      52685      58434     61518
OPERATING EXPENSES
TRANSPORT FUEL           511        995       1382       1506       1642
OPERATIONS              6679      11411      16761      19056     20767
DEPRECIATION            6205       9103      14514      16908      18654
TOTAL EXPENSES         13395      21509      32657      37470     41063
OPERATING INCOME       -9763      -6091      20028      20964     20455
NET INCOME BEFORE
- INTEREST             -9763      -6091      20028      20964     20455
INTEREST                1531       7408      14849      17976     18006
- CHRGD OPERATIONS      1531       7408      14849      17976     18006
NET INCOME            -11294    -13499        5179       2988      2449
RETAINED EARNINGS    -11294    -13499         5179       2988      2449
RATE BASE              77131    101584    189702    274525    292271
RATE OF RETURN %       -12.7       -6.0       10.6        7.6        7.0
OPERATING RATIO %      368.8      139.5       61.9       64.1      66.7



-71-                      ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
TANZANIA
SEWERAGE SECTOR CONSOLIDATION
FINANCIAL FORECASTS   1983 - 1987
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
( TSHS,THOUSANDS)
1983      1984       1985       1986      1987      TOTAL
INTERNAL SOURCES
- OF FUNDS
OPERATING INCOME            -9763      -6091      20028     20964      20455      45593
DEPRECIATION                 6205       9103      14514      16908     18654      65384
CONSUMERS CONTBNS                0      4056       4500      5000       5550      19106
REPAYMENTS RECEIVABLE            3        87        373       566        559       1588
TOTAL INTERNAL
- FUNDS                     -3555       7155      39415     43438      45218    131671
OPERATIONAL
- REQUIREMENTS
INCREASE/DECREASE
- WORKING CAPITAL             1491     -1389       7794       -325      1698       9269
INTEREST CHARGED
- OPERATIONS                  1531      7408      14849     17976      18006      59770
DEBT REPAYMENT                   0         0          0          0      6548       6548
TOTAL OPERATIONAL
- REQUIREMENTS                3022      6019      22643     17651      26252      75587
INTERNAL FUNDS
- AVAILABLE FOR
-- INVESTMENT               -6577       1163      16772     25787      18966      56084
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION          48604    103752       76398     81678      69630    380062
LOANS MADE                     223      5303       9636        547         0      15709
TOTAL CAPITAL
- INVESTMENT                48827    109055       86034     82225      69630    395771
BALANCE TO BE
- FINANCED                   55404    107919      69262      56438     50664    339687
FINANCED BY
__________
BORROWINGS                  27860      78983      56299        547          0    163689
EQUITY                      28418      32573      13398      62384     55704    192477
TOTAL CAPITAL
- SOURCES                   56278    111556       69697      62931     55704    356166
CASH INCREASE/
- DECREASE                     874      3637        435       6493      5040      16479
CASH AT BEGINNING
- OF YEAR                        0       874       4511       4946      11439         0
CASH AT YEAR END               874      4511       4946      11439     16479      16479
ANNUAL DEBT SERVICE
- COVERAGE                    -2.3       0.4        2.3        2.1        1.6       1.7
ANNUAL CONTBN
- TO CONSTRUCTION           -13.4        1.0       19.5       31.4      27.2       14.1



-72 -                  ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
TANZANIA
SEWERAGE SECTOR CONSOLIDATION
FINANCIAL FORECASTS   1983 - 1987
BALANCE SHEETS
( TSHS,THOUSANDS)
1983       1984        1985        1986        1987
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
PLANT IN SERVICE        205141      261759      438481      501202     555243
LESS: DEPRECIATION      119320      140356      167502      199486     236094
OPERATING PLANT          85821      121403      270979      301716     319149
WORK IN PROGRESS         31863       99512       22746       81167      141864
CURRENT ASSETS
______________
CASH                       874        4511        4946       11439       16479
INVENTORIES               3857        5609        9190       10744      11845
RECEIVABLES                 141        667        5812        6076        6340
TOTAL                     4872       10787       19948       28259      34664
OTHER ASSETS                220       5436       14699       14680       14121
TOTAL ASSETS            122776      237138      328372      425822     509798
EQUITY AND
- LIABILITIES
_____________
EQUITY
PAID IN CAPITAL          96859      129432      142830      205214     260918
RETAINED EARNINGS       -11294      -24793      -19614      -16626     -14177
REVALUATION RESRVE        6844       15426       25987       49572      75401
TOTAL EQUITY             92409      20065      149203      238160     322142
LONG TERM DEBT
DEBT DUE                 27860      106843      163142      163689     157141
CURRENT
- LIABILITIES
PAYABLES                  2507        6174        7106        9249       8916
TOTAL                      2507       6174        7106        9249        8916
CONSUMERS CONTBNS             0       4056        8921       14724      21599
TOTAL EQUITY AND
- LIABILITIES           122776      237138      328372      425822     509798
DEBT % OF
- DEBT + EQUITY            23.2       47.1        52.2        40.7        32.8
CURRENT RATIO               1.9        1.7         2.8         3.1         3.9



-73 -                 ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 5
TANZANIA
Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Rehabilitation Project
Notes and Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts
Low Cost Sanitation
Income Statement
1.   Revenue
(a) Revenues are based on the annual load carrying capacities of the
vacuum tanker fleet at an average of nine loads daily per tanker for 274
working days each year, and on charges per load as follow:
Estimated
No of Operating  No of Loads      Charge per Load (TSh)         Average Charge/
Year           Tankers       per year    Domestic  Industry  Institutions  Load TShs
1981              15         36990        16.00                375.00        20.000
1982             15          36990       60.00      160.00                   75.00
1983             15          36990        60.00     160.00                   75.00
1984             22                             (see (b) below)
(for 1st half)                                                  168.34
1984              28          61650             (see (b) below)
(for 2nd half)
1985-1987         28          69048             (see (b) below)            182.90, 196.20,
205.80
(b) For 1984 through 1987, revenues are based on coverage of
operating costs including depreciation, and interest on debt.
Interest
3.         Interest is that receivable from loans made to householders for
the construction of latrines, at 10% p.a.
Operating Costs
4.         Escalation: All operating cost are based on 1981 prices escalated
at 11%, 10%, and 9% for 1982, 1983-84, and 1985 and after respectively. In
addition, personnel costs have been increased by 20% for 1982 only, to
cover the wage increase awarded for that year.



- 74 -                    ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 5
5.        Euel: Cost estiuates are basea on current diesel consumaption of
30 liters daily for the 274 operating days annually for the tanker fleet,
20000 kms annually for other vehicles at varying consumption rates of
gasoline according to the type of vehicle, both applied to the 1981 cost
per liter of diesel and gasoline of TShs 3.04 (US$0.366) and TShs 6.20
(US$0.75), respectively.
Transport
6.        Maintenance: Costs cover the vehicle fleet for the low cost
sanitation unit at an annual rate of 5% of the original capital cost for
each type of vehicle.
7.        Personnel Cost: Costs are based on 1981 wage and salary grades
for vacuum tanker crews, depot crews, clerical staff, supervisors and 50%
of the administrative cadre of the Low Cost Sanitation Unit:. The other 50%
of administration for the Low Cost Sanitation Unit being regarded as health
and education services to be provided from the Government/D)CC budget (TShs
667,000 annually at mid-1981 price levels).
8.        AdmAinistration: Adrministration expenses have been estimated at
10% of all expenses excluding depreciation.
9.        Depreciation: Depreciation has been estimated at the annual
weighted averages of the following rates:
Asset Category                             Rate X
Dumping Points                               2.0
Tankers                                     10.0
VIP Latrines                                 5.0
Buildings and Equipment                      4.0
Technical Assistance                         5.0
Land Compensation                            2.0
PPF                                          2.0
Funds Flow Statement
10.       Capital Investment: Capital expenditures are as detailed in Annex
9. Capital expenditures have been escalated at the following rates.
Year                        %
F       L
1982                  5.0      10.0
1983-87              10.0      20.0



-75 -                   ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 5
11.       Borrowings: Borrowings are the Low Cost Sanitation share of the
IDA credit assumed onlent to DSSD by Government for 20 years including 3
years grace at a 12% interest rate.
Balance Sheet
12.       Plant in Service: Plant comprises the 14 currently operating
vacuum tankers that are to be rehabilitated less their repair costs
included in project expenditures, valued at 1980 prices, plus project
additions as they occur. Net fixed assets are revalued annually at 11%,
10% and 9% for 1982, 1983-84 and 1985-87, respectively.
13.       Receivables: Receivables are estimated at zero in line with the
covenant in paragraph 7.02 (j) that charges will be received in cash.
14.       Inventories: Spare parts and other stores have been estimated at
5% of gross revalued fixed assets.
15.       Current Liabilities: Payables are based on two weeks cash
operating expenses, 5% of construction expenditures and three months
accrued interest.
Sewerage
Income Statement
16.       Revenue: Annual revenues are based on the currently known 5,800
connections to the piped sewerage system. For 1981-82, rough estimates of
TSh 400,000 (US$42,600) have been made for revenue based on the amount
collected of TSh 300,000 (US$32,000) for 1980. By the end of calendar 1984
about 50% of the piped sewerage system should be again operational and the
new finance section will be increasing DSSD's accounting efficiency;
revenue of TSh 4 million (US$0.42 million) is assumed to be billed for
FY83. Connections are assumed to increase at about 300 annually for 1984
and after; revenues for FY85 and subsequently are based on the covenanted
20% contribution to construction from internal cash generation.
Operating Costs
17.       Escalation: Rates for escalation are those given in para. 4,
above. Personnel costs have also be increased by 20% for the 1981 wage
award.
18.       Personnel Cost: Costs are based on the 1981 wage and salary
-levels of the personnel estimated by the consultants to be required to
operate the piped sewerage system when fully operational and the middle and
top management for DSSD. Manning and costs for the existing operations
were not ascertainable as they overlap DCC's other operations.



- 76 -                  ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 5
19.       Maintenance: Annual  costs are based on 0.25% of the 1980 gross
asset revaluation of sewers, manholes, etc., and 5% of the 1980 revaluation
of electrical and mechanical equipment. No maintenance is assumed to be
performed for 1981-84 as the system is inoperative.
20.       Fuel: For 1981 and 1982, figures are rough estimates.  Costs for
1983 and after are based on estimated diesel and gasoline ,zonsumption of
the vehicles to be provided under the project, as given in para. 6 above.
21.       Transport Maintenance: Costs are estimated annually at 5% of the
original capital cost of vehicles. (Are all project vehicLes for
operations?)
22.       Electricity: Power used for pumping is based on consultants'
estimates at 1981 price levels.
23.       Administration: Costs are estimated at 10% of other direct
operating expenditures above.
24.       Depreciation: Depreciation has been estimated at the annual
eighted averages of the following rates:
Asset Category                   Rate %
Sewers                             2.0
Sea Outfall                       2.0
Pumping Stations                   5.0
Pumping Mains                      2.0
Waste Stabilization Ponds          2.0
Buildings and Equipment            4.0
Vehicles                         20.0
Connections                       2.0
Technical Assistance               5.0
Funds Flow Satement
25.       Consumers Contributions: Contributions received are for
connections from premises to main sewers, payable by owners. The
contributions are equal to the capital expenditure for connections shown in
Annex 3.
26.       Capital Investment: Capital expenditures are detailed in Annex 3,
and have been escalated at the rates given in paragraph 10, of this Annex.
27.       Borrowings: Borrowings are the Sewerage share of the IDA credit,
assumed onlent as in para 11, of this Annex.



- 77 -                   ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 5
Balance Sheet
28.        Operating Plant: Net fixed assets comprise the end-1980 gross
value of the existing sewerage system using the unit prices for new
construction and plant given in the feasibility report, less the 1980 price
levels of the Rehabilitation and other capital expenditures included in the
project. Accumulated depreciation is for 20 years on the foregoing gross
asset value at 2.332% p.a. straight line (the weighted average of the gross
assets using the para. 24., depreciation rates). Net fixed assets have
been revalued annually as in para. 12 above.
29.        Inventories: Stores of spares and maintenance materials are
estinLated at 1.5% of revalued gruss fixed assets.
30.        Rteceivables: Accounts receivabie are estimated at two months
billing outstanding or 16.666% of annual revenue.
31.       Payables: Accounts payable are calculated as in paragraph 15
above.
32.        Consumers Contributions: Contributions have been revalued
annually at the same rates as operating plant.



- 78 -                        ANNEX 11
TANZANIA
Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Project
Project Monitoring Indicators
The indices and information given below would be used to monitor
the implementation of the project and the operational development of DSSD.
The information detailed would be incooperated in the appropriate periodic
reports to IDA:
Project Implementation
Quarterly reports on the physical progress of the project and
forecasts of expenditure showing projects expenditures made and forecasts
of future expenditure based on revised cost estimates to completion of the
project.
Staffing and Training
Numbers of employees by categories to be reportesd quarterly
showing progress in recruitment, training and in operational positions to
be compared with a recruitment, training and operational staffing plan for
DSSD as devised by management advisors
System Operations
Annual reports on operations giving the following data:
-    number of connections to date for sewerage compared to the
previous year and the increase in number during the year;
-    number of loads transported annually compared to targets;
-    income statements, funds flow statements and balance sheets for
each of the Piped Sewerage and Low Cost Sanitation units of DSSD,
showing detailed operating revenues and expenditures, operating
expenditures, rate of return, contribution to construction,
investment and working capital expenditures;
-    number of days billings outstanding compared to agreed targets;
-    forecast income statements, funds flow statements and balance
sheets for following ten years;
-    details of major plant and equipment acquired during the year;



- 79 -
TANZANIA                                                  ANNEK 12
BAR ES SAAA'M
S3EEAM AND SANrTI(IN DEPARIMW
ORGANITON CHAR
PRIME MINIS=E'S OFFICE
CITY DIRI=(R |
GER~~L:                                                        I 
Sewerage                        LOW Cc6t S                              Aiain     3dmnistration           M.
PIannir1 &  ; OFeratioca  Planirg       OFeratioca    Education &     Suppor       | PersonrEl &      Control       TreaPy v
|Colstraction [ i          | |Constraction | i           i | Prc.tion  | } Servioes   | | Training || 
Trarsport, Equipment
and Madhinery



-80-                              ANNEX 13
TANZANIA
Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Project
Annual Ecoriomic Cost of Pit Latrines
Total       Life       Shadow      Adjusted Annual
Cost       (years)    Factor       Cost (000)
TSh                                TSh          US$
(000)
Materials
- Local              3480          15          -        457.00      48.00
Labor
- Unskilled           8121         15         0.9       961.00    103.00
- Emptying             188                               38.00       4.00
TOTAL COST                                           1456.00    155.00
- per pit latrine (TSh &US$)                             394.00      42.00
- per capita (TShs & US$)                                 39.00       4.00
Assumptions:
a.   Cost of capital @ 10%.
b.   The total cost includes 30% for material costs and 70%. for labor.
c.   Number of pit latrines (improved and new) = 3,700
d.   Number of houses = 3,700.
e.   Household size = 10.



- 81- -Nx
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
Dar es Salaari Sewerage anC Sanitation Project
Return on Irivestrient and Sensitivity Analysis
1.        The internal tinancial rate of return (IRR) of the project has
beeni calculated using inicremental revenues arising from project
expenditures for the benefits, as it is not possible to quantify the health
ana other ,enefits to the population of Dar es balaam arising from improvea
sewerage and sanitation. The IFRR is the discount rate at which the
present worth estimated capital and operating cost streamls excluding taxes
of the proposed sewerage rehabilitation and low cost sanitation
sub-projects equal the present values of the direct revenues earnea.
2.         Capital investment costs for the sewerage rehabilitation
component are the rehabilitation and the piped sewerage share of office and
other equipment expenditures included in the project. Operating costs are
the personnel, vehicle fuel and maintenance, spares and administration
costs attributable to sewerage operations, inlcuding personnel and other
overhead costs of the new head office of DSSD. Benefits are the monthly
charges for sewerage services at the levels required in 1985, discounted to
1981 price levels. Foreign costs have been shadow priced at a factor of
2.13 and labor at 0.9.
3.         Capital investment costs for the low cost sanitation component
are the cost of rehabilitating existing and the purchase of new vacuum
tankers, equipment costs ann the low cost sanitation share of the new
offices and depots for DSSD. Operating costs are the personnel, vehicle
fuel and uiaintenance, -spares and administration costs of thle low cost
sanitation operations, including attributable share of DSSD costs and 50%
of ti,e TSh 1.112 Llillioni annual personnel cost of the LCS promotion and
education unit. The other 5OX Leing regarded as a Government/City social
service to be met from general budget funas.  'oreign ccsts have been
shadow priced at a factor of 2.13 and iabor at 0.9.



- 82 -                      ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
4.        Cost and benefit streams are as follow in millions of Tanzanian
shillings.
A.   Low Cost Sanitation
--------- CAPITAL ------------       ------- BENE:FITS ------
Foreign     Local                     Emptying
Periods      Costs      Costs      Operating      Charges    Contributions
1          14.20         3.40        -               -             -
2          27.40         9.90        -               -            0.20
3          21.30        11.00       6.20           12.90          4.30
4            3.60         1.00      6.80           15.50          6.80
5            -             -        6.80           15.20          0.30
6-10          -            -        6.80           15.20           -
11-12       15.10         0.20       6.80           15.20           -
13            -             -        6.80           15.20           -
14-15       15.10         0.20       6.80           15.20           -
16-30          -            -        6.80           15.20           -
B. Sewerage
---------- CAPITAL ------------       ------- BENEFI'ITS -------
Foreign     Local                     Monthly
Periods     Costs       Costs      Operating      Charges    Contributions
1          43. .          8.70        -
2          58.50         28.60        -                             -
3          37.00         17.60       7.60          26.6u          3.45
4           6.40          2.00       7.60          25.70          3.45
5           3.00           1.50      7.60          24.50          3.45
6            -                                     24.50           -
7-10         -             -         7.60          24.50           -
11          15.30          0.70       7.60          24.50           -
12            5.30         0.30       7.60          24.50           -
13-20         -             -         7.60          24.50           -
21           15.30          0.70      7.60          24.50           -
22           5.30          0.30       7.60          24.50           -
23-30          -            -         7.60          24.50           -
5.        The rates of returns derived from the foregoing cost and benefit
streams are:
Low Cost Sanitation   IFRR %             Sewerage            IFRR %
At given costs          5.87            At given costs         6.85
Costs + 10%             5.48            Cost + 10%             5.23
Costs - 10%             8.67            Costs - 10%            8.72
Benefits + 10%          8.39             benetits + 1M%        8.54
Benefits - 10%          3.23            Benefits - 10%         5.07



- 83 -                         ANNEX 15
TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.      Sector Reports and Stucies by Others
A.1     health in Tanzania, USAID, 1979
B.      Project Related Reports ana Studies by Others
B.1     Dar es Salaam blaster Plan, harshall Mlacklin Moriaghan Limited,
October 22, 1979.
B.2     Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Study:  Master Plan,  Howard
Humphreys and Partners and Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Company,
October 1980.
B.3     Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Study:  Draft Preliminary
Engineering Design and Feasibility Study - Stage I, Howard
Humphreys and Partners and Peat, Marwick Mitchell and Company,
October 1980.
B.4     Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Project - Phase III-
Implenentation of Stage I - Proposals for IDA Financing, ARDHI and
Dar City Council, April 1981.
B.5     Low Cost Sanitation Planning Workshop for Dar es Salaam Sewerage
and Sanitation Project, Marilyn Tonon, Technology Advisory Group
(TAG), UNDP Global Project GLO/78/006, July 1981.
B.6     Denlonstration Projects in Low-Cost Sanitati(un.  Draft keport of A
Tenth Mission to the United Republic of Tanzania, Marilyn Tonon,
June 23 to July 14, 1961.
B.7     Training Proposal, ARDhl, July 19b2.
C.      DoAumentation Prepared by Bank Staff or Consultants.
C.1     Chronological record of project missions.
C.2     Basis for Project Cost Estimates.
C.3     Rate of Return Methodology and Calculations.
C.4     Long run Marginal Costs.
C.5     Retails of Risk Analysis and Sensitivity Tests.






IBRD 16132
DECEMEFR 19i
TANZANIA
DAR ES SALAAM
SEWERAGE AND SANITATION PROJECT
*  \ Existrrrg Sewered Are
-    erst og Grdot-on Pond,
c=uz   Sea OifeiI
\0,sA   Temeke Dmstrir. Area for low-ost s-,ototo
|!1\.:                                                  3                                                      Eorstrg Urban Areas
PEo,stig Unpilored Re-edeoto  Areas
/ \5~~~~~~~<I .S*dyc                                       -   Arterrol Roads
f                        \         ,,             1~~~~4                                       -' r PeRzers
i5f              \          \<>      fgX i     aY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'--   Moogrote SwamPs
-- --- Dor rs Sol.,m Crty Boutdory
\      Do.,es Soloorrr RegioQol  eurdory
5)\                                                                                                         :: \ 0  :  Q       n    . 2  S   In   j   0
, LCMEiERs
X  s ,,~~~~-..                                              ,   ,         _     5AF'n,    (,
h'2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-
p  REP4bA                                         -~~~~~~~~WOROZ
t~~~                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~                                     _                      . 
ANANA
-:                                                                                                                                    ine nc   ini ;0                                    
Ts       '  oAN Z A N_I_A  i ,     _do_                              __                                                                             j51
D.,  nre Soloo  )a@      .- \\  0--.. 
-6                                      b_rtxx<                                                    



