CREDIT NUMBER 1312 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLTC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1312 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      /7 a,,L, 1983, between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION     (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B)  Part of the Project will be carried out by the Dar es
Salaam City Council (hereinafter called DCC) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to DCC part of the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and DCC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the follo-ing meanings:
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the Agreerent between the
Association and DCC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules


﻿-2-
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Transfer Agreement" means the Agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and DCC pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Transfer Agreement;
(c) "ARDHI" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for
lands, housing and urban development;
(d) "DSSD" means the Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation
Department, a department to be established under the Project
within the Dar es Salaam City Council and to be responsible for
the sewerage and sanitation services in the City of Dar es
Salaam;
(e)  "NUWA" means the National Urban Water Authority, a body
corporate established by the Urban Water Supply Act of 1981;
(f)  "TANESCO" means the Tanzania Electric Supply Company
Limited, a company limited by shares established and operating
under the laws of Tanzania; and
(g)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prep-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to an exchange of letters dated March 5, 1979 and July 10,
1979 between the Borrower and the Asscciation.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to twenty million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 20,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account, in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and


﻿-3-
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Pro-
ject Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1993, and ending Septem-
ber 15, 2032, each installment to and including the installment
payable on September 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such prin-
cipal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is-hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) through ARDHI
carry.out Parts A, B, C (except for Parts C.1 and C.5 which shall
be carried out -by D4C in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement), D and E.2 of the Project; and (ii) cause NUWA
and TANESCO to carry out Parts E.1 and E.3, respectively, all
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause DCC to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable DCC to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall enter into a Transfer Agreement with
DCC satisfactory to the Association, providing, inter alia, for:
(i) the transfer to DCC of the works, facilities and equipment
constructed or acquired with the proceeds of the Credit under
Parts A, B and C of the Project and the records in connection
therewith; (ii) the assignment of the experts to assist DCC in
carrying out Part C.1 of the Project; and (iii) the repayment by


﻿-5-
DCC to the Borrower of such amounts as the Borrower shall have
withdrawn from the Credit Account in connection with the con-
struction or acquisition of the said works, facilities and equip-
ment on terms and conditions which shall provide for a repayment
period of 25 years, including 5 years of grace and an interest
rate of not less than 11%.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Trans-
fer Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Transfer Agreement or any provision thereof.
SectIon 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ experts whose selec-
tion, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association in accordance
with the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in the
August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain until the
completion of the Project: (i) the Project Implementation Unit
established within the Sewerage and Drainage Division of ARDHI
with responsibility for, inter alia, procurement, administration
of contracts and project accounts; and (ii) the Project Manage-
ment Committee, responsible for policy matters.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times, keep in the Project
Implementation Unit the positions of Project Manager, Low Cost
Sanitation Engineer and Project Accountant filled with qualified
and experienced personnel.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (i) monitor closely the
quality of the waters receiving sewerage from the Dar es Salaam
central sewerage system and other systems, such as the ocean
waters around the sea outfall and the stabilization ponds and
connected local streams; and (ii) based on the results of such
ongoing monitoring, adjust, when necessary, the present operating
procedures for sewerage disposal and draw up proposals for future
designs.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall complete, not later than
December 31, 1983, the survey of service connections for


﻿-6-
sewerage, water supply and electricity required under part D.3 of
the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) complete and furnish
to the Association, not later than June 30, 1984, a study under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, comparing
the costs involved in servicing different categories of users of
sewerage services; (ii) prepare proposals, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1984, for a new tariff structure for sewerage services,
based on the recommendations of said study and afford the Asso-
ciation the opportunity to comment thereon; and (iii) take
promptly thereafter all necessary steps within its power to
establish and implement said tariff structure taking into account
the Association's comments.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the. progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,


﻿-7-
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bor-
rower, DCC and the Associatio., the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the bene-
fits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower, DCC and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed but in any case not later than June 30, 1983, all such
land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accor-
dance   with  consistently   maintained   appropriate   accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in


﻿-8-
accordance with   appropriate  auditing   principles  consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said separate accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) DCC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(b) An   extraordinary  situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that DCC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) Legislation of the Borrower pertinent to the execution
of the Project shall have been     amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of DCC to perform any of its obligations under the Pro-
ject Agreement;
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of DCC or for the suspension of its operations, and alterna-
tive institutional arrangements satisfactory to the Association
have not been made for the implementation of the Project and the
provision, operation and maintenance of sewerage and sanitation
services in the Dar es Salaam area.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿-9-
(a) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and DCC; and
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a)  the Transfer Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and DCC; and
(b) the experts to be assigned to DCC pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement have been appointed.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authdrized or
ratified by. DCC, and is legally binding upon DCC in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Transfer Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and DCC and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and DCC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date     T        /              is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.03 (b) and 3.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on


﻿- 10 -
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall termi-
nate or on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time re-
sponsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:                        Telex:
TREASURY                             41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Equipment, fur-          3,200,000              100% of for-
nishings and                                   eign expendi-
vehicles except                                tures and 50%
for Part E.1 of                               of local
the Project                                   expenditures
(2) Civil works              7,870,000             100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures and 80%
of local
expenditures
(3) Consultants'             5,500,000              100% of for-
services,                                     eign expendi-
technical                                     tures and 80%
assistance                                    of local
and training                                  expenditures
except for
Part E.1 of
the Project
(4) Technical                1,470,000             100% of for-
assistance                                    eign expendi-
and equipment                                  tures and 80%
under Part E.1                                 of local
of the Project                                 expenditures
(5) Refunding of               910,000             Amount due
Project
Preparation
Advance


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(6) Unallocated             1,650,000
TOTAL   20,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of
the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to
be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for ex-
penditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 475,000, may be made in respect of Category 3 on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
December 31, 1981.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that


﻿- 14 -
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures -thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restrict-
ing or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first stage of the Borrower's long range
program to improve and extend sanitation in Dar es Salaam to meet
appropriate standards of public health and adequate levels of
efficiency.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Sewerage Rehabilitation and Upgrading
1.   Rehabilitation and, where necessary, replacement of
about 130 km of sewers and pumping mains.
2.   Repair of sea outfall and construction of a screenhouse
bypass and an intake structure.
3.   Rehabilitation of about 17 pumping stations.
4.   Repair and improvement of about nine waste stabiliza-
tion pond systems covering about 27 hectares.
5.   Construction of about 600 new sewer connections..
6.   Acquisition  of   equipment, materials,   vehicles   and
spare parts required for the rehabilitation, operation and
maintenance of the sewerage system.
Part B:   Low Cost Sanitation
1.   Construction or upgrading of about 3,600 pit latrines
at residences and about 100 at schools.
2.   Construction of about five new dumping stations for pit
emptying vehicles and rehabilitation of the existing dumping
station.
3.   Rehabilitation of about 14 pit emptying vehicles and
acquisition of about 16 new ones, including spare parts and
acquisition of about nine vehicles and four motorcycles for
administrative purposes.


﻿- 16 -
Part C:   Dar es Salaam Sanitation and Sewerage Department
1.   Establishment of DSSD and development of its staff
including specialized training, locally and abroad, for selected
professional and technical staff.
2.   Construction  of  a headquarters   building   for DSSD,
including basic laboratory facilities, temporary office facili-
ties and about eight staff houses.
3.   Construction of a facility to accommodate the workshop
and storage needs of DSSD's mechanical and electrical division.
4.   Acquisition of equipment for DSSD's central workshop
and for its mechanical and electrical division.
5.   Establishment   of  a  management   information  system
and a billing and collection system following TANESCO's manage-
ment information, billing and collection procedures and using
TANESCO's main computer.
6.   Upgrading and expansion of three existing maintenance
depots.
7.   Construction  of  a  field  office  for   the  low  cost
sanitation program.
Part D:   Studies
1.   Preparation  of   studies  on  issues  related   to  the
sewerage and sanitation sector, such as a tariff structure for
sewerage, solid waste management and pollution caused by the
present sewerage system.
2.   Review of legislation pertinent to the sewerage and
sanitation sector.
3.   Survey  of  existing connections for sewerage, water
supply and electricity, including an aerial survey and mapping of
the city of Dar es Salaam.
4.   Detailed design for sewerage systems under the next
phase of the Borrower's sewerage and sanitation program.


﻿- 17 -
PART E:   NUWA, ARDHI, TANESCO
1.    Strengthening of NUWA by providing assistance in the
selection of personnel, the introduction of new management
systems and initial management training.
2.   Strengthening of ARDHI's public health education and
sanitation   extension  services   including  the   provision   of
training, educational materials and consultants' services.
3.   Increasing TANESCO's computer capacity to accommodate
additional computer use in connection with the management
information, billing and collection procedures to be introduced
by DSSD.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D, goods and civil works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cre-
dits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement no-
tice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall pro-
vide the necessary information to update such notice annually so
long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles shall be grouped, to
the extent practicable, in appropriate bid packages.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods of-
fered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿19 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Tanzania may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group   A: bids   offering  goods manufactured    in
Tanzania if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Tanzania equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of


﻿- 20 -
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category 2 of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and to be procured in accordance
with the procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, the
Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic
contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification accepted by
the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies
for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly
indicate, the preference and the method that will be followed in
the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such
preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.


﻿- 21 -
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than
$1,000,000 equivalent each, may be awarded on the basis of com-
petitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to the Association, provided that the
aggregate value of such contracts shall not exceed $6,000,000.
2.   Contracts for equipment or furniture estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent each may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to the Association, provided       that  the
aggregate value of such contracts shall not exceed $500,000.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $700,000 or more and for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by
the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of the said consultants and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
proiptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿-22-
(c) The terms and conditior' of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concur      :e, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preced-
ing paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the res-
pective bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of.such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   L7       day of
198-3
FOR SECRETARY


