Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6949-UA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300 MILLION
TO
UKRAINE
September 13, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Hryvnia (Hrv)'
Exchange rates: Hrv per U.S. dollar
September 2, 1996 1.76 Hrv = US$1
August 22, 1996  177,500 Krb = US$1
November 1, 1995 181,000 Krb = US$1
Weights and Measures
Metric system
FIscAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADT            Agribusiness Development Team
AIS            Agro-Industrial Sector
AMC            Anti-Monopoly Committee
ASAP           Agricultural Sector Assistance Program
CPI            Consumer Price Index
EBRD           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EDAL           Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan
EU             European Union
FSU            Former Soviet Union
GNP            Gross National Product
GOU            Government of Ukraine
MFER           Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations
MOAF           Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MOE            Ministry of Economy
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NARD           National Agency for Reconstruction and Development
PGF            Pre-Export Guarantee Facility
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development
SCLR           State Committee for Land Resources
SPF            State Property Fund
STF            Systemic Transformation Facility
TACIS          Technical Assistance for the Confederation of Independent States
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
WTO            World Trade Organization
1/ On September 2, 1996, Ukraine introduced its new currency, the Hryvnia. Its former currency the Karbovanets (Krb) is being exchaged fir the Hryvnia a
IOO,OO  Krb - I Hry.



UKRAINE                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AGRICULTURAL SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT LoAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY.1i-iii
INTRODUCTION.1
I. BACKGROUND.1
The Macroeconomic Climate.1
The Agricultural Sector ...................................  3
The Agricultural Sectoral Adjustment Loan in the Bank's Assistance Strategy  . . 5
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S AGRICULTURAL REFORM  PROGRAM    ..................  6
Agricultural Reform  Goals Set By Ukraine and Measures Implemented  ...                    ... 6
Further Reform  Steps under the Agricultural Sectoral Adjustment Loan ...                  ...  7
Other Supporting Projects and Support From  Bilateral Donors  ...                    .......  12
II THE PROPOSED LOAN  ...... .....                        ...........................   13
Rationale for Bank Involvement .............................   13
Project Objectives and Description  ...........................   13
Conditions for Appraisal, Negotiations, and Second Tranche  ...                     ........  14
Loan Administration and Tranching   ..........................  18
Procurement .........  .                                                                       18
Disbursements ......... 18
Reporting, Accounting, and Auditing .18
Monitoring Arrangements  ................................  19
Environmental Aspects .19
Benefits and Risks .20
Recommendation .20
ANNEXES
1.    Letter to James Wolfensohn from Roman Shpek .1
Attachment - Memorandum of Agricultural Reform Policies.                                        3
2.    Matrix of Agricultural Reform Policies.                                                               6
3.         Timetable of Key Processing Events ..........................  11
4.         Status of Bank Group Operations  ..........................                                     12
5.         Terms of Reference for Supporting Technical Assistance and Training   ... ..  14
6.         Summary of Ukraine Report: Agricultural Trade and Trade Policy ...                      .....  18
7.         Summary of Land Reform  and Farm  Restructuring in Ukraine  ...                      .......  24
8.         Summary of Ukraine: The Agricultural Sector in Transition ............  31
9.         Ukraine at a glance  ....................................  35
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal missions in May-September 1995 and February-April, 1996, which
included Mark R. Lundell (Task-Manager), Hans Binswanger (Agricultural Policy Advisor), Csaba Csaki (Agricultural Adviser), and lain
Shuker (Agricultural Economist). The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission in June 1994. Project preparation was carried
out a Bank mission in January/February 1995 led by the Task Manager. Peer Reviewers included Gottfried Ablasser and Gershon Feder.
The Division Chief is Geoffrey Fox and the Department Director is Basil Kavalsky.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



-11-
UKRMNE
AGRICULTURAL SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROJECT SUTMMARY
Borrower:          Ukraine
Executing Agencies: Ministry of Agricuiture and Food and Ministry of Finance
Beneficiaries:     Primary agricultural enterprises, individual farms, and agricultural input
supply, output marketing, and processing firms
Loan Amount:       US $300.0 million equivalent
Terms:             Standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans,
with 17 years maturity including five years of grace.
Commitment Fee:   0.75 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Objectives:        The objective of the Loan is to support the growth of a market-based
agricultural system  as described in the Government of Ukraine's
Memorandum of Agricultural Reform Policies. In particular, the Loan
would support instituting agricultural and trade reforms aimed at
increasing market competition and encouraging private ownership and
investment in land and other productive assets. It would also provide
short term balance-of-payments support for financing critical imports. It
is expected that the policy reform program that the Loan supports would
improve agricultural terms of trade, increase input flows to farms, expand
agricultural exports, and increase rural income and employment.
Description:       The proposed Loan would provide balance-of-payments support (US$ 300
million) for Ukraine's import needs, thereby increasing the availability of
foreign exchange, interalia, for crucial imported inputs.
Benefits:          The Loan's major benefits would be the development of markets to
replace the past administrative system and to increase rural welfare and
reinvestable profits for future capital formation. By promoting land reforn
and farn restructuring, a sector of viable farm management units would
be developed.  By reducing state procurements and restrictions on
agricultural exports, more farm output would flow through commercial
channels to export markets and domestic markets for higher quality
products. These markets will offer higher real prices than the State has
paid in the past, thereby raising farm-level income and output. By
promoting privatization and demonopolization of existing agribusiness
firms, the Loan would encourage market entry to take advantage of these
increased opportunities.



-.1.-
Risks:             The primary risk associated with this Loan is the possibility of policy
slippage due to political opposition to specific agricultural policy reforms.
This risk has been minimized first by extensive discussion with the
Government of Ukraine based on a review, analysis, and dissemination of
the main benefits of policy reform for Ukrainian agriculture. This risk of
policy slippage has also been partially mitigated by policy benefits in the
Government's reform program which promote the interests of a wide
scope of political actors: the farm sector, the industrial lobby, economy-
wide reformers, rural poor, and those responsible for macro-economic
stability.
The other main risk is that, owing to the lack of working capital at the
farm level, the recovery of the agricultural sector will be too slow to
maintain a policy regime of limited distortionary interventions. This risk
would be partially mitigated by creating a tandem operation to the Ag
SECAL, the Pre-Export Guarantee Facility, to increase the flow of finance
and working capital inputs to the agricultural sector. As free-market
agricultural and trade policies are maintained in Ukraine, foreign
investment will be able to provide a large share of the capital needed to
fuel recovery of the agricultural sector.
Environment:       In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (OS 4.00, Annex A), the proposed operation has been placed
in Category C and would therefore not require an environmental
assessment.
Est. Project Cost:   US $ 300.0 million
Financing Plan:                 IBRD                US$   300.0 million
Total              US$   300.0 million
Est. Cumulative Disbursements:   FY97               US$  300.0 million
Closing Date:                   December 31, 1997
Poverty Categorv:               N.A.
Project I.D. Number:            PA 9113
Economic Rate of Return:        N.A.
Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Director:          Basil G. Kavalsky, EC4
Division Chief:    Geoffrey B. Fox, EC4NR
Staff:             Mark Lundell, EC4NR






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO UKRAINE
INTRODUCTION
1.            I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan to Ukraine for the equivalent of US$ 300 million. The
loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate with a maturity of seventeen years, including
five years of grace.
2.               The Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (Ag SECAL) would provide balance-of-
payments support (US$ 300 million). The aim of the proposed project is to introduce key agricultural
policy reforms which will remove the main systemic impediments to a market-oriented agricultural sector
in Ukraine. The focus is placed on policy reforms because the residual policies of the pre-reform system
are the main obstacles to the recovery of Ukrainian agriculture. Once in place, the new policies would
provide a framework under which capital investments, both public and private, and improved access to
input and output markets can play a role in raising the efficiency of the sector.
3.           The loan would facilitate implementation of the key elements of the Government's
agricultural sector adjustment program and would complement policy reforms initiated in late 1994 and
deepened under the Government's Rehabilitation Program supported by the Bank's Rehabilitation Loan
(Loan No. 3831-UA approved by the Board in December 1994). The Rehabilitation Program progressed
satisfactorily toward achievement of the liberalization of prices and foreign trade, reduction of state
purchases, and the acceleration of privatization. Key steps still need to be taken under the agricultural
reformn program supported by the Ag SECAL to promote intermediary activities and market formation
(including markets for land and other real estate), to increase the ease and attraction of forming private
farms, and to accelerate enterprise restructuring through privatization and demonopolization. The main
impact of these policy changes would be to increase the growth of exportable production (for which there
is strong import demand in the FSU countries), thereby raising agricultural income and rural welfare.
I. BACKGROUND
The Macroeconomic Climate
4.             Economic conditions in Ukraine worsened dramatically after independence from the
Soviet Union in 1991 - GDP per capita declined from US$ 2,340 in 1991 to US$ 1,572 per annum in
1994. The cumulative decline in output of 50 percent from 1990 through 1994 was accompanied by
hyperinflation during much of this period. Particularly hard hit were the energy intensive industries and
those facing shrinking markets for their products such as defense-related activities. In 1991, industry
accounted for 41 percent of GDP, with a large production base in metallurgy, machine building, mining
and steelmaking. Defence related production accounted for approximately 25% of the industrial base.
Agriculture constituted 26 percent of GDP, reflecting Ukraine's position as the "bread basket" of the
USSR.



2
5.            The external trade of Ukraine, of which three quarters was with the FSU, came under
serious strain as the transactions mechanisms between countries collapsed and the prices of imported
goods from the FSU rose to world levels after 1992. This was particularly severe for energy imports,
where Ukraine depends on imports from Russia and Turkmenistan for 50 percent of its energy needs.
Despite a large drop in the volume of energy imported, the share in value terms of gas and oil imports
increased from 12 percent of FSU imports in 1991 to 50 percent in 1994. At the same time export
volumes declined, with an estimated fall of 25-30 percent from 1992 to 1994. Ukraine's total external
debt reached $7.2 billion by the end of 1994, from a zero base in 1991.
6.           In October 1994, the government, under the leadership of a new President, adopted a
stabilization and structural adjustment program developed with the assistance of the IMF and the World
Bank. This program focused on immediate measures to reduce the budget deficit to 3.3 percent of GDP
in 1995, limit credit expansion, strengthen the external debt position, and reach a monthly inflation target
of 1 percent per month. Much has been achieved since October 1994. Fiscal and monetary policies were
tightened considerably and inflation sharply reduced from 20 percent per month in early 1995 to around
5 percent during April-August, 1995. Foreign exchange restrictions were largely abolished and anti-
export incentives diminished. Many key public sector prices were adjusted to increase the share of costs
recovered, and most domestic prices decontrolled, reducing government subsidy payments.
7.           In the second half of 1995, however, there were slippages in implementation of both the
stabilization and structural reform programs. The GOU renewed various forms of financial support to
enterprises and overruns in government budget expenditures occurred. Although the general government
budget cash deficit was only 0.75 percentage points (of GDP) higher than programmed, banking .system
credit exceeded programmed levels by a considerable margin, and external payment arrears occurred.
In early 1996, the GOU renewed its commitment to stabilization in the following ways: settling most of
the external payment arrears, tightening monetary policy, and raising communal service tariffs, public
transportation fares, and household energy prices to cover 60 percent of costs. This paved the way to
reaching agreement with an IMF mission in April 1996 on a re-phasing of the Standby Arrangement
(SBA), subsequently approved by the Fund's Board on May 10, 1996. Under the new program, fiscal
policy has been tightened to prevent the cash deficit from exceeding the 1996 target of 3.5 percent of
GDP. Monetary policy is being brought under tighter control in order to reduce inflation to 1-2 percent
a month by the end of the year and to increase gross international reserves by about US$600 million.
An IMF mission in August 1996 found that the program was on track: monthly inflation has remained
low (0.1 percent in June and July) and all end-July performance criteria were met. The introduction of
Ukraine's new currency, the hryvnia, was initiated on September 2, 1996.
8.            Another major concern is the pace of structural reform and the performance of the real
economy. The pace of large and medium enterprise privatization was slower than planned in 1995, with
only 13 percent of the privatization target being met. Similarly, the pace of privatization in agriculture
has also been slow with only 1.5 percent of land currently in the hands of private farmers. However,
the pace of small scale privatization picked up significantly in the last few months of 1995, and large and
medium enterprise privatization has accelerated significantly in 1996. Another encouraging sign is the
rapid growth of the informal private sector. While official statistics indicate that the formal private sector
accounts for only 10 percent of GDP, unofficial estimates are that the private sector, including the
informal sector, could be contributing as much as 45 percent of GDP.



3
9.            Structural reform measures for the next few years will continue to promote private sector
development by focusing on the following issues: (i) improvement of the competitive, regulatory and legal
framework; (ii) reduction of state interventions that inhibit private sector development; (iii) transformation
of state enterprises into commercial entities; and (iv) hardening the budget constraint on state owned
enterprises. Together, the GOU's policy reforms supported by the Enterprise Development Adjustment
Loan (EDAL, scheduled for Board presentation in June 1996) and those of the Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Loan are aimed at achieving objectives (i)-(iii).  Maintaining a stabilization program
supported by the IMF will be key to hardening state enterprise budget constraints. To ensure sustained
growth, there will also be a need to initiate longer term structural reforms such as: (vi) restructuring of
government administration and functions and public services; (vi) reinforcement of the social safety net;
and (vii) restructuring of the financial sector. These objectives will be supported, respectively, by the
Public Sector Reform Adjustment Loan (FY97), the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FY97), and the
Social Protection Adjustment Loan (FY98).
The Agricultural Sector
10.           The food and agricultural sector has greater economic potential in Ukraine than in any
other country of the Former Soviet Union (FSU). This potential is extensively examined in the Bank's
report Ukraine: Agricultural Sector Review, discussed with the GOU in summer 1994 and issued in late
fall 1994. The Bank has also participated in the preparation and publication of Ukraine Land Reform and
Farm Restructuring (December 1994) and a study of Ukraine's comparative advantage in agricultural
product exports (in Agricultural Trade and Trade Policy - Ukraine Country Report, June 1995). These
three reports formed the basis of the policy reforms agreed with the GOU under the Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Loan. Sunmmaries of each of these reports are included in Annexes 6-8.
11.           Ukraine's agricultural potential is due primarily to Ukraine's favorable agro-climatic
conditions, which are not only well suited to the production of grains, oilseeds, root and fiber crops, and
livestock but also to the cultivation of a wide variety of temperate fruits and vegetables. Comparisons
of historical data prior to reform (the late 1980's through 1991) indicate that Ukraine was the lowest cost
producer in the Central Europe and the Former Soviet Union for wheat, corn, sunflower seed, and
sugarbeet. Evaluating Ukrainian costs of production for these conmmodities, usillg world market prices
for the material inputs, shows that Ukraine's greatest absolute advantages are in wheat and sunflower
while corn and sugarbeet costs are still below average costs in most other major producing countries.
12.           Though Ukraine was one the lowest cost producers of beef and pork in the FSU prior to
reform, it appears not to have an absolute advantage in meat production compared to major world
producers (when evaluating Ukrainian materials costs at world market prices). In addition, its meat
production suffers from quality problems and its slaughter plants are not certified for most developed
country markets. Nevertheless, it could continue to be a competitive supplier of lower quality cuts to the
FSU market (mainly Russia).
13.           Indeed, Ukraine has traditionally has been a large exporter of food and agricultural
products (with net agricultural and food exports of US$ 2.5 billion in 1988-90). However, performance
of the sector during the latter years of the Soviet Union was still below potential. In the late 1980's, crop
yields were only 60% to 75% of those in Western Europe, fertility yields of livestock were 25-30%
lower, and feed conversion ratios were less than 60 % of Western levels. Waste was high throughout the



4
food chain caused by large losses in transport from the field and in on-farm storage, as well as low
efficiency and spoilage in food processing, owing to outdated technology. In addition to high losses of
raw product in processing, energy-intensity is very high compared to world standards. Thus, Ukraine's
comparative disadvantage in food processing can offset its absolute advantage in the production of raw
commodities: this appears to be the case for refined sugar and canned fruits and vegetables.
14.             From 1990 to 1995, the agricultural sector's output declined by more than 30%. This
decline in agricultural and food processing output is partially the result of factors outside the agricultural
sector: high inflation and erosion of working farm working capital, increased real costs of agricultural
inputs, overall decline of real wages and domestic demand, and the breakdown of payments channels
with FSU countries.
15.            However, this decline also reflects the impact of unsustainable agricultural polices that
are a legacy of the past. Collectivized agriculture and routine covering of enterprises losses eroded labor
incentives and rewards to management for containrment of costs and resulted in low levels of factor
productivity. High investment levels in field mechanization and livestock raising facilities in the 1970's
and 1980's did not improve efficiency, and output growth slowed as the marginal increases in output due
to increased use of fuel, fertilizer, feed, and other variable inputs declined to very low levels. Moreover,
the cumbersome mechanisms of central planning and control resulted in monopolistic and inefficient
distribution systems for agricultural inputs and outputs. The availability of imported variable inputs such
as fertilizers, agro-chemicals, and seeding and spraying equipment was severely rationed, leading to
insufficient use of these high quality imported inputs.
16.            In the 1990's the state supply and purchasing system has been continually eroding. The
GOU  ceased in 1992 to officially set most agricultural output and input prices, but maintained
considerable control over prices through state contracts and state orders. Monopolistic state trading
agencies exerted substantial pressure on farms to sell at low prices by making these sales a condition for
supply of otherwise-hard-to-get inputs and credit. The rise of input prices to largely world market levels
in 1993-94 was not accompanied by a similar rise to border price levels for farm outputs. Since state
orders and contracts have dropped substantially in 1994-95, the depressed level of farm gate prices
stimulated the growth of buying activities by private and foreign wholesaling and exporting firms.
Moreover, farms deal more often than in the past directly with enterprises who process commnodities
further or retail them.  Still, the uncompetitive nature of state procurement enterprises and export
licensing, quotas, and taxes caused poor transmission of border prices to the farm level until late 1995.
The end result was a sharp worsening of agriculture's terms of trade. Addressing this problem requires
improved linkages to international markets, privatization and demonopolization of the agricultural input
supply, marketing, and processing enterprises, and land reform and farm restructuring.2
17.            Until 1995, there was a widespread misconception in the GOU that agriculture's problems
were transitory; that they could be overcome through advanced technology, better management, and the
maintenance of large-scale production systems, and that subsidization of inputs could be continued during
the transition. Monetary emissions by the central government to finance input supply and output
marketing operations in early spring and late summer served to raise inflation and to perpetuate the heavy
2/The analysis and background to the policy changes to be fostered under the Ag SECAL are discussed in detail in the Bank
publications: Land Reform and Farrn Restructuring Study, Ukraine Agricultural Sector Review, and Agricultural Trade and
Trade Policy - Ukraine Country Report.



5
involvement of state enterprises under ministerial direction in agricultural marketing. The combination
of heightened inflation and payment delays by these state enterprises consistently eroded farm income.
18.            As economic recovery proceeds in Russia and other FSU countries. restoring and
developing markets and business relations with the other FSU republics may offer the best opportunities
for Ukrainian agricultural exports. Expansion into developed country markets will be hampered by
perceived quality problems and, in some cases, import barriers that inhibit access and reduce prices for
Ukraine's agricultural products in hard-currency markets, particularly in the European Union (EU). While
Ukraine's eventual membership in the WTO will give it increased world market access, restrictions on
agricultural imports by many countries will limit Ukraine's ability to boost agricultural exports.
Nevertheless, many developing countries (particularly in the Middle East, Gulf states, and Pacific Asia)
offer significant market opportunities for expanded agricultural and food exports by Ukraine.
The Agricultural Sectoral Adjustment Loan in the Bank's Assistance Strategy
19.               Ukraine has embarked on an historic and courageous effort to transform its economy
from  a centrally planned to a market-oriented system.  This reform  will be, under the best of
circumstances, a long process accompanied by economic, social, and political difficulties. To ensure that
this transition is efficient and effective, and to minimize the transition problems, external assistance is
essential. The IMF and World Bank operations of late 1994 and 1995 (Systemic Transformation Facility
in November 1994, Rehabilitation Loan in December 1994, Standby Arrangement in April 1995) have
provided the support needed by Ukraine to take the first major reform steps and prove to the international
community that Ukraine is serious about market reforms. These operations have been oriented largely
to meeting macroeconomic targets but have included important sector wide and sector-specific conditions.
The most important conditions affecting the agricultural sector have been those liberalizing export trade,
removing pricing restrictions, reducing state purchases, and accelerating large enterprise privatization.
20.               The agricultural sector assistance program (ASAP, to be supported by a series of
Bank adjustment and investment loans) complements the reform strategy supported by the IMF and Bank
operations mentioned above. The goal of the ASAP is to provide a policy framework and investments
that promote the Government's agricultural reform program. The primary short term goal of the ASAP
is to boost agricultural growth. The ASAP is expected to help Ukraine double most agricultural exports
in five years.3
21.               The ASAP is currently made up of mutually supporting programs supported by five
agriculture-related Bank loans: the Seed Development Project, the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan,
the Pre-Export Guarantee Facility, the Agribusiness Development Project, and the Title Registration
Project. Since Ukraine is in the first phase of its stabilization program, these programs focus on key
policy reforms and investment in critical areas.
1) Seed Development Project - US$ 32 million loan, which became effective in July
1996. Ensuring the stability and quality of local seed supply was identified as a necessary condition for
the continued functioning of the agricultural sector during the economic adjustment period and as well
3/Agricultural import demand is sufficiently high in the FSU countries to absorb most of these exports.



6
as an important long term strategy for maintaining a viable agricultural sector. This loan provides
investment capital for the rehabilitation of privatized seed production and processing operations.
2) Agriculture SECAL - US$ 300 million loan, with Board presentation expected in
October 1996. It supports policy reform in the areas of market and trade liberalization, privatization and
land reform through conditionality on balance-of-payments support. By having it early on in the ASAP,
the Project establishes supporting policy conditions under which the Pre-Export Guarantee Facility and
the two investment loans can be effectively implemented.
3) Pre-Export Guarantee Facility (PGF) - US$ 120 million guarantee, with Board
presentation expected in October 1996. The PGF is being processed in parallel with the Ag SECAL and
provides support for the policy reforms made under the Ukraine Rehabilitation Loan and the Ag SECAL
through the Bank's underwriting guarantees that specifically identified liberalized trade and marketing
policies will not be rolled back by the GOU to the detriment of suppliers' and investors' outstanding
commitments.
4) Agribusiness Development Project (Agriculture I) - $20 million loan, with Board
presentation expected in March 1997. In tandem with the significant policy changes promoted by the Ag
SECAL, the restructuring of agribusiness firms and collective agricultural enterprises (former collective
and state farms) has been identified as the next critical constraint to the development of a market based
agricultural economy. To assist the restructuring process, this project will provide management support
to agribusiness managers and to the members of collective agricultural enterprises undergoing
reorganization. The project would also support the development of a low cost market information system
that supports traders and commodity producers.
5) Title Registration Project (Agriculture 11) - $50 million loan, with Board
presentation expected in FY98. This project would support the development of land registration
procedures, training and equipment. The registration system is expected to substantially reduce the cost
of property transactions, thus increasing the efficiency of land and property markets. It would also
provide a basis for low cost mortgage lending and to increase the security of land tenure. All of these
factors will have a significant impact on improving the efficiency of land use and agricultural production.
II. TIlE GOVERNMENT'S AGRICULTURAL REFORNM PROGRAM
Agricultural Reform Goals Set by Ukraine and Measures Implemented
22.           In 1994, it became apparent to the GOU that a faster transition to a free market in the
agriculture sector would be required to restore this sector to profitability.  In particular, greater
liberalization of export markets is now understood to be critical in a country that has a comparative
advantage in agricultural production and is traditionally a net exporter of agricultural products.
Recognition by the Government of Ukraine (GOU) that the financing of seasonal peaks in agricultural
operations must be market-based also represents a key realization in redefining agricultural policy. In
October 1994, the agricultural reform directions announced by the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma,
initiated the first comprehensive reorientation of agricultural policies.  They support the creation of
tradeable private property rights in agriculture and the rest of the agro-industrial sector (AIS) a) to
motivate farms and other AIS enterprises to pursue profitable activities, and b) to generate competitive



7
mechanisms which indirectly regulate these enterprises' profits and promote efficiency. The specific
measures declared by the President of Ukraine as integral to agricultural reform include: i) liberalization
of food prices, ii) agricultural export liberalization, iii) development of agricultural comnmodity exchanges,
iv) distribution of land plots to farm workers and other eligible beneficiaries, and v) privatization of
agricultural supply, marketing, and processing enterprises.
23.             Ukraine took major steps in implementation of the reform  measures emphasized by
President Kuchma with the support of the IMF Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) and the World
Bank's Rehabilitation Loan (negotiated and signed in November-December 1994). The GOU's
Rehabilitation Program removed most food price controls4, abolished all export quotas on agricultural
products (except grain5), and agreed to make at least half of state purchases of agricultural commodities
through the commodity exchanges and other competitive tender mechanisms. The GOU now limits
agricultural purchases financed from the state budget to levels consistent with the needs only of social
sector organizations (schools, hospitals, the armed forces, etc.). This amounts to a substantial reduction
of state agricultural procurements. To promote land reform, the GOU has introduced draft legislation and
to eliminate the moratorium on sale of agricultural land, to mandate the delineation of land plots to those
entitled to land under the Land Code, and to institute a registration system for land and other real estate.
Agreement was also reached to initiate the privatization of agricultural infrastructure, including grain silos
and elevators, in 1995.
Further Reform Steps under the Agricultural Sectoral Adjustment Loan
24.             The agricultural reform steps implemented by the GOU in 1994-95 and supported by the
STF and the Rehabilitation Loan need to be supplemented by a wider set of agriculture-related policy
reform measures which would be supported by the Ag SECAL. The policy reform measures being
implemented by the GOU and supported by the Ag SECAL focus on increasing efficiency within the
agricultural sector and promoting market development. Taken as a package, these measures will increase
farm gate prices, allow more elastic response to price changes, and lay the foundation for increased
access to credit through the banking system. They should facilitate a growth of net agricultural output
of 15-20% over the period 1996-2001 6 The main measures being implemented are in the following areas:
(a)             agricultural market liberalization, including changing government procurement methods
which impede the development of private intermediary activities and the removal of
remaining profit and marketing margins in the grain and bread sub-sectors;
(b)             trade liberalization, including rescission of grain export quotas and discontinuation of the
imposition of indicative prices on trade contracts;
4/Maximum profit and marketing margins for bread products remained in place, but implicit consumer subsidies on these
products were reduced after fixed prices were abolished.
5/ The export quota on grain was abolished in February 1996.
6/ The crop sector is expected to expand by 4-5% annually as it represents the area a) of greatest untapped potential, and b)
historically most taxed by state pricing policies. The livestock sector is expected to grow only 1-2% per annum, given the dual
challenge of substantially improving the herd's genetics and penetrating strong export markets.



8
(c)             land reform encouraging the development of a sector of viable farm management units
by establishing the legal basis for division and privatization of large farms;
(d)             privatizing, demonopolizing, and encouraging market entry in production, processing,
and marketing of agricultural inputs and outputs;
(e)             establishing a framework of agricultural market information services and restructuring
state agricultural institutions to focus on the role of market facilitator.
25.             Market and price liberalization would be continued by the GOU by removing remaining
profit and marketing margins in the grain and bread products sector, making government procurement
contracts open to a wider scope of private intermediary enterprises, and actively reducing the trade policy
and macroeconomic risks which input supply and marketing enterprises face. Above all, this means
containing and reducing inflation by ensuring strict adherence to the Presidential decree limiting budgetary
expenditures for state procurements to only those purchases (including those of agricultural goods)
necessary to meet the needs of social sector organizations such as hospitals, educational facilities, and the
armed forces. To promote agricultural markets in which both private and state-owned enterprises can
participate, all state agricultural procurements would also be executed on a competitive basis, through
open tenders and purchases on commodity exchanges. Intermediaries and marketing enterprises would
be encouraged to participate more widely in the agricultural commodity exchanges to increase competition
for output from agricultural enterprises, which do not usually have the trading expertise to access the
commodity exchanges directly themselves.
26.             An anomaly exists in the tax code such that the rate of profit tax on intermediary activities
is currently 45 % compared to 30% for most other sectors of the economy. By reducing this high rate
of profit tax to the rates assessed on other activities, the creation of private wholesalers, a wider set of
conmmodity exchanges, transport and trade companies, and service and marketing enterprises would be
facilitated. Traders operating in the informal sector would also be encouraged to enter the formal sector,
thereby increasing the profits tax base. These developments would give agricultural producers alternative
sources of supply for inputs and alternative buyers of their output which they could access if stat-owned
enterprises (both suppliers and customers) offered them unattractive prices.
27.             Greater opportunity for private input suppliers and output marketers is clearly growing
as state procurement of agricultural products were reduced significantly in 1994-95. State purchases in
1994 measured as a share of total marketed production were roughly 40% of average 1989-1992 levels.
They fell to 10-20% of these average levels in 1995. At this level (roughly $750-850 million) state
purchases represent 5-7 percent of net agricultural output. Similarly, advances of working capital by the
GOU to farms (traditionally through the procurement enterprises) have been curtailed. Thus, farms have
become less tied to the state suppliers from whom the state used to arrange input deliveries. Since
traditionally these advances have been interest free (or at least at highly preferential interest rates), credit
subsidies to farms and procurement enterprises fell from over $500 million in 1994 to $250-350 million
in 1995'. The volumes of agricultural output formerly purchased through the state are now finding their
7/ In 1996, these credit subsidies are expected to fall to less than an equivalent in karbovantsi of US$130 million as working capital is
advanced to farms almost entirely through state "forward" contracts whose price is discounted from the expected spot price at harvest time
(both expressed in US dollars).



9
way directly to enterprises (both private and state-owned) at higher prices and on commnercial terms
(including more prompt payment).
28.             Thus, in the area of market intervention and financial policies, the GOU recognizes that
Ukrainian agricultural markets are beginning to respond to export liberalization with higher farm gate
prices and that these prices will increase further as remaining market restrictions are removed. Parity
with pre-reform relative prices of outputs to inputs will not be achieved in future since total input
subsidies exceeded implicit taxes on farm gate prices in the pre-reform period. Nevertheless, substantial
improvements from current relative prices of agricultural outputs to inputs are clearly possible for most
products (excepting some livestock products) if the market is allowed to work. For goods of which
Ukraine is a low cost producer, the GOU's concern is not one of stagnant prices but rather how to secure
a social safety net to support those most affected by food price increases. For agricultural products for
which domestic markets have contracted and for which foreign markets remain generally restricted
(especially meat and dairy products), supply reduction, improved productivity, and the market would be
relied on to solve these products' currently adverse terms of trade.
29.             Increasing the level of international trade is crucial to improving farm-gate prices for
Ukrainian agricultural output. Without strong links of agriculture to export markets, the prices which
farms receive for their output will continue to be out of balance with the world market prices they pay
for inputs. Allowing real farm-gate prices to increase through greater access to foreign markets would
be more successful than attempts to support agriculture through subsidized credit to state agricultural
procurement enterprises and input subsidies. This is because these subsidies have not supported
agricultural terms of trade since they have been offset entirely by implicit taxes imposed through
repressed farm-gate prices (Para. 16). Moreover, these subsidies have fueled inflationary expectations
and distorted input use.
30.             Ukraine has a regional comparative advantage in agricultural production which has
historically made it a net exporter of agricultural products to the Soviet Union and, prior to 1930, to
much of Europe. Ukraine's future economic growth is also expected to be partially dependent on
agriculture to boost exports and reduce balance-of-payments shortfalls. However, this will require the
development of private trading institutions and agencies, financial and payments arrangements, and trade
policies and systems that facilitate trading transactions and encourage the integration of domestic and
external markets. This will be particularly important for expanding exports to convertible currency areas.
31.             The removal of virtually all export quotas on agricultural products in December 1994 was
an important step in righting the imbalance between Ukrainian farm-gate prices for outputs and the prices
of agricultural inputs (which have risen to world market levels). This will likely be the most important
source of higher profits and greater working capital for farms in the short term. The positive impact of
removing export quotas on agricultural products was very nearly almost offset in early 1995 as the
imposition of a registry system for barter transactions was narrowly averted.8 Moreover, by maintaining
export quotas on grain in 1995, the producer price of a key agricultural output was kept low, thereby
reducing income for virtually all farms.'
8/ Agricultural exports usually are the method by which input supply firms receive payment for the inputs which they have supplied months
earlier to agricultural enterprises on credit in kind.
2/More than 30% of agricultural land in Ukraine is used for grain crops.



10
32.            Registration and imposition of indicative prices by the Customs Service on barter deals
has imposed excessive implicit taxation on the use of barter transactions. In February 1996, the GOU
removed the remaining agricultural commodities from the export registry system and abolished the
imposition of indicative prices on agricultural products. In the medium-term, barter trade will be relied
on less once international payment mechanisms evolve for the execution of export contracts in an efficient
and timely manner. Therefore, the restructuring of the financial sector and strengthening of commercial
banks are critical to progress in this area.
33.           Land reform  and farm  restructuring, including the privatization of land and the
establishment of independent private farms, have progressed slowly to date. The Land Code of March
1992 clearly laid out farm members (both current and retired) of collective and state farms as the ultimate
owners of most of the land of Ukraine's farms. The transfer into private ownership of land and other
farm assets is specified (in the Land Code and supporting legislation) as a legal right of these farms'
members but a right that can be exercised only upon withdrawal from the farm membership. Given this
stipulation, the lack of defined procedures'" for withdrawing ones' shares of land and non-land assets from
the farm enterprise, and the opposition of many farm directors to withdrawal of such assets, less than 1
percent of farm members have withdrawn from their farm enterprises and taken their assets with them.
34.           As of late 1995, new private farmers controlled only 1.5 % of Ukraine's agricultural land.
An additional 11.8% of Ukraine's agricultural land was also farmed privately in 5 million hectares of
subsidiary plots and gardens. Despite the approval by the Ukrainian Parliament's Agricultural Conmmittee
of amendments to the Land Code to facilitate privatization of land and other farm assets, the principle
of unrestricted private land ownership and private agriculture is still viewed by some political entities as
a supplementary component of a farming structure based primarily on collectively-owned large-scale
units. Uncertainty about future legislation on land ownership and the risks involved in private farming
given the absence of a competitive input/output marketing and credit system have substantially limited
the establishment of independent private farms.
35.           The restructuring of collective agricultural enterprises (former collective and state farms)
would focus on three major principles: i) freedom of decision to farm members about future organization
of production and the distribution of the ownership of land and other assets; ii) explicit procedures for
the distribution of land and other productive assets to the members in physically recognizable form and
not as anonymous shares; iii) promotion of competitive input distribution and marketing enterprises which
serve restructured farms.
36.           To introduce these principles, additional legislation has been drafted and would be
implemented to facilitate withdrawal of land and non-land assets from collective agricultural enterprises
by those who have been allocated rights to this property under the Land Code. These withdrawals would
not be able to be legally impeded by either farm management or the farm members' council. This will
enable those working in agriculture to formally exercise claims to the land and farm assets to which they
are entitled under existing law and to establish viable private farms individually or in cooperation with
other private owners of agricultural assets. In addition, the importance of establishing private property
rights and a proper title registration system is crucial to introducing market relations in agriculture. It
would allow buyers, sellers, lenders and others to establish with certainty their rights to real estate and
10/ These procedures were finalized in December 1995 and adopted by the GOU in the first half of 1996.



11
facilitate the use of real estate as security for investment. Procedures for mortgage of land and other real
estate would also be implemented under the Ag SECAL.
37.             Legislation would be adopted by the GOU enacting a title registration act. This law
would contain the following features: (a) combination of record keeping for both land, buildings, and
other real estate in a legally recognized report format"; (b) accessibility by all interested legal entities and
physical persons to this information on owners of land and other real estate and on transactions related
to the disposal of this property; and, (c) state guarantees of accuracy and reliability of this information
funded partially by means of modest fees for the registration of these transactions.
38.             Privatizing the agricultural distribution and processing system has been initiated in
Ukraine, but restructuring in this sector needs to be expanded beyond its current scope. Of roughly
4,000 large and medium scale non-farm enterprises in the agro-industrial sector, about 10 percent had
been privatized by early 1996. Many of these enterprises were privatized through the "lease-with-buyout-
option" method, through which they have become closed joint-stock companies owned by workers and
managers. Fewer option joint-stock privatized agricultural enterprises were formed and even fewer with
infusions of capital for restructuring from foreign participation. Given the slow pace of agro-industrial
sector (AIS) privatization, a number of Presidential decrees on accelerating this process have been issued:
there aim was to give farm enterprises which have supplied processing plants with raw product a
preferential right of access to the AIS enterprises' shares (purchase at book value as AIS enterprises
workers and managers are allowed to purchase). This is a legitimate principle to follow, as long as it
is not taken to an extreme'2 and as long as it does not generate legal conflicts between farmers and AIS
enterprise workers that further delay the privatization process.
39.             Like many sectors in the Ukrainian economy, the agro-industrial sector is characterized
by a high decree of monopoly. These are not firms which for technological and cost reasons could be
considered natural monopolies. On the contrary, they are artificial monopolies which have been
administratively created from separate firms to facilitate the execution of central plans. Having been
freed from a centrally planned pricing structure, they try to compensate for their low productivity in
processing and marketing by offering low prices (below border prices ) for farms' commodities and
charging comparatively high prices for agricultural inputs sold to farms. The GOU recognizes that price
liberalization and reduced government intervention in commodity markets will not be fully successful in
transmitting world price levels into Ukraine for agricultural commodities unless input supply and output
marketing  is substantially  demonopolized.   The Anti-Monopoly  Committee  has begun  actively
demonopolizing AIS enterprises deemed to be monopolists rather than simply regulating their prices.
40.             Thus, the expanded agricultural policy reform program  supported by the GOU would
include three main components. First, the methods of privatization of AIS firms would be adjusted to
permit earlier recapitalization of these firms with new investment through open joint-stock enterprises.
Second, and equally important, is the acceleration of the pace of privatization of AIS enterprises via
I 1/The inclusion of moveable property in the registry is also being contemplated by the GOU as the use of agricultural vehicles as
collateral may prove to be of importance for new private farmers.
12/ If a May 1996 Ukrainian Parliament law on AIS privatization had gone into effect, farm members would have been given rights to 51
percent of the assets of AIS enterprises without making any payments. This was widely perceived as disregarding the equity considerations
of AIS enterprise workers and the general public, which can also use its privatization vouchers to purchases shares in AIS enterprises. The
President of Ukraine vetoed this law.



12
explicit GOU targets for the number of firms to be privatized in the short and medium term. Without
these measures, too many AIS enterprises would be decapitalized and go bankrupt over the next two to
three years. Third, the GOU would institute rapid demonopolization of agro-processing, input supply,
and product marketing systems immediately and enforce current regulations which define permissible
levels of concentration in the agro-industrial sector.
41.           New roles for government are being introduced to take the place of the past role of direct
management of agricultural enterprises. The Ag SECAL preparation activities which focus on developing
a monitoring framework for the policy reforms support the development of the GOU's ability to provide
agricultural market information in a timely manner. This information will serve as the basis for sub-
sectoral analysis in agriculture and provide the foundation for the GOU to execute its policy making
function soundly. The principal reduction of government responsibility in the agricultural sector would
be the dismantling of the current "agro-industrial complex" governmental management structure. What
is needed is not merely changing the names of the various ministries, but radical modification and/or
merger and downsizing. Units related to central command and direct interventions would be dismantled,
while those remaining would be reorganized, streamlined, and managed to meet the needs of a free
market economy. These further steps will be supported by the GOU's Public Sector Reform Program,
and the Bank's Agribusiness Development Project and the Title Registration Project.
Other Supporting Projects and Support from Bilateral Donors
42.               The IBRD agriculture sector assistance program in Ukraine is closely coordinated
with Bank lending in other sectors and other donors' lending providing assistance in the following areas:
i) Balance-of-payments support will assist the importation of critical agricultural inputs
(IBRD Enterprise Development Adjustment Loan and IMF Standby Arrangement).
ii) Credit to the agricultural sector will be provided through the IBRD Export Promotion
Project and the Financial Institutions Development Loan and an EBRD loan to the
financial sector. While this credit is not specifically targeted to agriculture, it will add
to the general pool of credit available to the sector.
iii) Technical support and capital investments for the development of an emerging system
of commodity exchanges (USAID).
iv) Technical assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture, State Property Fund and the Anti-
Monopoly Committee to help implement a consistent program of privatization and
demonopolization in the food and agriculture sector, including support for legal training
and drafting of legislation (PHRD, IBRD EDAL, IFC, and USAID).
vi) Technical assistance for land reform focused at farm level restructuring,
encouragement of private farming and the establishment of service organizations such as
marketing or input supply cooperatives (IFC, TACIS, UK Know How Fund).
vii) Technical assistance that provides agribusiness advisory services and facilitates the
formation of joint ventures, thus encouraging foreign capital investment and transfer of



13
technology (EU TACIS, Government of the Netherlands, UK Know How Fund, Citizens
Network, and others).
viii) Technical assistance and capital investments for the development of a public market
information system, thus reducing information asymmetries and high individual
transactions costs associated with information gathering in an emerging market (US
Department of Agriculture, TACIS).
III. THE PROPOSED LoAN
Rationale for Bank Involvement
43.           The Ukrainian agricultural sector is making the transition to a market economy in the face
of many residual policies of a planned economy. The rationale for the Agricultural Sectoral Adjustment
Loan is to establish a policy framework that would promote greater efficiency in the agricultural sector
by accelerating the growth of market-based relations. The proposed policy reform package would have
positive medium and long-term effects on the farm sector, agro-industrial sector, food consumers, and
the national budget. However, the policy reforms to be supported under the Ag SECAL would have a
number of short-term negative macro-economic impacts that create a need for balance-of-payments
fin>,ncing. First, trade liberalization will transmit higher border nrices for agricultural commnodities into
Ukraine: this will cause increases in consumer food prices and tlie inivestmen. saviigs gap. Second, by
paying higher prices for agricultural procurements and by reduchig taxes on agricultural intermediaries,
the GOU will experience an increase in the budget deficit. These increase;l pivate savings and public
savings gaps may lead to an increase in the current account deficit in the short-term. Lastly, a substantial
amount of incremental farm income will be spent on imported equipment (owing to the frequent lack of
domestically produced equipment). This will put further pressure on the current account deficit.
Project Objectives and Description
44.           The objective of the Ag SECAL is to support the growth of a market-based agricultural
system. This would be achieved by instituting agricultural and trade reforms aimed at increasing market
competition, encouraging private ownership and investment in land and other productive assets, and
providing short term balance-of-payments support for financing critical imports. The reform program
that the Ag SECAL supports would improve agricultural terms of trade, increase input flows to farms,
expand agricultural exports, and increase the efficiency of farm management.
45.           The Ag SECAL encompasses policy reforms and balance-of-payments financing. The
policy conditionality would focus on the agricultural sector and address the following: i) reduction in the
export restrictions allowing increased access to export markets; ii) development of a well functioning land
market; and iii) enabling privatization and demonopolization of existing agribusiness firms and
encouraging new entrants. The negative short-term adjustments associated with these policy changes
would be cushioned by balance-of-payments financing. The funds provided under this component of the
Ag SECAL would be used to finance general imports. The funds would be channeled through the
National Bank of Ukraine, and allocated through the established market system for auctioning foreign



14
exchange. While balance-of-payments support is not expected to be targeted at financing imports for the
agricultural sector it is expected to improve the availability of agricultural inputs.
Conditions for Appraisal, Negotiations, Board Presentation, and Second Tranche
A.            Prior to Appraisal
Trade Liberalization
46.           The Cabinet of Ministers (CM) would issue a CM  resolution to rescind the current
practice of making grain exports subject to the receipt of an export quota and a license. This resolution
has been issued.
47.           The Cabinet of Ministers would issue a CM resolution to rescind the sections of Article
15 of the CM Resolution #109 (February 13, 1995) which empowers oblast governments (and the city
governments of Kiev and Sevastopol) to place profit margin controls on grain procurement and storage
and trade margin controls on bread, flour, and bread products. A Presidential Decree (October 20,
1995) has repealed the profit margin controls on grain procurement and storage, and the relevant
paragraphs of CM Resolution #109 concerning the trade margin controls on bread products were
amended on May 13, 1996 by Cabinet of Ministers' Resolution #499. The power to impose profit
and trade margin controls in the grain and bread sector has now been rescinded.
Land Reform
48.           The State Committee for Land Resources (SCLR) will issue normative acts and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MOAF) will issue recommendations, respectively specifying
procedures for the exchange of land shares for land plots and property shares (in farms' non-land assets)
for farm assets. The normative acts submitted by the SCLR were approved by the Cabinet of
Ministers and were registered by the Ministry of Justice. For property shares, MOAF has worked
out and published its recommendations.
49.           The office of the First Deputy Prime Minister for the Agro-Industrial Complex would
draft an Action Plan to undertake a publicity exercise in each oblast to inform the stated beneficiaries
under the Land Code of the procedures available to them for exchanging their land and property shares
for land plots and other farm assets. This Action Plan has been drafted and submitted to the Bank.
Its implementation at national and oblast level has been initiated.
B.            Prior to Negotiations
Trade Liberalization
50.           The Ministry of Finance (MOF) would clarify that profits taxes on intermediary activities
in the agricultural sector are assessed at the same rate as on most other types of economic activity
(currently this rate is 30%). The current Cabinet of Ministers resolution (#682, August 27, 1995) which
assesses taxes on the increase in the nominal value of grain stocks would be rescinded, leaving the value



15
of these stocks to be taxed under the normal provisions for profit taxes. On profits taxes - the Tax
Inspectorate under the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has issued an internal memo (circulated to the
MOAF) which clarifies the tax status of sellers of agricultural produce. This memo states that
sellers and traders who are reselling output they have purchased are taxed at the rate of 30%,
including sales at the agricultural commodity exchanges. In addition, on July 22, 1996, a draft
amendment to the Law on Taxation of Enterprise Profits (1995) was submitted by the Cabinet of
Ministers to the Ukrainian Parliament. This amendment would reduce the profit tax rate on
commission sales on commodity exchanges to 50 percent. On commodity stocks - it has been
clarified that CM Resolution #682 is not longer in effect (it applied to transactions in 1995 only).
51.           The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade (MFERT) would cease the setting
of obligatory indicative prices for export contracts for products whose export is not subject to contingent
intergovernmental agreements with Ukraine or to anti-dumping cases.  On February 10, 1996,
Presidential Decree #124/96 ("On Measures to Improve Price Policy in Foreign Trade") abolished
the imposition of indicative prices on the above mentioned contracts.
Land Reform
52.           The State Committee for Land Resources (SCLR) would execute land share registration
and issue land share certificates to all entitled beneficiaries in 100 restructured collective agricultural
enterprises. Roughly 500 farms had completed the land share calculation process for their members
by February 1996. By May 1, the SCLR had assisted more than 100 farms to distribute land share
certificates to entitled beneficiaries (with an average distribution rate of 86%).
Privatization and Demonopolization
53.           Privatization of agro-industrial enterprises would be streamlined so (i) that the
subscription process for agro-industrial enterprises would be reduced to a period comparable to that for
other medium and large enterprises in other sectors; (ii) that there would be no reversal of privatization
transactions previously completed in the agro-industrial sector; and, (iii) that shares of agro-processing
enterprises that are to be offered to primary producers (suppliers) of raw product would be transferred
to the individual members of these suppliers. This conditionality was met by the combination of: a)
a Presidential veto of the May 1996 law on agro-industrial privatization; b) the issuance of
instructions by the State Propeity Fund to speed up agro-industrial privatization; and c) the
issuance of a Presidential Order (May 28, 1996) to the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare normative
documents to further streamline the agro-industrial privatization process. The Presidential Order
instructed the Cabinet of Ministers to ensure the implementation of points (i), (ii), and (iii) above
by their inclusion into appropriate GOU normative acts to streamline agro-industrial privatization.
Agricultural Subsidies
54.           The MOAF would submit a plan to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to: a) limit total
agricultural credit subsidies to less than an equivalent of US$ 130 million in 1996; and, b) to phase out
these subsidies according to a reduction schedule developed for 1997-1998. The subsidy levels implicit
in the draft 1996 Budget are within the US$ 130 million limit. At Negotiations, the GOU agreed
to establish the current karbovantsi equivalent of US$ 130 million (23 trillion karbovantsi) as the
annual ceiling for these implicit credit subsidies for 1997-98.



16
55.           The MOAF would submit a plan to the MOF to limit total state purchases of agricultural
products financed in the 1996 State Budget to an equivalent of US$ 550 million. The purchasing levels
implicit in the draft 1996 Budget (135 trillion krb) were within the US$ 550 million limit.
C.            Prior to Board Presentation
56.           At Negotiations, the GOU presented to the Bank copies of the State Property Fund Order
dated August 9, 1996 (the SPF Order) regulating the process of agro-industrial privatization on the basis
of the Law "On Peculiarities of Privatization in the Agro-Industrial Complex" (July 10, 1996) and a copy
of the legal opinion from the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding retroactivity of the Article 21 of
the Law. After reviewing the documents, the Bank concluded that the SPF Order still leaves a possibility
for collective agricultural enterprises as legal entities to acquire shares of privatized agro-industrial
enterprises for free and at the nominal share value for cash. In order to resolve these issues, the Bank
delegation proposed and the Ukrainian delegation agreed , that as a condition of Board presentation, the
following measures be taken:
a) SPF Order be amended to provide that free shares be transferred to individual farm
members in proportion to the shares which they have purchased with privatization
certificates, cash, and compensation certificates so that the full 51 percent allocation of
shares is fully distributed;
b) SPF Order be amended to eliminate the right of collective agricultural enterprises to
purchase shares of agro-industrial enterprises at the nominal share value;
c) Provision of further clarification that the process of transformation into open joint
stock companies described in Article 21 of the Law "On Peculiarities of Privatization in
the Agro-Industrial Complex" (which provides for the sale of 51 % of shares of closed
joint stock agro-industrial enterprises to collective agricultural enterprises) confers
preferential share purchase rights to individual farm members and not to collective
agricultural enterprises.
d) receipt of legal opinion from counsel acceptable to the Bank that the SPF Order
including amendments and clarifications described in (a), (b) and (c) are legally valid.
D.            Prior to Availability of the Second Tranche of BOP Support
57.           These conditions should be met as soon as possible after loan signing, but before the
closing date of the project on December 31, 1997. It is expected that they would be met by June 1997.
Agreement on the general timetable for actions was reached with the GOU during Negotiations.
Trade Liberalization
58.           Export duties and indicative prices on agricultural sector goods (i.e., those imposed on
the livestock sector in May 1996) would be eliminated.



17
Land Reform
59.           Amendments to the Land Code would be enacted to: (a) abolish the 6-year moratorium
on sale of land; and (b) limit to three months the time within which co-owners can exercise their
preferential right to buy the share of land being sold by a co-owner.
60.           Legislation or normative acts would be enacted that would: (a) give a right to two or more
members of a collective agricultural enterprise to withdraw adjacent plots; (b) limit to three months the
time period within which the farm members' council of the collective agricultural enterprise has to
consent to the plots of land requested for withdrawal; and, (c) give withdrawing members the right to i)
appeal if the farm members' council fails to consent within three months, and ii) receive ownership of
the plot to be withdrawn within 12 months after consent is received.
61.           The Office of the First Deputy Prime Minister for the Agro-Industrial Complex would
finalize an Action Plan (with measures, budget, and ministerial competence) to undertake a publicity
exercise in each oblast to inform the stated beneficiaries under the Land Code of the procedures available
to them for exchanging their land and property shares for land plots and other farm assets. It would then
execute the Action Plan for the publicity exercise in each oblast.
62.           The Cabinet of Ministers would issue a CM resolution to establish a single registry of
rural and urban land and other real estate.
63.           The SCLR would complete the registration process for land share certificates in 2,000
collective agricultural enterprises and issue land share certificates to at least 75 % of entitled beneficiaries
in these enterprises. The SCLR would also complete the process of exchanging land shares for physically
identified land plots on at least 75 collective agricultural enterprises.
Privatization and Demonopolization
64.           The MOAF and the MOF would demonstrate that all agricultural procurements by state
agencies, starting in November 1996, are carried out on a competitive basis through open tenders and/or
agricultural commodity exchanges in a manner facilitating private sector participation.
65.           The SPF would implement streamlined agro-industrial privatization procedures as set
down in its amended Order (receipt of which was a condition of Board Presentation) in order to
accomplish the streamlining goals set forth in the Presidential Order of May 28, 1996.
66.           The State Property Fund (SPF) would privatize a minimum of 1000 AIS enterprises
(which does not include state farms).
67.           The Anti-Monopoly Committee (with the SPF, MOAF, and the State Committee of Food
Industries) would devise and execute demonopolization plans for 100 agro-industrial regional or national
monopoly enterprises or enterprise associations, including at least five state-owned national monopoly
enterprises or associations engaged in the processing of agricultural products and in input supply.



18
Macroeconomic Stabilization
68.           The Government of Ukraine will continue to maintain a macroeconomic framework
consistent with the objectives of the Ag SECAL as determined on the basis of performance criteria
acceptable to the Government of Ukraine and the Bank.
Loan Administration Amount and Tranching
69.           Upon Loan effectiveness, US$ 150 million of the balance-of-payments support would
become available. The balance of the Loan (US$ 150 million) would be released upon fulfillment of the
Second Tranche conditions. The loan will be a single currency loan in US dollars at a variable interest
rate (LIBOR plus LIBOR Total Spread), with a maturity of 17 years including a grace period of 5 years,
and level repayment of the principle.
Procurement
70.          In accordance with the February 8, 1996 Operational Directive on the Simplification of
Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans, the proposed Ag
SECAL proceeds will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program,
including compliance with stipulated tranche release conditions and achievement of a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework. Disbursements will not be linked to any specific purchases: hence, evidence
will not be needed to support disbursements, nor will procurement requirements be needed.
Disbursements
71.           The GOU will open and maintain an account with the National Bank of Ukraine upon
World Bank notification of the release of each tranche. Proceeds of the Loan will be deposited by the
World Bank in this account at the request of the GOU by the submission of a simplified withdrawal
application. If after deposit in this account, the proceeds of the Loan are used for ineligible purposes
(i.e., to finance items imported from non-World Bank member-countries or goods or services on the
standard negative list), the Bank will require the GOU either (a) to return that amount to the account for
use for eligible purposes, or b) to refund the amount directly to the Bank, in which case the Bank will
cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the Loan.
Reporting, Accounting, and Auditing
72.           The Ministry of Finance, who would be the executing agency for the Loan, would appoint
a Project Manager who would maintain all project accounts. Although the Bank will not routinely require
an audit of the Deposit Account, it reserves the right to require an audit by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. In addition, audit reports would be submitted to the World Bank not later than
six months after the close of each fiscal year, or the date of final disbursement.



19
Monitoring Arrangements
73.           The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for monitoring the implementation of the
program. The appointed Project Manager would prepare quarterly progress reports detailing the
implementation of the reforms outlined in the policy matrix and in the letter of development policy. The
Bank will also monitor the implementation of the reform program through semi-annual reviews, as well
as in the context of the preparation and supervision of other projects. The National Agency for
Reconstruction and Development (NARD) will evaluate the progress reports prepared by the Ministry of
Finance's Project Manager.
74.          In addition to monitoring the fulfillment of the various policy conditionalities, the NARD
would examine the performance of a number of economic indicators designed to gauge the impact of the
implemented policy conditionalities. The base values of these indicators, taken from the work that the
Bank has executed with the GOU through the Institute of Agrarian Economy and the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food, would include the following (in addition to other variables to be worked out prior
to Board presentation): ratios of domestic commodity prices to border prices; comparisons of processing
margins in the agro-industrial sector compared to similar margins in developed agro-industries worldwide
(expected to fall as the AIS is privatized and demonopolized); similar measures of wholesaling and
retailing margins in the food sector (expected to rise as full deregulation is implemented); measures of
the growth of private and individual farming and the growth of privatized agro-processing; measures of
agricultural and food exports (both volumes and values); evaluation of the issuance of land titles and the
degree to which collateral is used to secure loans to the agricultural sector; and measures of de-
concentration in the AIS, with particular focus on the number of enterprises supplying agricultural inputs.
The NARD would prepare (with the assistance of the Institute of Agrarian Economy and the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food) a semi-annual report presenting and discussing the measures and their link to the
implemented policy conditionalities.
Environmental Aspects
75.          In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OS
4.00, Annex A), the proposed operation has been placed in Category C because of its focus on sectoral
policy reform and would therefore not require an environmental assessment. Environmental issues related
to the agricultural sector were described in a 1993 Bank study prepared in cooperation with the Ukraine
Ministry for Environmental Protection: Ukraine.- Suggested Priorities for Environmental Protection and
Natural Resource Management. The results of that study, including those concerned with the agricultural
sector, were discussed at a workshop for local authorities and interested external experts in Ukraine in
November, 1993. A major area of concern identified by the study was agricultural runoff affecting
surface and ground water, caused by sometimes inappropriate soil management measures, poor
fertilizer/pesticide application and management, poor waste management on livestock farms, and lack of
suitable equipment. The structural reforms supported under this operation would help to set the stage
for improved on-farm management and more responsive input markets (e.g. farm equipment supply).
Direct support for improved on-farm management would be a likely element of potential investment
operations in the future. Meanwhile, the Bank is cooperating with bilateral donors which are supporting
demonstration activities concerned with on-farm resource management.



20
Benefits and Risks
76.           The Project's major ben, fits would be the development of markets to replace the past
administrative system and to increase rural welfare and reinvestable profits for future capital fornation.
By promoting land reform and farm restructuring, a sector of viable farm management units would be
developed. By reducing state procurements and restrictions on agricultural exports, more farm output
would flow through commercial channels to export markets and domestic markets for higher quality
products. These markets will offer higher real prices than the State has paid in the past, thereby raising
farm-level income and output. By promoting privatization and demonopolization of existing agribusiness
firns, the Project will encourage market entry to take advantage of these increased opportunities.
77.           The primary benefit of the balance-of-payments support component is the increased
availability of foreign inputs which are critical for a quick supply response in the sector. This is a key
goal in the Government's overall program to halt the decline in output in agricultural output, with the
ultimate goal of increasing agricultural incomes and exports.
78.           The primary risk associated with this Loan is the possibility of policy slippage due to
political opposition to specific agricultural policy reforms. This risk has been minimized first by
extensive economic and sector work with the Government of Ukraine and subsequent discussion and
dissemination of the ESW's main conclusions about the benefits of policy reform for Ukrainian
agriculture. The policy slippage risk has also been partially mitigated by building policy benefits into
the Loan's reform program which promote the interests of a wide scope of political actors: the farm
sector, the industrial lobby, economy-wide reformers, rural poor, and those responsible for macro-
economic stability. The other main risk is that owing to the lack of working capital at the farm level, the
recovery of the agricultural sector will be too slow to maintain a policy regime of limited distortionary
interventions. This risk has been partially mitigated by creating a tandem operation to the Ag SECAL,
the Pre-Export Guarantee Facility, to increase the flow of finance and working capital inputs to the
agricultural sector. As free-market agricultural and trade policies are maintained in Ukraine, foreign
investment will be able to provide a large share of the capital needed to fuel recovery of the agricultural
sector.
Recommendation
79.           I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio Koch-Weser
Washington, D.C.
September 13, 1996



ANNEX 1
NATIONAL AGENCY OF UKRAINE FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
No. 10-6-72                                                                 August 30, 1996
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
International Bank For Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Please find attached the Memorandum of Agricultural Reform Policies, which determines
the program of structural reform being implemented in the agricultural sector.
The agricultural reform directions announced by Ukrainian President L. 1>;uchma in a
comprehensive program of economic reforms in October 1994 support the creation of private property
rights in agriculture and the rest of the agro-industrial sector (AIS). Their main purpose is to motivate
farms and other AIS enterprises to pursue profitable activities and to generate competitive mechanisms
which indirectly regulate these enterprises' profits and promote efficiency. The specific measures
declared as integral to agricultural reform include liberalization of food prices, agricultural export
liberalization, development of agricultural commodity exchanges, distribution of land plots to farm
workers and other eligible beneficiaries, and privatization of agricultural marketing and processing
enterprises.
Implementation of the reform measures has been supported under the Rehabilitation Loan
concluded with the World Bank in December 1994. The GOU has removed most food price controls,
abolished all export quotas on agricultural products, and agreed to make state purchases of agricultural
commodities through the commodity exchanges and other competitive tender mechanisms. The GOU now
limits agricultural purchases financed from the state budget to levels consistent with the needs only of
budgetary organizations (schools, hospitals, etc.). To promote land reform, the GOU has introduced draft
legislation to eliminate the moratorium on sale of agricultural land, to mandate the delineation of land
plots to those entitled to land under the Land Code, and to institute a national registration system for land
and other real estate. The privatization of agricultural infrastructure through mass privatization procedures
was initiated in 1995.
Over the next two years, the Government of Ukraine will continue to implement these
reforms by: maintaining the implementation of agricultural reform steps described above which have
already been initiated; removing remaining price restrictions in the agricultural sector; removing
remaining impediments to agricultural exports; establishing the institutional basis for division and
privatization of large farms to promote land reform and encourage the development of a sector of viable
farm management units; privatizing, demonopolizing, and encouraging market entry in production,
processing, and marketing of agricultural inputs and outputs; and establishing a framework of information
services and restructuring government institutions to focus on their new role as market facilitator.



2
At the same time, Mr, Wolfensohn, I would like to confirm approval of the results of the
negotiations (and respective documents) between the delegations of Ukraine and the World Bank
regarding the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Project which took place in Washington, on August 13-17,
1996.
We ask for the support of the World Bank by means of the Agricultural Sectoral
Adjustment Loan in the amount equivalent to US$ 300 million.
Sincerely,
Roman Shpek
Chairman of the National Agency for Reconstruction and Development



3
UKRAINE AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Memorandum of Agricultural Reform Policies
The decline of Ukrainian agricultural output in 1992-1995 was largely the result of
unsustainable agricultural polices that were a legacy of the past. Collectivized agriculture and routine
covering of enterprises losses eroded labor incentives and rewards to management for containment of
costs and resulted in low levels of factor productivity. (High investment levels in field mechanization
and livestock raising facilities in the 1970's and 1980's did not improve efficiency, and output growth
slowed as the marginal increases in output due to increased use of fuel, fertilizer, feed, and other variable
inputs declined to very low levels.) The cumbersome mechanisms of central planning and control resulted
in monopolistic and inefficient distribution systems for agricultural inputs and outputs. Though the GOU
ceased in 1992 to officially set most agricultural output and input prices, it still maintained considerable
control over prices through state contracts and state orders. Monopolistic state trading agencies exerted
substantial pressure on farms to sell at low prices by making these sales a condition for supply of
otherwise-hard-to-get inputs and credit. These practices and export barriers caused poor transmission of
international prices to the domestic market. The end result was been a large erosion of agriculture's
terms of trade. Addressing these problems will require land reform and farm restructuring, privatization
and demonopolization of the agricultural input supply, marketing, and processing enterprises, and the
improved linkages to international markets.
Market and price liberalization will be continued by the Government of Ukraine (GOU)
by removing remaining restrictions which impede the development of private intermediary activities in
domestic and foreign trade and actively reducing the trade policy and macroeconomic risks which input
supply and marketing enterprises face. Above all, this means containing and reducing inflation by
ensuring strict adherence to the Presidential decree limiting budgetary expenditures for state procurements
to only those purchases (including those of agricultural goods) necessary to meet the needs of social sector
organizations such as hospitals, educational facilities, and the armed forces. To promote agricultural
markets in which both private and state-owned enterprises can participate, all state agricultural purchases
will also be executed on a competitive basis, such as through open tenders or on the commodit,
exchange. Intermediaries and marketing enterprises will be allowed to fully participate in the agricultural
commodity exchanges to increase competition for output from agricultural enterprises, which do not
always have the trading expertise to access the commodity exchanges directly themselves.
The creation of private wholesalers, commnodity exchanges, transport and trade
companies, and service and marketing enterprises, will be encouraged by reducing currently high levels
of taxation on intermediary activities. This will give agricultural producers alternative sources of supply
for inputs and alternative buyers of their output which they could access if agro-industrial sector (AIS)
enterprises offered them unattractive prices.
Increasing the level of international trade is critical to utilizing Ukraine's regional
comparative advantage in agricultural production which has historically made it a net exporter of
agricultural products to the Soviet Union and, prior to 1930, to much of Europe. Ukraine's future
economic growth is also expected to be partially dependent on agriculture to boost exports and reduce
balance-of-payments shortfalls. To ensure the growth of agricultural exports, the GOU will promote the
development of commercial and private sector trading institutions and agencies, financial and payments



4
arrangements, and trade policies that facilitate trading transactions and the integration of domestic and
external markets.
The removal of all export quotas on agricultural products is viewed as an important step
in righting the imbalance between Ukrainian farm-gate prices for outputs and the prices of agricultural
inputs which have now risen to world market levels. Increasing the level of international trade is crucial
to improving farm-gate prices for Ukrainian agricultural output, to alleviating the sector's dependence
on implicit credit subsidies, and to increasing farm incomes. By early 1996, the GOU had removed the
remaining agricultural commodities from the export registry system and abolished the imposition of
indicative prices on agricultural export contracts.
Land reform and farm restructuring is viewed as an essential step in establishing a
competitive private sector agricultural system in Ukraine. Restructuring of collective agricultural
enterprises will focus on three major principles: (a) distribution of land and other productive assets to the
members in physically recognizable form and not as anonymous shares; (b) freedom of decision to
members about future organization of production after the distribution of the ownership of land and other
assets; and (c) promotion of competitive input distribution and marketing enterprises which serve
restructured farms.
To introduce these principles, legislation has been drafted and will be implemented to
facilitate withdrawal of land and non-land assets from collective farm enterprises by those who have been
allocated rights to this property under Ukrainian legislation. Measures will be taken to ensure that these
withdrawals will not be impeded by either farm management or the farm members' council. This will
enable those working in agriculture to formally exercise claims to the land and farm assets to which they
are entitled under existing law and to establish viable private farms individually or in cooperation with
other private owners of agricultural assets. In addition, the importance of establishing private property
rights and a proper title registration system is crucial to introducing market relations in agriculture. It
will allow buyers, sellers, lenders and others to establish with certainty their rights to real estate and
facilitate the use of real estate as security for investment. Procedures for mortgage of land and other real
estate will also be implemented.
The Government of Ukraine will introduce necessary measures in order to adopt and
implement a law on unified national registry of land and other real estate. Introduction of the above
system will focus on the following: (a) combination of record keeping for both land, buildings, and other
real estate in a legally recognized report format; (b) accessibility by all interested legal entities and
physical persons to this information on owners of land and other real estate and on transactions related
to the disposal of this property; and, (c) state guarantees of accuracy and reliability of this information
funded partially by means of modest fees for the registration of these transactions.
Privatizing the agricultural distribution and processing system has been initiated in
Ukraine, but restructuring in this sector needs to be expanded beyond its current scope. The expanded
reform program would include three main components. First, the methods of privatization of AIS firms
would be adjusted to permit earlier recapitalization of these firms with new investment through open joint-
stock enterprises. Second, and equally important, is the acceleration of the pace of privatization of AIS
enterprises via explicit GOU targets for the number of firms to be privatized in the short and medium
term. Without these measures, too many AIS enterprises would be decapitalized and go bankrupt over
the next two to three years. Third, the GOU would institute rapid demonopolization of agro-processing,



5
input supply, and product marketing systems immediately and enforce current regulations which define
permissible levels of concentration in the agro-industrial sector.
New roles for government will be introduced to take the place of the past role of direct
management of agricultural enterprises. The primary role will be the provision of agricultural market
information, policy making and sub-sectoral analysis.  The principal reduction of government
responsibility in the agricultural sector will be the further dismantling of the current "agro-industrial
complex" governmental administrative structure, typified by production departments and associations of
state enterprises. While this restructuring is expected to take a number of years, the Government will
initiate this process by strengthening its institutional capacity in the area of policy analysis and the
provision of agricultural market information. Privatizing the agro-industrial complex will substantially
reduce the role of Government in the direct management of agricultural enterprises.
The Government affirms that it will carry out the reform program and the various actions
referred to in this letter in accordance with the matrix attached as an annex to this letter.
Specific policy actions to be included in the agricultural reform program would
consist of the Agricultural Reform Conditionalities agreed to under the Agriculture Sector Adjustment
Loan Agreement as well those described below which the Government of Ukraine will undertake to
further accelerate the pace of market reforms in agriculture.
(a)           The GOU would refrain from intervening in agricultural import and export markets (e.g.
imposition of import and export quotas, export taxes, or export registration) with the exception of
interventions acceptable under the WTO or voluntary export restraints under other multi-lateral
agreements.
(b)           The MOAF and MOF would continue to refrain from introducing subsidies associated
with input prices or direct producer price subsidies.
(c)           The MOAF and MOF would establish the current karbovantsi equivalent of US$ 130
million (23 trillion karbovantsi) as the annual ceiling for these implicit credit subsidies for 1997-98.
(d)           The MOAF would complete an Action Plan for bolstering the Agricultural Market
Information System and initiate implementation of the Action Plan by January 1, 199i.
(e)           The MOAF would work with oblast level agricultural administrations, private enterprise,
and bilateral donors to promote the formation of agribusiness development teams to train farm and AIS
enterprise personnel on legal and entrepreneurial issues regarding plans for restructuring, privatization,
and business development.
(f)           Following the enactment of the legislation to establish the national unified registry (a
second tranche condition), the Cabinet of Ministers will issue a resolution to develop the implementation
procedures for the registry system in the course of 1997.






ANNEX 2 - Matrix of Agricultural Reform Policies
PROGRESS TO DATE                                            FURTHER MEASURES                         ULTIMATE OBJECTIVES                 RESPONSIBLE
AGENCY
I. Domestic Marketing and Trade
Fixed prices abolished in 1994 for agricultural     *  Ensure that all agricultural procurements  *  Minimal government intervention in    *  Ministry of
commodities. State agricultural purchases reduced in   by state agencies, starting in November     agricultural markets. Distortion-free   Agriculture
1994 to roughly 40% of 1989-92 average levels of       1996, are carried out on a competitive      and competitive agricultural markets    (MOAF) and
shares of state purchases in total marketed production.  basis through open tenders and/or                                                 Ministry of
In 1995, these purchases fell to 10-20% of 1989-1992   agricultural commodity exchanges in a                                               Finance (MOF)
average levels. Total annual state purchases of        manner facilitating private sector
agricultural products financed by the State Budget     participation - 2nd Tranche. Continue to
starting in 1996 limited to an equivalent of US$ 675   refrain from introducing subsidies
million.                                               associated with input prices or direct
producer price subsidies.
Taxes on intermediaries reduced from 70% to 45% in  *  Approval to amendment to Law on Profits    0  Functioning markets which are     *  MOF and its
early 1995. Clarified by Tax Inspectorate that non-    Taxes to be sought.                         accessible by all agricultural          Tax
commission sales of agricultural commodities are to be                                             enterprises either directly or through  Inspectorate
taxed at 30%. Amendment to the Law on Profits Taxes                                                intermediaries. Avoid discouraging
submitted to the Parliament of Ukraine that would                                                  storage activities.
reduce profits taxes on commission sales on agricultural
commodity exchanges to 30%. Clarified that the
Cabinet of Ministers resolution (#682, August 27,
1995) which assesses taxes on the increase in the
nominal value of grain stocks is no longer in force.



PROGRESS TO DATE                                            FURTHiER MEASURES                       ULTIMATE OBJECTIVE                  RESPONSIBLE
AGENCY
11. Agricultural Foreign Trade Policy
Agricultural commodities removed from the export    *  Eliminate export duties and indicative   *  Market transparency                 *  Ministry of
registry system in March 1995. In February 1996, the   prices on agricultural sector goods (i.e.,                                         Foreign
setting of obligatory indicative prices for export     those which were imposed on the livestock                                          Economic
contracts ceased for products whose export is not      sector in May 1996) - 2nd Tranche.                                                 Relations and
subject to contingent intergovernmental agreements                                                                                        Trade (MFERT)
with Ukraine or to anti-dumping cases.
All agricultural export quotas removed.             *  Refrain from intervening in agricultural  *  Promotion of Ukraine's comparative    *  Cabinet of
import and export markets (e.g.            advantage                               Ministers
imposition of import and export quotas,
export taxes, or export registration) with
the exception of interventions acceptable
under the WTO or voluntary export 
restraints under other multi-lateral
agreements.
HI. Rural Financial System
Budgetary allocations and credit emissions for      *  Establish the annual ceiling for implicit  *  Eliminate distortionary credit    *  MOF in
agricultural procurements were reduced significantly in  credit subsidies in 1997-98 at 23 trillion  policies.                            cooperation
1995-96 under the reform programs supported by the     karbovantsi (the current karbovantsi                                               with MOAF
IMF STF and Stand-By operations. Agricultural credit   equivalent of US$ 130 million).
subsidies were capped at US$ 130 million equivalent in
karbovantsi in 1996.



PR{OGRESS TO DATE                                            FURTHER MEASURES                         ULTIMATE OBJECTIVES                 RESPONSIBLE
AGENCY
IV. Competitive Agro-Processing and Services for Agriculture
Wheat prices deregulated and bread prices have been  *  Complete an Action Plan for bolstering   0  Remove implicit taxation on           *  MOAF
increased to reflect the 1995 harvest costs and         the agricultural market information system   agricultural producers, processors,
subsequent inflation. A Presidential Decree in October  and initiate implementation of the Action    and marketing firms.
1995 repealed profit margins controls on grain          Plan by January 1, 1997.
procurement and storage. Oblast government powers to
place trade margin controls on bread, flour, and bread
products were rescinded by a Cabinet of Ministers
resolution May 1996.
Basic anti-monopoly regulations developed during     *  Devise and execute demonopolization       0  Facilitation of the emergence of new  0  Anti-Monopoly
1993-1994.                                              plans for 100 agro-industrial regional or   and restructured firms, and the         Committee,
national monopoly enterprises or            growth of efficiency in both input      State Property
enterprise associations, including at least  and output markets and in               Fund, and                co
five state-owned national monopoly          agro-processing.                        MOAF
enterprises or associations engaged in the
processing of agricultural products and in
input supply - 2nd Tranche.
By early 1996, about 10 percent of roughly 4,000 large    *  Implementation of these streamlined  *  Accelerate AIS privatization and     0  SPF
and medium scale non-farm AIS enterprises had been      procedures for privatization of AIS          stimulate the inflow of investment
privatized. In May 1996, the President of Ukraine       enterprises - 2nd Tranche. Privatize a       capital.
instructed the Cabinet of Ministers to develop          minimum of 1000 AIS enterprises (which
procedures for streamlining Privatization of agro-      does not include state farms) - 2nd
industrial enterprises so (i) that the subscription process  Tranche.
for agro-industrial enterprises would be reduced to a
period comparable to that for other medium and large
enterprises in other sectors; (ii) that there would be no
reversal of privatization transactions previously
completed in the agro-industrial sector; and, (iii) that
shares of agro-processing enterprises that are to be
offered to primary producers (suppliers) of raw product
would be transferred to the individual members of these
suppliers.



PROGRESS TO DATE                                             FURTHER MEASURES                         ULTIMATE OBJECTIVES                 RESPONSIBLE
AGENCY
V. Land Reform and Farm Restructuring
Law on Land Payments amended to remove the           *  Enact amendments to the Land Code to:    *  Secure transferable land use rights  *  State Committee
restriction which limits lease payments to no more than  (a) abolish the 6-year moratorium on sale  conducive to promoting long term         for Land
the landholder's tax obligations on the land parcel. An  of land; and (b) limit to three months the  investment, access to financial         Resources
amendment to the Land Code to eliminate the 6-year      time within which co-owners can exercise     markets, and enhanced land mobility.    (SCLR).
moratorium on land sale has been introduced to the     their preferential right to buy the share of
Parliament of Ukraine by the Cabinet of Ministers and  land being sold by a co-owner - 2nd
passed by the Agricultural Committee of the Parliament  Tranche.
of Ukraine.
Roughly 500 farms have executed the preliminary      *  Complete the registration process for land    *  Accelerate the privatization of  *  SCLR and
work for land share registration and some have          share certificates in 2,000 collective       agricultural land and restructuring of  MOAF
registered their results. Land share registration and   agricultural enterprises and issue land      collective agricultural enterprises.
issue of land share certificates to entitled beneficiaries  share certificates to at least 75% of
in 100 collective agricultural enterprises was executed  entitled beneficiaries in these enterprises -
by May 1996                                             2nd Tranche. Complete the process of
exchanging land shares for physically
identified land plots at least 75 collective
agricultural enterprises - 2nd Tranche.



PROGRESS TO DATE                                               FURTHER MEASURES                          ULTIMATE OBJECTIVES                   RESPONSIBLE
AGENCY
A Presidential Decree specifying the agencies in charge    0  Enact legislation to establish a unified  *  Establish documented property rights    0  Cabinet of
of land registration has been drafted (indicates SCLR    national registry of rural and urban land     to facilitate lease, sale, and the use    Ministers
and the Ministry of Justice).                            and other real estate - 2nd Tranche           of land as collateral.
Normative acts (guidelines) of the SCI,R and MOAF     *  Enact legislation or normative acts that   0  Remove doubts as to the legality of   0  SCLR, MOAF,
have been issued to specify procedures for the           would: (a) give a right to two or more        farm restructuring and raise              and Cabinet of
exchange of land shares and property shares for land      members of a collective agricultural          agricultural productivity by             Ministers
plots and physical assets.                               enterprise to withdraw adjacent plots; (b)    promoting the formation of private
limit to three months the time period         farms and other new corporate
within which the farm members' council        agricultural enterprises.
of the collective agricultural enterprise has
to consent to the plots of land requested
for withdrawal; and, (c) give withdrawing
members the right to i) appeal if the farm
members' council fails to consent within
three months, and ii) receive ownership of
the plot to be withdrawn within 12 months
after consent is received - 2nd Tranche.
Action Plan has been drafted to undertake a publicity  *  Execution of a finalized Action Plan with  *  Reassure the beneficiaries of the    0  Office of the
exercise to inform the agricultural population in each    specific measures, budget, and ministerial   Land Code as to the practical             Deputy Prime
oblast of the procedures available to them for            competence - 2nd Tranche.                    implementation of farn                    Minister for the
liquidating their property and land shares and obtaining                                               restructuring.                           Agro-Industrial
access to the assets to which they are entitled under                                                                                            Complex
Ukrainian legislation.






11
ANNEX 3
UKRAINE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Loan Committee                      March 1996
Appraisal                           May 1996
Green Cover                         June 1996
Negotiations                        August 1996
Board Presentation                  October 1996
Planned Loan Effectiveness          October 1996






MOP Schedule D
Run Date:      8/28/96
Data as of:    8/26/96
Status of Bank Group Operations in Ukraine
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Original amount in USS millions
Project        Loaii or     Fiscal
ID          Credit No.    Year                  Borrower                          Purpose                     IBRD           IDA   Cancellations  Undisbursed
Number of Closed Loans/Credits: ;
Active Loans
UA-PA-34581       L39850        1996    UKRAINE                             HOUSING                                 17.00                                     17.00
UA-PA-35814       L40570        1996    UKRAINE                             ENTER. DEV. ADJUST.                   310.00                                    210.00
UA-PA-38820       L38650        1995    GOVT. OF UKRAINE                    HYDROPOWER REHAB.                      114.00                                    114.00
UA-PA-44110       L40160        1996    GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE               COAL PILOT                              15.81                                     15.81
UA-PA-9106        L36140       1993    MINISTRY OF FINANCE, UKRA            INSTITUTION BUILDING                   27.00                                     22.92
UA-PA-9117        L38910       1995    GOVT. OF UKRAINE                     AGRIC. SEED DEVELOPM                   32.00                                     32.00
TOTAL                                                                                                           515.81          0.00           0.00       411.73
Active Loans                 Closed Loans                         Total
Total disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                                           104.08                       500.00                       604.08
Of which repaid                                                         0.00                          0.00                         0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                                           515.81                       500.00                       1015.81
Amount sold                                                                0.00                         0.00                          0.00
Of which repaid                                                          0.00                         0.00                          0.00
Total undisbursed                                                       411.73                          0.00                       411.73



MOP Schedule D - IFC
MOP Schedule D
Run date:    8/28/96
Ukraine - Statement of IFC Investments
As of 6/30/96
(USS millions)
Original Gross Commitments
Fiscal                                                                                   IFC        IFC                               Held by      Held by  Undisb. incl.
Year                           Obligor                          Type of Business        Loan     Equity  Participants       Totals      IFC   Participants  Participants
1994      Ukraine Fund                                        Financial Services                   2.00                      2.00       2.00                       0.80
Total gross commitments b/                                                    0.00       2.00         0.00         2.00
Less cancellations, terminations, repayment & sales                           0.00       0.00         0.00         0.00
Total commitments now held c/                                                 0.00       2.00         0.00         2.00       2.00         0.00          0.80
Pending Commitments
FUIB                                                                         10.00       6.50                     16.50
Ukraine Fund                                        Financial Services                   1.50                      1.50
Total pending commitments                                                    10.00       8.00         0.00         18.00
Total commitments held and pending commitments                               10.00       10.00         0.00       20.00
Total undisbursed commitments                                                 0.00       0.80         0.00         0.80
b/ Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c/ Held commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investment.



14
ANNEX 5
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING'
A. Agribusiness Development Teams
1.            The Government of Ukraine has made great strides in moving from a command economy
to an open-market system in 1995. Much of this initial work focused on policy changes at the macro-
level in order to create a policy environment conducive to private investment. Now that Ukraine has
begun to achieve many of its policy objectives it needs to begin providing assistance at the farm and
business level if privatization is to achieve its full potential. The aim of the Agribusiness Development
Team program will be to create 10 regionally based centers capable of designing and implement strategies
to provide private farmers, aspirant private farmers, kolhozes, and agribusiness firms with information
and training on privatization, private sector business management, and agricultural marketing. These will
be set up over the course of 1996 and financed for a total of three years using funds available from
bilateral donors and loan funds from the future Land Reform and Agricultural Support Services Project.
2.            'The following workplan is a draft to serve as the basis for further refinement by the
Deputy Prime Minister for the Agro-industrial Complex and his Policy Coordination Unit (PCU) which
will coordinate the technical assistance and training to be undertaken through the ADTs. To meet the
goal of providing training in privatization, business management, and agricultural marketing, each ADT
would undertake three major activities. First the ADT will conduct a complete assessment of the existing
resources available to farmers and businesses in the Ukraine, as well as possible participants of a training
program. Second, the ADT will conduct training workshops for participants identified in task one.
Third, the ADT will identify, hire, and train two local associates to assist in the workshops and operate
an agribusiness information center.
3.            Activity 1    In order to maximize the resources already available the first task of the
ADT will be to meet with appropriate organizations already working on privatization and business
training issues in the region which the ADT would work. The Managing Director can then identify areas
of unmet need on which to focus the training and locate resources. Special focus will be placed on using
existing organizations to help identify potential trainees who will be invited to participate in the first ADT
training workshop.
4.            Activity 2    The ADT will hold training workshops, with the focus of the each
workshop dependent on the information gained during Activity 1. Topics will include issues concerning
privatization, the preparation of business and financing plans, and the development and implementation
of marketing plans. The workshops will target providing private farmers, business owners, and aspirant
farmers and business owners the organizational and business skills needed to operate a private business.
The curriculum used in the initial workshops will provide a starting point for the development of a model
curricula that will be available for use in the agribusiness training centers set up as more bilateral donors
implement their technical assistance plans in this area.
i/These technical assitance and training activities are not financed under the Ag SECAL. They are being financed
through bilateral donor grants and would be further financed under a separate Ukraine Agribusiness Development
Project currently under preparation by the Govermnent of Ukriane and the World Bank. The terms of reference are
included here to further explain the activities included under point (g) of the Memorandum of Agricultural Reform
Policies.



15
5.           As new workshops are held throughout the Ukraine the curriculum will be adapted based
on input provided from the oblast regional workshops. Once the regional agribusiness centers are
operational a model curricula, based on inputs from various oblasts in Ukraine, will have been developed
and available to all centers. In each ADT, a Technical Advisor and Training Associates will conduct the
workshops. The Managing Director will also participate in the planning and implementation of the
workshops, especially the contracting of expatriate experts on finance, privatization, business
development, and marketing who will train the Technical Advisor and Training Associates and elevate
the technical and practical level of the workshops' curricula.
6.           Activity 3    The final task of the ADT will be to identify, hire, and train two business
development associates to assist in the development and delivery of all of the ADT services. Special
emphasis will be on the design and operation of an agribusiness information center. A preliminary set
of objectives for the center will be to provide counseling on privatization issues, financing sources, the
development of business plans, and the identification and targeting of selected markets. If the ADT is
successful the agribusiness information center will continue to be operated by the two local associates and
the administrative assistant. The managing director and the technical advisor will then be free to widen
the geographic scope of the training workshops.
7.           The proposed staffing for each of the ADTs would be as follows:
# of People         Title               Duration of Assignment
1            Managing Director                 36 months
1            Technical Advisor                 34 months
2            Training Associates               32 months (each)
2            Business Development Associates    28 months (each)
I            Administrative Assistant          36 months
3-4          Expert Trainers                   21 months (2 months each per year)
B. Creating an Agricultural Market Information System
S.           The availability of accurate market infortnation could help the Government of Ukraine
formulate policies which promote rather than inhibit the development of free and open markets.
Ukrainian officials are deeply concerned about maintaining food security but opt for highly interventionist
policies based on inaccurate projections of supply and demand on domestic and foreign commodity
markets. Technical assistance provided under this component in a two year period will focus on
strengthening the capacity of government institutions to collect, analyze, and disseminate information to
enhance private and public decision making. The technical assistance will be implemented by twinning
a group of experts from Ukrainian agricultural information and research institutions with experts from
similar foreign institutions. The program for this component has three major objectives: (a) to build a
commodity economic information system and initiate the publication of regular reports providing an
assessment of current market conditions and a short term outlook for important commodity markets; (b)
to demonstrate how the information base that is developed can be used to respond to Ministry of



16
Agriculture requests for short turnaround analysis of high priority issues in agricultural policy; and, (c)
to access and develop databases for economic analysis of major commodity markets or policy issues.
9.             Commodity Market Reporting. The core of this sub-component will be periodic reports
describing supply, demand, and price developments and recent or forthcoming policy decisions. The
reports will focus on filling the country's market information void, cover time horizons of 6-12 months,
and be published at least quarterly. Each report will include a summary and analysis of recent events,
a short-term forecast, and relevant data. The reports will be distributed widely to Government officials
and private sector users in agriculture and agribusiness. The information base generated by the reports
will be made available to Ministry policy-makers and will serve as the analytical underpinning for policy
analysis. The in-country training will be hands-on in nature. Sessions will be divided between lectures
on basic macroeconomic theory and workshops in the application of the theory to analysis of Ukraine's
commodity markets. Expatriate experts will lead their counterparts through all the steps in preparation
of commodity reports: development of data sources, identification of private sector and public sector
information contacts, basic commodity analysis, preparation of supply, use and price tables, preparation
of short-term commodity forecasts, and packaging information in concise, easy-to-read formats.
10.           Expanded Information Collection System.  Expatriate experts will work with the
Ukrainian team to assess the information being collected domestically and what is available from
international sources. The goals would be to identify information gaps, evaluate potential remedies, and
examine alternatives for a more cost-effective data collection program. The final, and most important,
objective would be to develop methods for organizing the information to facilitate its use and
dissemination. The team of expatriate experts will make international agricultural data bases available
to the Ukrainian team and provide initial training on the computer software necessary to use the data. As
information gaps are uncovered, the teams will explore possibilities of collaboration with foreign statistics
agencies to help improve actual data collection.
11.           Policy Analysis. The ultimate goal in this area is to develop a corp of analysts trained
to conduct short turnaround but high quality analysis and to deliver the results to policy makers in a clear,
concise fornat that is readily understood. Experience has shown that development of a policy analysis
capability is most successful after an comrnodity situation and outlook program is fully in place. In the
second year of the project limited training in policy analysis will be provided, primarily focusing on the
economics of land valuation and the infrastructure needed for the development of land markets.
12.           Developing channels for the dissemination of the information in the reports. To build
a commodity reporting program which Ukraine can sustain after the technical assistance has been
completed, every effort will be made to minimize publication costs and to disseminate the information
as widely as possible in order to generate demand for it. Reports will be brief and in a format that could
easily be reprinted in agricultural newspapers. The expatriate team will work with the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Agricultural Academy to seek out institutes, local ministry offices, or producers
groups who can help disseminate the commodity information at the local level. Cooperation with
international donor organizations working with local advisory services will also be pursued. Specialists
from these other donor groups would work with local staffs to "translate" this information into a format
that will be useful for farmers and agribusiness in the region. The contacts that will be developed with
local offices will provide the Ukrainian comnmodity analysts with in-depth insights into local market
conditions that will assist them in better meeting the information needs of the public and private sectors.



17
13.          Tranin  Personnel A two-year program covering four commodities will require
approximately 50 person-months of training implemented both in Ukraine and including visits of the
Ukrainian team to the headquarters of foreign agricultural information institutions. This would cover a
Ukrainian team of 8-10 analysts. The Ukrainian analysts would be drawn primarily from the Institute of
Agrarian Economy. However, implementation will involve close cooperation with the Ministry of
Agriculture, and training may include analysts from the Ministry of Agriculture or other institutes.
Individual Ukrainian staff would be selected on the basis of technical skills needed for a particular
component of the training.



18
ANNEX 6
SUMM'4ARY OF UIRAINE REPORT: AGRICULTURAL TRADE AND TRADE POLICY'
1.           This report is part of a broader Agricultural Trade Issues and Opportunities Study for
Ukraine, Belarus, and Moldova that has been prepared by a team supported by the World Bank. This
report is a joint effort of the World Bank, the Center for Agricultural and Rural Development (CARD),
and the Ukrainian Institute of Agarian Economy (UIAE).
2.            The purpose of this report is to assess the issues and opportunities for expanded
agricultural trade. Ukraine is a nation with a significant endowment of agricultural resources, and under
the FSU exported agricultural commodities to the other republics. Ukraine has traditionally produced an
exportable surplus of grains (mainly winter wheat), sugar, sunflower oil and meat and dairy products.
The question raised in this report relates to what might be expected in foreign trade potential as reforms
in Ukraine evolve. The objective was accomplished by analysis of production, unit costs and output
prices trends for six major agricultural commnodities: winter wheat, corn, sunflower, sugar beet, pork,
poultry, eggs and related processed products since the initiation of the economic reform (focusing on the
period 1991-1994).
3.            The assessment of agricultural trade potential is made using two methods. The first
method involves converting domestic prices at prevailing exchange rates to Russian rubles and U.S.
dollars and comparing them to international commodity prices and those in Russia. This provides an
indication of the price at which Ukraine could "profitably" sell commodities in the Russian or
international market, given the prevailing domestic prices. The domestic prices, of course, reflect the
continual heavy intervention of the government.
4.            The second approach is to convert the prices to a 1991 basis. In 1991, Ukraine was on
the ruble standard. Thus, by adjusting for inflation and using 1991 prices, there is an opportunity to
compare real prices of major agricultural commodities between Ukraine and Russia without any reference
to the exchange rates of domestic currencies to the US dol]ar. If foreign exchange markets were perfect,
one would expect these comparisons to be similar to those generated by the first approach, and they are
generally.
5.            The comparisons of relative prices calculated in US dollars or 1991 rubles must be
carefully interpreted. Government is heavily involved in Ukraine agriculture and in the agriculture of
neighboring countries. Although, the relative prices indicate "competitiveness" in international markets,
it could be existent on the basis of unsustainable low-interest credit and other agricultural input subsidies.
To the extent possible, adjustments have been made for the subsidies in the comparisons of relative costs
and prices. Thus, the study presents a variety of production cost simulations reflecting potential changes
in agricultural input and output prices during transition period that may affect the direction and volume
of future trade flows. Even with these adjustments, however, the comparisons represent only guidelines
to indicate where the agriculture in Ukraine might be competitive in international markets, if Ukraine
continues on its current course of agricultural reform.
1/Published in October 1995 as a World Bank Technical Report.



19
6.            Finally, the comparisons do not deal with the problem of actually exporting agricultural
commodities. Systems for export require sophisticated trading institutions, quality control, payments
clearance, and other support activities. These are generally not present in Ukraine. Ukraine is more able
to trade with nations of the FSU than on international markets. In short, the system for support of trade,
due to momentum accumulated in the past, still has many of the features that existed during the FSU era.
This is yet another reason why the comparisons provided as indicators of competitiveness should be
carefully interpreted in terms of their implications for international trade potential.
7.            This study is unique in several ways. First, it uses cost data specific to the production
chain for the selected agricultural comrnodities. Previous studies have primarily relied on final product
prices and variety of commodity to conimodity price ratios for assessing existing distortions, inefficiencies
and the potential competitiveness of the different subsectors of Ukrainian agriculture and food industry.
Second, this study covers the most volatile period of economic transition utilizing consistent methods
of deflating all prices and cost data to a pre-reform level. Third, the study uses the same data base and
methodology for estimation of basic deflators: nominal and real annual average exchange rates, and
nominal and real annual average CPI for four transition economies: Belarus, Moldova, Russia and
Ukraine. Use of the same methodology to deflate all prices and unit production costs to 1991 level, when
all the above countries operated under the same currency regime, allowed for direct between country
comparisons of the cost trends, of the different strategies that each country uses to reform its agriculture
and other features relevant to the assessment of agricultural trade potential. Fourth, the same methodology
for FSU countries has been used to make adjustments to potential changes in input and output prices that
could occur at different stages of transition to the more liberalized economic and trade environment.
8.            This report is primarily descriptive. Chapter 2 provides an overview of recent trends in
agricultural production and trade, and discusses some relevant issues of agricultural and trade policy.
Chapter 3 is the core of the report. Each section of this chapter provides relatively deep analysis of
production, unit cost and output price trends for each commodity that has been chosen for analysis. The
major emphasis is given to the unit costs trends and to the changes in its components. This chapter also
provides a variety of cost simulations and discussion of potential competitiveness of each commodity in
the FSU and international market. Chapter 4 provides a summary of production, unit cost and prices
trends. It is also includes a summary table of conclusion on the potential international competitiveness
of each commodity analyzed in the study. For those who are more interested in the "how" rather than
in the "what", a detailed information on methodology and methods is included in Annex 1.
Developments in Agricultural Production, Trade, and Policy
9.            Ukraine has followed a very conservative course for agricultural reform compared to
many of the other European nations of the Former Soviet Union (FSU). Policymakers have found it
difficult to privatize the Ukrainian economy and develop policies that are consistent with a market
economy.  Public ownership on means of production have continued to dominate the economic
environment and have engendered significant government intervention at every level of production and
distribution.
10.           The Government feared unemployment and  social unrest, which it believed would
jeopardize the existence of an independent Ukraine much more than high budget deficit, inflation or weak
domestic currency. Inflation rates, partly due to agricultural and consumer subsidies on food, have been



20
above 1,000% for several years since 1991. To address inflation, budget deficits, and hard currency
availability, Ukraine has tended to retain old inefficient methods, including government state orders,
procurement of major agricultural commodities, government-controlled exchange rates, hard currency
taxes, nontransparent restrictions on trade, and subsidized interest rates. Combined with the consumer
subsidies, these measures have driven Ukraine into even deeper economic and social crisis. In 1994 the
real GNP was only about 50% of the pre-reform level.
11.           The agriculture and food sector of Ukraine has been considered to be a key to a smooth
economic transition to a market economic system and has continued to be a hope of economic recovery
in mid-90's. The agricultural sector has continued through 1994 to be one of the strongest sectors of the
Ukrainian economy. While industrial production, construction, transport, and trade has dropped by
approximately 50% from 1990 to 1994, agricultural production decreased by only 35 %. Moreover, from
1992 to 1993 (considered the worst performance year during the transition of the Ukrainian economy),
the level of agricultural production was stable.
12.           On the other hand, the agriculture and food processing industry remain one of the most
regulated sectors of Ukrainian economy. State procurement of agricultural conunodities and the levels
of procurement prices has continued to be dominant factors in determining farm production from 1991
to 1994. The Government of Ukraine has continued to control the procurement and distribution of most
agricultural outputs, and was the major player in the domestic food market. Price and margin controls
persist, the state order system has been retained, exports and foreign exchange markets remain controlled,
and a large share of bank credit continues to be directed by the government. However, the distribution
of power between the government and the farms in negotiating the quantities to be procured and
procurement prices has changed over the last four years. Currently, it is not so obvious whether the
government or the state and collective farms are more interested in state procurement and procurement
prices. Due to significant political and economic pressure, there has been a tendency in agricultural
policy to replace direct methods of government intervention with more indirect subsidies and controls.
13.           Our analysis indicates that the procurement prices for all selected crops were substantially
above the reported costs of production. For sunflower seeds, winter wheat and corn the difference
between production costs and procurement prices was the largest among all other crops and livestock
products. A huge difference between price/cost ratios for crop and livestock products is also one of the
features of recent developments in Ukrainian agriculture. It appears that farms2 are trying to compensate
their losses in livestock production by relying on relatively stronger procurement prices for crop
products.
14.           The situation for livestock production is weaker for several reasons. The government has
taken important steps toward liberalizing this subsector and has made livestock production more
responsive to input and output prices. The government has substantially reduced direct price subsidies
to pork and poultry producers and, at the same time, substantially reduced government procurement of
these commodities, allowing the farms to deal directly with the meat processing plants. Due to the
significant reduction in meat consumption, retail prices for pork, poultry, and other meats have increased
more slowly than the procurement prices for crops. This has been one of the major reasons for the
reduction in meat production.
2/Predominant share of the Ukrainian farms specialize in both crop and livestock production.



21
15.          Within the overall system of incentives that guide the agricultural enterprises in their
production decisions, taxation plays a secondary role, much less important than procurement prices,
subsidized government loans for purchasing agricultural inputs, or limited profit margin requirements.
This may explain why it has been relatively easy for the Government to introduce a different tax system
almost every year since independence.  At the same time, the debate on agricultural loans and
procurement prices, which can be seen as implicit taxation, has been intense and ongoing among all
involved in agricultural production.
16.          In 1993-1994, subsidization of agriculture shifted from explicit budgetary transfers to
implicit credit subsidies. The low interest loans to agriculture became a core of government support of
agriculture. However, coupled with a soft policy on returning these loans the new system of supporting
agricultural enterprises was not much different from the system of direct subsidization of agriculture
during the Soviet era.
17.          The slow pace of economic reform was coupled with unfavorable external economic
environment: the collapse of traditional channels of inter-republican trade; decline in overall volume of
exchange of goods and services between Ukraine and other FSU countries. The importance of inter-
republican trade has in general been underestimated by the Ukrainian government and the international
conimunity. The first priority has been given to developing independent trade relations with the western
countries at the expense of maintaining and reforming trade relations with the FSU countries. Especially
for Ukraine, which is poorly endowed with fuel resources and has to rely on imports, solid trade relations
with Russia and other suppliers of fuel from the FSU region has been a key to a much smoother
economic transition. Unfortunately, political tensions between the neighboring FSU countries in the early
90's have created very unfavorable trade environment for all FSU countries Introduction of quotas,
licenses and export taxes, coupled with artificially low official karbovanetz/ruble and karbovanetz/dollar
exchange rates, delays in payment clearance have made trade between companies extremely risky and
unattractive.
18.           Deep govermnent involvement in international trade has become another complication of
the transition period and has had several negative consequences on almost all aspects of recent economic
development. It has added up substantially to inflation and government budget deficit; prevented Ukraine
from developing standard mechanisms of international trade; separated Ukrainian producers and trading
companies from international trading community and from knowledge this community could bring to the
country. It has also justified a variety of nontransparent restrictions to trade such as so called
"recommended minimum export prices" for long list of exportable commodities including all agricultural
commodities included in this analysis.
19.            The current administration in Ukraine is committed to a more rapid pace for the market
reforms, including complete price liberalization, significant subsidy reductions, and the privatization of
land and other production capacities in agriculture. It looks like that the new Ukrainian government is
making serious steps in developing a sound monetary, exchange rate and trade policy. There are clear
signs of a more positive attitude towards the strengthening of commercial relations between Ukraine and
other FSU republics (especially with Russia).



22
Commodity-Specific Conclusions and Relevant Agricultural and Trade Policy Issues
20.           Generally, the cost of production for the selected commodities, calculated in 1991 rubles,
has been much less variable than agricultural input or output prices. In winter wheat, corn, sunflower
seed, and pork production, it has been decreasing in real terms. However, calculated in US dollars, the
cost of all selected commodities showed a significant increase: nine fold in sugar beet; about fivefold in
winter wheat, sunflower seed and poultry and fourfold in pork production. The opposite dynamics of
the cost of production calculated in constant rubles and US dollars reflects the fact of continuous
appreciation of local currency calculated in real terms. Less variable dynamics of the cost of production
give the impression that farms in fact, have been adjusting to relatively higher input prices by reducing
the use of inputs such as fuel, mineral fertilizers and herbicides and substituting them with relatively
inexpensive inputs such as labor. This is due to the reduction in subsidies for inputs, and domestic input
prices that are more reflective of international prices. The largest real cost of production increases have
occurred in the livestock and poultry sectors, where the liberalization has been most pervasive. Still,
there is evidence that even with the slower course of economic reform in Ukraine, prices of agricultural
commodities are tending toward world market levels.
21.           When evaluated simply in terms of prices converted at the present exchange rates or into
the 1991 ruble, all prices of the commodities selected for analysis (sugar beet and sugar, sunflower seed
and oil, winter wheat and wheat flour, corn and formula feeds, hogs and pork meat, and poultry), are
"low" relative to those in Russia and in broader international markets. However, these prices reflect
significant input subsidies for most commodities supplied by government in the form of outright grants
and artificially low input prices or credits provided for purchase of inputs at interest rates that are far
below the market interest rate.
22.            Comparisons of the costs of production adjusted for input subsidies ("calculated cost' for
short) with the prices prevailing in the border international markets cast a significant doubt whether
Ukraine has a comparative advantage in some of the commodities chosen for this study. Winter wheat
and flour, corn and formula feed, and sunflower seed and oil have survived the test of adjustments of
input prices to international level and again have shown a considerable export potential. Reduction of
consumer subsidies on food have decreased overall consumption of food and increased potential for the
export of additional quantities of grains, sunflower seed and oil, and sugar for export. Ukraine also
appears to be a comparatively cheap producer of sugar beet, but this advantage in raw commodity is
offset by very inefficient refining operations: the calculated Ukrainian production cost of sugar is above
the international level. In our estimate, Ukraine would have to significantly modernize it sugar processing
and refining industry to compete in the international sugar market.
23.           The livestock sector is obviously less competitive and will likely develop competitiveness,
only after the reform has been more fully implemented in the crop subsectors. Our calculations show that
with existing technology and productivity levels, pork production is the least competitive commodity
among those selected for the study. In 1992-1994, the calculated unit cost of pork meat production was
40%, 60%, and 44% higher the international market price, respectively. Relative stability and current
cost advantages of small scale private hogs operations is temporary, and will probably vanish as soon as
grain prices fully adjust3.
3/An estimated 30% of bread production is fed to hogs and cattle by private farmers.



23
24.           Although, Ukraine does not appear to be competitive internationally in pork production
Ukraine remains the lowest-cost pork producer in the FSU region. However, the fact that the calculated
cost of pork production is above the international market price makes it unclear whether Ukraine will
supplant European and US exporters of pork to Russia. It is more likely that in the short run, Ukraine
will become a net importer of pork. However, in the long run, with successful adjustments in the crop
sector Ukraine may become a sizable pork exporter, to at least to the FSU market.
25.            Our analysis also suggests that the export potential of Ukrainian poultry industry is at least
ambiguous if not low. In the short run, before the significant adjustments made in grain production and
the feed industry, Ukraine is unlikely to become an exporter of poultry meat to the international market.
However, considering the fact that the unit cost of poultry meat production is the lowest within the FSU
region, there is a possibility of exporting poultry meat to Russia, Belarus and other FSU countries. The
situation is somewhat different for egg production. Adjusted for input prices and subsidies, the unit cost
of egg production appears to be 40% below the international price level.
26.           In the long run, it is anticipated that Ukraine will become a major exporter of most of
the agricultural commodities selected; that livestock and poultry which now evince little competitive
potential will become more competitive. This will require adjustment in the livestock sector and in the
procurement and distribution system for feed. In general, the profile for Ukraine agriculture suggested
by the analysis of trade potential is that of a nation that is a producer of food grains for export, coarse
grains and oilseeds for export and feed use, and livestock for export. The sequence of the reforms to date
indicate that the first opportunities for export will come for sugar and food grains, followed by oilseeds
and coarse grain, and then by livestock products.
27.           The export potential can be realized if the reforms in agriculture are accelerated and
sustained. Assuming that Ukraine will succeed in privatizing its agriculture, and that the law of supply
and demand will be the primary guideline for economic decision making in agriculture, it is reasonable
to discuss some steps that will lead to a "normalization" of trade policy. Current taxes, restrictions on
foreign currency, licensing, and quotas should be converted to tariffs. These tariffs can be reduced over
time as the sectors adjust to international markets and prices. However these type of recommendations
will be too general and generic if we do not mention a variety of nontransparent restrictions to trade that
have to be abolished in order to normalize trade policy and trade environment.
28.            There is simply no rationale in the simultaneous liquidation of quotas and licenses and
the introduction of so called "recommended minimum export prices" for more than fifty different
commodities including grains, sugar, sunflower seeds and oil, meats and milk products4. Unless the trade
policy is rationally formulated, there will continue to be difficulties in export. In fact, inconsistent and
complicated trade policy represents one of the major reasons why Ukraine is at present not exporting
more wheat, sugar and sunflower oil. In a country that lacks a reserve of foreign currencies, these trade
policies represent a major obstacle to economic development. Many of these trade policies have emerged
to help protect the domestic market and the consumer and producer subsidy system. With the further
withdrawal of consumer subsidies and the phasing-out and decoupling of producer subsidies, there is little
justification for continuing the current trade policy. Accordingly, a change to a transparent and more
open trade policy should receive a high priority.
4/These prices appear to be more restrictive than any quotas or licenses and bring even more unfairness and
uncertainty to trade than any other trade restrictions.



24
ANNEX 7
SUMMARY OF LAND REFORM AND FARM RESTRUCTURING IN UKRAINE'
1.            Under legislation adopted in 1992, Ukrainian law recognizes private ownership of
agricultural land, as well as collective and state ownership. Also in 1992, a program to transfer land from
state ownership to collective and individual ownership was initiated on a large scale, along with
procedures to restructure collective and state farms. The transfer of land ownership and restructuring of
traditional farrns create opportunities for private farming to develop in Ukraine after decades of collective
management of agriculture. The impact of these developments at the farm level is examined in the present
study by evaluating responses of 2500 participants in the process.
2.            In July 1994, Ukraine had approximately 30, 000 private farmers cultivating 2 % of
agricultural land in 20-ha farms, with another 12 % of farmland cultivated individually by farnilies of
employees in the forn of 0.5-ha subsidiary household plots in large-scale farms. In the sampled farns,
almost one-third of the land in these two forms of individual cultivation was privately owned, with the
remaining two-thirds still in the traditional forns of lifetime possession and usership. Functioning land
markets have not begun to develop in Ukraine due to slow documentation of individual ownership and
a moratorium on sales.
3.            The share of state-owned land shrank from 100% in 1991 to only 35% in January 1994,
but most of the land remains in collective tenure: 75 % of agricultural land is managed by collective farms
and by state farms that are subject to privatization in the future. Three-quarters of large farm enterprises
in Ukraine reorganized, but the preferred new form is that of limited liability partnership or collective
enterprise, which in many cases involves little change from the predecessor, the state or collective.
4.            Most employees at present do not seek to leave the collective to start a private farrn. The
main obstacles reported by the respondents are insufficient capital, difficulty obtaining machinery and farm
inputs, and legal and political uncertainty. Loss of social benefits is not an overriding concern, as private
farmers do not experience particular difficulties in access to social services. Distribution of farm products
is still dominated by state procurement, which is the main outlet for both large-scale farms and private
farmers. Alternative trade channels are not well developed. Input supply is similarly dominated by the
state, although private suppliers are beginning to emerge.
5.            Further progress toward improved efficiency in Ukrainian agriculture requires continued
restructuring of farrn enterprises into smaller autonomous units based on private ownership of land and
assets, clear formulation of procedures that allow exit of individuals and small groups with shares of land
and assets, development of land markets, and establishment of functioning market infrastructure for
competitive input supply, marketing services, and financial services.
'Published in December 1994 as a World Bank Discussion Paper



25
Why monitor land reform and restructuring of farms in Ukraine?
6.            Transfer of agricultural land and assets to private ownership and the creation of more
productive farms are essential components of agricultural reform in Ukraine. Unless strongly market-
oriented private commercial farms can be created, Ukraine's labor intensive agriculture will orient toward
the subsistence needs of producers and local markets, rather than specializing to take advantage of export
opportunities. The Government of Ukraine is responsible for designing and implementing a program
through which producers will receive ownership of land and assets and create new kinds of farms. The
task of privatizing land and restructuring farmns is intrinsically complex. The pace at which it proceeds
depends on a number of factors, each of which will likely require remedial intervention from the
government. Identification of the constraints and concrete opportunities for Government action and
international support requires information on developments at the farm level.
7.            The present study is based on three extensive surveys carried out in Ukraine in the winter
of 1993-1994 by the Ukrainian Agricultural Academy of Sciences and the World Bank. The objective
of the study has been to conduct a rigorous empirical and analytical assessment of changes in land
ownership andfarm structure from independence through Spring 1994.
Does the process of reform in Ukraine reflect a clear commitment to private ownership of land and
assets?
8.            The overall objective of the agricultural reforn is to create an internationally competitive
sector with high returns to the rich endowment of land and skilled agricultural labor. The legal framework
and implementation of reforms in Ukraine are still ambiguous as to whether agriculture in the fiuture will
be based predominantly on private ownership of land and assets, or on collective ownership under new
and different management. This ambiguity is reflected in the laws and procedures that give equal legal
status to private ownership and collective ownership, but constrain the activities and transactions necessary
to make private ownership fully functional. A stronger articulation of commitment to privatize ownership
of land and assets, rather than reform collective ownership, is needed. Collective enterprise in a variety
of forms will continue because many new owners will choose it, but the new collective enterprises should
be based on clear private ownership. The new Government's strong endorsement of the general reform
program, as evidenced by the Fall 1994 agreements with the International Monetary Fund, provides an
opportunity for articulation of commitment to private ownership as the basis for agricultural reform.
Why restructure and not simply privatize?
9.            Privatization in industry in most countries stops at the transfer of ownership and explicitly
leaves restructuring to the new owners. Except for the case of parastatal monopolies that must be
reconfigured prior to privatization, enterprise level restructuring is not in general a feature of industrial
reforms. Privatization in agriculture follows a different path. The collective and state farms, like the
parastatal monopolies, must be reconfigured as part of the privatization process, because they have no
analogue in agriculture in market economies. While it is sometimes argued that a collective or state farms
could be privatized directly as a corporate farrn, there is no ready counterpart in market economies for
a 3,000 ha farm with 400 owner-employees. A simple transfer of ownership to members and employees
of state and collective farms would not directly create viable and competitive production units. For this
reason programs of land reform and farm restructuring include additional mechanisms through which



26
owners can create new farming units, either within the former farm, or through exit. Privatization thus
proceeds immediately into restructuring.
What is the current status of the reform?
10.           The process of fundamental restructuring to improve the performance of Ukrainian
agriculture has begun. Over 70% of all farm enterprises in Ukraine formally reorganized. The share of
state owned land in farms in the survey dropped from 100 % before 1990 to 35 % in 1992, but 62 % of
the land on surveyed large farms is in collective, not individual ownership. The average size of subsidiary
household plots almost doubled from less than 0.3 ha to 0.5 ha, and approximately 30,000 private farms
were registered. Over 13% of farmland in Ukraine is now cultivated by users of household plots and
private farmers. A state reserve of land intended for distribution to future private farmers was initially
created by transfer of 10% of the land of collective and state farms. Most of this land (nearly 2.5 million
ha at its peak) is still cultivated by the large farms under loosely defined lease arrangements. The process
of restructuring; that is, changing the internal form and organization of farms, is still in a preliminary
phase, and has not moved beyond the creation of shareholding farrns. The shareholding farn is similar
to the traditional collective and state farms, and can be adopted with relative ease simply by registering
the existing farm under a new category of organization.
11.           The New Collective Sector. The sector is now in a kind of equilibrium of a low level of
restructuring.  There is no clear mechanism  for creation of new production units other than the
shareholding large farrn or the individual family farn. According to the survey, not many employees
desire to leave the collectives and create new business units. A minimally reorganized new collective
agriculture is unlikely to be internationally competitive. It continues to suffer from the inherent economic
weaknesses of production cooperatives and labor-managed firms, which include a tendency toward
overemployment, poor labor discipline, and failure to meet financial obligations. The incentive structure
in new collectives remains incompatible with market signals.
12.           Private Farming: Private farming is growing, but remains a distant third player in
contribution to aggregate production, after the new collective sector and traditional household subsidiary
farm ing. Private farmers are engaged in commercial production for markets, and are not subsistence
farmers. In response to changing market conditions, private farmers have chosen a production mix that
emphasizes crop production to a greater extent than on farms that remain collective. Private farmers are
better educated than employees on collectives. Private farmers report that owIn savings is the most
important source of start up capital, and that availability of financing for working capital and investment
is a major problem.
13.           The Ukrainian private farmers provide evidence that when the legal framework created
opportunities for producers to function outside collectives, individuals welcomed the opportunity, and
acted upon it. Private farmers at present are functioning between systems, and are using any possibilities
that arise to keep their operations functioning. That they exist at present and that their numbers are
increasing is testament to the firrnly held belief that land will in the future have value, and that private
production has a future. Private farning can survive and prosper in Ukraine in an appropriate institutional
environment. It is unlikely that private farming will be substantially strengthened as long as private
farmers are forced to operate in the narrow and inhospitable gap between the command and market
systems.



27
14.           Market services. Private suppliers of market services are emerging in Ukraine, but a
functioning market infrastructure still has not developed. Collective farms and private farmers continue
to rely largely on state channels for input supply. Farm managers and private farmers report that inputs
are available, but that prices are high. Purchased inputs, particularly fuel and chemicals, are more
expensive relative to output than prior to the reforms, and farms have greatly reduced input use. Barter
transactions to secure inputs have increased. Employees who intend to remain in collectives fear that as
private farmers they would not be able to secure inputs, would face high risks, and would have difficulty
securing sufficient capital. These concerns are much more prominent in the decision to remain in
collectives than the fear of losing access to social services. State channels are also still dominant in
marketing of output, particularly for the important cash crops, such as grains and oilseeds. Private farners
and managers of large farms are dissatisfied with the prices and services they receive from state marketing
firms. Financial services are reported to be the most severe problems for private farmers and for those
considering private farming.
15.           Social Services and Benefits: There has been little change in the way in which social
services are provided in rural areas. The new collective farms continue to be major providers for services
other than health and education, for which they play a secondary role after the state. By law enterprises
can elect to transfer responsibility for provision of social services to the local council, along with
ownership of assets in the social sphere. Farm managers report that very little transfer to local councils
has taken place, and that they continue to provide a wide range of social benefits. The majority of
employees, however, report that they do not receive many among the sixteen enumerated benefits provided
by their enterprises, suggesting that except for health and education provision of social services even under
the traditional system may have been less than universal. For example, less than one half of the
employees reported that they enjoyed the use of subsidized vacation facilities, while 90% of farm
managers stated that they provided this benefit. While 85% of managers indicated providing heating fuel
to their employees, only one third of the employees reported that they received this benefit.
Why have the accomplishments been so modest?
16.           Initial accomplishments in the reform have been modest for a variety of reasons:
Political and legal uncertainty: Controversy over the outline of the general reform program has
distracted from the sectoral agenda, and frequent changes of legislation have created a sense of
uncertainty about the future course of reform.
Lack of a supportive environment. Functioning markets for farm inputs and products have not
yet emerged, impeding successful operation of new privatized agriculture. The financial sector
is in disarray, few banks are able to give mortgages, and few land owners are willing to offer land
as collateral. Mortgage finance is an important instrument of agricultural lending for private
investment, but its development requires security of tenure, legal title to land that can be used as
collateral, and existence of land markets to give objective valuation of land. Land markets do not
function at present because sales of privately owned land are subject to a moratorium of six years,
although draft legislation being considered proposes to reduce this period to two years. Fully
functioning land markets, including unconstrained purchase, lease, and mortgage will be necessary
if Ukraine is to develop the high yielding, high value agriculture consistent with its endowment
and needed to support rural incomes.



28
Inadequate mechanismsfor restructuringand exit. Procedures for further restructuring at the farm
level are inadequately developed, and individuals and farm managers lack basic information about
the options open to them. According to respondents in the study, the mechanism of exiting
collectives with land and assets is not yet operational. Mechanisms will have to be developed
through which a group of shareholders can present a proposal of separation, including
specification of the land and assets they would like to take with them. Procedures for adjudication
of disputes that arise when the remaining shareholders do not approve a separation proposal will
have to be devised.
High risk and lack of instruments for risk management. Political uncertainty, lack of clarity in
design of programs, and macroeconomic instability create a risky environment for private farming,
and even such basic instruments as secure savings and insurance are lacking. Continued high
inflation increases risk for agricultural producers, and exacerbates the retreat from markets into
internal distribution and accumulation of inventory. Participants in land reform and farm
restructuring are likely to choose to remain within larger units, where non-cash distributions
provide a hedge against erosion of money incomes.
What must yet be done?
17.           The current procedures for land reform  and farm restructuring do not yet provide a
complete framework within which implementation can proceed. Nor is the environment created by the
macroeconomic reform program yet supportive of strong agricultural reform. A number of changes in
law and procedures should be considered.
18.           Improvements in the market environment are of highest priority. Although creation of fully
functioning market institutions will take time, the regulatory environment can be improved quickly by
removing remaining export barriers and remnants of the state order system. Agreements in the fall of
1994 with the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank lay the foundation for the creation of a
better market environment. Privatization of input supply, agricultural processing, and marketing should
be accelerated to provide an environment in which private producers and firms can function effectively.
Formally privatization of processing and marketing is outside the purview of land reform and farm
restructuring, but is essential for the success of the latter. Reform in the financial sector should accelerate,
and financial services for rural clients should be much improved. Strict financial discipline should be
imposed on all farms, as well as all other enterprises, so that accumulating arrears do not undermine the
reforms and distort incentives to which managers respond.
19.           Distribution of ownership shares should continue. Clear individual ownership should be
established for land and productive assets. Distribution of share certificates is the first stage of this
process, and it should be completed expeditiously. Land in the state reserve should be transferred to
private ownership, not held indefinitely for future applicants. With removal of the moratorium on sales,
future entrants into farming will be able to buy land through normal commercial transactions.
20.           A number of changes should be made in the legal framework governing land ownership
and transactions. The moratorium on sale of land should be removed. The current prohibitions are an
obstacle to creation of market-oriented farming through regrouping of land and assets. Prohibitions on
transactions in land also inhibit financing and investment. Leasing arrangements should be formalized and
lessees should pay for land. At present, many lessees use land and pay for it indirectly or not at all.



29
Much of the land leased comes from the state reserve fund, and the lease is in practice simply permission
to use the land, rather than a commercial agreement.
21.           Upper limits on size of private farms should be eliminated after a short transition phase.
Under present law private farmers cannot own more than 50 ha of arable land. Market mechanisms such
as taxation should be used to prevent large-scale accumulation of land by absentee owners for speculative
purposes.
22.           Land tenure should be documented and made secure. Where land currently in private use
can legally pass into private ownership, this process should be accelerated and the land titled. Land in
private use that cannot legally pass into private ownership should be leased to the user for the period
during which its tenure status can reasonably be expected to be clarified. Operators who lease land should
pay for it.
23.           Procedures for exiting collectives with land and asset shares should be claimed and made
operational Procedures for individual exit exist in theory, but virtually no respondents in the study reported
exit with land or assets. Procedures for exchanging and grouping shares among individuals prior to exit
have not yet been developed, and are needed. The experiences in Russia under the Nizhnii Novgorod
restructuring pilot and in Hungary under the Cooperative Transition Act should be examined for relevant
lessons. An approach to exchange and grouping of shares prior to exit should be developed for Ukraine.
This is particularly needed because land shares are so small.
24.           Pensioners, who are recipients of nearly half the land and asset shares in former
collectives in the sample, should receive special guidance on how to manage their land and asset shares,
including options other than leaving shares under management of the existing collective. Mechanisms
must be developed to enable pensioners to sell their asset shares and lease their land to active producers
in return for payment.
25.           Restructuring of rural services currentlyprovided by the collective sector should be treated
as an independent process, rather than an adjunct off restructuring. Public services that will remain in
the public sector should be transferred to local governments in a mandatory process, after enhancement
of the administrative and financial capacity of the local governments. Farms should be required to divest
a portion of the assets used in provision of services that belong in the private sector. The rights and
interests of farmn shareholders should be protected in the divestiture process, and the ultimate objective of
divestiture should be to enhance competition in provision of private services in rural areas.
26.           Technical assistance and information programs should be implemented in order to guide
the rural population through the transformation. Much of the rural population at present is poorly
informed about their rights and options, and farm managers also report a need for more information.
27.           As these issues are addressed effectively, Ukrainian agriculture will be able to advance
to the second stage of the overall land reforn and farm restructuring program, which involves creation
of market-oriented, profit-motivated structures based on clear individual ownership of land and assets and
an incentive system encouraging individual responsibility and rewarding effort. The new farm structures
may take a variety of forms. Some persons will exit individually with shares of land and assets and
establish private farns. Others will pool their shares and create small partnerships or cooperatives for
farmning. Yet others may choose to lease their land to more enterprising producers and assume the role



30
of "inactive investors" or alternatively focus on development of private farm-support services. The formner
collectives will thus gradually break up into individual farms or small fanning groups, where production
will be based on privately owned land and assets. These new producers will be supported by market
services, some of which will be provided by new private entrepreneurs (again individually or in groups)
while others may be based on former collective management structures that will redefine their role as
service firrns or cooperatives.
28.           Full implementation of the program already initiated (with changes indicated above) will
thus result not in complete fragmentation of existing farms, nor enforced corporatization of the large
traditional units. Instead farms of a range of sizes reflecting the judgment and decisions of new owners
of land and assets will emerge over time. Because this will be a dynamic process with internal
mechanisms for adjustment in farm size, it is especially important that leasing, purchase, sale, and
mortgage of land be protected by law.






31
ANNEX 8
SUMMARY OF UKRAINE: THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR IN TRANSITION'
1.            With the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the breakdown of previously established
production and trading practices, Ukraine has been forced to confront the demands of a market based
economy.  In the food and agriculture sector, this redirection of production facilities needed is
considerable due to the legacy of distorted prices, government intervention in the production system,
monopolistic input and output marketing, and inherent inefficiencies of the collective and state farm
system.
Agricultural Performance and Structure
2.            The food and agriculture sector has greater economic potential in Ukraine than in any
other region of the Former Soviet Union (FSU). This is due primarily to its favorable agro-climatic
conditions. Ukraine is currently a major producer of grains, oilseeds, root crops and livestock, and has
the potential to become a major producer of fruit and vegetables, however, performance in the sector has
been far below potential. Crop yields are 50% to 55% of those in Western Europe, fertility yields of
livestock are 33% lower, and feed conversion ratios are less than half of Western standards.
3.            In addition to technical inefficiencies, Ukrainian agriculture still exhibits the major
hallmarks and inefficiencies of the Soviet system. Most of the production is organized in large-scale state
farms and collectives. The large bureaucratic administrative structures that managed agriculture during
the Soviet period are still functioning at the national level and have been preserved, almost without
change, at the regional level.
The Reform Process
4.            The Government of Ukraine has moved the economic reform in the agricultural sector
forward on two fronts - market and price liberalization, and land reform. Progress in these areas was
slow for the first two years after independence, however there was marked progress in 1993.
5.            Formal price controls have been removed for all agricultural inputs and commodities,
however, the government still maintains control of the wheat market through margin controls on mills
and bakeries and issuing input credits linked to forward state contracts. In addition, a vast majority of
the country's grain storage capacity is still controlled by the state, through which the state exercises a
considerable amount of control on prices, exports and domestic grain movements. Despite these controls,
farms are increasingly dealing with private input suppliers and exporters because the poor payment record
and inefficiency of the state procurement system. One estimate by a Government source is that 25% of
farms no longer work with the state procurement system.
1/Published in November 1994 as a World Bank Country Study and disserninated in translated version in Ukraine.



32
6.            The privatization of land is moving slowly. Uncertainty about future legislation on land
ownership, the risks involved in private farming under present macroeconomic conditions and the absence
of a competitive input/output market and credit system substantially limit interest in the establishment of
independent private farms. As of April 1994 private farmers controlled only 1.5% of Ukraine's
agricultural land, while 1 1.8 % of agricultural land was in private plots. Reform in the agricultural sector
is proceeding mainly through the reorganization of existing collective farms and state farms. The
majority of state farms have been restructured and privatized into collective farms, however some still
remain (primarily research farms) in public ownership. By the first quarter of 1994 two thirds of
traditional large scale farms had elected to formally register as private entities. However, among the
farms that decided to register, 85 % registered as collective enterprises, which is an organizational form
essentially identical to the old kolkhozes. Among those farms which have undergone substantial
reorganization there are 355 agricultural cooperatives (lease cooperatives) and about 100 joint stock
societies.
An Agricultural Reform Strategy.
Market Liberalization
7.            The most important contribution that the Governrment can make to improving agriculture
in the short run is macroeconomic stabilization and reduction or elimination of controls on domestic and
international market transactions. Inflation coupled with price controls has been detrimental to agriculture
in the past, and will continue to plague agriculture in the future if it is not managed correctly. Greater
price liberalization would eliminate implicit taxation of farmers arising from controls that favor urban
consumption. The Governmnent has made major strides to correct these problems, but will need to
remove remaining export restrictions and margin controls on wheat processing to complete the process.
Securing Food Supply. Protecting Vulnerable Groups.
8.            Since Ukraine produces a surplus of agricultural products over and above its domestic
needs, shortages of domestic food supplies are unlikely. However, there may be groups whose incomes
have dropped to the point where their nutritional status is in jeopardy. Currently, the Government
provides broad based food subsidies, primarily to urban consumers, through margin controls on bread
and flour processors, and export restrictions that suppress the price of domestic food products. Food
stamps programs, income transfers and subsidies linked to products with low income elasticity are all
preferable to untargeted subsidies of the kind found in Ukraine.
Restructuring and Privatizinz the Agricultural Distribution and Processing
9.            The successful transformation of agriculture will depend to a large extent on the
development of a competitive farm support sector - material/technical supply, agricultural services and
the marketing of agricultural commodities. Without the establishment of competitive for inputs and
outputs, private farms will remain dependent on authorities, and an efficient pricing structure cannot
develop. Rapid demonopolization of agroprocessing input supply and marketing systems and free entry
into the market for new enterprises should be permitted to encourage market development.



33
Reform of the Agricultural Credit System
10.           Subsidization and chronic non-repayment of agricultural credit is a major source of
government subsidy to the agricultural sector and has undermined credit discipline in the country. The
situation is further complicated by linking the provision of agricultural credit to State contracts. The
development of credit unions or other forms of cooperatives, small scale rural banks or informal
arrangements involving private sector trade credit might be an effective means of reaching a broader array
of rural clients.
Land Reform and Farm Restructuring
11.           The objective of agricultural restructuring should be the creation of a sector of
independent, privately-owned and largely owner operated farms that are free to change their farrning
methods and output mix in response to evolving product and production technology and changes in input
and output prices. They should also have the freedom to select the most efficient organizational form,
whether it be as individuals, small groups or collectives. The land reform and farm restructuring
program in Ukraine should focus on three areas.
i) Restructuring and privatization of collective and state farms. This would include:
*      separation of production activities from social and municipal functions
e      distribution of land and other productive assets to members in physically recognizable
form and not as anonymous shares
e      freedom of decision to members about future  organization of production after the
distribution of ownership of land and other assets; and
*      promotion of competitive input and marketing enterprises which serve the restructured
farm sector.
ii) Promoting Private Farming and Farmers Cooperatives. International evidence is clear that
individually owned private farms are more efficient than collective or state farms. The evidence
is also clear that agricultural systems that have a critical mass of private farmers, they create an
effective demand for new competitive sources of supply for inputs and channels for marketing,
storage processing and distribution.
iii) Strengthening Land Legislation. Several new laws are being prepared on land ownership and
land use in the framework of a new land code. The new legislation envisages the full
privatization of agricultural land. If this law is passed in the parliament, Ukraine will have one
of the most progressive approaches to land reform in the FSU. According to the draft, every
collective farm member will receive, without payment, an average land share with full ownership
and title. Further work in the area of revisions to the land law are:
*      giving the immediate right to sell and buy agricultural land and shares receive by
cooperative farm members



34
*      allowing rental levels for agricultural land to be freely negotiated between parties
*      permitting mortgaging of land to finance purchase and/or improvement;
*      ensuring timely processing and approval of applications for land; and
*      consolidating land records in each district center and computerizing record keeping.
Improving Agricultural Productivity.
12.           Land reform, state and collective farm enterprise restructuring, and privatization are
important preconditions for the improvement of the efficiency in agricultural production. However, if
efficiency is to be improved on a sustainable basis, there will need to be a substantial recapitalizing of
the agricultural sector. This will include
*      the development of physical facilities (wholesale centers, farmers markets etc.) to support
the market for agricultural products and inputs for agriculture;
X      reconstruction and major modernization of support services along decentralized private
and/or cooperative lines;
*      reconstruction and modernization of agroprocessing;
e      introduction of environmentally friendly technologies.
Restoring International Trade
13.           Export of agricultural crops can make a significant contribution to sectoral growth. There
is a marked difference between the problems to be addressed in exporting products to the FSU and non-
FSU countries. To expand exports to FSU countries, substantial investments are required in reducing
transaction costs through the establishment of secure payment systems. For expanding export to non FSU
countries, Ukraine will need to make substantial investments, both public and private, in improving the
quality of exports, for example, grading and cleaning equipment.
New Roles for Government
14.           The Government's role should be to establish the general rules and facilitate the conditions
for smooth operation of markets and independent business organizations, and remove itself from the daily
operations of agribusiness companies.  In order to achieve this goal there must be a complete
restructuring of agriculture sector ministries and committees.



35
Ukraine at a glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Central  middle-
Ukraine      Asia  income        Development diamond-
Population mid-1995 (millions)                           51.6       488    1,154
GNP per capita 1995 (US$)                                1,630     2,240    1,700                  Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (billions USS)                                   84,1     1,093     1,962
Average annual growth, 1990-95
Population (I%)                                           -0.1       0 4       1 4     GNP                                 Gross
Labor force (%)                                           -0.1       0 6       1.8      per                               primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                                capita                          enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)                 32
Urban population (% of total population)                   70        66        56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           69         68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                   15         23       36                 Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of chi/dren under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                     97                  78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                        2                                  -   Ukraine
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)      87         97      104
Male                                                     87        97       105              --- Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                   87        97       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985       1994     1995              -
IEconomic ratlos*
GDP (billions US$)                                                  99.6     86 2
Gross domestic investment/GDP                      ..    27.3        8.8Openness of economy
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP       ..       .       64 5     45.6
Gross domestic savings/GDP                         ..    28.4        3.0       5.6
Gross national savingslGDP                         ..       ..       2 7       4 7
Current account balance/GDP                                         -1 4      -1.8
Interest payments/GDP                                                0.1       0.6     Savings       -t               Investment
Total debtGDP                                                        5.5       98
Total debt service/exports                        ..        ..       2.1       6.1
Present value of debt/GDP                          ..       ..       5.0
Present value of debtexports                      ..        ..      34.8                            Indebtedness
1975-84  1985-95      1994      1995  1996-04
(average annual growth)                                                                      -   Ukraine
GDP                                    3.5      -6.6    -23.5      -11.8       5.1
GNP per capita                         3.1      -6 8     -21.6     -13.7      -0 3                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and nfs                           .     -11.0       6 7       8 1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985       1994     1995
(% of GOP)                                                                              Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                        .      193       17.4      17.8      60
Industry                                           .     45 6       45.4     42.3       3D -
Manufacturing                                   ..    38 0        40 5      38.7                        -
Services                                                  352       37 2      399
Private consumption                                       53.7      77 2     77 2      -60
General government consumption                     .      179       19.8      17.2               -     GDI    ----GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services           .                70 3     48 9
1975-84  1985-95      1994      1995
(average annual growth)                                                                Growth rates of exports and Imports I%)
Agriculture                                               -3.6     -22 0      -9.0      10,
Industry                                          ..    -8.9       -29.9    -17.0
Manufacturing                                   ..       2.2     -23.9    -15.0
Services                                                  -6.0     -33.8      .9.7 
-5 90   D1   92    93
Private consumption                               ..    -2.7       -231      -17.8
General government consumption                    ..    -9.7       -23.1    -28 6    |'i
Gross domestic investment                          ..   -18.6      -15.5      45.0     -15 
Imports of goods and non-factor services          ..        ..      -7.2      -2.3                    Exports        Imports
Gross national product                           3.5      -6.6     -23.5    -12.7
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



36
Ukraine
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1994     1995      Inflation
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                          5000
Consumer prices                                                 891.1    376.0
Implicdt GDP deflator                         -0.5     -1.3     903.1    427.4    2,5T0
Govemment finance
(% of GOP)                                                                            o      90   91   92   93   94   05
Current revenue                                                  45.3      38 6
Current budget balance                                            -4.6     -0.7              -GDP def  -- CPt
Overall surplus/deficit                                           -8 2     -4.7
TRADE
(millions US)  1975  1985  1994  1995    rExport and Import levels (mill. USS)
(millions USS)
Total exports (fob)                                             12,111   13,647     20.000
Commodity 1                                                    3,980    4,542
Commodity 2                                                     496       567      15.000
Manufactures                                                   2,800    3,000
Total imports (cit)                                             14,471   15,945     't 0
Food67                                                                    70
Fuel and energy                                .        ..     6.305    6.753       .0
Capital goods                                                  2,978    3,815                                         _
I   99  90  91  92  93  94  95
Export price index (1994=100)                                     100      112
Import price index (1994=100)                                     100      115                   [ Expofts    nImports
Terms of trade (1994=100)                       ..       ..       100       97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1994     1995
(millions US$)                                                                    I Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services                        14,713   16,408    |     _ ,    ,    ,     ,__
Imports of goods and non-factor services                       16.044   17,615          69   90   91  92 !93  i 94   95
Resource balance                                                -1,331   -1,207
Net factor income                                                 -74      -507                             ii
Net current transfers                                               9      200
Current account balance,                                                              I
before official transfers                                     -1,396   -1,514                                    _
Financing items (net)                                            1,301     467        j
Changes in net reserves                                            95    1,027    -21
Memo:
Reserves including gold (miii USS)              ..       ..       646    1,129
Conversion rate (local/US$)                     ..       ..  1.OE+05  1.7E+05
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1994     1995
(millions US$)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                             5,438    8,465                     G    A
IBRD                                                            102      491                     255  491
IDA                                                               0        0                                    c
F
Total debt service                                                300      918           2347                    1542
IBRO                                                              0        8
IDA                                              ~    ~ ~         ~       ~~~~~~0  0  f          0
IDA                                                                       D
128
Composition of net resource flows
Ofricial grants                                                 216      240
Official creditors                                               98      400
Private creditors                                               208       -20
Foreign direct investment                                       250      300                             E
Portfolio equity                                                  0        0                           3702
World Bank program
Commitments                                                     500      146    , A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                   102      401       8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                              0        0      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                                       102      401     _
Interest payments                                                 0        8
Net transfers                                                   102      393
Intemational Economics Department                                                                                     8/20J96
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.



IBRD 27828
20                            ,       25'                                      30                  , '                 35                                    40A
l,   ,   J  BELARUS         t        2   --/          RUSSIAN                                    ROADS
FEDERATION                            -     RAILROADS
A                            0    SELECtED TOWNS AND CMES
>  .  k  .  !  _  ,;  \ .                 *      NAlnONAL CAPITAL
T. B-q   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~--AUTONOMOUS REPUBUC OR
-. r=o.   kOBLAST BOUNDARIES
POLAND                                                                                                                                         INJTERNAT-ONAL BOUNDARIES
/I Krsel (.. .   ~  Scmy  .(* t   ' > { **>    a    41  Chein,hi.  V< .ToMo.o-                             RIVERS
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
or50 i; w b W * D Z ~~~~ S >* * i(> ' /. . ~~Chm   Knop,_t T. Moscow
-,D *   - *; ' RV iv,r,  e  -  4        *voir       - pryluky
50-
-50'           To K/"--, 
Lvv'  S~~~~~~~~~                               ~      ~~~ Zytor- -  Kn,                            Kark' 
SLOVAK  \.             -     ~~~~~~~ ~~~~erop    KnmeInytslc          Tserk~         
REPUBLIC                                                               V n< Vnysia RSeie dttnt
1Fr .-6                   &            0  .;X, L   .   T .h k                                            . .       h-mDek         -s        g
0              ANIA                                                                                                               nxtorTo Bochorer  MOLDOVA   /  T. Ro--'-
H                              2y
RUS51AN  _   LATVIA                                                                                                                                 <; *EBerdiansk M r po
8,_ LIHr                      RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                               ,                                                 s-  Azov     2   . RUSSIAN
r7   BELARUS     N .i  fJ'                                                 ,tvskyi                 Krotoeosn,               <Kl                           FEDERATION 
POLAND       \       ~' _,_                                                                  '7-5ikv  vooia-   ,.-     oKonc
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~< -'_.                                                         ot\"Iit '                                To Krodosiad 
SLCWAK')            UKRAINE            -)$  '                            C         aueDh                                 \      /~a~
HUNGARY         ,\ADV *-ASvatp
-  \   ROMANIA  pe .* >                                                 .-                                                   Y RO  OLLOMEVERS
S.RDREP(it                 0tik ~        +,                   ,                                  LC           E                                    50   100   150\
OF  --'         Black                                                                BLACK~~~25   SEA                             I      I        
UGOSLA~~~~~~~~~~~~ BULGARIA  Sea ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ e
VF,GYR2  BULGARIA             R          G _RGIA    BULGARIA FDRT 3I5O                                                                                   MLNES
BELARUS                                                                                                                                             FEDTURKEYER MARCH 1996









I



