Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19223
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UKRAINE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4103-0-UA)
April 27, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank Authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 26, 1999)
Currency Unit   =   Hrivnya
I Hrv        US $0.248
US $1   =   4.025 Hrivnya
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
February 1997    June 1997       April 1998
1.77            1.86           2.04
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Ag SECAL  - Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
AIS  -  Agro-Industrial Sector
AMC  - Anti-Monopoly Committee
CAE  -  Collective Agricultural Enterprise
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
EFF  -  Extended Fund Facility
ESW   -  Economic and Sector Work
EU-TACIS  -  European Union Programme of Technical Assistance to the
Commonwealth of Independent States
FSU  -  Former Soviet Union
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GOU  -  Government of Ukraine
IBRD  - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IFC  - International Finance Corporation
IMCAR  - Inter-Ministerial Commission for Agrarian Reform
IMF  - International Monetary Fund
JEXIM   - Japan EXIM Bank
MOJ  - Ministry of Justice
NARD   - National Agency for Reconstruction and Development
PCU  - Policy Coordination Unit
PGF  - Pre-Export Guarantee Facility
PIU  -  Project Implementation Unit
TA  - Technical Assistance
USAID  - United States Agency for International Development
USEXIM   - United States EXIM Bank
WTO  -  World Trade Organization
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Paul Siegelbaum, ECC11
Team Leader: Mark Lundell, ECSSD
Sector Leader: Laura Tuck, ECSSD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UKRAINE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4103-0-UA)
Preface
Contents
Evaluation Summary ......................................................................                                  i
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment ....................................................................................
A.       Introduction and Project Objectives
B.       Achievement of Objectives
C.       Major Factors Affecting the Project
D.       Project Sustainability
E.       Bank Perfornance
F.       Borrower Performance
G.       Assessment of Outcome
H.       Future Operations
1.       Key Lessons Leamed
Part II. Statistical Tables ......................................................................                       17
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ...............................................................                 17
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ...............................................................               18
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ...............................................................                      18
TABLE 4: CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENTS .................................................................. 19
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .............................................. 19
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ...............................................................            20
TABLE 7: PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ...............................................................             20
TABLE 8: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...............................................................              21
TABLE 9: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .................................. 23
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS                              .......................................... 24
TABLE  11: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS                             ............................................. 24
Appendixes:
A. Mission's Aide Memoire
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UKRAINE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4103-0-UA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Loan (Ag SECAL) to Ukraine, for which Loan 4103-0-UA was approved by
the Board on October 17, 1996, and made effective December 27, 1996.
The closing date of the loan was December 31, 1998, compared with the original
closing date of December 31, 1997. The first tranche of US$150 million was disbursed
on December 27, 1996, and the Second Tranche of US$150 million was disbursed on
September 10, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Mark Lundell (Agricultural Economist, ECSSD) and
Mr. Elliott Hurwitz (consultant), based on an ICR mission in October 1998, led by Mr.
Lundell. Preparation of the ICR also included evaluation of materials in the project file,
including the President's Report, Letter of Development Policy, Second Tranche Release
Waiver, reports generated by the project, and Back-to-Office reports from supervision
missions (in which Messrs. Lundell, Csaki, Shuker, Hurwitz, and Kaliberda participated).
The ICR was reviewed by Messrs./Mmes. Paul Siegelbaum, Lily Chu, Chadrashekar
Pant, Laura Tuck, Csaba Csaki, lain Shuker, and Aleksander Kaliberda.
The Borrower contributed to the ICR by providing its own evaluation of the project
(Appendix A).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UKRAINE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4103-0-UA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Evaluation of Objectives
1. The overall goal of the Ag SECAL was to support GOU policy measures to increase
agricultural efficiency and promote market development. This was to be accomplished
by actions to increase farm gate prices, allow more flexible response to price changes,
and provide greater access to credit. Specific project outputs targeted were to:
. liberalize agricultural markets by implementing more competitive government
procurement methods (which would assist development of private intermediaries),
and removing the remaining profit and price margins on grain and bread;
*  liberalize trade by removing grain export quotas and discontinuing indicative prices
on trade contracts;
*  encourage land reform by establishing a legal basis for division and privatization of
large farms, to promote development of viable farm management units;
*  encourage market entry in production, processing, and marketing of agricultural
inputs and outputs by privatizing and demonopolizing existing entities; and
*  restructure state agricultural institutions to focus on the role of market facilitator,
and bolster agricultural market information.
2.   The targeted outputs were appropriate for Ukraine's circumstances and key to
increasing the efficiency of the agricultural sector and promoting development of a
market economy. Market and price liberalization would increase participation of private
entities and improve incentives for efficient operation, while increasing international
trade would improve farn-gate prices for Ukrainian outputs and enhance farm
profitability.
Achievement of Objectives
3.   Overall, Ukraine's achievement of agricultural reform was partial, and major
factions of the GOU seemed fundamentally unready to yield control of the sector.
Significant progress was made in some areas, but in others the GOU circumvented
reforms by developing new procedures and organizations. While the GOU satisfied most
of the Ag SECAL conditions to the letter, it often blocked achievement of reform goals
outside the framework of conditionality.



4.  Moderate progress was made in market and price liberalization, with elimination of
price and margin controls on grain. Considerable progress was made in foreign trade,
with removal of most remaining trade restrictions and restraint in imposing additional
barriers. As a result, implicit taxation of the agricultural sector has been reversed.
Nevertheless, the farm sector has been unable to respond to improved prices and expand
output because of lack of access to investment and working capital and corporate
governance has not been sufficiently altered. Attracting investment in farming has been
significantly handicapped by the GOU's unwillingness to reduce intervention in the grain
sector. (It has been GOU practice to require in-kind compensation for inputs or credit
supplied, as well as for tax or pension arrears.) Consequently, the GOU has effectively
subordinated farm debt to the private sector, thereby reducing farms' access to capital.
5.  Moderate progress was also made in land reform and farm restructuring, where--for
98 percent of agricultural land--the GOU maneuvered around Parliament's unwillingness
to abolish the land sale moratorium, and also simplified procedures for withdrawal of
land plots from collectives.' Over 80 percent of farm members have received land share
certificates, but only about 50,000 farm members have left the large collective
agricultural enterprises. The total area used by private and household farmers in 1998 had
increased by about 3 percent (up 240,000 ha from 6.41 million ha in early 1996). Thus,
management of farms has changed little, with rewards for efficient use of capital and
higher labor productivity still weak.
6.    The GOU  made good progress in privatizing the agricultural distribution and
processing system, with privatization of processing enterprises far exceeding Ag SECAL
goals, and 85 percent of grain storage and processing facilities privatized or scheduled for
privatization. However, privatization with ownership by management and workers has
not so far resulted in restructured or more efficient enterprises (a deficiency not limited to
the Ag SECAL project).
7.   In sum, if growth of Ukrainian agriculture is to re-ignite, farm restructuring must
proceed more widely, with concomitant improvements in corporate govemance. This
would signal to the financial system that new managers, with a better chance of being
profitable, are in place and able to use loan funds in a less risky manner. With similar
changes in the ownership structures in the agro-industrial enterprises, domestic and
foreign investors would have greater confidence in making the necessary capital available
to improve facilities and productivity in input supply, storage and handling, and
processing enterprises. Thus, a dual focus on improving corporate governance and
facilitating credit and investment to farms and agro-industrial enterprises is necessary.
Lastly, the investment climate is not likely to be perceived as less risky, in terms of
potential state intervention in markets, unless the GOU ceases to require or even accept
grain and other commodities as payment on farm debt: the state must abstain from
'A Second Tranche release condition required amending the Land Code to abolish the six-year moratorium
on land sales, but Parliament declined to take this action. Instead, the government obtained an opinion
from the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) which, in combination with an amendment to a joint order of the MOJ
and the State Committee for Land Resources, meant that in practice the moratorium had been abolished for
98 percent of agricultural land.
ii1



involvement in commodity markets if the private sector role in these markets is to
expand.
Factors Affecting Implementation Experience
8.  Internal Factors--The constant changes in personnel in the leadership of the
agricultural sector reduced understanding and ownership of the reform agenda supported
by the Ag SECAL and slowed the pace for implementation of reform steps. The
Parliament was also not fundamentally committed to agricultural reform and was resistant
to much of the Ag SECAL program. These were the most important factors in causing
the Ag SECAL to fall short of its goals. Moreover, the crucial period of project launch
was hampered by the shift of project implementation and monitoring responsibilities
away from the group that had handled project preparation, with a consequent loss of
institutional memory.
9. External Factors--In understanding the effective degree of GOU commitment to
agricultural reform, it is important to recognize that two key external factors dilute this
cormmitment. First, the substantial opposition to land reform and open markets by a
number of parliamentary factions lowers the probability of getting reforms through and
slowly wears down the GOU's resolve. Next, the weak linkage by many international
donors of their support (both credit guarantees and technical assistance) to strong GOU
performance on the implementation of agricultural sector reforms further weakens
commitment. In fact, sometimes the Ministry of Agriculture and Food usually places
more emphasis on increasing access to agricultural inputs and machinery through credit
guarantees agreements with export credit agencies than it does on getting key sectoral
reforms through the government (and parliamentary) approval process.
10.  Another external factor at work has been tightened budgetary constraints. The
reduction of central budget expenditure has fueled the partial replacement of budgetary
funding for the agricultural sector by contingent liabilities taken on by the GOU.
Delivery of machinery and agricultural chemicals by foreign suppliers has been supported
by large amounts of guarantees from export credit agencies (from USEXIM, Hermes,
JEXIM - the outstanding value of which was about $900 million in early 1998), for which
the GOU has given counter-guarantees to the export credit agencies in return. The results
have been an oscillation of actual government expenditure in this area in a non-
transparent way. In the area of trade policy, macroeconomic influences have had a
negative impact on the pace of agricultural reforms. The continual appreciation of the real
exchange rate over the period 1995-1997 has partly eroded Ukraine's historical
comparative advantage in grains, oilseeds, and some meat products, and allowed the
agro-industrial lobby to successfully convince the Ukrainian Parliament to increase
import tariffs on food and agricultural products.
11.   Sustainability--The sustainability of the Ag SECAL is uncertain. Market and
price reforms were modest, and could be partially reversed. Reforms in the trade regime,
however, were deeper, and GOU desire to integrate into the European trading system
increases the likelihood that reforms will be sustained. Since farm members have
iii



received land share certificates and are beginning to either withdraw physical land plots
or lease their land rights to others, land reform seems to be on a steady but slowly
progressing path. Enterprise privatization has proved popular and potentially profitable
for new owners, so it is highly unlikely to be reversed. Still, the impact of this
privatization on enterprise restructuring will continue to be weak in an uncertain
investment climate. If Ukraine stays in compliance with IMF and Bank programs, its
macroeconomic performance will probably continue to be adequate.
12.   Bank Performance-- Overall Bank performance was satisfactory2. Bank staff
were perceived as competent and professional, even while resistance from some parts of
the GOU made progress difficult. There was a perception, however, that the Ag SECAL
supervision effort should have placed greater emphasis on public relations and education,
and that this might have facilitated progress. Greater attention should have been paid
early on to the formation of a sustainable project implementation unit dedicated full-time
to agricultural policy analysis and project monitoring.
13.  Borrower Performance-- Borrower performance was unsatisfactory. While many
important project goals were met, this was usually done with difficulty and delay
(sometimes due to inaction by Parliament). The dominant factions of the GOU often
caused reforms to be circumvented by developing new procedures and parastatal
organizations. On the other hand, some parts of the GOU, particularly the Inter-
Ministerial Commission on Agricultural Reform (IMCAR), were resolute in pushing for
reform, and the project could not have made the progress it did without this contribution.
14. Assessment of Outcome-- Project outcome is assessed as satisfactory. While
significant policy reforms were achieved in many areas, in some areas progress was
limited. There has been a demonstrable improvement in farms' commodity terms of
trade, as the sectoral producer subsidy equivalent has switched from very negative to
positive, but farm income and output have not grown for lack of sufficient investment.
Despite progress in facilitating the process of developing private land plots and the
effective abolition of the land sale moratorium, farm restructuring has progressed slowly.
Privatization and demonopolization of agro-industrial enterprises was successfully
executed, but a poor investment climate has limited capital inflow and the effective
restructuring and growth of these enterprises. Macroeconomic performance, although
improved during much of the Ag SECAL project, recently worsened.
15. Future Operation--The Bank has arranged with the GOU to maintain active
participation in agricultural reforms with: participation in IMCAR, of which it is a
member; a strong ESW and TA program; and 3 follow-on agricultural projects.
16. Key Lessons Learned--The following were the key lessons learned:
Build a stable base for reform and anticipate potential changes in leadership. --
With the brief tenure of many officials in the agricultural sector, one must carry on a
2 According to new ICR preparation formats to be introduced after July 1,1999, it could be more accurately
rated as "marginally satisfactory".
iv



wi'0e dialogue with agricultural policy makers if the degree of support for an
agricultural reform program is to be well gauged and maintained over a multi-year
period. Thus, a core group of articulate, agricultural policy analysts and working
group leaders is key to generating and sustaining momentum in an agricultural reform
program and maintaining the Government's level of attention to troublesome and
politically charged agricultural reform issues.
*Recognize the limits of the policy instruments included under the
conditionalities. Though it is always the intention to craft a program of sectoral
conditionalities which targets all the main obstacles to agricultural sector
restructuring and growth, these conditions are bound to be necessary but not sufficient
reform steps. There will always be unforeseen obstacles that arise, and influences
beyond the program of reform steps specifically set. The failure of the GOU to win
Parliamentary approval over 1997-98 for the Ukraine Pre-Export Guarantee Facility
(PGF), which has as its aim the reduction of political risks for investors in the
agricultural sector, has reduced advances of working capital to the agricultural sector
and greatly limited the impact of the Ag SECAL reform steps. The approval of the
PGF should have been a Board presentation condition for the Ag SECAL.
*Pay closer attention to the time frame and lags of policies' having intended
effects and favor ambitiously set numerical targets over legal steps with quantifiably
umnmonitorable results. It was unrealistic to believe that the implementation of the sets
of conditionalities aimed at farm restructuring and agro-industrial privatization and
demonopolization would be able in a year and a half s time to substantially reorient
land tenure, alter corporate governance, and cause newly formed enterprises to exhibit
independence of their former national and regional supervising monopolies. In
addition, the impact of some of the conditionalities would have been better targeted
by defining the final results deemed to indicate real progress (e.g. dissolution of 1 000
collective agricultural enterprises) and leaving the amendment of laws and
government regulations necessary to achieve such goals entirely to the discretion of
the GOU.
*Considerable Attention Should be Accorded to the "Political Economy of
Change"--For a project as ambitious as the Ag SECAL, in a political environMent as
difficult as Ukraine, considerable attention should be given to the "political economy
of change." An explicit analysis should be made of: (1) the receptivity of major
political groups to change; (2) public education and outreach programs required to
reach interested stakeholders; and (3) elements of the project design that could appeal
to stakeholders.' With reformn steps formulated as tranche conditions dependent on
Parliamentary action, the Bank should have made an independent effort to assess
potential Parliamentary support.
v



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UKRAINE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4103-0-UA)
Part I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION AND PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Introduction
1.  Economic conditions in Ukraine worsened dramatically after independence in 1991,
with GDP per capita declining from US $2,340 in 1991 to US $1,572 in 1994,
accompanied by hyperinflation. Ukraine's external trade came under serious strain as
transaction mechanisms with its main trade partners collapsed and the prices of many
imports-particularly energy-rose dramatically.   Export volumes declined and
Ukraine's external debt reached US $7.2 billion by the end of 1994, from zero in 1991.
In October, 1994, the Government of Ukraine (GOU), under a new President, adopted a
stabilization and structural adjustment program with the assistance of the IMF and World
Bank. This program concentrated on immediate measures to reduce the fiscal deficit to
3.3 percent of GDP, limit credit expansion, strengthen the external debt position, and
reduce inflation. As a result, inflation declined, foreign exchange restrictions were
removed, and most domestic prices were decontrolled.
2.   While slippages in implementing both the stabilization and structural reform
programs occurred in the second half of 1995, by early 1996 the GOU had renewed its
commitment to stabilization by tightening monetary policy and implementing various
structural reforms. These measures paved the way for a re-phasing of the IMF Stand-by
Arrangement in May, 1996, with an attendant commitment to tight fiscal and monetary
policy and continued progress in structural areas.
Agricultural Sector
3.   Ukraine's food and agricultural sector has greater economic potential than that of
any other country of the former Soviet Union (FSU). This potential is due primarily to
the country's favorable agro-climatic conditions, which are well-suited to production of
grains, oilseeds, root and fiber crops, and livestock, as well as cultivation of a wide
variety of temperate fruits and vegetables. Ukraine has a very low cost of production for
a wide variety of agricultural products, even when evaluating inputs at world market
levels. The country has traditionally been a large exporter of food and agricultural
products, with net exports of US $2.5 billion per year in 1988-1990. Prior to 1930, it
exported agricultural products to much of Europe.



4.   Despite its potential richness, from 1990 to 1995 agricultural output fell by more
than 30 percent. While part of this decline was a result of external forces, it also reflected
inefficiencies due to the legacy of collectivized agriculture, reduction of subsidies to the
livestock sector, and continued implicit taxation of the crops sector by the state supply
and purchasing system. Implicit taxation resulted from state trading agencies that
pressured farms to sell at low prices by making these sales a condition of obtaining scarce
inputs and credit.
5.   In 1996, Ukraine agreed with the Bank to embark on an ambitious effort to
transform its economy to a market-oriented system. In agriculture, this consisted of
measures to liberalize exports, remove price restrictions, reduce state purchases, and
accelerate privatization of medium and large enterprises. These measures were supported
by an agricultural sector assistance program, consisting of 5 Bank adjustment and
investment loans, of which the Ag SECAL was the centerpiece:
Project                          Loan Amount           Status
Seed Development Project         US$32 million         Effective July, 1996
Ag SECAL                         US$300 million        Effective December, 1996
Pre-Export Guarantee Facility     US$120 million       Parliamentary approval pending
Title Registration Project        US$50 million        Expected 1999
Agribusiness Development Project    US$20 million      Postponed indefinitely
Project Objectives and Evaluation Of Objectives
6.   The overall goal of the Ag SECAL was to support GOU policy measures that
would increase efficiency within the agricultural sector and promote market development.
This was intended to be accomplished by actions to increase farm gate prices, allow more
flexible response to price changes, and provide greater access to credit.  Specific
objectives were to:
.  liberalize agricultural markets by implementing more competitive government
procurement methods (which would assist development of private intermediaries),
and removing the remaining profit and price margins on grain and bread;
*  liberalize trade by removing grain export quotas and discontinuing indicative prices
on trade contracts;
*  encourage land reform by establishing a legal basis for division and privatization of
large farms, which would promote development of viable farm management units;
*  encourage market entry in production, processing, and marketing of agricultural
inputs and outputs by privatizing and demonopolizing existing entities; and
*  restructure state agricultural institutions to focus on the role of market facilitator,
and bolster agricultural market information.
7.   These objectives were appropriate and were key to increasing the efficiency of the
agricultural sector and promoting development of a market economy. Market and price
2



liberalization aimed at increasing participation of private entities, improving incentives
for efficient operation, and stimulating growth of agricultural production. Liberalizing
international trade focused on improving farm-gate prices for Ukrainian outputs and
enhancing farm profitability. Increased private ownership of land was key to promoting
restructuring of large farms and developing new viable farm entities. And efforts to
reduce barriers to entry and operation of private firms in production, processing, and
marketing were critical to providing actors with appropriate incentives and stimulating
structural change as well. The Ag SECAL was foreseen in the CAS as a critical vehicle
for carrying out the Bank's strategy in the sector.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Summary of Actions Taken
8.   Overall, GOU progress in implementing agricultural reform has been partial, and
the GOU seems unready to yield control of many segments of the agricultural sector.
Less progress was made than anticipated, and that headway took longer than expected.
While significant progress was made in a number of areas -- most notably in foreign trade
and removal of profit and margin controls -- in other areas the GOU circumvented
reforms by developing new procedures and parastatal organizations which hinder
development of private intermediaries. While the GOU satisfied many Ag SECAL
conditions, it often blocked achievement of reform goals outside the framework of
SECAL conditionality. For example, even though the GOU has technically removed state
orders, it has often required in 1997-98 that debtors repay debts to the state in grain,
effectively reintroducing the old system under a different guise.
9.  As noted, although significant progress was made in some areas, the GOU did not
meet all the conditions for the release of the Ag SECAL Second Tranche. However, the
GOU did take several additional actions that -- together with the progress in areas where
conditionality was fulfilled -- led Bank management to decide that a waiver to permit the
tranche release was warranted, and the Second Tranche was released on September 10,
1998.
10. Moderate progress was made in Market and Price Liberalization, with some
positive and some negative aspects to the GOU's performance.
•  The GOU repealed profit and margin controls on grain procurement and storage,
and rescinded the power of oblast and local governments to impose trade and
margin controls in this sector.
*  State procurements of agricultural products in 1997 and 1998 were not made on a
competitive basis-a key Ag SECAL condition intended to stimulate the
emergence of private intermediaries.  One hundred eighty grain storage or
processing facilities were privatized, and an additional 345 were placed into the
privatization process. Though, this constituted a significant step to ensure that
grain will move through private intermediaries, it still did not fully compensate
3



for the original condition which required making agricultural procurements on a
competitive basis.
• The 1998 federal budget contained no resources explicitly targeted for agricultural
procurement, in principle limiting government interference in the market.
* Considering indirect support under the fuel and fertilizer programs, as well as
likely contingent losses under guarantee programs, total 1998 costs to the budget
for agriculture totaled about US$550 million-less than in previous years.
* Ukrainian farms owe the GOU approximately US$1.5 billion for inputs delivered
in previous years. The GOU generally requires that government debts be repaid
before private debts. In 1996, GOU set up a parastatal, Khlib Ukrainy, which has
been be directed to seize crops from farms to repay GOU debt for taxes, pensions,
losses under guarantee programs, and farm input.
* Progress was made in the fertilizer supply program, which was executed on a
tender basis through which bids were allowed from all domestic gas wholesalers
and fertilizer producers.
11. Considerable progress was made in Foreign Trade:
* The GOU eliminated agricultural commodities from the export registry system,
and abolished indicative prices for export contracts.
i The GOU submitted legislation to Parliament four times to remove export taxes
on livestock and skins, but was not successful. However, the GOU granted
exemptions for the export of skins that are processed abroad and re-imported,3
thus somewhat mitigating the effect of the tax.
* The GOU has refrained from intervening in agricultural import and export
markets, such as imposing quotas or export taxes (except for WTO-acceptable
actions or voluntary export restraints under other multilateral agreements).
c The GOU has not implemented limitations passed by Parliament that would
impose import quotas on meat products and minimum indicative prices on other
imports. No import quotas are applied on raw or refined sugar (which is,
however, subject to a high import tax).
* No limitations have been placed on imports whose prices are below the minimal
customs invoice prices. Nevertheless, the 1997 Law on Agricultural Imports
increased the average import tariff in the food and agricultural sector from 20
percent to 27 percent (see Paragraph 28 for this discussion).
12. Moderate progress was made in Land Reform and Farm Restructuring:
*  A Second Tranche release condition required amending the Land Code to abolish
the six-year moratorium on land sales, but Parliament declined to take this action.
Instead, the government obtained an opinion from the Ministry of Justice (MOJ)
which, in combination with an amendment to a joint order of the MOJ and the
State Committee for Land Resources, meant that in practice the moratorium had
While removal of the export tax had also been a condition for 2nd tranche release, given GOU steps
regarding skins and other actions in support of trade reform, a waiver was granted.
4



been abolished for 98 percent of agricultural land. This was a key element in
Board approval of a waiver of the Second Tranche release condition.
*  Procedures permitting members of collective agricultural enterprises to withdraw
their plots were simplified, and the GOU implemented a public information
campaign in each oblast to inform the population of changes in the legal
framework and valid exit procedures.
*  The GOU issued a regulation to establish a title registry system for land and other
real estate, but has not yet made progress on implementation. It is expected that
this system will be fully developed and implemented under the Title Registration
Project, which is currently in preparation.
.  There has been rapid growth in leasehold arrangements, under which local
businessmen, former collective farm managers, and foreign firms lease land from
collective farms or individuals. Land under lease may comprise as much as 10
percent of the total land under production in 1998.
*  Land share certificates have been issued to over 80 percent of the beneficiaries
(farm members) on more than 8,500 farms (four times the number required as a
Second Tranche condition), and farm restructuring efforts are proceeding on at
least 150 farms with support by USAID, IFC, and other donors.
13. Good progress was made in Privatizing the Agricultural Distribution and
Processing System and Demonopolization:
*  A Second Tranche condition required the GOU to privatize a minimum of 1000
large and medium  scale Agro-Industrial Sector (AIS) enterprises.  The
government far exceeded that goal, with around 3,900 of 4,800 AIS enterprises
privatized by December, 1997.
*  While the Ag SECAL more than met its privatization goals, there is evidence
that privatizations which result in control by management and workers-nearly
all of those in Ukraine--seldom restructure the firms or achieve the operational
efficiencies which are the ultimate goal of privatization.4
* As noted earlier, to compensate partially for the control government retained in
grain procurement, the GOU agreed to privatize 100 grain storage or processing
facilities, and as of August, 1998 this goal had been met. An additional 262
such enterprises have had their privatization plans approved, and when the
program is completed, 445 of the 545 grain elevators and grain handling
facilities will have been privatized.
*  The GOU Anti-Monopoly Committee (AMC) demonopolized more than 100
AIS regional or national monopoly enterprises during their privatization and
also provided definitions of anti-competitive and collusive practices which it
prohibited. The AMC further provided guidelines for the behavior of industry
"associations," to try to avoid the possibility that the components of former
monopoly enterprises that had been privatized would collude and exercise a de
facto monopoly.
4 See, for example, "Ukraine Agribusiness Development: Ownership, Management, Performance," Carana
Corp., September, 1998.
5



14. Little progress was made in stimulating New Roles for Government:
*  The expectation that the GOU would dismantle its structure for managing the
AIS went unfulfilled. There was no "radical modification or merger and
downsizing" of these functions.
*  At the start of the project it was envisioned that the Ag SECAL would support
the GOU in developing the capability to provide timely agricultural market
information. However, early in the Ag SECAL, Bank management decided that
this function could be more effectively carried out in the Agribusiness
Development Project, and dropped this component. Subsequently, however, the
preparation of the Agribusiness Development was postponed.
15. Appropriate  Macroeconomic  Framework  for  Stabilization.    Ukraine's
macroeconomic performance, although improved during much of the Ag SECAL project,
recently worsened (in part due to external forces), and achievement of objectives in this
area was partial. Ukraine had enjoyed reasonable success in the monetary aspects of
stabilization since the hyperinflation of 1993 and 1994. Reasonable price stability was
achieved in 1996 and 1997, and inflation was only 3 percent in the first half of 1998.
During this time, Ukraine enjoyed success in borrowing on the Eurobond market. But the
international financial crisis-particularly the devaluation of the Russian ruble and
suspension of Russian debt payments-had substantial effects on Ukraine. As a result of
the devaluation of the hryvnia (more than 35 percent from August 17 to October 30),
inflation in 1998 was around 20 percent.
16. A major problem was that the GOU's monetary restraint had been achieved without
a serious attempt to address the role and the size of the public sector. Ukraine's
continued large budget deficits have led to large levels of short-term debt, which in turn
have led to an unsustainable debt service burden.5 Without major debt restructuring and
fiscal reform, the previous progress in macroeconomic stability was endangered. The
economy's real productive performance also remained weak. Official statistics show a
decline of 3.2 percent in GDP in 1997, the eighth successive year of decline. The
cumulative decline, based on official statistics, exceeds 60 percent since 1991, although
the actual decline was probably smaller as a result of the growing informal sector-
estimated at from 20 percent to 60 percent of total economic activity.
17. On September 4, 1998, Ukraine reached agreement with the IMF on a 3-year,
US $2.3 billion EFF program. The program requires a nearly 50 percent reduction in the
budget deficit, from Uah 5 billion in 1997 to Uah 2.8 billion in 1998, accomplished by
reduction of public employment, subsidies, and special extra-budgetary funds,
accompanied by measures to improve tax collection. There are numerous additional
stringent conditionalities. If Ukraine stays in full compliance with the IMF and various
Bank programs, the endorsement of the IMF and the Bank could help improve its
5 This was a major factor in the winding down of funding from Eurobond issues in the second quarter of
1998.
6



reputation as an investment target, and reduce the threat and/or actuality of capital
outflows.
Evaluation of Monitoring Indicators to Assess Impact
18. Comparing the average of the production monitoring indicators for 1996-1998 with
the base levels of 1995, it is apparent that production of grain and oilseeds has fallen 10-
15 percent, livestock production has fallen 15-20 percent, and sugar production is down
by 25 percent. These reductions have occurred despite the lessening of implicit taxation
through state intervention (which was widespread in the early 1990s) as evidenced by the
improvement of the agricultural sector producer subsidy equivalent measure from -88
percent in 1994 to +51 percent in 1997. Reduction in yields and feed conversion rates are
partially behind the production drops, but reduced areas planted and downsized livestock
herds are equally responsible as the worsening availability of working capital on
Ukrainian farms has created fuel shortages and made the routine field works difficult to
execute. The deteriorated state of most farm equipment (with average age of over ten
years) has also contributed to this decline in farming capability.  Still, Ukraine's
agricultural export values (in US$) have been generally rising (with the clear exception of
sugar), and food imports continue to decline.
19. Farm Privatization. Moderate progress was also made in land reform and farm
restructuring, but land tenure has not shown further large shifts away from large
collective agricultural enterprises (CAEs, the legal successors to state and collective
farms). While about 95 percent of all members of CAEs in Ukraine had received land
share certificates by January 1, 1998, only 4 percent of these members have exited to date
(about 50,000 members). As the number of registered private farns increased by only 2
percent to about 36,000 during the period 1997-1998, it appears that most of those exiting
CAEs are simply reverting to household plot farming and renting out land which they
themselves cannot farm. In total, the hectares used by private and household farmers rose
only about 3 percent from 1996 through 1998 (up 0.24 million ha to 6.65 million ha).
Thus, about 16 percent of total agricultural land is now owned and operated by private
and household farmers. On the legal front, the GOU maneuvered around Parliament's
unwillingness to abolish the land sale moratorium (for 98 percent of agricultural land),
and also simplified procedures for withdrawal of land plots from collectives. Though this
has not led to an active sale of agricultural land, the leasing of land awarded through land
share certificates was an important development in the land market in 1998. Some
reports from the field indicate that as much as 10 percent of CAEs' lands are being leased
to both corporate-style tenants (large farms of over 500 hectares) as well as smaller
extended family farms. These trends and their impacts are being examined in a current
(third) survey of farm restructuring in Ukraine.
20.  Agro-Industrial Sector.  The GOU made good progress in privatizing the
agricultural distribution and processing system, with privatization of processing
enterprises far exceeding Ag SECAL goals. Between January 1, 1997 and February 28,
1998, the number of agro-industrial sector enterprises privatized through the voucher
method rose from 2,210 to 3,950 (out of a total of about 4,800). In addition, 85 percent
7



of the 550 grain storage and processing facilities had initiated the mass privatization
procedure by June 1, 1998. Despite these achievements, the voucher privatization
process in the agro-industrial sector has given 51 percent of shares in these enterprises to
members of CAEs that historically supplied raw materials to these enterprises. The
expectation during appraisal of the Ag SECAL was that a substantial portion of these
shares owned by farn members would be sold on the secondary share market to
investment funds and to strategic investors willing to increase the enterprises' capital. In
fact, such secondary market transactions have been rare, with the result being that passive
shareholders have forced no improvement in management of these enterprises. The
previously cited Carana Corporation report (footnote 3) indicates that creation of a Board
of Directors at most firms has had little impact on corporate governance - in most cases
management was not changed.
21. Market Development. A second factor, in addition to dispersed passive share
ownership, which has hampered the restructuring and growth of agro-industrial
production is the highly interventionary and disruptive manner in which the GOU has
handled the farm debt issue. Although progress was made in market and price
liberalization, with elimination of price and margin controls on grain (and the other
measures enumerated in Paragraph 10), it has become GOU practice to require payment
from farms for inputs or credit supplied, as well as tax or pension arrears, in grain
deliveries. In order to enforce delivery of grain to liquidate farm debts, regional
agricultural administrations have often been directed by governors (typically citing a
decree of the Cabinet of Ministers) to freeze grain movements and not to allow the
transfer of grain to private sector trade enterprises until the given year's advances to
farms under grain contracts with the state have been paid off in grain deliveries.
22. This type of intervention, though officially rescinded and repudiated repeatedly in
1997 and 1998 (by Presidential decree, decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, and public
statements by Deputy Prime Ministers), remains a perceived potential risk by all types of
investors interested in input supply, storage, and trade operations in the agricultural
sector. As the GOU has become more involved in financing input deliveries to farms in
1997-98, the stock of outstanding farm debt to the state has grown. A large share of this
debt is likely bad since the GOU has traditionally collected less than half of credit
advanced in the past. This debt also reduces the extension of credit to farms by the
private sector, as these market agents fear that the state will assert and execute preference
over farms' output.
23. Summary. The set of indicators monitored during the implementation of the Ag
SECAL reveals that a foundation has been laid on which some positive developments
have begun to emerge. Price regulation and implicit taxation is largely gone; farm
members are aware of their rights and taking advantage of them more often; agro-industry
is out of state hands; and trade policies are not preventing net agricultural exports from
rising. Still, if growth of Ukrainian agriculture is to re-ignite, farm restructuring must
proceed more widely, with concomitant improvements in corporate governance. This
would signal to the financial system that new managers, with a better chance of being
profitable, are in place and able to use loan funds in a less risky manner. With similar
8



changes in the ownership structures in the agro-industrial enterprises, domestic and
foreign investors will have greater confidence in making the necessary capital available to
improve facilities and productivity in input supply, storage and handling, and processing
enterprises. Thus, a dual focus on improving corporate governance and facilitating credit
and investment to farmns and agro-industrial enterprises is necessary.  Lastly, the
investment climate is not likely to be perceived as less risky, in terms of potential state
intervention in markets, unless the GOU ceases to require or even accept grain and other
commodities as payment on farm debt: the state must abstain from involvement in
commodity markets if the private sector role in these markets is to expand.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
24. The Ag SECAL was approved by the Board on October 17, 1996, and made
effective on December 27, 1996-substantially in accordance with the schedule in the
Memorandum of the President. However, because of delays described earlier in
achieving compliance with project conditionalities, the Second Tranche was released
September 10, 1998, compared with the anticipated release date of June 30, 1997, and the
loan closed on December 31, 1998, one year later than expected.
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
25. Budgetary and Macroeconomic influences. One of the aims of the Ag SECAL
was to reduce state intervention in the agricultural sector. The expectation that this
reduction could be done progressively and credibly was reasonable at the time of project
formulation and Negotiations, as the 1994-1996 budgets had consistently reduced funding
of agricultural procurements from US $1.4 billion in 1993 to about US $650 million in
1996. Indeed, budget expenditure planned and executed from the national budget was
further reduced to about US $300 million annually in 1997-1998. The unforeseen
development was that a large amount of off-budget fumding for agriculture has arisen
from a number of sources. Grain (valued at about $150 million annually) from the state
material reserve funds has been pledged as collateral to back IOUs issued by the state
under programs for input deliveries from national suppliers. Delivery of machinery and
agricultural chemicals by foreign suppliers has been supported by large amounts of
guarantees from export credit agencies (the outstanding value of which was about $900
million in early 1998 - to be repaid over 4 years), for which the GOU has given counter-
guarantees to the export credit agencies in return. Given that repayment by farms under
both these sets of programs has usually been no more than 50 percent, the GOU is
typically forced to partially pay for these input deliveries.
26. Thus, budgetary constraints have fueled the partial replacement of budgetary
funding for the agricultural sector by contingent liabilities taken on by the GOU. The
results have been an oscillation of actual government expenditure in this area in a non-
transparent way, and a burgeoning of farm debt owing to allocation of these input
deliveries without adequate due diligence to the assessment of the commercial risks posed
by the recipient customers (farms).
9



27. In the area of trade policy, macroeconomic influences have had a negative impact
on the pace of agricultural reforms. With the continual appreciation of the real exchange
rate over 1995-1997, Ukraine's historical comparative advantage in grains, oilseeds, and
some meat products has been eroded to a certain degree. Still, most agricultural exports
have either been stable or increased since 1993, while food imports have either been
stable or fallen. Thus, net export volumes of agricultural products have not fallen, but
profit margins have declined. For some processed agricultural goods where high quality
is a key characteristic sought by Ukrainian consumers (e.g., highly processed meat and
dairy products, leather goods, etc.) imports have risen quickly since demand in these "up-
market" segments is growing faster than for traditional, lower quality segments.
28.  Agricultural processor groups have cited both the fall of profit margins and increase
in high quality imports to successfully lobby for increased tariffs and in some cases (live
animals and skins) export taxes on raw agricultural materials. As a result of the 1997
Law of Agricultural Imports, the average agricultural and food sector import tariff
increased from about 20 percent to 27 percent, with many tariffs set in specific form
(ECU/ton) at equivalent ad valorem rates of 70 percent or higher.
29.  As noted earlier, the international financial crisis (particularly the devaluation of the
Russian ruble and suspension of Russian debt payments) had a serious negative impact on
Ukrainian macroeconomic performance. As a result of the devaluation of the hryvnia
(more than 35 percent from August 17 to October 30), inflation in 1998 reached 20
percent.
30. In understanding the effective degree of GOU commitment to agricultural reform, it
is important to recognize that two key external factors dilute this commitment. First, the
substantial opposition to land reform and open markets by a number of parliamentary
factions lowers the probability of getting reforms through and slowly wears down the
GOU's resolve. Next, the weak linkage by many international donors of their support
(both credit guarantees and technical assistance) to strong GOU performance on the
implementation of agricultural sector reforms further weakens commitment. In fact,
sometimes the Ministry of Agriculture and Food usually places more emphasis on
increasing access to agricultural inputs and machinery through credit guarantees
agreements with export credit agencies than it does on getting key sectoral reforms
through the government (and parliamentary) approval process.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
31. Changes in personnel. The period of preparation and implementation of the Ag
SECAL, June 1995-October 1998, has witnessed the tenure of three Prime Ministers, two
Deputy Prime Ministers for the Agro-Industrial Complex, and six Ministers of
Agriculture. The constant changing of the Minister of Agriculture made it difficult for
the Ukraine rural team to gauge the degree of understanding and ownership of the project
and slowed the pace for implementation of reform steps. The replacement of the Minister
of Agriculture shortly after the project became effective was particularly detrimental, as
10



the new minister's support for the conditionalities aimed at making state purchases of
agricultural commodities more transparent was weak at best and hampered project
launch. As described earlier, the Parliament was also not fundamentally committed to
agricultural reform and was resistant to much of the Ag SECAL program.
32.  Institutional factors. An important factor that has affected the implementation of
the Ag SECAL reform program is the changing locus of agricultural policy making.
During 1995-96 when the operation was being prepared, the Ministry of Agriculture had
a larger role in roughly equal balance with the Cabinet of Ministers Agricultural
Department. After the change of Deputy Prime Minister in mid-1996, active articulation
and formation of policy by the Minister of Agriculture and Deputy Prime Minister
lessened in favor of a more active role by the Prime Minister and his advisers directly. In
this period, it often appeared that commitments under the reform program supported by
the Ag SECAL were secondary inputs to the policy formation process. As the Deputy
Prime Minister for Economic Reform began (in late 1997) to show greater interest and
mastery of the issues targeted by the reform program of the Ag SECAL, the consideration
of these commitments in the policy formation process increased markedly. At this time
the efforts to establish a Secretariat for the Inter-Ministerial Committee on Agrarian
Reform (IMCAR, chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister of Economic Reform) began to
take root, the result being a much closer working relationship with the Bank and quicker
responsiveness on both sides throughout 1998.
33. In this regard, it is necessary to note in retrospect that the initial effort to form a
Policy Coordination Unit (the PCU) attached to the Deputy Prime Minister for the Agro-
Industrial Sector failed. The PCU failed for two reasons: i) excessive reliance on the
DPM  for legitimacy; and ii) inability to attract dynamic policy analysts with
understanding of agricultural policy mechanics in a market environment. Since this DPM
left office before the Ag SECAL was negotiated and became effective, the GOU
requested at Negotiations that the responsibilities of project implementation be jointly
shared by a PIU to be created in the Ministry of Finance and the NARD. The former unit
was never created, and so after project effectiveness, the NARD adopted the Ag SECAL
implementation responsibilities. Thus, from a project implementation standpoint, the
crucial period of project launch was hampered by this passing of responsibilities and the
loss of institutional memory of the PCU. Nevertheless, the NARD managed to execute
its reporting responsibilities under the Ag SECAL efficiently. In 1998, the NARD was
assisted with policy analysis and monitoring of development objectives under the Ag
SECAL by the Secretariat of the IMCAR and the IMCAR Agricultural Policy Analysis
Unit. Both of these groups were set up and continue to operate with a mix of funding
from USAID, EU-TACIS, and the Bank.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
34. The sustainability of the Ag SECAL is uncertain. If Ukraine stays in compliance
with IMF and Bank programs, its macroeconomic performance will probably continue to
be adequate (assuming no further exogenous shocks). But if the size of the public sector
11



and the fiscal deficit are not substantially reduced, then further progress will be
problematical. Progress in Market and Price Liberalization was modest and contentious,
and it is possible that some backsliding could occur. The GOU will have to restructure
farm debt to the state and abstain from collecting these debts in kind (grain and other
commodities). GOU progress in Foreign Trade has been more substantial, and this trade
reform is also part of on-going EFF conditionality. Ukraine's desire to join the World
Trade Organization is a further motivation to maintain and extend these reforms, so it is
reasonable to expect that the GOU will not backtrack in this area.
35. In Land Reform and Farm Restructuring, it would seem that, once having identified
a physical plot of land to a citizen, it would be very difficult for the Government then to
re-collectivize the land.  Land reform  has been popular and profitable for many
individuals, and will likely be sustained. In farm restructuring, change has occurred only
slowly, but will continue as lease markets develop and more farm members recognize the
benefits of leaving  the  collective  agricultural enterprises.   Privatization  and
Demonopolization of agro-industrial enterprises seems popular, well-established, and
potentially profitable to a large segment, so there is no reason to think that it will not be
sustained.  But the emergence of less fragmented shareholding by more active
shareholders is crucial to improve corporate governance in agro-industry and convince
domestic and foreign investors to make the necessary capital available to improve
facilities and productivity in input supply, storage and handling, and processing
enterprises.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
36. Overall Bank performance was satisfactory6. Project objectives were developed in
a participative process with the borrower, and were highly relevant to the circumstances
of the country. The monitorable performance indicators were largely chosen correctly
and proved to be actually monitorable, with the following caveats. First, given that
increasing investment in land and other productive assets was a targeted project output, a
specific performance indicator to measure this investment should have been developed
and monitored. Secondly, the second measure of price distortion was too vaguely defined
and too costly to actually produce. Eventually, measures of comparative agricultural
processing margins were defined for five sub-sectors but surveyed results for 1996 and
1997 could not be produced for lack of adequate funding. Generally, Bank staff were
perceived as competent and professional, with particular note made of the technical
contributions made by the Resident Mission. While Bank staff worked diligently and
persistently to satisfy many Ag SECAL conditions, as noted earlier, some parts of the
GOU were resistant, making Bank efforts more difficult.
37. A number of individuals interviewed voiced the belief that a greater Bank effort in
the area of education and public relations--especially with the public and with Parliament-
6 According to new ICR preparation formats to be introduced after July 1,1999, it could be more accurately
rated as "marginally satisfactory"
12



-would have facilitated progress. In this regard, it was noted that the Resident Mission's
public relations and education efforts a few years ago seemed more vigorous and
effective.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38. Borrower performance was unsatisfactory. While many important project goals
were met, this was usually done with difficulty and delay (sometimes due to inaction by
Parliament). As noted earlier, the GOU sometimes circumvented reforms by developing
new procedures and parastatal organizations. Also, the key goal of having the GOU
procure agricultural products on a competitive basis was not met, although the
worthwhile program of privatizing grain elevators and storage facilities was substituted.
39. While the GOU took steps to satisfy many Ag SECAL conditions, some factions
blocked a clear commitment to reform, and often blocked achievement of reform goals
outside the framework of SECAL conditionality. Some successes of the Ag SECAL
(overcoming the land sale moratorium, and restriction on sales of skins) were
accomplished in a roundabout way that leaves open the possibility they could be reversed.
Moreover, other elements of the GOU, as well as local governments, delayed and blocked
reform, and will likely continue to do so. The Parliament openly opposes reform,
particularly private land ownership, and will continue to hinder progress.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40. Project outcome is assessed as marginally satisfactory. While there is no question
that policy reforms were achieved in many areas, in some areas progress was limited. On
the positive side, significant progress was made in reducing trade barriers, with both
quotas and specific tariffs being reduced.  Profit and margin controls on grain
procurement and storage were rescinded. The privatization of grain elevators and storage
facilities was a meaningful step. And the privatization of agro-industrial enterprises and
bakeries and elevators was impressive, and greatly exceeded the requirements of the Ag
SECAL.
41. There has been a demonstrable improvement in farms' commodity terms of trade,
as the sectoral producer subsidy equivalent has switched from very negative to positive.
But farm income and output have not grown for lack of sufficient investment (see Table
1). Part of the hesitance of domestic and foreign investors can be attributed to the fact
that the state remains an important potential actor in the agricultural sector because of the
accumulated stock of farm debts that it holds. The perennial attempts by the GOU to
require payment of farm debt in agricultural commodities makes investors fear that debts
to the private sector will receive subordinated status. Without sufficient investment, the
total value of agricultural exports has not increased since the initiation of the Ag SECAL,
though exports of key commodities such as oilseeds and meat have risen (see Table 2).
13



42.  Despite progress in facilitating the process of developing private land plots and the
effective abolition of the moratorium on land sales for 98 percent of agricultural land,
only about 4 percent of CAE farm members have exited the large farms, with most of
those exiting simply reverting to household plot farmning. Thus, about 16 percent of total
agricultural land is now owned and operated by private and household farmers which
together accounted for 58 percent of total output in 1997, compared to 30 percent of
output in 1990. This represents positive progress, but the pace of expansion of private
farming is slower than was expected under the Ag SECAL, according to information
from the surveys of farms executed by the Bank in 1994 and 1996. Thus, in the vast
majority of cases, there has been little change in the structure or behavior of farms.
Table 1 Agricultural Production, 1991-98 (million tons)
1991       1995       1996        1997       1998
Grain             38.7        33.9       24.6        35.3       26.4
Sunflower Seed    2.31        2.86       2.12        2.31       2.27
Sugar             4.79        3.89       3.30        2.03       1.99
Milk Products     22.4        17.3       15.8        13.8       13.7
Beef (carcass)     1.88       1.19        1.05       0.93       0.83
Pork (carcass)    1.42        0.81       0.78        0.69       0.62
Table 2 Agricultural Trade, 1993-1998, (millions of US$)
_rportrf                           1nsportl
1993   1995   1996   1997   1998   1993   1995   1996   1997   1998
Grain      19.0   123.4  377.1  127.8  313.8  83.7   58.9   30.9   19.6   19.0
Vegetable  30.4   153.9  171.7  110.3  118.7  11.4   1.4   7.3    4.6   7.1
Oil
Sunseed    65.4   20.5   197.8  228.0  192.8  0.0    8.6   8.1    4.2    12.6
Sugar      256.0  851.4  626.0  247.5  26.5   106.0  122.3  203.9  3.0    38.2
Milk       42.0   274.6  180.1  79.2   65.9   19.2   16.9   19.3   11.9  8.8
Products
Meat       71.5   250.3  304.2  260.2  159.6  29.9   57.7   151.0  83.6   66.7
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
43. The Bank has arranged with its Ag SECAL counterparts to maintain active
participation in agricultural reform after the project ends. This will be done through the
IMCAR (discussed in detail in the next section), through the follow-on projects noted
earlier, and in part by the efforts of specialists in the Resident Mission. Through these
means, as well as a strong ESW and TA program (FY99 plans include TA for capacity-
building and a study of farm restructuring), the Bank will vigorously promote continued
progress on reforms.
14



I.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED
44.  Build a stable base and anticipate changes in leadership. Given the substantial
level of reforms involved in the first tranche (as both tranches were about equally
"loaded"), the process of definition, agreement, and achievement of the first tranche took
about 18 months. Implementation of the second tranche conditionalities required just
over 20 months. When the average tenure of a Minister of Agriculture in Ukraine is
about one year, one must carry on a wide dialogue with agricultural policy makers in the
Cabinet of Minister's Agricultural Department, Ministries of Finance and Economy, State
Committee for Land Resources, the Presidential Administration, and elsewhere, if the
degree of support for an agricultural reform program is to be well gauged and maintained
over a multi-year period.
45.   The Ag SECAL benefited from excellent supervision efforts by staff in the Kiev
Resident Mission, but it was crucial to have the support of the Deputy Prime Minister for
Economic Reform and the donor community in setting up the IMCAR Secretariat.
IMCAR developed draft legislation and regulations, analyses of policy options, helped
bridge ministerial boundaries, and also achieved better coordination within the GOU and
among donors. As shown below in Figure 1, the Chairman of IMCAR is the Vice Prime
Minister for Economic Reform, and IMCAR has a Secretariat of 10 specialists in areas
key to moving forward with reform, and a satellite policy analysis unit in MAIC
consisting of 5 analysts. The lesson here is that a core group of articulate, agricultural
policy analysts and working group leaders is key to generating and sustaining momentum
in an agricultural reform program. Without such a group of experts dedicated to the
reform program on a daily basis, the Government's level of attention to troublesome and
politically charged agricultural reformn issues will invariably wane over a two-year period.
Figure 1
Inter-Ministerial Commission for Agricultural Reform
Chairman of IMCAR
Vice PM for Economic
Reform
Head of IMCAR Secretariat
Land and  Finance   Commercial  Socal Spher  A
Property   Credit  Agricultural           i  A
Relations  & Investmen  Developmen  Rural Areas  Unit
(located in MAIC)
46. Recognize the limits of the policy instruments included under the
conditionalities. Though it is always the intention to craft a program of sectoral
conditionalities which targets all the main obstacles to agricultural sector restructuring
15



and growth, these conditions are bound to be necessary but not sufficient reform steps.
There will always be unforeseen obstacles that arise, and influences beyond the program
of reform steps specifically set. The efforts of Prime Minister Lazarenko in 1996 to be
seen as tough on farm debts led to the tying of farm debts to grain deliveries and the
widespread perception that the GOU still aims to control grain markets. This policy has
continued in a weakened version as net outstanding debt by fanns to the state rises while
the threat of potential state intervention grows. The spirit of market development and
devolution to the private sector was never observed by the GOU under the Ag SECAL
and so the benefits of incremental private sector investment have been minimal: "nothing
wagered, nothing gained." The failure of the GOU to win Parliamentary approval over
1997-98 for the Ukraine Pre-Export Guarantee Facility (PGF), which has as its aim the
reduction of political risks for investors in the agricultural sector, has also reduced
advances of working capital to the agricultural sector and contributed to Ukraine's
reduced farming capability. Perhaps the approval of the PGF should have been a Board
presentation condition for the Ag SECAL.
47.  Pay closer attention to the time frame and lags of policies' having intended
effects and favor ambitiously set numerical targets over legal steps with quantifiable
unmonitorable results. It was unrealistic to believe that the implementation of the sets of
conditionalities aimed at farm restructuring and agro-industrial privatization and
demonopolization would be able in a year and a half s time to substantially reorient land
tenure, alter corporate governance, and cause newly formed enterprises to exhibit
independence of their former national and regional supervising monopolies. In addition,
the nature of implementing a number of "qualitative" conditionalities forced project
implementation to focus substantial supervision resources (both of the Bank and the
Ukrainian counterparts) away from the further identification of bottlenecks and reform
steps to be taken. Rather, these resources were spent on stage by stage evaluation of the
substituting steps taken by the GOU (through the drafting and issuance of government
regulations) in pursuit of legislative steps which the Parliament did not agree to take. The
correct course would have been to define the final results deemed to indicate real progress
(e.g. dissolution of 1000 CAEs) and left the amendment of laws and government
regulations necessary to achieve such goals entirely to the discretion of the GOU.
48. Considerable Attention Should be Accorded to the "Political Economy of
Change". For a project as ambitious as the Ag SECAL, in a political environment as
difficult as Ukraine, considerable attention should be given to the "political economy of
change." An explicit analysis should be made of: (1) the receptivity of major political
groups to the changes being sought; (2) public education and outreach programs required
to reach interested stakeholders; and (3) elements of the project design that could appeal
to stakeholders ("what's in it for me?"). The project should be explicitly designed with
these factors in mind.
49.  In this calculus, the Bank should make an independent effort to assess potential
Parliamentary support for reform steps that are being formulated as tranche conditions
dependent on Parliamentary action. The specific lesson of this project was that two
Parliamentary actions had to be explicitly waived for the Second tranche release.
16



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macro policies
Sector Policies                                  i
Financial objectives                                                             i
Institutional development         i
Physical objectives                                                              i
Poverty reduction                                                i
Gender issues                                                                    i
Other social objectives                                                          i
Environmental objectives                                                         i
Public sector management                                                         i
Private sector development                                                       i
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainability
C. Bank Performance
Ietfcation 
Pearation                     V
Assistance
Appraisal
Supervision                     i
D. Borrower performance
Prprton 
Impemetaton 
Covenant
Compliance



E. Assessment of Outcome
HOW      _VSark,Jfitaioy   Unsafisfatory"
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .......... ....  . .. . .
%at ig/sfltor   ^Xztczr         fsiJby   
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits
Puqrpse         Fiscal Yearr ofApproi'_
Preceding Operations
Institution Building            Strengthen Government         1993             Closed
Capacity
Agricultural Seed Development   Agricultural Seed Development  1995           In implementation
Hydropower Rehabilitation       Hydropower Rehabilitation     1995            In implementation
Coal Pilot Project              Demonstrate feasibility of closing   1996      In implementation
mines in socially/environmentally
sensitive manner
Enterprise Development          Strengthen Enterprise Sector    1996           Tranches released and final
Adjustment                                                                    technical assistance being
implemented.
Following Operations
Title Registration              Implement title                               In preparation
registration system
Agribusiness Development                                                       Currently, preparation is on hold
Pilot Rural Finance                                                            In preparation
Private Sector Development                                                     In preparation
Pre-Export Guarantee                                                           Parliamentary approval is
currently pending
Rural Development                                                              Currently, preparation is on hold
Table 3: Project Timetable
.. . . . . ...   . .. ....   . ................................... ...   ..   ..
Identification                 March 1995                      March 1995
Preparation                    June 1995, November 1995, and    June 1995, November 1995, and
February 1996                   February 1996
Appraisal                      May 1996                        June 1996
Negotiations                   August 1996                     August, 1996
Letter of development policy   September 1996                  September 14, 1996
Board presentation             October 1996                    October 17, 1996
Signing                        October 1996                    November 14, 1996
Effectiveness                  October 1996                    December 27, 1996
First tranche release          October 31, 1996                December 27, 1996
Second tranche release         June 30, 1997                   September 10, 1998
Loan closing                   December 31, 1997               December 31, 1998
18



Table 4: Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Appraisal estimate                   $300                    0
Actual                               $150                   $150
Actual as % of estimate              50%                     --
Date of final disbursement     December 27, 1996       September 10, 1998
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
|~~~ ~                                                                         8        
~~~~~'I                                                                           111 *I I  I
Producer and market Continuous  Ratio of domestic commodity   Studies completed during project
efficiency                       prices to border prices       preparation and implementation show
that these ratios are increasing
Market efficiency    Continuous  Comparisons of processing     Results available for some sub-sectors
margins in the agro-industrial   indicate that no efficiency increases
sector compared with similar    have come about yet
margins in this sector
worldwide
Success of land      Continuous  Measures of growth of private   Data available (see Sections B and G,
reform, farm                     and individual farming and    above)--limited growth, although
restructuring, and               privatized agro-processing    significant privatization of land
enterprise
privatization
Price distortion and   Continuous  Nominal rates of protection,  Studies completed during project
market barriers                  effective rates of protection,  preparation and implementation;
and producer subsidy         reduced distortions evidenced
equivalents; Ratio of domestic
commodity prices to border
prices
Trade liberalization   Continuous  Measures of agricultural and  Data available (see Section G,
and producer                     food exports (volumes and     above)--moderate decline
efficiency                       values)
Notes: 1. Although it was originally intended that the Ministry of Finance would prepare
quarterly reports on the implementation of reforms which would then be evaluated by the
National Agency for Reconstruction and Development (NARD), in the course of the project
NARD prepared the reports at the time of each Bank supervision mission.
2. It was originally intended that measures of land title issuance would be included as
performance indicators in the Ag SECAL, but the development of these measures was postponed
until the Title Registration Project is undertaken.
3. It had also been the intention to measure deconcentration (especially of input suppliers)
in the AIS, but project resources proved insufficient to collect the volume of data needed to
formulate a valid assessment.
19



Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Price distortions    Assessment of Nominal rates  Studies completed  Reduced distortions evidenced
and market barriers  of protection, effective rates  during project
of protection, and producer   preparation and
subsidy equivalents; Ratio of implementation
domestic commodity prices
to border prices
"Ukraine             Impact of enterprise       Completed.        There is evidence that
Agribusiness         privatization on governance                   privatizations which result in
Development:         and performance.                              control by management and
Ownership,                                                        workers seldom restructure the
Management,                                                       firms or achieve the
Performance,"                                                      operational efficiencies which
Carana Corp.,                                                     are the ultimate goal of
September, 1998                                                   privatization.
Table 7: Project Cost and Financing
Foreign                             Foreign
Source                  Local costs  costs      Total       Local costs  costs       Total
IBRD                                300         300                     300          300
Cofinancing institutions
Other external sources
Domestic contribution
Total                               300         300                      300         300
20



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
3.02         Accounting!   NYD                                   Upon the Bank's request, Borrower  Not yet due
Auditing                                           shall (a) have Deposit Account
audited in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles,
consistently applied by independent
auditors acceptable to Bank; (b)
fumish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not more
than 6 months after the date of the
Bank's request for such audit, a
certified copy of the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank
may have reasonably requested.
Schedule 3-  Project Impl.   C                                   Continuous maintenance of       Borrower and
macroeconomic framework         IMF reached
consistent with the objectives of the  agreement on
program as determined on the basis  EFF program
of performance criteria acceptable   on September
to the Borrower and the Bank    4, 1998
Schedule 3-  Project Impl.  NC                                   Elimination of all export duties and   Waived by
2                                                                indicative prices on all agricultural   Board
exports, with the exception of those  approval of
covered by voluntary export     President's
restraints, anti-dumping        Memorandum
investigations, and those permitted   of Sept. 10,
under the World Trade           1998
Organization Agreement.
Schedule 3-  Project Impl.   NC                                  Enactment of amendments to the  Waived by
3                                                                Land Code that would: (i) abolish    Board
existing 6-year moratorium on sale   approval of
of land; and (ii) limit to 3 months    President's
the time within which co-owners  Memorandum
can exercise their preferential right   of Sept. 10,
to buy the share of land being sold   1998
by a co-owner
Schedule 3-  Project Impl.   C                                   Enactment of legislation or other  GOU achieved
4                                                                normative acts that would: (a) give   amendment of
a right to 2 or more members of a    relevant order.
collective agricultural enterprise,
joint stock agricultural company or
agricultural cooperative to
withdraw adjacent land plots from
the said enterprise; (b) limit to 3
months the period within which
farm members' council of a CAE
has to give its consent to the plots
of land requested by one or more
members who filed an application
for withdrawal of the said plot(s) of
land; and (c) give withdrawing
21



members of a CAE the right to (1)
appeal to designated authority in the
event the farm members' council of
the CAE fails to give its consent
within the 3 months specified in
sub-paragraph (b), above, and (ii)
receive ownership of his/her plot of
land within 12 months of receiving
the consent in accordance with
procedures referred to in sub-
paragraph (b) or sub-paragraph (c)
(1) of this paragraph.
3-5           Project Impl.   C                                     Borrower has implemented an        SCLR and
action plan, satisfactory to the  Presidential
Bank, for carrying out a public   Administration
information campaign in each     implemented
oblast relating to: (I) the legal rights  this action
of members of CAEs to exit the    plan
said CAEs and exchange their
shares in the said CAEs for land
plots; and (ii) the procedures for
exercising the said rights.
3-6           Project Impl.   C                                     Enactment of legislation           Achieved by
establishing a national unified  resolution of
registry for all immovable property,  Cabinet of
including rural and urban land and    Ministers,
other real estate, including      February 18,
buildings                         1998
3-7           Project Impl.   C                                     Submission of evidence,            Complied with
satisfactory to the Bank, that the
Borrower has: (i) completed
registration process for land share
certificates in 2,000 CAEs and
issued the said land share
certificates to at least 75 percent of
entitled beneficiaries in such CAEs;
and (ii) completed the process of
exchanging land share certificates
for physically identified land plots
of at least 75 CAEs.
Status
C = complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with
NYD = not yet due
22



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
(cont)
Agreement    Covenant        Present    Original      Revised         Description of covenant       Comments
Section        Type        Status*    Fulfillment  fulfillment
date         date
3.8           Project Impl.   NC                                  Submission of evidence,          Waived by
satisfactory to the Bank, that   Board
demonstrates that starting on    approval of
November 15, 1996, all state     President's
agricultural procurement by state  Memorandum
agencies has been carried out on a    of Sept. 10,
competitive basis through open   1998
tenders and/or agricultural
commodity exchanges in a manner
facilitating private sector
participation.
3-9           Project Impl.   C                                   Borrower has implemented
methodology for privatization of
agro-industrial enterprises, which:
(i) has shortened the periods for the
corporation and share subscription
processes to a period approximating
the corresponding periods achieved
for analogous enterprises in other
sectors, and (ii) ensures that shares
in these agro-industrial enterprises
that are subject to transfer on
preferential terms to primary
producers of agricultural raw
materials, shall be transferred to
physical persons and not to any
collective structures
Status
C = complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with
NYD = not yet due
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
All relevant OM statements complied with
23



Table 10: Bank Resources -- Staff Inputs
Planned d
Stage of project cycle     Weeks       US$(000)       Weeks         US$(000)
Preparation to appraisal    34.7         78.4          150.2        345.0
Appraisal, negotiations     36.9         52.0          39.1          53.9
through Board approval
Supervision/tranche release   52.0       85.9          53.1         82.8
Completion                  16.7         28.5          4.9          14.1
Total                       140.3        244.8         247.3        495.8
Table 11: Bank Resources -- Missions
j~~                                                                                E
Stage of cycle   Month/   Number   Days  Specialized      Implementation   Development  Types of
year      of         in    staff skills        Status        objectives   Problems
persons   field
Through        1/95       6         16    Agricultural
appraisal                                  Economists,
Fin. Spec.,
Guar. Spec.,
Legal Spec.,
GIS Spec.
5/95      5          18    Agricultural
Economists,
Market Spec.,
Guar. Spec.
9/95      5          14    Agricultural
Economists,
Legal Spec.,
Guar. Spec.
2/96      3          12    Agricultural
Economists
4/96      3          6      Agricultural
Economists
24



Performance Rating
Stage of cycle   Month/   Number   Days  Specialized      Implementation   Development Types of
year      of         in    staff skills       Status        objectives   Problems
persons   field
Appraisal      N/A
through Board
approval
Supervision    2/97      1          6      Agricultural         S              S
Economist
Supervision    6/97      4          9      Agricultural        U               S        Slow progress
Economists                                   on reform
and                                         regarding
Agricultural                                 trade
Development                                  liberalization,
Specialists                                 removal of
land sale
moratorium,
and state
procurements
Supervision/   2/98      4          12    Agricultural          S              S        Lack of
tranche                                    Economists                                  reform on land
release                                    and                                         tenure; farmer
Agricultural                                 debt to GOU
Development                                  and payment
Specialists                                 in kind
Supervision/    10/98    4          9      Agricultural         S              S
completion                                 Economists,
Agricultural
Development
Specialists,
Monitoring
Specialist
25



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UKRAINE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4103-0-UA)
APPENDIX A: ICR MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE



Ukraine Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
October 1998 ICR Mission - Aide Memoire
1.    A Bank mission (Mark Lundell, Elliott Hurwitz, Aleksander Kaliberda, Oleg
Belash) visited Ukraine October 1-9 to initiate the ICR review work for the Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Loan (Ag SECAL). The mission also examined the implementation of
the technical assistance program with the Inter-Ministerial Comnnittee for Agrarian
Reform (IMCAR) and the status of the approval process of the Pre-Export Guarantee
Facility. The findings of the mission were discussed with the National Agency for
Reconstruction and European Integration (NAREI) and the Secretariat of the IMCAR.
This Aide Memoire summarizes the progress on the ICR review work, recommendations
on the work of the Secretariat, and the status of the PGF.
2.    The mission would like to express appreciation and thanks to the NAREI, the
IMCAR Secretariat, the Ministry of the Agro-Industrial Complex (MAIC), the Guarantee
Administration Unit (GAU), the State Committee for Land Resources (SCLR), the
Ministry of Finance (MoF), the Cabinet of Ministers (COM), the State Property Fund
(SPF), and the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade (MFERT) for their
excellent assistance and warm hospitality. The mission would also like to acknowledge
the information received from discussions with the Khlib Ukrainy, the Ukraine Grain
Association, the National Exchange Association of Ukraine, the UK Know How Fund,
and the US Agency for International Development.
A. ICR Review Work
3.     In initial meetings with the NAREI and the IMCAR Secretariat, the mission
clarified that the Borrower's Contribution to the ICR will be written jointly by NAREI
and the IMCAR Secretariat as each have had a role in monitoring the implementation of
the Ag SECAL conditionalities and the general status of agricultural sector reforms. It
was agreed that the Borrower's Contribution to the ICR would be sent to the Bank by the
middle of November. The context and format of the Borrower's contribution to the ICR
was discussed with both the NAREI and the IMCAR Secretariat. Messrs. Lundell,
Hurwitz, and Belash discussed with the NAREI the adequacy of the Ag SECAL's scope
and depth in the various areas of agricultural sector reform, the degree to which the Ag
SECAL met its set objectives, the Bank's performance during project implementation,
and lessons learned for future sector adjustment operations. Messrs. Hurwitz, Kaliberda,
and Belash held similar discussions with the IMCAR Secretariat, and the various
institutions which participated in the implementation of the Ag SECAL. A brief
summary of the judgments expressed by those interviewed is presented in the sections
that follow.
4.    A majority of the individuals interviewed agreed that the objectives of the Ag
SECAL were appropriate and comprised a solid and comprehensive foundation for



2
transforming the Ukrainian agricultural sector from one based on a centrally planned
model to one based on market principles. While the objectives were appropriate, there
were a number of comments to the effect that it was somewhat unrealistic to have
expected that they could be met in the time frame originally planned.
5.    Of course, while the Ag SECAL comprised a sound basis for development of a
market economy in the sector, it was recognized that there is a great deal that must still be
done to move toward realization of the benefits of such a transition: increase the
efficiency of agricultural production and processing; facilitate access to credit; expand
markets for land; and stimulate the emergence of private wholesalers, commodity
exchanges, transport and trade companies, and service and marketing enterprises. It is
acknowledged that in many areas, there is strong opposition by vested interests-often
reflected in the Parliament and/or local governments-which may hinder further
progress.
6.    Regarding the achievement of project objectives, there was general agreement that
they were substantially met or exceeded (though later than expected), with the exception
of the three Second Tranche conditions subject to the Waiver approved by the Board of
Directors (abolition of export duties and indicative prices on live animals and skins,
amendment to the Land Code, and demonstration that state procurements have been
carried out through open tenders). With respect to the Waiver, the Board agreed with
staff and management that the strong efforts of the GOU, within the limits of its
authority, to implement these provisions or others which accomplished comparable goals,
warranted approval. In particular, the "supplementary measure" of privatizing 100 grain
storage and handling enterprises was seen as a very important step in promoting grain
market development.
7.    There was virtual unanimity in the view that the benefits of the Ag SECAL will
be sustained. The reasons given for this include the momentum that reform has achieved,
the desire of the GOU to integrate into European institutions and move toward WTO
membership, and the simple fact that it is unreasonable to expect farmers to give back
land which they have just received and which they own.
8.    Bank performance was seen as competent and professional, and value was placed
on the Bank's persistence in pushing forward to achieve the conditionalities and facilitate
reform. GOU performance was seen as mixed, with some elements actively assisting in
movement toward a market regime, while others acted only reluctantly or placed
obstacles in the path. In this context, several individuals felt that the Bank should have
placed considerably more emphasis on publicity and outreach, both to the public and to
legislators.
9.    A number of individuals praised the operation and effectiveness of IMCAR,
stating that it provided invaluable assistance in framing policy options, facilitating the
adoption and implementation of reform measures, and removing obstacles to business



3
operations. The creation of IMCAR and its successful operation would appear to be one
of the signal achievements of the Ag SECAL.
10.    Another point made frequently was that, although the Ag SECAL was an
adjustment operation focused only on the agricultural sector, the proceeds of the loan
went to the general budget. The suggestion was made that some portion of the loan
should have been directed to those agencies charged with specific responsibilities, such as
land reform, farm restructuring, or privatization of grain elevators, to defray the
additional costs attendant to those activities.
B. Status of Technical Assistance to the IMCAR Secretariat and APAU
11.    The consultants to the Secretariat and the Agricultural Policy Analysis Unit
(APAU) have now been at work for about nine months. In this time they have made a
great deal of headway in organizing working groups on the main areas of agriculture
sector reform, gathering and analyzing both qualitative and quantitative information, and
preparing briefs on specific agriculture sector issues for the Cabinet of Ministers and the
MAIC. The main activities of the Secretariat have been:
(i) taking stock of the pilot farm restructuring projects which have been implemented in
Ukraine by the various donor financed teams and domestic agencies which are already at
work in farm restructuring disseminating this information with the help of SCLR; and
(ii) examining the current tax situation for agro-industry and the fanning sector, putting
together a picture of the indebtedness of the sector in 1997-98, identifying the legal and
practical obstacles to the pledging of land as collateral, and examining the possible
modalities for the establishment of land mortgage bank system.
12.    To its credit, the Secretariat took a strong lead in 1998 in monitoring the various
steps which the GOU took in satisfying the Ag SECAL conditionalities of the Second
Tranche. It has also made critical recommendations to draft Cabinet of Ministers'
resolutions, which have in many cases been incorporated. As a result of its immersion in
these activities, the Secretariat has also been able to put together an agenda of policy
reforms which need to be examined in order for the GOU to put forth a integrated plan of
reform actions for the agricultural sector. This working paper will serve as an input to the
agricultural sector part of the Country Economic Memorandum being drafted by the Bank
(this working paper is attached as Annex 2).
13.    Currently, the support provided by the EU TACIS program for the Secretariat is
due to run out in November 1998. Given its success to date, the mission recommends
that the Bank and US AID (the third source of support for the Secretariat and the APAU)
convey to EU TACIS the importance of continuing its financial support of the Secretariat
until mid-1999. In the medium term, a number of additional sources of funding and cost
cutting measures will be examined, including: a World Bank IDF Grant, additional



4
funding from the Bank's Strategic Compact, participation by other bilateral donors, and
reduction of rental space expenses through a change of premises to be provided free of
charge by the MAIC. If the IMCAR Secretariat were to participate in the preparation of
the Bank's Rural Development Project, then some of the consultants possibly could be
financed through a Japanese PHRD grant.
C. Status of the Pre-Export Guarantee Facility Approval
14.    The mission also met with members of the Guarantee Administration Unit for
the Pre-Export Guarantee Facility to gauge the recent progress in obtaining Parliamentary
approval of the PGF. Here, it learned that the PGF project documents have been
approved by the relevant Parliamentary commissions, but the PGF has not been put on
the agenda for a vote by the full Parliament. Getting on to the Parliamentary agenda will
require a specific request by the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Reform, Mr.
Sergey Tigipko, who is the designated presenter of the PGF to the full Parliamentary
session. Since the effectiveness deadline for the PGF is November 8, the mission
strongly urged NAREI, the IMCAR Secretariat, and the GAU to communicate the
urgency of this matter to the Deputy Prime Minister.
15.    This urgency is magnified by the fact that there are a number of steps required
for project effectiveness that can be taken only after Parliamentary approval. These steps
are enumerated in Annex 1. Given the current lack of Parliamentary approval of the PGF,
the GAU and the mission agreed that it would be best to request that the export credit
agency specialist funded under the Swiss Trust Fund, Mr. Thomas Wiskemann, should
return to finish his consultancy (roughly two months remain under his contract), only
once the PGF becomes effective. The GAU and the mission also recommend that the
remaining two months of his consultancy be spaced over the first six months of project
implementation in periodic two to three week missions. Mr. Lundell will be in contact
with the Swiss Trust Fund to ascertain the acceptability of these recommendations.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UKRAINE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4103-0-UA)
APPENDIX B: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION



EVALUATION BY UKRAINIAN SIDE
OF THE LEVEL OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS
OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT
1. Formulating and Assessment of Objectives
The main purpose of this project was defined as the implementation of structural reform of
agriculture and bringing the agricultural sector into the sphere of a market economy, the creation
of an institute of private ownership right in the sector of the agro-industrial complex. To achieve
this purpose, the following objectives had to be accomplished:
* implementation of land reform;
* adoption of a real property title registration system, including a title to land;
* speeding up the pace of privatization of agricultural processing and agricultural
servicing enterprises;
* demonopolization of agro-processing and fnished product distribution (selling)
enterprises;
* providing conditions for free trade in agricultural produce.
Considering Ukraine's historic past and its present-day condition of agriculture, as well as the
latter's specific role in the country's economy, the above-stated objectives of the loan were
critically important and vital for Ukraine's economy. This was reflected in the World Bank's
recognition of Ukraine as a key country in the agricultural sector in the Europe and Central Asia
region. The initially defined objectives of the project generally were not subjected to adjustment;
however, some changes and additions were introduced in the terms and conditions to be met by
Ukraine in order to obtain a loan under the above project, taking into account the existing sVstem
of state subsidies for agricultural production, prevalence of state ow-nership of land and an
extremely loxv proportion of private production in the agricultural sector.
2. Achieving of Objectives
In the process of project development all the objectives were attained. Certain changes in, and
additions to. the project tenns and conditions were due to the influence of external factors the
action of wvhich it wxas practically impossible to foresee, and the need to refine some details of the
objectives in the course of their implementation. It should be noted that the results of the structural
reform of the agricultural sector can become evident only after a certain penrod of time, therefore,
to provide today a complete and exhaustive assessment of the degree to which the global objective
of the loan has been achieved seems to be rather problematic. Given below are current
assessments of the degree to which certain objectives of the project have been attained.
1) Macroeconomic policy - substantial achievement
In accordance with the project objectives, Uk-raine. as a Borrower, had to set, in 1997 -  199S. an
upper annual limit of expenditures from the State Budget for purchasing agricultural produce in
the amount equivalent to USS 675 million, and an upper yearly limit of indirect credit subsidies
for agriculture in the amount equivalent to USS 130 million, demonopolize 100 regional
enterprises, including 5 state monopolistic agro-industrial enterprises or their associations
involved in agriproduct processing or supply of material and technical resources, privatize at least



I 000 medium and large enterprises of the agro-industrial complex (AIC), and also to speed up
privatization of grain receiving and grain processing enterprises of DAK Khlib Ukrainy
("Ukraine's Bread"). Fulfillment of these conditions made it possible to improve Ukraine's
general macroeconomic indicators, thereby ensuring more favorable conditions for introducing
and developing agricultural production by private farms, to form a competitive environment in the
sphere of processing and preservation of agricultural produce, thus providing a broader access to
material and technical resources for both private and collective agricultural enterprises (CAE).
It should be pointed pout that the fulfillment of the project covenants was closely monitored by
the World Bank. If any questions arose regarding the failure of Ukrainian side to comply with
some covenants of the project, the relevant ministries and departments prepared well-grounded
replies informing on appropriate measures taken by Ukraine. Thus, the World Bank's assessment
of the national associations of independent joint stock CAE enterprises at the oblast level as
monopolistic groupings in terms of their management and functioning led the Antimonopoly
Committee jointly with the Ministry of the Agro-industrial complex to carry out an analysis of the
statutory documents of such associations. As a result, pertinent materials were forwarded to the
Bank to prove that the activities of such associations are of non-monopolistic nature.
At the same time, the State Property Fund of Ukraine (SPF) expressed a number of comments,
notably, on the fact that the condition requiring privatization of 100 elevators was not stipulated
by the Loan Agreement and was not coordinated with- the EDAL project by quantitative indices
and terms. Besides, the elevator privatization condition was not preliminarily agreed on with the
SPF who was responsible for its implementation. This resulted in a forced sale of these
enterprises' blocks of shares at a price lower than the nominal v alue. A short period of time from
the emergence of this condition to the time limit set for its implementation did not allow us to
avoid such a sale.
2) Sector Policv - substantial achievement
Of particular importance was the project task of forrming a market sector policy in agriculture and
providing conditions for promoting an increase in agricultural production. To this end, it was
necessary to liberalize intemal and extemal trade in agricultural produce and introduce an
effective marketing swstem. Also, amendments had to be introduced in the Land Code with the
aim of abolishing the moratorium on the sale of land, favoring the development of a land market
and simplifying the procedure for exiting from collective agricultural enterprises.
Ukraine has not lifted all restrictions on export. Despite the fact that the Governrnent submitted
relevant proposals to the Supreme Council four times, export duties on cattle and skins were not
abolished. which resulted in a reduction of such export by 50%. Taking into account the
Government's actions to support the regime of an open export policy (providing privileges for
export of skins) and the non-application of practice of minimum indicative prices and import
quotas, Ukraine' failure to comply with this condition of the project was n1ot regarded by the
World Bank- as the reason for delaying the granting to Ukraine of the second tranche of the loan
funds for restructuring the agricultural sector, but resulted in a breach of the project timetable. In
order to protect its internal market during the project effective period, Ukraine tried to introduce
export duties on sunflowver seed. Thus, in July 1998, Presidential Decree "On measures regulating-
the export of sunflower seed from Ukraine" was issued, but later, in September. it was abolished
in accordance with the World Bank's recommendations.



The problem of carrying out all state purchases of agricultural produce on a competitive basis via
commodity exchanges and open tenders proved to be rather complicated. The Government
adopted a number of regulations aimed at promoting the solution of this issue. However, the total
use of barter operations in the relations between agricultural producers and suppliers of technical
and material resources, and considerable debts of CAE to the state made impossible a rapid
solution of the above issue. No positive steps were taken to discontinue the tendency toward using
grain for settling enterprises' debts to the state.
The issue of changing the land relations in Ukraine and forming a land market also involved major
complications. The moratorium on the sale of land was not abolished, although the parties
concemed reached agreement on this issue on the basis of a legal opinion of the Ministry of
Justice, stating that the moratorium applies only to lands that were allotted by local councils
(radas) from the reserve lands (this portion of lands constitutes close to 2.2% of Ukraine'
agricultural lands). On the other hand, forming a land market in Ukraine and the inflow of
required funds to the agro-industrial complex is being delayed by the impossibility to use land
plots as security for credits and by the ban on land purchase and sale operations that may be
carried out by non-residents of Ukraine.
Therefore, after carrying out the measures stipulated by the project, Ukraine is only on the way to
achieving the objective of forming a new sectoral policy aimed at providing conditions for the
growth of agricultural production. Detailed preparation of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Project largely contributed to successful steps taken by Ukraine in this direction, although in
developing a timetable for fulfilling certain conditions, it is necessary to take into account the
entire complex of issues related to reforming the agriculture, and the complicated present-day
state of the agricultural sector. This generates a need for a closer cooperation between the World
Bank and the relevant ministries and departments that are responsible for the fulfillment of certain
conditions of the project, wvith the aim of completely refinin- project covenants even at the stage
of preparation. thus axvoiding re-assessment of these conditions during their implementation.
3) Financial objectives - substantial achievement
The measures stipulated for achieving the project financial objectives overlapped to a great extent
the above-listed measures aimed at ensuring macroeconomic stabilization. Restrictions on
expenditures for purchasing agricultural produce and for indirect credit subsidies for agriculture
made it possible to reduce the pressure on Ukraine's State Budget. At the same time, it should be
pointed out that the lack of sufficient funding of social programs for rural development is the
factor xxhichl exerts a Lreat indirect pressure on achievinu manv objectives of the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Project.
4) Institutional Development - substantial accomplishment
The project objective of institutional development was the putting into practice of the
methodology for privatizing AIC enterprises, simplification of procedures for exiting from
collective agricultural enterprises, implementation of programs of infoming the population on
procedures for restructuring agricultural enterprises and creation 6f the National system  of
registration of titles to land and other real property. All the above conditions wvere met, some
breaches of the implementation timetable were only related to the issue of simplification of the



procedure for.exiting from collective agricultural enterprises. Therefore, the project objectives and
timetable for institutional development can be assessed as realistic and adequately defined by the
World Bank.
5) Physical Objectives - were not set.
No concrete physical objectives were set before Ukraine in the framework of project
implementation, but it should be noted that under the influence of the total reduction in the
volume of the GDP, there was also a decrease in agricultural production during the project
implementation period. At the same time, there is some evidence that a decline in agricultural
production has stopped and the proportion of agricultural commodities produced by private farms
has increased ill the total volume of agricultural produce, which fact can be regarded as the first
results of structural changes in the agricultural sector.
3. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors nor Subject to Government Control
The World Bank's support for the project was a factor that had a great impact on achieving the
project objectives. Cooperation between Ukraine and the World Bank helped the Ukrainian side to
more fully accomplish the project objectives, made it possible to use the experience of World
Bank experts in developing measures aimed at restructuring the agriculture sector. On the other
hand, the election campaign and elections to the parliament in the spring of 1998, failure of the
Supreme Soviet of Ukraine to adopt a decision on abolishing export duties on live animals and
skins, as wvell as on introducing amendments to the Land Code of Ukraine led us to make
necessary adjustments in the project implementation plan. This also caused a delay in carrving out
a number of oroject conditions.
Factors Gei:eruallv Suebject to GoVern7m772ent Con7trol
Trhis group of factors had the greatest impact on implementing the project conditions. It was
unfavorable macroeconomic conditions (deficiencies of the taxation system, lack of an effective
system  of crediting agriculture), non-effective sectoral policy (unfavorable conditions for
developmen; of private agricultural enterprises, system of state purchases of agricultural produce
at prices beioxm mark-et values), as well as the Government's substantial commitments regarding
socials payments, xxwhich are not secured by required funds. that caused a great delay in
impiementing the project. To a certain extent, this was also due to shortcomings in project
preparatior..
Factors Generalli Siibject to Jinplementing-Agenci Conztrol
The actions by implementing agencies had a partial effect on achieving the project objectives.
Slow actions of the State Committee for Land Resources in resolving the issues relating to
introducing amendments in the Land Code of Ukraine and simplifying the procedure for exiting
from collective a2ricultural enterprises, coupled with the above-mentioned factors, caused a
breach of the timetable for fulfilling the loan conditions.



4. Project Sustainability
* Taking into account a sufficiently high probability of ensuring the attainment of the project
objectives, the project has good prospects in termns of its sustainability. The World Bank has
developed recommendations on further actions of the Borrower in reforming the land relations,
carrying out state purchases of agricultural produce on a competitive basis and reducing
commercial risks of the Government in settlements with agricultural producers. As a result of
fulfilling the project terms and conditions, an environment is being created in Ukraine, that is
favorable for implementing a market policy in agriculture. This must ensure the economic
sustainability of reforms irnitiated by the project. On the other hand, the absence of an effective
system of crediting agricultural producers as well as the need for a rapid solution of complex
social problems have a negative effect on reforming the agricultural economy.
The closely-related investment projects of the World Bank, including the Agribusiness
Development Project, Land Title Registration Project (registration of title to real property in
Ukraine), Seeds Development Project, as well as Pilot Rural Finance Project have a positive effect
on project sustainability. The reforms initiated under these projects should continue, they are
designed to broaden the activities in accordance with the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Project
and consolidate positive structural changes in agriculture.
5. Project preparation and implementation by the World Bank
The World Bank perforrnance in defining and identification of the Agricultural Sector Adjustmnent
Project can be assessed as highly satisfactory. This project is aimed at resolving the problem that
is extremely important for Ukraine - the creation of an effective agro-industrial complex, it is
compatible with the development prionties mapped out by the Government and the World Bank
strateu\ for Ukraine.
Taking into account the position of the ministries and departments involved in implementing the
project terms and conditions. the cooperation of the World Bank with Ukraine in providing
assistance in preparing and carrying out expert examination of the project is assessed as
satisfactory. In the process of such preparation. all major aspects of the project were taken into
consideration: economic, financial. institutional and technical. The analvsis performed with the
comprehensive and qualified assistance of World Bank consultants wvas carried out in a
professional maimer. Based on the results of this analysis, concrete components were developed of
the program for structural reform of the agricultural sector, including: liberalization of domestic
anid external trade in AIC commodities, providing conditions for the development of a land market
in Ukraine. restructuring of collective at ricultural enterprises. demonopolization and privatization
of AIC enterprises.
At the same time. the discrepancy betwveen the project implementation plan and its complexity
resulted in a breach of the initial timetable for implementation of project conditions. The factor of
interrelation betwveen legislative and executive power in Ukraine wvas not fully taken into account.
as wvell as the need for conducting regular elections to Parliament, and all legal aspects of
application of the moratorium on the sale of land wvere not fully analyzed.
Assessment of the World Bank-s performance in supervising progress in project implementation is
highlv satisfactorv. During the project implementation, the World Bank's supervision missions



regularly visited Ukraine, they identified and characterized problems that arose in the process of
implementing the project conditions assessed their possible impact on the project development.
The timetable for mission visits to Ukraine made it possible to assess progress made by the
Borrower since the time of each previous mission and to determine the effectiveness of changes
made in the loan conditions and the weakest spots in project implementation. Based on the results
of these missions' work, aide-memoires were drawn up containing conclusions and
reconunendations for the Borrower on how to proceed with the work on the project.
Thus, when Ukraine intended to introduce export duties on sunflower seed and after Presidential
Decree "On measures to regulate the export of sunflower seed from Ukraine" was issued, the
World Bank provided evidence to prove their negative impact on the volumes of export of
sunflower seed and the inflow of respective funds to the State Budget. The bank proposed that
these measures should not be implemented. These reconimendations were taken into account by
the Borrower. Another example of the joint work of World Bank experts and ministries and
departments is privatization of 161 (as of,October 16, 1998) of grain storing and grain processing
enterprises. This condition was set forth during project implementation, based on the results of
work of supervision missions. The World Bank staff showed flexibility and competence in
introducing necessary changes in the loan conditions. Alongside the above-mentioned additional
conditions introduced by the Bank as a result of reviewing progress in achieving the loan
objectives, other conditions were modified to mitigate them..
It is also necessary to mention the World Bank's cooperation with other donors in rendering
additional assistance in implementing the project. With the Bank's assistance, the issue of funding
the Secretariate of the Interdepartmental commission on developing mechanisms of coordination
of agrarian policy and the agrarian policy analysis group was coordinated with representatives of
the EU  TACIS agricultural program  and US AID. Pilot projects xvere implemented for
restnicturing economies (financed by the Know-how Fund) and the Land Sharing Project of
Ronko Company (financed by US AID).
Therefore. there wvas no significant deviations frorn the World Bank policies and procedures in the
process of project implementation.
6. Project Preparation and implementation by Ukrainian Side
Preparation of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Project by the Borrower can be assessed as
satisfactory. During preparation for project implementation, the Ukrainian side took into account
the major aspects of the project. and the Borrower's commitments complied with the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program. On the other hanid, the ministries and departments should have drawxn
attention of World Bank representatives to shortcomings in preparing the project. specified in
paragraph 2') of Section 5.
The perfornance of Ukrainian side in implementing the loan conditions was assessed as highly
satisfactory. The greatest difficulties arose in carrying out the measures stipulated in the
framework of sectoral and institutional policy (paragraphs 6 (b), r(d) of Section 2). which is
explained by both shortcomings in project preparation and delays by implementing agencies. Here.
a positive role of the World Bank; should be noted in identifying shortcomings in achievinu the
loan objectives and developing measures the fulfillment of which by the Borrower helped speed
up the implementation of the project conditions.



7. Assessment of Results
Considering the fact that most of the project major objectives were achieved, which promoted
positive changes in the agricultural sector (creation of a land market in Ukraine, increase in the
number of private farms, introduction of market relations in the sphere of agricultural produce
processing and marketing), as well as the project sustainability, the Govemment of Ukraine
assesses the project results as satisfactory.
8. Future Operation
The main direction of future operation of the project should include supervision of compliance
and carrying out the measures stipulated by the loan, so as to make impossible a reversal of
changes in the sphere of restructuring the agricultural sector. It is necessary to continue
implementing measures aimed at conducting state purchases of agriculture produce on a
competitive basis and only at market prices, and to prevent introduction of any restrictions on
agriculture produce export. Also, amendments need to be introduced in the Land Code of Ukraine
with the aim of forning an effective land market (ensuring land purchases and sales for non-
residents of Ukraine, using land as security for credits).
It is the condition of external and domestic trade in agricultural produce as well as legal and
institutional foundations for the development of private farms that must be taken into account in
supervising and assessing project implementation in the future.
9. Key Lessons Learned
The kev lesson learned from project implementation is the need for a more qualitative, accurate
and thorough preparation of the project. which should not entail any changes in project covenants
in the course of their implementation. Such preparation must include the development of a joint
purpose-oriented strategy of the Govemment and World Bank in a chosen sector with the aim of
bringing together and coordinating different views on the solution of identified problems and
refining all aspects of a project by state bodies that are in charge of its implementation. In
developing a plan and timetable for achieving project objectives, the World Balk and Ukrainian
side should take into account the interrelation between the legislative and executive power in
Ukraine. which (interrelation) may have a significant impact on implementation of those project
conditions which provide for legislative decisions.



20'                                25°                                 30'                                 35-
i                  B                                               RUSSIAN                       -        0'0
.   .   J   BELARUS                           I 6FlDFRATION                           kA"!ROAI''
,ARI  IDEASN
POLAND
SLOVAK      ~ \0i 
REPUBLIC      '               
4                            ,g    0    E     , <  tEjX
HUNGR                            42,
-50t To Knalow ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 3     0:
/               ~~~~~ROMANIA   M uhrs           ,MOLDOVA   @E3 2g>6<><2E E.E                          m .      g Wg |
-- _ Y   M                                   ;RUSSIAN FEDERATION  1                                 X Ode
RELARLO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AC ''                                                  'i97 "u'~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Us~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
UKRAINEror,
MOUDOVA0                                                                                                                            L  V
BUOGARIA                                                                                                                  KIL, DOMETERS
kFED R"'                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~52  100  150
SERB!/
BULG OR IA                      BU  GA IAA 
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                        5§   100   150
BULGARIA                                     35,                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
MAKN>,'9



