Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4103 UA
                             Loan Agreement
                  (Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan)
                                between
                                UKRAINE
                                  and
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated November 14, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4103 UA
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 14, 1996, between UKRAINE (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (The Bank):
     WHEREAS the Bank has received a letter dated August 30, 1996 from
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the agriculture sector in
the economy of the Borrower (hereinafter called the Program), declaring
the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution
thereof; and
     WHEREAS on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May
30, 1995, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Page  2
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Land Code" means the Borrower's Land Code, dated March 13,
1992, and any amendments thereto;
     (c)  "MOAF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Food
or any successor thereto; and
     (d)  "1994 State Privatization Program" means the Borrower's program
for privatization of state-owned enterprises endorsed by the Borrower's
Law No. 3876-XII, dated January 26, 1994.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
     Section 2.01. (a) The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an
amount equal to three hundred million Dollars ($300,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c)
and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the
proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in support of the Program.
     (b)  The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
     (c)  The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at
any time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to make a
payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Bank, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall
so request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the
Bank upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account for
cancellation.
     (d)  No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the
aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
shall have reached $150,000,000 unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agree-
ment based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank:
          (i)  with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying
               out of the Program; and
         (ii)  that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
               have been taken.
     If, after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice
to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not
satisfactory and, within ninety (90) days after such notice, the Borrower
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the
Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Page  3
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total
Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
               London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
               Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period
               (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for
               value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
               preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
               plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
               Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered
               rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
               in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
               portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single
               currency loans or portions thereof made by it that
               include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank
               and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination
thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05,
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of
the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the
notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period
of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on May 15
and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                            Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time,
at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved
in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall
Page  4
reasonably request.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
     (b)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six (6) months after the date of the Bank's request for such
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
     (c)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested.
                               ARTICLE IV
                     Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant
part thereof, will be carried out.
                               ARTICLE V
                             Effective Date
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          12/2 Hrushevsky St.
          Kyiv, Ukraine 252008
                                   Telex:
                                   131450
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
Page  5
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    UKRAINE
                    By /s/ Yuri Shcherbak
                                                Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                        AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                           Excluded Expenditures
     For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of
the Loan shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.   expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or
agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.   expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups
of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC,
Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M,
No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups
under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice
to the Borrower:
     Group     Subgroup       Description of Items
     112          -           Alcoholic beverages
     121          -           Tobacco, unmanu-
                              factured, tobacco
                              refuse
     122          -           Tobacco, manufactured
                              (whether or not containing
                              tobacco substitutes)
     525          -           Radioactive and
                              associated materials
     667          -           Pearls, precious and
                              semiprecious  stones,
                              unworked or worked
     718       718.7          Nuclear reactors, and
                              parts thereof; fuel
                              elements (cartridges),
Page  6
                              non-irradiated, for
                              nuclear reactors
     728       728.43         Tobacco processing
                              machinery
     897       897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver
                              or platinum group metals
                              (except watches and watch
                              cases) and goldsmiths' or
                              silversmiths' wares
                              (including set gems)
     971          -           Gold, non-monetary
                              (excluding gold ores
                              and concentrates)
4.   expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose or for luxury consumption; and
5.   expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of
this paragraph the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods,
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws
of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is
a party).
                                SCHEDULE 2
                           Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                   (expressed in Dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
     beginning May 15, 2002
     through May 15, 2013                12,500,000
On November 15, 2013                     12,500,000
_____________________________
*    The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be
     repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04(d) of the General
     Conditions.
                               SCHEDULE 3
         Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.   Continued maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent with
the objectives of the Program as determined on the basis of performance
criteria acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
Page  7
2.   Elimination of all export duties and indicative prices on all
agricultural exports, with the exception of those covered by voluntary
export restraints, anti-dumping investigations, and those permitted
under the World Trade Organization Agreement.
3.   Enactment of amendments to the Land Code that would: (i) abolish
the existing 6-year moratorium on sale of land; and (ii) limit to
three (3) months the time within which co-owners can exercise their
preferential right to buy the share of land being sold by a co-owner.
4.   Enactment of legislation or other normative acts that would: (a)
give a right to 2 or more members of a collective agricultural enter-
prise, joint stock agricultural company or agricultural cooperative
(together, collective agricultural enterprises or CAEs) to withdraw
adjacent land plots from the said enterprise; (b) limit to three (3)
months the time period within which farm members' council of a CAE
(or its authorized representatives) has to give its consent to the
plots of land requested by one or more members who filed an application
for withdrawal of the said plot(s) of land; and (c) give withdrawing
members of a CAE the right to: (i) appeal to designated authority in
the event the farm members' council of the CAE fails to give its
consent within the three (3) months specified in sub-paragraph (b),
above, and (ii) receive ownership of his/her plot of land within 12
months of receiving the consent in accordance with procedures referred
to in sub-paragraph (b) or sub-paragraph (c)(i) of this paragraph 4.
5.   The Borrower has implemented an action plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, for carrying out a public information campaign in each oblast
relating to: (i) the legal rights of members of CAEs to exit the said
CAEs and exchange their shares in the said CAEs for land plots; and
(ii) the procedures for exercising the said rights.
6.   Enactment of legislation establishing a national unified registry
for all immovable property, including rural and urban land and other
real estate, including buildings.
7.   Submission of evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower
has: (i) completed the registration process for land share certificates
in 2,000 CAEs and issued the said land share certificates to at least
75% of entitled beneficiaries in such CAEs; and (ii) completed the
process of exchanging land share certificates for physically identified
land plots of at least 75 CAEs.
8.   Submission of evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that demonstrates
that starting in November 1996, all state agricultural procurement by
state agencies has been carried out on a competitive basis through open
tenders and/or agricultural commodity exchanges in a manner facilitating
private sector participation.
9.   The Borrower has implemented a methodology for privatization of
agro-industrial enterprises, which: (i) has shortened the periods for
the corporatization and share subscription processes to a period
approximating the corresponding periods achieved for analogous enter-
prises in other sectors, and (ii) ensures that shares in these agro-
industrial enterprises that are subject to transfer on preferential
terms to primary producers of agricultural raw materials, shall be
transferred to physical persons and not to any collective structures.
10.  Submission of evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, showing that as
part of the 1994 State Privatization Program, the Borrower has offered
for privatization, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, at least seventy percent (70%) of the equity in at least 1,000
medium and large-scale agro-industrial enterprises (defined as enter-
prise groups B, C and D in the 1994 State Privatization Program), not
including state farms.
11.  The Borrower has implemented demonopolization plans, satisfactory
to the Bank, for 100 agro-industrial regional or national monopoly
enterprises or enterprise associations, including at least five (5)
state-owned national monopoly enterprises or enterprise associations
engaged in the processing of agricultural products and in material
technical input supply.  For the purposes of this paragraph, regional
Page  8
or national monopoly enterprise or enterprise association is defined
as an enterprise or enterprise association that controls at least 30%
of the relevant market.
