OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 4411-MAG
Agreement providing for the
Amendment and Restatement of the
Financing Agreement
(Second Governance and Institutional Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  C p q    ,  ,2012


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 4411-MAG
AGREEMENT PROVIDING FOR THE AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT
OF THE FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated D c-OZ     Y       AA      , 2012, entered into between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR ("Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ("Association"). The Recipient and the Association
hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT
1.01.  The Financing Agreement is hereby amended and restated so as to read as set
forth in the Annex hereto.
ARTICLE II- TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
2.01.  Except as provided below, the Current Guidelines (as defined in the Annex to
this Agreement) shall apply to all contracts for goods, works and services under
the Project, whether entered into before or after the date of this Agreement.
2.02.  Where, in the case of contracts for which the invitation to bid or request for
proposals was issued on or before July 31, 2012, the relevant contracts do not
provide for the application of the Current Guidelines or otherwise allow for such
application, the applicable guidelines shall be those which applied immediately
prior to the date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - ENTRY INTO FORCE
3.01.  This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the
Association has been furnished to the Association that the conditions specified in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section have been satisfied.
(a)    The Recipient has revised the PIM (as defined in the Annex to this
Agreement) in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
(b)    The Recipient has recruited the Project Director on the basis of terms of
reference, experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association
and in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to the
Financing Agreement.
3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, this Agreement shall enter into
effect on the date upon which the Association dispatches to the Recipient notice
of its acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 3.01 ("Effective
Date").


﻿3.03.  This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under this Agreement shall
terminate if this Agreement has not entered into effect by the date ("Effectiveness
Deadline") ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, unless the
Association, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later
Effectiveness Deadline for the purpose of this Section. The Association shall
promptly notify the Recipient of such later Effectiveness Deadline.
AGREED at M      c    iratto  vc    ,                        as of the
day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By:
Authorized Representative
Name Hery M, RAJAONAR1MAMPIANINA
Title: ___
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By:
orize Representative
Name:
Haieh Z. IRIDf
Title:                 Country Director     .__
-   for i.ad  oua., .      Comuu and Seychees


﻿ANNEX
CREDIT NUMBER 4411-MAG
Financing Agreement
(Second Governance and Institutional Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 15, 2008


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 4411-MAG
FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated July 15, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
MADAGASCAR ("Recipient") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION ("Association"). The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or
in the Appendix to this Agreement.
1.03.  Italicized terms used in this Agreement to denote place names and locations
shall be deemed to denote place names and locations in the Recipient's
territory.
ARTICLE II - FINANCING
2.01.  The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount
equivalent to nineteen million one hundred and four thousand three hundred
and eighty six Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,104,386) (variously,
"Credit" and "Financing") to assist in financing the project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Project").
2.02.  The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance
with Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.03.  The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)
per annum.
2.04   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit
Balance shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
2.05.  The Payment Dates are February 1 and August I in each year.


﻿-2-
2.06.  The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.07.  The Payment Currency is the Dollar.
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
3.01.  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement,
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a)    The legislation pertaining to COS and CR or BdG, or any text
pertaining to COS', CR's or BdG's operation, shall have been
breached or shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect COS', CR's or BdG's (as the case
may be) ability to implement the Project or perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement.
(b)    The Legislation pertaining to the Communes' Financial Autonomy
shall have been breached or shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect the implementation of
the Project's activities or the achievement of its development
objective.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01.  The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a)    The Recipient has adopted the PIM, in form   and substance
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)    The Recipient has employed the independent external auditors
referred to in Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.


﻿-3-
(c)    The Recipient has employed a reform public finance coordinator with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
5.02.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01.  The Recipient's Representative is its Minister at the time in charge of
finance.
6.02.  The Recipient's Address is:
Ministry of Finance and Budget
B.P. 61
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Cable address:       Facsimile:
MFB                  (261) 20 22 34530
Antananarivo
6.03.  The Association's Address is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable:               Telex:               Facsimile:
INDEVAS              248423 (MCI)         1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.


﻿-4-
AGREED at Antananarivo, Republic of Madagascar, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By:                   /s/ Haja Nirina Razafinjatovo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By:                  Is/ Robert R. Blake
Authorized Representative


﻿-5-
SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Recipient's public financial
management and social accountability at the central government and at the
Communal levels.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1 - Improvement of public financial management
(a)    Improving budget preparation and execution processes, by: enhancing the
integrated financing management system; simplifying budget procedures;
strengthening capacity of the Selected Sector Ministries in planning,
monitoring and evaluating annual budget; all through the provision of goods,
services, Minor Works, and training.
(b)    Strengthening internal and external control mechanisms, by: improving
operational efficiency of selected oversight and control institutions and
introducing budget transparency mechanisms, all through the provision of
goods, services and training.
(c)    Institutionalizing public procurement reforms, through: capacity building
within ARMP and procurement units in Selected Sector Ministries and
Communes; monitoring of regulatory and institutional compliance;
improving transparency and accountability of public procurement processes,
and improving monitoring by civil society and media, all through the
provision of goods, services and training.
(d)    Increasing performance of revenue agencies by: modernizing the procedures,
institutional set-up and management system of the Customs Directorate and
the Tax Directorate, all through the provision of goods, services, Minor
Works and training.
Part 2 - Improvement of Local Governance
Strengthening local governance in Selected Communes of the Targeted
Regions by:
(a)    (i) improving the reliability and completeness of land registries at Communal
level; (ii) supporting the Communes to process comprehensive tax census;
(iii) improving budget transparency; and (iv) strengthening citizens'


﻿-6-
participation in budget planning and execution, all through the provision of
goods, services and training.
(b)    Strengthening the capacities of national institutions responsible for the
provision of technical services to Communes, including FDL, INDDL,
selected District level decentralization technical services, all through the
provision of goods, services, Minor Works and training.
(c)    Providing Communal Grants to Selected Communes for the purpose of
enhancing Selected Communes' public financial management capacity
through the provision of, goods, services, Minor Works and training.
(d)    Strengthening the capacities of the Land Directorate and the PNF
Coordination Unit in implementing: (i) pilot programs to improve PLOFs
methodology, and (ii) the Recipient's land reform policy, in targeted land
offices.
Part 3 - Institutional Strengthening and Knowledge Management
(a)    Strengthening the capacity of Selected Institutions to support access to
information, public policy analysis and knowledge dissemination, all through
the provision of goods, services, Minor Works and training.
(b)    Provision of Social Accountability Grants to civil society organizations and
media for the purpose of strengthening their capacity to promote social
accountability, through the provision of goods, services, Minor Works and
training.
(c)    Improving knowledge management by designing and establishing a system
capitalizing all the knowledge produced by the Project, all through the
provision of goods, services and training.
Part 4 - Project Coordination
Support for management, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the
Project, including provision of technical advisory services, training,
equipment, and the financing of Operating Costs.


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 2
Project Execution
Section I.   Implementation arrangements
A.     Institutional Arrangements
1. The Recipient shall maintain, at all times during the execution of the Project:
(a)    COS and CR, each with mandate, terms of reference, composition
and resources acceptable to the Association, to provide guidance and exercise
general oversight functions in the course of implementation of the Project,
including the assistance in the decision-making process and the facilitation of
the timely implementation of the Project; and
(b)    (i)    BdG, whose mandate, terms of reference, composition and
resources shall be acceptable to the Association, to be
responsible for the day-to-day execution of the Project,
including  management   of   disbursement  activities,
maintenance of records and accounts, procurement,
consolidation of Annual Work Programs and Budgets,
preparation and production of annual progress reports and
financial statements, and monitoring and evaluation.
(ii)   BdG shall, at all times throughout Project implementation,
maintain suitably qualified and experienced staff in adequate
numbers.
(iii)  Without limitation to the generality of paragraphs (b)(i) and
(ii) immediately above, BdG shall, no later than September
30, 2012, recruit a chief accountant and a procurement
specialist.
(iv)   Without limitation to the generality of paragraphs (b)(i) and
(ii) immediately above, the BdG shall ensure that the
positions of Project Director, and from the date indicated in
paragraph (iii) immediately above, chief accountant and
procurement specialist, shall be kept filled at all times by
persons having qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Association.
2.     (a)    For the implementation of Parts 2 (c) of the Project, no later than
December 31, 2012,the Recipient shall enter into an agreement with
FDL, for FDL to act as of such date as Communal Grant Committee,


﻿-8-
with terms of reference, composition and resources satisfactory to the
Association. Without limitation to the foregoing provision, (A) BdG
shall participate in the meetings of the Communal Grant Committee
as an observer; and (B) the Communal Grant Committee shall be
responsible for, inter alia, the selection of Sub-projects and the
monitoring of Communal Grants.
(b)    For the implementation of Parts 3 (b) of the Project:
(i)   the Recipient shall, no later than December 31, 2012, recruit
in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule
2 to this Agreement, a grant administrator ("Grant
Administrator") on the basis of terms of reference,
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association;
and
(ii)  the Recipient shall, no later than December 31, 2012,
establish a Social Accountability Grant Committee, with
terms of reference, composition and procedures satisfactory
to the Association. Without limitation to the foregoing
provision, the Social Accountability Grant Committee shall
be responsible for, inter alia, the selection of Sub-projects
and the monitoring of Social Accountability Grants.
B.     Manual
1 .    The Recipient shall implement the Project in accordance with the PIM, and
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree in writing,
the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision thereof.
2.     No later than October 30, 2012, the Recipient shall adopt a supplemental
schedule to the PIM, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association
outlining, inter alia, the organization, implementation arrangements,
eligibility criteria for Beneficiaries and Sub-projects, and procedures for the
provision of Grants under Parts 2(c) and 3(b) of the Project.
3.    In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the PIM and those of
this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail.
C.     Anti-Corruption
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.


﻿-9-
D.     Social Accountability Grants and Communal Grants
1      (a)    For the implementation of Part 2(c) of the Project, the Recipient shall
make Communal Grants to Beneficiary Communes for the financing
of Sub-projects, all in accordance with eligibility criteria and
procedures acceptable to the Association.
(b)    For the implementation of Part 3(b) of the Project, the Recipient shall
make Social Accountability Grants to CSO Beneficiaries for the
financing of Sub-projects, all in accordance with eligibility criteria
and procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.     The Recipient shall make each Grant under a Grant Agreement with the
respective Beneficiary on terms and conditions approved by the Association,
adequate to protect its interests and those of the Association, which shall
include the right to:
(a)    suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds
of the Grant, or declare to be immediately due and payable all or any
part of the amount of the Grant then withdrawn, upon the
Beneficiary's failure to perform any of its obligations under the Grant
Agreement;
(b)    require each Beneficiary to carry out its Sub-project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and social standards
and practices satisfactory to the Association, including in accordance
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Recipient;
(c)    require each Beneficiary to provide, promptly as needed, the
resources required for the purpose;
(d)    require each Beneficiary to procure the goods, works and services to
be financed out of the Grant in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement and ensure that they will be used exclusively for the
carrying out of the Sub-project;
(e)    require each Beneficiary to maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with
indicators acceptable to the Association, the progress of the Sub-
project and the achievement of its objectives;
(f)    require each Beneficiary to: (i) maintain a financial management
system and prepare financial statements in accordance with


﻿-10-
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the
Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations,
resources and expenditures related to the Sub-project; (ii) at the
Association's or the Recipient's request, have such financial
statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
standards acceptable to the Association, and promptly furnish the
statements as so audited to the Recipient and the Association; and
(iii) allow the Association to make the Grant Agreement and all
financial statements audited pursuant to sub-paragraph (f)(ii)
immediately above available to the public in accordance with the
Association's policies on access to information;
(g)    require each Beneficiary to enable the Recipient and the Association
to inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and
documents; and
(h)    require each Beneficiary to prepare and furnish to the Recipient and
the Association all such information as the Recipient or the
Association shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.
3.     The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each
Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Financing. Except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive any Grant Agreement or any of its provisions.
E.     Annual Work Programs
1. The Recipient shall ensure that at all times during the execution of the
Project:
(a)    The Recipient, through PREA, shall prepare and submit to BdG no
later than October 15 of each year a proposed annual work program
describing the set of activities to be carried out under the Project
during the subsequent year, including budget and implementation
arrangements for said activities;
(b)    BdG shall no later than October 31 of each year: (i) review the
proposed annual work program; and (ii) prepare a consolidated
annual work program describing a set of activities to be carried out
under the Project during the subsequent year, including budget and
implementation arrangements for said activities;
(c)    BdG shall no later than November 30 prepare and furnish to the
Association for review the proposed consolidated annual work


﻿- 11 -
program and budget approved by the COS, together with the
implementation arrangements for these activities. Only the activities
included in a consolidated annual work program and budget
expressly approved by the Association (each an "Annual Work
Program and Budget") are eligible to a financing from the proceeds
of the Financing;
(d)    Training shall be carried out on the basis of Annual Work Programs
and Budgets, which shall, inter alia, identify: (i) particulars of the
training envisaged; (ii) the personnel to be trained; (iii) the selection
method of the institution or individuals conducting such training;
(iv) the institution conducting such training if identified; (v) the
purpose and justification for such training; (vi) the location and
duration of the proposed training; and (vii) the estimate of the cost of
such training; and
(e)    Annual Work Programs and Budgets may be revised as needed
during Project implementation subject to the Association's prior
approval.
2.     The Recipient shall thereafter ensure that the Project is implemented in
accordance with the Annual Work Programs and Budgets.
Section II.   Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A.     Project Reports
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General
Conditions and on the basis of indicators acceptable to the Association. Each Project
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such report.
B.     Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1.     The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the
General Conditions.
2.     Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient
shall prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report,
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
3.     The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with
the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of


﻿- 12 -
the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the
Recipient. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of such
period.
4.    In order to ensure the timely carrying out of the audits referred to in
Section II. B.3 of this Schedule, the Recipient shall engage auditors for the
purpose not later than September 30, 2012, in accordance with the provisions
of Section III of this Schedule.
Section III.  Procurement
A.     General
1 .    Goods, Minor Works and Non-consulting Services. All goods, Minor
Works and non-consulting services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
2.     Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV
of the Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.
3.     Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in Sections
II and III of the Procurement Guidelines, or Sections II, III, IV and V of the
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.
B.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Minor Works and Non-
consulting Services
1 .    International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, goods, Minor Works and non-consulting services shall be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive
Bidding.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Minor Works and Non-
consulting Services.  The following table specifies the methods of
procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be
used for goods, Minor Works and non-consulting services. The Procurement
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:


﻿- 13 -
Procurement Method
(a) Limited International Bidding
(b) National Competitive Bidding
(c) Framework Agreements
(d) Procurement from a United Nations Agencies (UTNOPS)
(e) Direct Contracting
(f) Shopping
C.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services
1.     Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  Except as otherwise provided in
paragraph 2 below, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following
table specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based
Selection, which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement
Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.
Procurement Method
(a) Least-Cost Selection
(b) Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications
(c) Single Source Selection
(d) Individual Consultants
D.     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to
the Association's Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post
Review by the Association.
Section IV.  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A.     General
1. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance
with the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and
such additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Recipient (including the "World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects"


﻿- 14 -
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance
Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
2.     The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing ("Category"), the allocations
of the amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
Category           Amount of the         Percentage of
Financing Allocated   Expenditures to be
(expressed in SDR)        Financed
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, Minor          17,650,000               100%
Works and consultants'
services for the Project,
except Part 2(c) and
Part 3(b) of the Project,
and Training
(2) Goods, Minor                                   100%
Works, Training and
consultant services for
Sub-Projects under:
(a) Part 2(c) of the
Project; and                460,000
(b) Part 3(b) of the        280,000
Project
(3) Operating Costs         714,386                100%
(4) Unallocated                   0
TOTAL AMOUNT              19,104,386
B.     Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall
be made:
(a)    for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 600,000
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after


﻿- 15-
January 1, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures under Categories 1 and 3;
and
(b)    under Category (2)(a) unless:
(i)   the Communal Grant Committee has been established by the
Recipient in accordance with Section I.A.2(a) of Schedule 2
to this Agreement;
(ii)  the PIM has been supplemented in accordance with Section
I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(iii)  a first Grant Agreement has been signed for the provision of
a Communal Grant in accordance with Section I.D.2 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c)    under Category (2)(b) unless:
(i)    the Grant Administrator has been recruited in accordance
with Section I.A.2(b)(i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(ii)  the Social Accountability Grant Committee has been
established by the Recipient in accordance with Section
I.A.2(b)(ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(iii)  the PIM has been supplemented in accordance with Section
I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(iv)   a first Grant Agreement has been signed for the provision of
a Social Accountability Grant in accordance with Section
I.D.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.     The Closing Date is August 31, 2014.


﻿-16-
SCHEDULE 3
Repayment Schedule
Date Payment Due               Principal Amount of the Credit
Repayable
(expressed as a percentage)*
On each February 1 and August 1
commencing August 1, 2018 to and including              1
February 1, 2028
commencing August 1, 2028 to and including              2
February 1, 2048
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b)
of the General Conditions.


﻿-17-
APPENDIX
Section I.   Definitions
1.    "Annual Work Program and Budget" means an annual work program and
budget for the implementation of the Project approved by the Association
referred to in Section I.E(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.     "Anti-Corruption Guidelines" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January
2011.
3.     "ARMP" means Autoriti de Rigulation des Marches Publics, the national
Procurement Oversight Authority established and operating pursuant to
article 1 of the Recipient's Decree no 2005-215 dated May 03, 2005.
4.     "Bank's Safeguard Policies" means the Bank's operational policies and
procedures set forth in the Bank's Operational Manual under OP/BP 4.01,
OP/BP 4.04, OP 4.09, OP/BP 4.11, OP/BP 4.12, OP/BP 4.36, OP/BP 4.37,
and    OP    7.50   as    said   manual    is   published  under
www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.
5.     "BdG" means Bureau de Gestion, the national bureau responsible for the
management and supervision of the Project established by the Recipient's
Decree no. 2005-802, dated November 23, 2005, as amended by Decree no.
2012-660 dated June 28, 2012.
6.     "Beneficiary" means a Beneficiary Commune or a CSO Beneficiary, as the
case may be.
7.     "Beneficiary Commune" means a Selected Commune for which a Communal
Grant is financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
pursuant to a Grant Agreement under the conditions set forth in Section I.D
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and further described in the PIM.
8.     "Category" means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
9.     "Communal Grant" means a grant made, or to be made, out of the proceeds
of the Credit, to finance a Sub-project under Part 2 (c) of the Project.
10.    "Communal Grant Committee" means the committee referred to in Section
I.A.2(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿- 18-
11.   "Commune" means a decentralized subdivision of the Recipient, referred to
as "commune" in, and established pursuant to, the Recipient's law no. 094-
001 dated April 26, 1995, as amended until the date of this Agreement; and
"Communal" has a corresponding meaning.
12.    "Consultant Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment
of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
13.    "COS" means Conseil d'Orientation et de Suivi, the Oversight Committee of
PREA (as hereinafter defined), established pursuant to decree no. 2005-803,
of November 23, 2005, as amended by Decree no. 2012-661 dated June 28,
2012.
14.    "CR" means Comitj Restreint, the Standing Committee of PREA (as
hereinafter defined), established pursuant to the Recipient's Decree no. 2005-
803, of November 23, 2005, as amended by Decree no. 2012-661 dated June
28, 2012.
15.    "CSO Beneficiary" means an entity, group or organization legally established
under the laws of the Recipient, for which a Social Accountability Grant is
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
pursuant to a Grant Agreement under the conditions set forth in Section I.D
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and further described in the PIM.
16.    "Current Guidelines" means, collectively, the Anti-Corruption Guidelines,
Consultant Guidelines and Procurement Guidelines.
17.    "Customs Directorate" means the Recipient's administrative service for the
regulation and administration of import and exports.
18.    "District" means a decentralized subdivision of the Recipient, created by the
Recipient's Decree 2005-012 dated January 11, 2005
19.    "FDL" mean Fonds de Dveloppement Local, the Recipient's local
development fund established under Decree no 2007-530 dated June 11,
2007, amended by the Recipient's Decree no. 2009-814 dated June 09, 2009,
and Decree 2010-746 dated July 27, 2010.
20.    "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association
General Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 31, 2010.
21.    "Grant" means a Communal Grant or a Social Accountability Grant, as the
case may be.


﻿- 19 -
22.    "Grant Administrator" means the grant administrator referred to in Section
I.A.2(b)(i) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
23.    "Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the
Recipient and a Beneficiary for the purpose of extending a Grant to said
Beneficiary.
24.    "INDDL" means Institut National de la     Dicentralisation  et du
Diveloppement Local, the Recipient's entity established under Decree no
2011-230 dated May 10, 2011.
25.    "Land Directorate" means the Recipient administrative service for the
regulation and administration of land.
26.    "Land Reform Policy" means Lettre de Politiquefoncire, the Recipient land
reform policy adopted by the Government council of May 3, 2006.
27.    "Legislation pertaining to the Communes' Financial Autonomy" means,
collectively, the Recipient's law no. 094-001 dated April 26, 1995, law no.
94-007 dated April 26, 1995, law no. 94-008 dated April 26, 1995, law no.
94-009 dated April 26, 1995, law no. 94-010 dated April 26, 1995, law no.
95-005 dated June 21, 1995, ordinance no. 2011-004 dated December 28,
2011, and ordinance no. 2012-003 dated July 19, 2012.
28.    "Minor Works" means small rehabilitation works of existing buildings which
do not trigger the Bank's Safeguard Policies.
29.    "Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred by BdG, on
account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including
office supplies, vehicles operation and maintenance, communication costs,
rental expenses, utilities expenses, consumables, transport, travel and
accommodation, per diem, supervision costs and salaries of contractual and
temporary staff, but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, and bonuses of
members of the Recipient's civil service.
30.    "PIM" means the Project Implementation Manual outlining, inter alia, the
institutional, procurement, financial management, monitoring and other
specific arrangements for the implementation of the Project, including
procedures and criteria for activities eligible for financing based on
Beneficiaries' requests, adopted by the Recipient pursuant to Article 5.01 (a)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended by agreement of the
Recipient and the Association from time to time, and such term includes any
schedules to the PIM including, starting from the date indicated in Section
I.B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the supplemental schedule to the PIM
adopted pursuant to the provision of said section.


﻿-20-
31.    "PLOF" means Plan Local d'Occupation Fonciere, a map established by a
Commune that describes land status at the Communal level.
32.    "PNF Coordination Unit" means the unit established by the Recipient to
coordinate the implementation of Programme National Foncier, the
Recipient land reform program, established by the Recipient's Decree
no.2006-866 dated November 22 2006.
33.    "PREA"   means   Programme    de  Reformes  pour   l'Efficacit  de
l'Administration, the public sector reform and governance program,
established by the Recipient on November 23, 2005 by Decree no. 2005-803,
of November 23, 2005, as amended by Decree no. 2012-661 dated June 28,
2012.
34.    "Procurement Guidelines" means the "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods,
Works and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011.
35.    "Procurement Plan" means the Recipient's procurement plan for the Project,
dated July 25, 2012, and referred to in paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement
Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same
shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraphs.
36.    "Region" means a decentralized subdivision of the Recipient, governed by
the Recipient's law no. 2004-001dated June 11, 2004, as amended until the
date of this Agreement, and "Regional" means related to a Region.
37.    "Selected Communes" means the Communes selected by the Recipient for
the implementation of Part 2 of the Project and found acceptable by the
Association for that purpose, as listed in the PIM.
38.    "Selected Institutions" means, collectively: (i) "Institut National de la
Statistique de Madagascar (INSTA T)" operating pursuant the Recipient's
Decree no 98-290 dated April 2, 1998; (ii) "Observatoire du foncier"
established by the Recipient's Decree 2010-745 dated July 27, 2010;
(iii) "Observatoire national de l'intigrit (ONI)" an association established in
accordance with the Recipient's ordinance no. 60-133 dated October 3, 1960;
(iv) INDDL; (v) the Madagascar Development Learning Center, a member of
the Global Development Learning Center established by its General Meeting
dated June 30, 2004 and operating pursuant to its operating documents of the
same date; as well as (vi) any other entity proposed by the Recipient for the
purpose of Part 3(a) of the Project that the Association has confirmed in
writing is acceptable to the Association for that purpose.


﻿-21-
39.    "Selected Sector Ministries" means, collectively, the Recipient's ministry
responsible for health, the Recipient's ministry responsible for education, as
well as any other Recipient's ministry proposed by the Recipient for the
purpose of Part I of the Project that the Association has confirmed in writing
is acceptable to the Association for that purpose.
40.    "Social Accountability Grant" means a grant made, or to be made, out of the
proceeds of the Credit, to finance a Sub-project under Part 3 (b) of the
Project.
41.    "Social Accountability Grant Committee" means the committee referred to in
Section I.A.2(b)(ii) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
42.    "Sub-project" means specific activities financed or to be financed through a
Grant made under Part 2(c) or Part 3(b) of the Project.
43.    "Targeted Regions" means, collectively, the following Regions: Alaotra
Mangoro, Analamanga Atsinanana, Vakinankaratra, as well as any other
Region proposed by the Recipient for the purpose of Part 2 of the Project that
the Association has confirmed in writing is acceptable to the Association for
that purpose.
44.    "Tax Directorate" means the Recipient's administrative service for the
regulation and administration of taxes.
45.    "Training" means the reasonable cost of training under the Project, based on
Annual Work Programs and Budgets, including costs associated with
seminars, workshops, conference and study tours, travel and subsistence costs
for training participants, services of trainers, rental of training facilities,
preparation and reproduction of training materials and other activities directly
related to course preparation and implementation.


