Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
j^/ 3301- IfAA
Report No. P-5482-IRN
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$250 MILLION
TO THE
CENTRAL BANK OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
FOR AN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
FEBRUARY 12, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatioA



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of February 1991)
USS 1.00   Iranian Rials (Rls) 216 1/
Rls 1.00 - US$ 0.0046
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm) - 0.04 inches
1 meter (m)       - 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)  - 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)    - 2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACB    -  Agricultural Credit bank
AED    -  Agricultural Engineering Department
AMDC       Agricultural Machinery Development Company
BHRC   -   Building and Housing Research Center
CBI    -   Central Bank of the Islamic Republic of Iran
ECSRCC -   Earthquake Committee of the Supreme
Research and Cultural Council
EERP   -   E&rthquake Emergency Reconstruction Program
FFYP   -   First Five-Year Plan
GDP    -   Gross Domestic Product
GFMSC  -  Ghazvin Farm Machinery Services Company
GNP    -   Gross National Product
GSI    -   Geological Survey of Iran
1CB    -   International Competitive Bidding
IRI    -  Islamic Republic of Iran
IGTU   -   Institute of Geophysics of Tehran University
IIEES  -   International Institute of Earthquake Engineering &
Seismology
KV     -  Kilovolts
MEF    -  Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MOA        Ministry of Agriculture
MOE    -  Ministry of Energy
MOHU   -   Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
MOI    -  Ministry of Interior
MW     -   Megawatts
NPC    -   National Project Coordinator
OIETAI -   Organization for Investment, Economic and Technical
Assistance for Iran
PBO    -   Plan and Budget Organization
SPC    -   Sector Project Coordinator
UNDRO  -  United Nations Disaster Relief Organization
USGS   -  United States Geological Survey
FISCAL YEAR
March 21 - March 20
l/Staff estimate of a trade-weighted average of existing multiple rates.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REZUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHOUAKE REC0VERY ?ROJECT
Loan and Pr; set Sumnarv
Borrower:                Central Bank of the Islamic Republic of Iran
Guarantor:               Islamic Republic of Iran
Beneficiaries:           The Housing Foundation
Ministry of Agriculture
The Earthquake Committee of the Supreme
Research and Cultural Council
Amount:                  US$250 million equivalent
Terms:                   15 years, including a five-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Financing Plan:          Government        US$3,922 million
World Bank        USS  250 million
Total             US$4,172 million
Economic Rate
of Return:               Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:                  Not applicable.  A Technical Annex is attached.
Maps:                    Nos. IBRD - 22682, 22664
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE CENTRAL BANK OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
FOR AN EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
1.   I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on
a proposed loan to the Central Bank of the Islamic Republic of Iran (CBI), with
a g,uarantee from the Islamic Republic of Iran (IRI), for US$250 million
equivalent to help finance an Earthquake Recovery Project (ERP), which is part
of a larger Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Program (EERP). The loan would
be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate with a maturity of 15 years,
including five years of grace.
2.  The Maniil-Rudbar Earthguake of 1990.  On June 21, 1990, the provinces of
Cilan and Zanjan in northwestern Iran were hit by one of the worst earthquakes
in the country's history, measuring 7.7 on the Richter scale. The epicenter of
the earthquake was located between the cities of Rudbar and Manjil in the
southern Caspian (Maps No. 22682 and 22664). The rupture area, as inferred from
the distribution of aftershocks, has dimensions of 90 km by 30 km. The impact
of the earthquake was widespread. Some 35,000 persons lost their lives; 60,000
were injured; half a million were left homeless; and nearly 30,000 people lost
their jobs. The 106 m high Sefid Rud Dam suffered extensive damage. Irrigation
systems for some 60,000 ha of farmland were damaged and another 60,000 ha will
need relevelling. About 80,000 heads of livestock perished and an estimated
120,000 houses were destroyed, most of them completely. A 360 MW thermal power
station was rendered non- operations . Over 7,000 classrooms in 1,300 schools and
a major regional hospital were desL-uyed. Total damages are estimated at about
2.5 percent of GDP (1989/90). Estimates of production losses in industrial
output have been placed at nearly US$350 million, in addition to about US$180
million lost in value added. The affected region produces most of Iran's rice
and barley. Sectoral damages are described in detail in the Technical Annex,
paras. 32-51. Total reconstruction investment costs (including contingencies)
are estimated at US$5.25 billion, of which US$990 million would be in foreign
exchange. The foreign exchange needs by sector are estimated as follows: about
US$600 million for housing, US$220 million for agriculture, US$60 million for
energy, US$30 million for water supply and sanitation, US$10 milli4n for
transport, US$40 million for health, US$10 million for industry and US$20
million for other sectors. In support of the reconstruction efforts, the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) has made a US$0.5 million grant for technical
assistance to the Housing Foundation, and the Islamic Development Bank is
providing US$10 million equivalent for reconstruction of educational facilities.
3.  Recovery Strategy.  The Government formulated a three-stage strategy for
responding to the earthquake.  The first stage, rescue and relief, was well
organized and started immediately under the coordination of the Ministry of
Interior (MOI) and the Red Crescent.   Each sector agency quickly designated
teams experienced with relief during the recent war years.  Bilateral donor
support for relief was coordinated by the United Nations Disaster Relief
Organization (UNDRO), and the International Red Cross.   The second stage,
temporary rehabilitation, began soon after relief started, again under the



-2-
coordination of MOI. Volunteers and staff from various regions with experience
in flood and earthquake recovery were transferred to the stricken areas. This
stage, which is almost fully implemented, centered on removing rubble from main
roads and rehabilitating them, repairing key bridges, partially re-establishing
power substations, tapping temporary water svurces, setting up a prefabricated
hospital, and providing temporary, prefabricated shelter for families and sheds
for livestock. The completion of temporary housing is critical before winter
sets in.   By mid-August, attention turned to the third phase, peXment
Xeconstructdon and rehabilitation of damaged structures.   The Ministry of
Economic Affairs and Finance (MEF) was given the overall responsibility of
organizing and coordinating this stage.   Sector agencies created special
reconstruction units to coordinate their specific reconstruction programs. The
Plan and Budget Organization (PBO) adjusted the 1990 public investment program
and, by October 1990, the final damage assessment, the EERP and financing plan
were completed.
4.  Bank Resoonse and Strate2y.  The Government requested Bank assistance for
emergency reconstruction in early July 1990.  A first mission visited Iran
between August 16-26, 1990, to assess damages, review reconstruction plans and
organizational arrangements, and discuss strengthening of seismic risk
prevention and mitigation measures. This was followed by a project appraisal
mission during October 10-30, 1990. The Bank's strategy is to focus on the
short and medium term recovery of the two sectors most heavily affected -
housing and agriculture - and support the introduction of a national program for
seismic risk prevention and mitigation.   The lessons learned from Bank
experience in emergency projects in other countries have been taken into
account, particularly by simplifying project design and managing reconstruction
through existing institutions.
5.  Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The project meets all criteria for Bank
emergency recovery assistance. The project represents a portion of the
Government's overall EERP which was prepared within two months; the housing
stock in the affected area will either be rehabilitated or rebuilt; agricultural
land and infrastructure will be restored for resumption of production; and the
Government is committed to undertaking long-term measures to reduce hazards from
similar natural disasters.
6.  Proiect Objectives. The objectives of the proposed project are: (a) to
assist Iran in setting up an effective organizational framework for managing
reconstruction; (b) to assist in the development of long-term measures for
seismic risk prevention and mitigation; (c) to improve seismic design standards
in the reconstruction of housing; and (d) to ensure greater efficiency and
economy through international procurement.
7.  Project Description.   The proposed project consists of the housing,
agriculture, and the seismic risk prevention and mitigation components of the
EERP. The Bank loan will be disbursed over a three year implementation period
against a portion of the housing, agriculture, and the seismic risk prevention
and mitigation components as follows: (a) equipment (US$71 million) and
construction materials (US$100 million) for housing construction and repair; (b)
agricultural construction equipment and machinery (mainly pumps, tractors and



-3-
tillers) and materials for repair and improvement of irrigation and drainage
infrastructure and land levelling (US$70 million); and (c) equipment and
technical assistance (12 staff years) for implementing the Seismic Risk
Prevention and Mitigation program, including seismic zoning, research and
updating of building codes  (US$9 million).   These components are further
described in the Technical Annex, para. 58.
8.  Cost Estimates and Financing.  The total cost (including contingencies) of
the EERP is estimated at about US$5.25 billion with a foreign exchange component
of US$990 million,  or about 19 percent.   The proposed project  (housing,
agriculture, and seismic risk prevention and mitigation) represents a self-
contained portion of the EERP and is estimated to cost US$4.17 billion, of which
the foreign exchange amounts to about US$820 million, or 83 percent of the total
foreign exchange requirement of the EERP. The project will be exempt from taxes
and duties. The Bank's financial contribution of US$250 million will cover about
30 percent of the foreign exchange requir.ments of the three sectors included
in the proposed project, or about 25 percent of the total foreign exchange
requirements of the EERP.   All remaining costs will be financed by the
Government. A breakdown of project costs and financing plan are presented in
Schedule A and further detailed in paras. 59-61 of the Technical Annex. Amounts
and methods of procurement and the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule
B. Disbursements will be made against approved positive lists of imports and for
consultants' services. The timetable of key processing events and the status
of Bank operations in Iran are presented in Schedules C and D, respectively.
9.  Management and Implementation.  The CBI will be the borrower of the Bank
loan with the guarantee of the IRI.  The CBI will enter into a subsidiary
agreement with the IRI to pass on the proceeds of the loan to the MEF. The
management of the overall EERP and the project will be the responsibility of the
MEF through its Organization for Investment, Economic and Technical Assistance
for Iran (OIETAI). A National Project Coordinator (NPC) has been designated in
the OIETAI to coordinate overall project execution. The Ministry of Agriculture
will be responsible for procuring the agricultural equipment and material
through its Agricultural Machinery and Development Company (AMDC) and the
housing component will be implemented by the Housing Foundation. In each case,
a Sector Project Coordinator has been designated to handle the day-to-day
implementation. The seismic risk prevention and mitigation component will be
executed under the supervision of a Steering Committee composed of
representatives from the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development, the
Earthquake Committee of the Supreme Research and Cultural Council (ECSRCC), and
the International Institute for Earthquake Engineering and Seismology (IIEES).
The representative of the ECSRCC has been designated as the Executive Secretary
of the Steering Committee and to coordinate all activities under this component
of the project through a Working Group (Technical Annex, paras. 62-67).
10. Agreed Actions Agreement was reached that the submission of the subsidiary
agreement between the CBI and the IRI, with terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, will be a condition of loan effectiveness. Agreement was also
reached on standard progress reporting, accounting and auditing for each of the
project components.



-4-
11. Benefits and Risks. The project will assist in the restoration of economic
activity in the earthquake stricken area and in the alleviation of human
suffering through the expeditious reconstruction and rehabilitation of rural and
urban housing. It will have a positive long-term environmental impact through
the development of earthquake resilient construction standards, materials and
techniques and the introduction of appropriate seismic considerations in all of
Iran. More than 250,000 people are expected to benefit from this project. The
main risk is potential delay in project implementation given the Government's
limited knowledgb of Bank procedures and policies and, in turn, the Bank's
limited  sectoral  knowledge  and  operational  familiarity  with  Iranian
institutions. However, to minimize this risk: (a) the project's scope has been
limited to only three components and the design has been kept simple; (b)
technical assistance for implementation of the seismic risk prevention and
mitigation component will be provided, to the extent necessary; (c) extensive
discussions have taken place regarding Bank procurement procedures with all the
implementing agencies during appraisal and a tentative schedule has been drawn
up and agreed upon to avoid any unnecessary delays in procurement; and (d)
project implementation will be monitored closely and intensive Bank supervision
of about 40 SW per annum in the first two years and about 20 SW in the last year
of project implementation is envisaged.
12. Environmental and Social AsRects. The proposed project will address the
environmental and social concerns caused by the earthquake, namely, the loss of
permanent shelter and the means of earning a livelihood in the affected rural
and urban areas. The loss of permanent shelter and related infrastructure is
the main environmental concern due to the inclement and long winter season.
However, in the process of providing adequate housing to replace lost stock,
Government has given special consideration to design standards in accordance
with the "Iranian Code for Seismic Resistant Design of Buildings", issued in
February 1988, and to soil stability criteria.   The main social concern is
restoring peoples' livelihoods as rapidly as possible. To this end, Government
will provide logistical support for the levelling of agricultural lands,
restoring basic irrigation and drainage infrastrue-ture, and replacing farming
machinery lost during the earthquake. The urgency of successfully implementing
these measures is of paramount importance to the Government to prevent the
negative socio-economic consequences of mass migration from rural areas and
secondary cities into the main urban centers.
13. Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
February 12, 1991



SCHEDULEA
ISLAMIC REPUBIJC OF IRAN
EARTHOUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Project Cost A
Sertwor                              l-cal        Foreinn           Total
----     (US$ million)-------------
Housing Reconstruction               2004           513              2517
Agriculture Reconstruction            157           186               343
Seismic Hazard Mitigation              11            92               20
Base Cost (February 1991)            2172           708             2880
Physical Contingencies (10)          217            71              288
Price Contingencies                  1963                            004
Total Project Cost                                                  412
A/Excludes taxes and duties
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreig             Total
---------(US$ million)------------
IBRD                            ---          250               250
Government                     3352          570
Total                          3352          820              4172



SCHE2UL B
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHOUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHODS AND DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Project Component                  Procurement Methods
IC    LIB   Int.Sho2.   Dir.Cont    Other Total Cost
Housing             430   62     100             4       3126    3722
(122) (18)    (28)           (3)      ('')    (171)
Agriculture          68   90       52            5        208     423
(22) (29)    (17)           (2)       (--)    (70)
Seismic Hazard
Mitigation         --   --       9             -         18      27
t  ) (  )    ~(5)        -(4)              (9)
TOTAL     498  152       161            9      3352    4172
(144) (47)      (50)         (5)       (4)    (250)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed under the Bank loan.
Disbursements
Catezorv                            Amount              Percent of Expenditures
(US$ million)         to be Financed
(1) Equip.& Mat. for Agriculture      64                100 Percent of Foreign
Expenditures
(2) Equip.for Housing                 64                100 Percent of Foreign
Expenditures
(3) Materials for Housing             94                100 Percent of Foreign
Expenditures
(4) Consultants' Services,
Equip. & materials                 8                100 Percent of Foreign
for Seismic component                                  Expenditures
(5) Unallocated                       20
TOTAL              250
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
1991         12        1993    1994
-----(US$ million)--------------
Annual                             65          1605       20        5
Cumulative                        65           225       245      250



SCHEDU C
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHOUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
Timetable of Rey Pro1ect Processing Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                Two months
(b)  Prepared by:                          Government with World Bank Assistance
(c)   First mission:                       August 17, 1990
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:          October 11, 1990
(e)  Negotiations:                         December 12, 1990
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:        April, 1991
(g)  List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:    None



SCHEDULE D
Run Time: 02/07/91 at 08.46.02
Status Of Ufmk Group Operations In IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PFOBR25 - Sumary Statement Of Loamr an  IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 12/30/90- MIS data as of 02/07/91)
Amancit in USS miltion
(tess cancelletions)
Loan or       Fiscal                                                                                    Undis- Closing
Credit No.      Year  Borrower                         Purpose                       avnk        IDA     bursed  Date
..........    ......  ........                         .......                     ....          ...     ......  .......
Loans
..... 1.....
33 Loans(s) closed                                                               1,022.73
All ctosed     for     IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
TOTAL rmrber Loans a    0
TOTAL***                                                        1,022.73
of ihich repaid                                                 962.90
TOTAL held by 8ank & IDA                                           59.83
Aouaft sold              78.5S
of kAich repaid        78.55
TOTAL undisbursed
Notes:
=,....................
*   Not yet effective
N Not yet siwned
Total Approved, Repeyeents, and Outstanding balance represt both active and Inactive Loans and Credits.
CR) indicates formaIky revised Closing Date.
CS) indicates SAL/SECAL Loans and Credits.
The net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value, all others are market value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offical data and are not taken
from the Task Budet file.



ISLAMIC REPUBUC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHOUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
Page No,
A.  BACKGROUND   .   .   .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .   .   .    .   .   . ..................................... 1
Seismic History .                               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
The Manjil-Rudbar Earthquake  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    1
Summary Damage Assessment .................... .    2
Government Response and Strategy  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    2
B. MACROECONOMIC SETTING  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    3
Recent Developments ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    3
Policy Framework, 1979-89 ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    4
Medium-term Policies and Plan ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    5
Impact of the Earthquake  .5...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    S
Economic Outlook  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    7
c. EARTHOUAKE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM. . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
overview  .....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    8
Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Housing ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   11
Energy...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   13
Education   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  13
Water Supply and Sanitation ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   13
Transport .....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   14
Health  .....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   14
Industry  .....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   14
Other Sectors ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   15
Seismic Risk Prevention and Mitigation  . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Program Financing .........  ..  ..  ...  ..  ...  ..  .                   .   16
D.  BANK RESPONSE AND ASSISTANCE STRATEGY .....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising Arun
Banerjee (Operations Officer), Alberto Harth (operations Adviser), Mario Zelaya
(Sanitary Engineer), Willem Van Tuijl (Irrigation Engineer), Alain Bertaud
(Housing Specialist), Hassan Fazel (Economist), Luis Esteva (Seismic Engineer
Consultant), and M. Taknhashi (Geo-technical Engineer Consultant) who visited
Iran in October 1990.



-ii-
E.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION, ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION  . . . . . . . .  16
Project  Objectives    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  16
Project  Description  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17
Part  A:  Agriculture   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17
Part B:  Housing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17
Part C: Seismic Risk Prevention and Mitigation  . . . . . . .  17
Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Project Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Procurement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  20
Disbursements   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
Accounts  and  Audit    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
Reporting and Monitoring  .....................   22
Supervision Plan .....................                            22
TABLES
1    Reconstruction Program Costs
2    Detailed Project Costs
3    Agriculture Sector Imports List
4    Housing Sector Imports List
5    Seismic Risk Prevention and Mitigation Imports Lists
6    Housing Component Worksheets
7    Monitoring Indicators
CZHARTS:
A    Implementation Schedule (Bar Chart)
B    Overall Implementation Organization
C    Housing Component Organization
D    Agricultural Component Organization
F-IGURES:
1    Housing Starts By Type of Dwelling
2    Housing Starts and Import Requirements
3    Cement Requirements Per Quarter
4    Timber Requirements Per Quarter
5    Steel Requirements Per Quarter
6    Transport Requirement from Rasht to Building Sites
Notes:
1    Organization and Management of the Agricultural
Reconstruction Program
2    Details of the Seismic Risk Prevention
and Mitigation Program
3    Summary of Procurement Procedures
4    Selected Documents in the Project File
Photos of Damaged Structures in Zanjan and Gilan
Plans of Typical Housing Units



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHOUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
A. BACKGROUND
Seismic History
1.    There is no region in Iran where seismic hazard may be neglected.  The
region affected by the June 21, 1990 earthquake provides evidence of the large
compressive stresses present in the earth's crust and is located in the boundary
between two tectonic plates formed by the Zagros mountains in the south-western
coast and the Alborz mountains in the north which form a band along Iran's
northern border.   Studies of seismic history in Iran show that activity is
concentrated along the mountain ranges mentioned, where very large magnitude
earthquakes (up to Ms-7.7) are known to have occurred. An even larger magnitude
(up to Ms-8.1) was generated in 1975 in the subduction zone along the coast of
the Gulf of Oman. Available geological and seismological information shows that
the rest of the territory, located between the main active areas of the Zagros
and Alborz mountain ranges is characterized by less frequent activity but with
potential for very large magnitudes and destructive intensities practically
everywhere. A preliminary seismic hazard analysis of the country shows peak
ground accelerations with 10 probability of excedence in 50 years as high as
0.7g (lg equals 32.2 feet/second/second of gravitational acceleration) near the
most active portions of the Zagros mountains, with a minimum of 0.17g at the
point in the central plateau, near Esfahan.
The Maniil-Rudbar Earthauake of 1990
2.    In the early morning of June 21, 1990, the provinces of Gilan and Zanjan
in northwestern Iran were hit by one of the worst earthquakes in the country's
history, measuring 7.7 on the Richter scale. The earthquake exacerbated the
impact of the decade-long war on the economy and on Iran's population and
institutions, which were further strained in the months following the earthquake
by the influx of refugees from Kuwait and other Persian Gulf countries. As
reported by the Institute of Geophysics of Tehran University (IGTU) and the
United States Geological Survey (USGS), the epicenter of the earthquake was
located near the city of Rudbar, while the Building and Housing Research Center
(BHRC) of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MOHUD) reported Manjil
as the epicenter.   The rupture area, as inferred from the distribution of
aftershocks, had dimensions of 90 km by 30 km. The maximum peak acceleration
instrumentally recorded was 0.65g; it corresponds to an accelerograph at the
town of Ab-bar, 40 km west of Manjil and 10 km north of the rupture zones (see
Maps 22682 and 22664).



Summary Damage Assessment
3.    The impact of the earthquake was widespread.  Some 35,000 persons lost
their lives, 60,000 were injured and over half a million left homeless. Over
28,000 people lost their jobs. Several cities were over 90 percent destroyed,
including Rudbar, Manjil and Rostamabad. Rasht, the largest city in the region
is located at the northern edge of the affected area. It suffered several total
structural collapses, including the main water storage tower, several multi-
storied apartment buildings, and many schools built before the revolution. The
106 m high Sefid Rud Dam suffered extensive damages. In agriculture, irrigation
systems for some 60,000 ha of farmland were damaged. Another 58,000 ha in both
irrigated and rainfed areas will need relevelling. In addition, about 80,000
heads of livestock perished. An estimated 120,000 houses were destroyed, most
of them completely. The Loshan Thermal Power Station (360 MW) was rendered non-
operational. over 7,000 classrooms in 1,300 schools were damaged. A major
regional hospital was fully destroyed and about 25 percent of the remaining
health facilities were damaged. The exceptionally high level of damage and
destruction inflicted by the earthquake is the result of its very high intensity
and very low structural strength of buildings.'
4.    Total reconstruction investment costs are estimated to be US$5.25 billion,
of which US$990 million would be in foreign exchange. The earthquake damages
were significant to the economy, estimated to be about 2.5 percent of GDP
(1989/90). Estimates of production losses in industrial output have been placed
at US$ 344 million, in addition to US$ 178 million lost in value added.
Government Response and Strategy
5.    The Govermnent's strategy for responding to the earthquake was organized
in three inter-related stages: rescue and relief, temporary rehabilitation, and
reconstruction stages. The first stage, rescue and relief, was well organized
and started immediately with helicopters surveying damages.  This stage was
implemented under the coordination of the Ministry of the Interior (MOI) and the
Red Crescent.   Each sector agency designated teams experienced with relief
efforts during the recent decade-long war. Bi-lateral donors supported this
stage through the UNDRO and the International Red Cross.  The management of
relief and rescue was well organized. The dead were buried quickly. Within
hours rescue and medical teams were in the field. Within days all the injured
were transferred to hospitals in Rasht and Tehran.   Tent shelters, water
receptacles, medicines and assistance to prevent epidemics were provided even
in dispersed villages. A temporary hospital was set up in Rostamabad. Housing
Foundation teams were set up to conduct a household census detailing destruction
and damages in towns, villages and dispersed population, and socio-economic
characteristics of households.
1 See attached photos of damaged areas in Zanjan and Gilan.



- 3 -
6.    The second stage, temporary rehabilitation, began soon after relief was
under way, again coordinated by MOI.  Volunteers and staff from other regions
with experience in rehabilitation after floods and earthquakes were transferred
to the stricken areas. This stage centered on removing rubble from primary and
some secondary roads, inspecting and repairing key bridges and tunnels,
partially re-establishing selected gas and steam power substations, tapping
temporary water sources, setting up a prefabricated hospital, and providing
temporary shelter for families and sheds for livestock, an urgent requirement
to ensure adequate protection from the freezing winter temperatures in the
stricken area and the constant high winds in Manjil. The Sefid Rud reservoir
was  emptied  to  inspect  damages.    The  temporary  phase  is  almost  fully
implemented.
7.     By mid-August, attention had already turned to the third stage, permanent
reconstruction and rehabilitation of damaged structures.   The Ministry of
Economic Affairs and Finance (MEF) was given the responsibility of organizing
and coordinating this stage, and to liaise with missions from the Bank and other
donor and aid agencies. Some sector agencies, such as the Housing Foundation,
created special reconstruction units to complete damage assessments, prepare
sectoral reconstruction programs, and coordinate their part of the overall
program. Detailed damage reports, on a village by village basis, were also being
prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to assess damages in the
agricultural sector.   Urgent investments were being made while an overall
reconstruction program was being completed. The Plan and Budget Organization
(PBO) adjusted the year's public investment program and prepared a financing
plan for reconstruction.
B. MACROECONOMIG SETTING
Recent Developments
8.     Iran is a middle-income oil exporting country. It has a population of
about 50 million, growing at 3 percent a year, and an estimated GNP per capita
equivalent to US$3,200 (1989). Iran achieved a relatively high, if uneven, real
economic growth in the first half of the 1980s. In the second half, growth
performance deteriorated as a result of the intensification of the war with
Iraq, the weakening world oil market and a sharp drop in imports. It was only
in 1989 that economic growth recovered to about 2 percent.
9.    The overall budget deficit, with the exception of the first years of the
decade (when it averaged about 12 percent of GDP), was maintained at about 6
percent of GDP up to 1988, after which it dropped to about 3 percent of GDP, the
current level. The Government deficit was financed almost entirely through
monetary expansion. This explains the rising inflation rates of the 1985-88
period. Inflation reached a peak of 30 percent in 1988, declining thereafter to
the currently estimated 20 percent level.



- 4 -
10.    Iran's balance of payments deteriorated sharply between 1982 and 1986,
with the current account turning from a US$ 5 billion surplus to a US$ 5 billion
deficit. The main factor behind this deterioration was a dramatic decline in oil
exports, from US$20 billion to US$6 billion. During the same period, imports
decreased from US$12 billion to US$10 billion. The situation has improved in
the last three years, with the current deficit down to US$2 billion owing to
increasing oil exports while imports have not risen above their 1982 levels.
Iran is entering the decade of the 1990s with a small external debt relative to
its income and exports: total short-, medium- and long-term debt in 1989 was
less than US$5 billion, equivalent to less than 5 percent of GDP and less than
40 percent of exports.
Policy Framework. 1979-89
11.      The developments in the economy described above occurred against a
backdrop of major political changes in Iran, various trade and financial
sanctions against the country, a long and costly war with Iraq, and a volatile
world oil market. With these developments, Iran's economic institutions and
structure underwent marked changes, notably the reorganization of the country's
financial system along Islamic doctrine and principles, and the extension of the
role of the public sector in the economy.
12.       The financial system was reorganized in a phased manner aimed at
replacing fixed interest rates with profit-sharing modes of finance. The public
sector became increasingly prominent in the past decade. First, the departure
of former owners as well as skilled workers compelled the Government to manage
various businesses and properties; second, the decision to bring strategic
industries and activities under state control led to nationalization of many
enterprises and services; and, third, the exigencies of war prompted Government
to extend its regulation of the economy into areas such as prices, distribution
and external trade.
13.    The reorganization of Iran's financial system proceeded smoothly on the
whole. The commercial banking sector was consolidated, the supervisory and
policy functions of the Central Bank were established more clearly, and a
variety of new savings and lending instruments were developed. In response to
these improvements, the deposits side picked up rapidly, with private sector
deposits growing four-fold between 1980 and 1989 and the share of private sector
deposits in the total liabilities of the banking sector rising from 60 to 70
percent. Unlike the deposit side, however, the banking sector's asset side
remained weak, with heavy reliance on short-term asset acquisition (as opposed
to long-term investment finance) and with banks having to own or manage many
non-financial enterprises.
14.     In contrast to the reorganization of the financial sector, Iran's other
major policy stance of the last decade - the extension of the public sector -
proved deleterious to the economy. In particular, the various forms of price
interventions and the increasingly complex regulatory framework led to greater
economic distortions and financial imbalances. In the latter half of the 1980s,
financial imbalances were further exacerbated by the collapse of oil income and
the mounting expenditures related to the war with Iraq.



- 5 -
15.     Following the cessation of war in mid-1988, Iran formulated its post-
war reconstruction policies and priorities, which seek to reorient economic
management and which have been incorporated in the country's First Five-Year
(1989/90-1993/94) Plan (FFYP) approved by the Majlis (parliament) in January
1990. A Bank economic mission which visited Iran in March 1990 discussed various
aspects of the FFYP with the Government and is now preparing a detailed economic
report. The paragraphs below provide a summary of the FFYP policies and its main
economic and financial targets.
Medium-term Policies and Plan
16.         In addition to comprehensive  sector strategies,  policies,  and
expenditure proposals, Iran's economy-wide medium-term policies include the
progressive   elimination  of  financial   imbalances,   decentralization  of
administrative and economic decision-making, and privatization of state
enterprises in various sectors of the economy. To eliminate budgetary
imbalances, the FFYP proposes to raise revenues and contain expenditures,
whereas, to eliminate imbalances in the external accounts, the FFYP envisages
rationalization of the exchange rate and the trade and payments systems. The
decentralization policy proposes devolution of local taxation and expenditure
authority to provincial and town councils, and the promotion of urban and
industrial centers outside the existing urban areas. The privatization policy
requires the state sector to sell off shares in various enterprises by public
tender or through the stock exchange. To that end, the Tehran Stock Exchange,
dormant for nearly ten years, was reactivated in September 1989. The Government
also intends to expand the Tehran Stock Exchange and to establish other
exchanges in the provinces.
17.   Based largely on projected reconstruction, rehabilitation and higher rate
of manufacturing capacity utilization, the FFYP has targeted real GDP to grow
at 8 percent per year, on average; gross domestic investment by 12 percent per
year in real terms; real private consumption by 6 percent per year; and
government consumption by 4 percent per year in real terms. With consumption
growing at a lower rate than output, national savings is therefore targeted to
rise, from around 30 to 35 percent of GDP during the FFYP period. The FFYP
envisages a total of around US$ 27 billion equivalent in foreign financing for
investment expenditures in the five-year period. Given the volume of planned
expenditures, targeted national savings, and external financing, a resource gap
equivalent to about US$23 billion (1990/91 prices) would still remain. These
investments and financing targets were estimated before the Manjil-Rudbar
earthquake.
Impact of the Earthquake
18.    The areas hit by the earthquake sustained widespread losses in virtually
all sectors: agriculture, housing, energy, water supply, transport and
communications, health, and education. In some instances - agriculture, for
example - the damage sustained in the stricken area would be felt throughout the
economy since the affected provinces were Iran's principal areas for growing
basic foodgrains (wheat, rice and barley). These provinces had also developed
prosperous treecrops (olives, almond, pomegranates, tea), livestock (sheep,



-6-
cattle, poultry), and vegetable growing sub-sectors serving the domestic market
and producing some of Iran's high-value export crops (e.g. almonds and walnuts).
The financial and economic costs of the earthquake to Iran include: (a) the
expenditures incurred/to be incurred in the three interrelated stages for
reconstruction  (termed  rescue  and  relief,  temporary  rehabilitation,  and
permanent reconstruction),  which constitute  the Government's  strate&,  for
dealing with the aftermath of the earthquake; and (b) the net value of the
production of goods and services that will be foregone while the earthquake-
related damages are repaired.
19.   Rescue and relief expenditures relate to procurement, transportation and
distribution of material and manpower needed to: search for and rescue the
earthquake victims; treat the injured; feed, clothe and shelter the affected
population; and survey physical damage. The estimated financial cost of these
activities funded by Government amounted to Rls 15 billion. Apart from
Government, the private sector also contributed financial and material resources
to the rescue and relief efforts.
20.    The temporary rehabilitation stage involved provision of transitional
shelters; initial repairs to key highways, bridges, power substations and water
supply facilities; provision of temporary irrigation, repair of rural roads, and
harvesting of crops; and planning and coordination of the longer-term repairs
and rehabilitation. The 1990/91 budgetary cost of undertaking the temporary
stage has been estimated at Rls 85 billion. The combined financial cost to
Government of the relief and temporary rehabilitation stages, Rls 100 billion,
is likely to wipe out over 90 percent of the 1990/91 public sector savings (Rls
107 billion) that had been envisaged prior to the occurrence of the earthquake.
Furthermore, the private sector is estimated to have contributed roughly Rls 35
billion to relief and temporary stages; this amount represents 2 to 3 percent
of projected private savings in 1990/91.
21.     In the third stage, permanent reconstruction, the total cost of the
program has been estimated at about Rls 745 billion in 1990/91 prices. This
amount represents additional capital expenditures of 5 percent over and above
the FFYP public sector expenditures (Rls 13,856 billion in 1990/91 prices)
envisaged prior to the earthquake. Thus, in aggregate, the additional public
sector current and capital expenditures necessitated by the earthquake during
the FFYP period amounts to Rls 845 billion in 1990/91 prices. Adding to this
amount the Rls 35 billion spent by the private sector brings the total estimated
financial cost of the earthquake to Rls 880 billion, equal to about 4 percent
of estimated GDP in 1990/91.
22.    Iran's economy, moreover, is expected to incur further losses by way of
net output foregone in the stricken area while the various production units and
supporting infrastructure are restored to operating conditions. With production
capacity in the affected provinces impaired, the country's potential annual
output is expected to be lower now than before the earthquake even after taking
into account the additional activity that would arise in some sectors (e.g.,
construction). In terms of the value of net output foregone, approximately Rls
200 billion in 1990/91 prices would be lost to the economy during the FFYP
period.



7 -
23.   The estimated full cost of the earthquake to Iran's economy thus amounts
to some Rls 1080 billion (about US$5 billion in 1990/91 prices) borne between
the occurrence of the disaster and the expected date of completion (1993/94) of
needed repairs and reconstruction. Coming in the wake of a decade marked by a
costly war, the earthquake entails an onerous burden on Iran's economy.
Economic Outlook
24.       The  additional  financial  and economic  cost  of  the  earthquake
notwithstanding, the thrust of Government's medium-term economic policies and
priorities remain unchanged. Those policies - bacled with phased reform measures
in the trade and payments regime, the pricing system, the privatization program,
and the public and financial sectors - would enable Iran to establish and
maintain a healthy economic growth momentum in the coming years. After an
initial decline owing to structural adjustment, a real GDP growth averaging 5
to 6 percent per year would seem feasible for the medium term.
25.     Along with real growth, Iran could also see its economy stabilizing
progressively, provided that external support is obtained quickly to overcome
the immediate financial shock of the earthquake. The economy could be more
stable then, with improvements in the overall public sector deficit (from around
6 percent of GDP in 1989/90 to less than 1 percent of GDP by 1993/94) and with
inflation declining (from around 20 percent in 1989/90 to less than 10 percent
by 1993/94). On the external side, the current account balance is estimated to
register a modest surplus in 1990/91 and to improve in the ensuing years.
26.    The estimated improvement in Iran's external current account, and hence
its overall balance of payments, is predicated on the anticipated trade and
pricing policy reforms as well as the recent international oil price increases.
Provided that repairs of the war-inflicted damage to the oil and gas sector is
carried out as planned, the recent oil price increases could result in a
windfall income of US$14 billion (1990/91 prices) during the FFYP period.
27.   The potential windfall indicated above would not, however, eliminate the
need for external resources to assist Iran's Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction
Program and its pre-earthquake, war-related reconstruction program. Even before
the earthquake, the Government was already facing a projected FFYP deficit
estimated at the equivalent of US$23 billion (para 17). The earthquake,
meanwhile, has given rise to additional expenditure requirements of US$5
billion, as detailed in paragraphs 19-22. Thus, comparing the potential windfall
income (US$14 billion) with the FFYP resource shortfall plus the earthquake-
related expenditures (US$28 billion), it is clear that Iran, in fact, would
still need substantial external resources to rebuild its economy.
28.     It should be noted also that the potential windfall, even if it were
realized, is estimated to flow in over a three-year period to 1992/93. But, the
payments for many imports and other items related to post-war and earthquake
reconstruction would have to be met ahead of such time. Thus, the availability
of external resources in the near term would be essential to enable Iran to
press on with rebuilding what is potentially a dynamic, and already a very
creditworthy, economy.



- 8 -
C. EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Overview
29.    After organizing the urgent stages of relief and temporary rehabilitation
(paras 5-6), all sector agencies moved quickly to prepare an Earthquake
Emergency Reconstruction Program (EERP). This endeavor was coordinated by the
Vice Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance, who is also the President of the
Organization for Investment, Economic and Technical Assistance for Iran
(OIETAI). The EERP is a multi-sectoral five-year program aimed at (i) providing
construction materials and technical assistance for rural and urban housing
repair and reconstruction; (ii) restoring agricultural and industrial
production, (iii) rebuilding community facilities and essential public
infrastructure; and (iv) preparing and implementing a national program of
seismic risk prevention and mitigation.
30.    The approach to recovery developed in preparing the EERP was to: (i)
rely, to the extent possible, on existing agencies for implementation; (ii)
simplify coordination mechanisms between sectors, relying on existing planning
and budgeting arrangements; (iii) use the existing credit mechanisms, such as
the Saderat Bank; (iv) rely on direct subsidies from Islamic savings account
deposits for which no interest is paid to the depositor, and from the public
sector budget; and (v) take the opportunity to develop a short and medium term
program in seismic research to upgrade building codes and mitigate hazards, and
disseminate educational material as part of a public awareness raising campaign.
31.    A summary of the overall EERP is presented in Table 1 of the Attachments.
The figures, however, underestimate the total cost of the program, and the true
contribution of the Iranian population and Government to the reconstruction
effort, as they do not include the substantial amount of emergency and temporary
rehabilitation works already carried out since the earthquake. The following
is a detailed description of the sectoral programs of the EERP, with emphasis
on agriculture and housing, the two sectors most seriously affected by the
earthquake.
Agriculture
32.    Context.  The provinces affected by the earthquake are two of Iran's
principal areas for agricultural production. Over 2,000 agricultural villages
are reported to have been damaged, including about 500 which collapsed totally.
Agricultural production in these areas cover about 386,000 ha in Gilan Province,
447,700 ha in Zanjan Province (except Ghazvin), and 313,430 ha in the Ghazvin
Zone (irrigated and rainfed). In Gilan, agriculture is sustained for the most
part with water released from the Sefid Rud Dam, while the remaining areas are
rainfed with some supplemental irrigation from traditional diversions from small
local streams built by farmers.  In the Sefid Rud project area, rice is the
predominant crop, while in the other irrigated areas a wide variety of crops are
cultivated, including treecrops, fruits and vegetables. In the rainfed areas,
the crops grown are mostly wheat and barley.



- 9 -
33.   Damage  Assessment.    The  damage  in  the  agriculture  sector  may be
categorized as follows:
(a) Dams. Major Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure. This involves the
major facilities of the Sefid Rud Project (for irrigation and power) operated
by the Ministry of Energy (MOE). The Sefid Rud Project commands about 165,000
ha of land. The multi-purpose Sefid Rud dam has experienced rather extensive
damages, raising serious questions about its safety. This 106 m high and 425 m
long concrete buttress gravity dam shows, inter alia, a number of cracks, mostly
in the upper quarter, and movement of some buttresses relative to each other.
The Sangar diversion dam located downstream has also experienced damage: 8 of
the 12 radial gates have fallen down and need repair, 7 of these can be repaired
at site but one gate needs to be replaced. Major damages to the irrigation
infrastructure include 7.5 km of concrete-lined main and primary canals, 35 km
of concrete flumes, 70 km of earth canals, 80 km of drainage canals, 150
structures, 25 km of service roads and 1900 m2 of administration buildings and
staff quarters.   In addition,  there are some minor damages to the Tarik
diversion dam and tunnel. It is estimated that the damages to the irrigation
system endangers irrigation water supply to about 60,000 ha.
(b) Minor and Farmers Irrigation Systems. Farm Roads and Agricultural
Land. These facilities are under the jurisdiction of the MOA and include the
quaternary canals in the Sefid Rud project, and the farmers' built irrigation
canals and diversion weirs (mostly in the mountains).   The total length of
damaged canals is about 700 km (including some concrete flumes).  The total
affected area is estimated to be at least 50,000 ha, which includes relatively
large areas with orchards. The earthquake also caused land levels to rise and
fall in certain areas. It is estimated that about 8,000 ha in the Sefid Rud
project area needs to be relevelled for paddy cultivation. Large areas (about
50,000 ha) with terraces in the mountains where rainfed agriculture is practiced
will also need some reshaping.  About 600 km of farm roads need repairs.
(c) Animal Husbandry. On-Farm Facilities and Eauipment.  The damage to
the livestock sub-sector is large.  About 80,000 heads of cattle and sheep have
perished under collapsed housing and livestock sheds. About 17,000 livestock
sheds need to be rebuilt.   Also, about 1500 major farm machinery such as
tractors, tillers, sprayers, trailers, pumps, pick-ups and trucks have been
damaged beyond repair. Open wells and deep wells have collapsed and stocks of
agricultural inputs have been lost.
(d) Losses in Agricultural Production.  Losses in agricultural production
in Gilan and Zanjan provinces include grains (rice, wheat and barley), tree
crops (olives, almonds and tea), livestock (cattle, sheep and poultry) and
vegetables. The total value of 1990 agricultural output lost has been estimated
at about Rls. 50 billion.
(e) Miscellaneous.  In addition, damages have occurred to a number of
agro-industries (including 19 poultry units), MOA's offices, cooperative
buildings and stores.



- 10 -
34.   Reconstruction Program. The strategy for the reconstruction of agriculture
focuses on:
(a) Sefid Rud Dam and Major Infrastructure, Top priority is being given
to the repair of Sefid Rud dam. A joint-venture of two international and one
local consulting firms have already advised HOE on the necessary repairs to be
undertaken, mainly, the epoxy-grouting and pre-stressing of the damaged parts.
A contract has also been negotiated to undertake the repairs.   The damaged
irrigation and drainage infrastructure will be restored to their original design
with appropriate seismic considerations.
(b) MpA's Irrigation Infrastructure and Farm Roads. The concrete flumes
("canalettes")  will  be  repaired  or  reconstructed  to  their  original
specifications. The farmers' built canals, however, will be reconstructed to
modern standards i.e. concrete or gabion weirs will replace stone or brush
diversion dams. Concrete hydraulic control structures will be built and, where
necessary, earthen canals will be replaced with concrete lined canals or pipes.
(c) Provision of 4gricultural Machinery. IDnuts and Livestock. Government
intends to import about 5,000 pumps of various types for (i) replacing damaged
pumps; (ii) pumping from rivers, canals and ponds as a temporary measure during
the reconstruction period; and (iii) installing permanent facilities to boost
agricultural production and improve farmers' income. Government also plans to
import about 1,800 tractors, 4,000 tillers, and other agricultural machinery and
implements for distribution and sale in the area.  Government also plans to
import about 20,000 cows (Holstein and Friesian) and replace another 20,000
animals by local breeds.
35.  Prog-am Costs.  The total cost of the agricultural reconstruction Drogram
has been estimated at Rls 44.9 billion in local cost and US$215 million in
foreign cost.
36. Implementation. The reconstruction of major infrastructure for the Sefid
Rud project will take about three years to complete, while the reconstruction
of the farmer's built irrigation systems in the mountains will probably take
four years to complete due to difficult access and the short construction season.
However, procurement of equipment to be imported under the project will be
completed within one year. The construction equipment will be sold to the Ghazvin
Farm Machinery Services Company (GFMSC), which will also be contracted to carry
out the earthmoving operations. The GFMSC has adequate staff and facilities to
maintain the equipment. The civil works will be carried out by small local
contractors. The farm machinery will be sold only to farmers who have been
affected by the earthquake by the Agricultural Machinery Development Company
through private dealers, who will be responsible for after sales service and
repair (see Note 1 for details).



- 11 -
Housing
37.    Contgxt.  The availability of housing in Iran had reportedly improved
during the 1976 to 1986 period despite the war and the rapid population
increase. Nevertheless, housing shortage had been estimated at some 1.6 million
units before the earthquake, In the FFYP, an annual housing production program
of some 450,000 units had been anticipated.   The earthquake altered this
estimate by some additional 120,000 units in the stricken areas. Housing needs
are also being revised in view of the repatriation of some 80,000 prisoners of
war from Iraq and refugees fleeing the Persian Gulf countries.
38.   Damage Assessment.  The damage in the housing sector can be categorized
as follows: (a) houses beyond repair, rural and urban, which require total
rebuilding; and (b) damaged houses which can be repaired. The number of houses
damaged beyond repair is estimated at 15,000 units in urban areas and 75,000 in
rural areas. The number of repairable units is about 30,000. Formal housing
construction (e.g. steel or concrete frame with brick or cement blocks) were
equally affected, as was the informal construction (e.g. wood frame with earth
infill).  However, some traditional rural designs with wood frame and earth
appear to have suffered less damages. Most of the damages appeared to be due to
faulty design and construction or to location (slopes or unstable soil), rather
than the weakness or quality of materials. A number of hamlets located on major
faults which have been affected by major landslides will have to be relocated.
The number of households so affected has been estimated at ten percent. The
income of the population affected range from poor to upper middle income.
39.   Reconstruction Program.  The objective of the housing sector program is
to accelerate, through especially targeted assistance, the return to normal
economic and social life in rural areas and settlements. The reconstruction of
housing will be under the direct responsibility of the households, although
Government will rebuild infrastructure, clear rubble from sites, reconstruct
community facilities and provide technical assistance.
40.   2rogram Costs.  The floor surface destroyed is estimated to be 5.6 million
m2. The total cost of the housing reconstruction program have been estimated at
Rls 675.2 billion in local costs and US$596 million in foreign exchange costs.
41.   Implementation.  Government's plans calls for completion of the housing
program under the EERP by June 1994. The program consists of (i) providing,
through the Saderat Bank, housing reconstruction loans to the affected
population; and (ii) providing, through the Housing Foundation, logistical
support for the clearing of rubble, identifying and preparing new sites for
villages that will be relocated, supplying materials, and technical assistance
for introducing seismic resistant design and construction methods. The Housing
Foundation, a semi-autonomous agency under the Ministry of Housing and Urban
Development, is responsible for implementing the permanent housing program. To
this effect, the Housing Foundation has completed a socio-economic census of
households affected by the earthquake, and a survey of property damage and
reconstruction costs (bill of construction materials and labor costs).   The
Housing Foundation has also established field construction camps (14 sites) and
warehouses for site preparation and supply of materials, respectively.



- 12 -
42.   Naterials and equipment needed for implementing the program will be
purchased and managed by the Housing Foundation and stored at existing
warehouses, which are adequate. Loans issued by the Saderat Bank will be based
on the findings and recommendations of the socio-economic census and the survey
of property damage and reconstruction cost.   To ensure that reconstruction
adheres to the seismic resistant design prepared by the Housing Foundation, the
loans will be disbursed in three tranches; and the release of each tranche will
be subject to inspection of construction by the Housing Foundation for
compliance with the seismic resistant design.  Materials will be delivered to
the household by the Housing Foundation against documentation of proof of
payment by beneficiaries to the Housing Foundation account at designated banks.
Release  of  materials  for  the  various  constructlon  stages  (foundation,
superstructure and finishing) will also be subject to inspection mentioned
above.
43.   On-lending. Grant Programs and Beneficiarv Selection.   Government has
clearly distinguished welfare programs from lending mechanisms. The first will
benefit only households which are left with no means of principal source of
income. The second applies to other families who apply for construction loans.
Low-income families will be eligible for loans with a 3 percent annual
commission, the funds for which come from Islamic savings account deposits on
which no interests are paid. Middle and upper-income families will be eligible
for construction loans (maximum of Rls 700,000 for rehabilitation of both urban
and rural housing; Rls 3 million for construction of new houses in rural areas;
and Rls 5 million for urban areas) at commercial interest rates (12 percent),
the funds for which will come from the commercial banking sector. The loans for
construction of houses will cover about 90 percent of the total cost of
construction.
44.   All households affected by the 1990 earthquake have been registered by
Housing Foundation surveyors. This constitutes a census of households, their
socio-economic characteristics, damages and reconstruction costs (building
material and labor). Based on this census, all households affected are eligible
to apply for loans to build up to 50 m2 in rural areas and up to 70 m2 in urban
areas. The selection of beneficiaries will be made by a tri-partite committee
consisting of representatives of the Housing Foundation, the Province concerned
and the Saderat Bank. On-lending and grant programs will apply according to
affordability and need. The ceiling of 50 m2 and 70 m2 corresponds to about the
average construction area existing before the earthquake in rural and urban
areas. The loan ceiling of Rls. 5 million corresponds to about 3.5 times the
annual household income in urban areas; no similar data is available on rural
household income. However, the housing materials and costs proposed for the
rural program are consistent with those existing before the earthquake.
Construction material procured through the Bank loan will be sold to the
households using the official exchange rate (US$1 - Rls 70). The selling price
will also include a margin of between 14 and 20 percent to cover transportation
and administrative costs incurred by the Housing Foundation. Given the wide
disparity in the various exchange rates used in Iran, there will be an implicit
up-front subsidy to the households.



- 13 -
Energy
45.   Before the earthquake, the energy sector already had a major rebuilding
and rehabilitation program due to the destruction caused by the war and by
deferred maintenance resulting from financing constraints. The power sub-sector
had improved its ability to meet demand within a short period, decreasing the
length of blackouts significantly. The earthquake has set back the power sub-
sector in northwest Iran further which will require an urgent rehabilitation
program.   Major damages to power generation,  transmission and distribution
systems in the two provinces include: (a) the Loshan Thermal Power Station (360
MW); (b) the Rostamabad, Taleghani and Manjil Substations; (c) several towers
of 230 KV lines; and (d) partial damages to various substations, office buildings
and other electrical equipment. Cost estimates for the energy sector
reconstruction program are US$60 million in foreign exchange in addition to Rls
23.8 billion in local costs.
Education
46.    Education has expanded considerably in Iran, especially during the last
decade, and the overall literacy rate has increased from 47 percent in 1979 to
64 percent in 1989. The enrollment ratio in formal primary and secondary schools
has doubled from around 7 million to 14 million students in this period. And
although 46 percent of Iran's population was rural according to the latest
census, rural students comprise 5.4 million against 8.6 million urban students.
Before the earthquake, appropriate facilities and equipment were generally
missing, schools were overcrowded, and maintenauce was very poor because of lack
of funds. The education sector was also severely affected by the earthquake and
places an urgent demand on the reconstruction effort because of the impending
start of the new academic year. About 930 schools (5,100 classrooms) suffered
damages Eetween 30 per:tnt and 100 percent in the provinces of Zanjan and Gilan.
In addition, 413 schools (2,327 classrooms) have sustained up to 30X damage.
The floor area of schools to be rebuilt or rehabilitated is equivalent to 672,800
m2. Higher education institutions did not suffer major damages. The education
sector reconstruction costs are estimated at US$2 million in foreign exchange
in addition to Rls 65.5 billion in local costs.
Water Supply and Sanitation
47.    Before the earthquake, potable water supply was reported adequate and
with at least good coverage in urban areas.   Sewage collection and disposal
were, with few exceptions, limited to infiltration and septic tanks. However,
solid waste disposal and collection were characterized as unsatisfactory or non-
existent.  The FFYP includes projects for the introduction and expansion of
sewerage systems in many towns and villages. This objective will have to be
augmented with investments to rebuild both the partially and totally destroyed
systems in the stricken provinces. Major damages to the water supply sector
include: (a) complete collapse of one water tower in Rasht, with a capacity of
1,500 m3 and completed over twenty years ago; (b) structural damage to a second
water tower in Rasht with a capacity of 2,500 m3 which was under construction
and almost completed; (c) four water systems completely destroyed (Masouleh,
Manjil, Loshan and Rudbar); (d) two pipe factories damaged (Gilan and Zanjan);



- 14 -
(e) sector office buildings in Manjil, Loshan and Rudbar to be replaced, and to
be repaired in Rasht; (f) drinking water systems to be rebuilt in 65 villages
(38 in Gilan and 27 in Zanjan); (g) rehabilitation of water systems in 29
villages (14 in Gilan and 15 in Zanjan); (h) constructioa of some 14,000 latrines
(6,500 in Gilan and 7,500 in Zanjan); and (i) provision of 58,000 solid waste
collection bins (26,000 in Gilan and 32,000 in Zanjan). The water supply and
sanitation reconstruction program costs are estimated to be US$35 million in
foreign exchange in addition to Rls 16.6 billion in local costs.
Transggrt
48.   Ninety percent of all passengers in Iran are transported by road. Before
the earthquake, the transport sector had still not fully reverted to peacetime
conditions due to the consequences of the war. The transport networks were in
need of rehabilitation, renewal and capacity increases.   The earthquake has
placed further demands on rehabilitation and maintenance of roads, particularly
in unstable soils in the stricken regions. The damages caused by the earthquake
fall in the following categories: (a) significant landslides on embankments and
roads, and unstable rocks yet to be removed; (b) cracks and sinking of roads
and shoulders; (c) damages on the Bala Bala and Rudbar bridges, including cracks
on columns and damage to neoprene joints and bolts; (c) complete destruction
of Ministry of Transport (MOT) office buildings in Gazvin and Rudbar, and partial
destruction of five maintenance camps and one technical school; (d) damage to
the Rudbar tunnel; and (e) equipment to be repaired or replaced, including spare
parts, materials for technical schools, bulldozers and other equipment in
maintenance camps. The transport reconstruction program costs are estimated to
be US$9 million in foreign exchange in addition to Rls 8 billion in local costs.
Health
49.   Major damages to the health sector include: (a) total collapse of the
Rudbar Hospital (100 beds) constructed only two years ago; (b) 26 percent of
the stock, or 195 health houses, for rural dwellers; (c) 20 percent of the stock,
or 23 health centers, for several villages; (d) 6 maternity facilities; (e) 15
percent of the stock, or 11 urban health centers; (f) one of the two district
health centers; and (g) 4 training centers in Gilan. The health reconstruction
program costs are estimated to be US$39 million in foreign exchange in addition
to Rls 16.8 billion in local costs.
Industr
50.   The industrial sector was expected to generate significant amounts of non-
oil exports in the future, although it had been estimated that Iran had a sizable
industrial base consisting mainly of import-substituting industries, many
operating at less than installed capacity. Field observations show significant
damages in several large public sector industrial plants, such as the shoe,
leather and olive oil factories in Ganjen, where there were structural damages,
wall collapses, loss of industrial equipment and product stock. However, the
cement factory suffered little damage, except for administrative buildings. The
industry reconstruction program costs are estimated to be US$9 million in foreign
exchange in addition to Rls 34.8 billion in local costs.



- 15 -
Otbgr Sectors
51.   Estimates for communications include significant damage to telephone
telecommunication buildings, transmission lines, administrative buildings,
housing for employees, and telephone switching centers. No estimates are
available for losses to the commercial sector for loss of plant, equipment and
materials; nor are there estimates for damages to historic buildings or mosques.
Preliminary reconstruction cost estimates for these other sectors amount to
US$16 million in foreign exchange costs in addition to Rls 31.1 billion in local
costs.
Seismic Risk Prevention and Mitigation
52.   Given the constant threat of earthquakes in Iran, the Government, as part
of the EERP, also intends to implement a multi-disciplinary program for
prevention and mitigation of seismic risks. The main objectives will be (i) to
reduce the risk of failure in different types of construction; (ii) making people
aware of the risks and the need to build safer structures; and (iii) to know how
to act when earthquakes occur. In order to achieve these objectives, a program
has been prepared consisting of the following group of sub-projects:
(a) Seismic zoning and micro-zoning
(b) Research on seismic safety of structures
(c) Updating building codes and engineering practices
(d) Education and training
(e) Risk assessment and reduction
(f) Raising public awareness
53.   The first two sub-projects  refer to research needed for producing
information necessary to up-date seismic design codes and to improve the
resistance of structures to earthquakes. The third sub-project includes the
development of actions necessary to update building codes, on the basis of
lessons learned from observations in real earthquakes and from research, as well
as the actions required to enforce these codes and to facilitate their
application by engineers and architects. The fourth sub-project refers to
improving the knowledge about earthquake-resistant construction by educating
various professionals who participate in the formulation of building codes, in
the design of structures and in the construction process. The fifth sub-project
aims at the identification of some important structures in Iran, studying their
seismic safety, and formulating recommendations for enhancing seismic safety
when convenient. Finally, the sixth sub-project consists of dissemination of
information to the general public on how to build safer structures and how to
act in case of emergencies (see Note 2 in Attachments for details). The total
cost of this program is about US$9 million in foreign exchange in addition to
Rls 3.9 billion in local costs.



- 16 -
Program Financing
54.   The total cost of the EERP amounts to US$5.25 billion equivalent. The
foreign exchange component of US$990 million is about 19 percent of the total.
The EERP will be largely financed from the Government's own resources,
supplemented to an extent by borrowings from local commercial banks. Overall
program costs and its financing plan are detailed in Table 1 of the Attachments.
Pledges of external support have been somewhat limited up to date. The World
Bank will fund US$250 million; the Islamic Development Bank will provide US$10
million for the education sector, and UNDP has pledged US$500,000 in the form
of a technical assistance grant for the housing sector.
D. BANK RESPONSE AND ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
55.   The government requested Bank assistance for emergency reconstruction in
early July, 1990. A first mission visited Iran between August 16-26, 1990 to
assess damages, review reconstruction plans and organizational arrangements,
discuss strengthening of seismic risk prevention and mitigation measures, and
prepare an operation. A second mission visited Iran between October 10-30, 1990
to appraise the proposed project. Negotiations took place during December 12-
19, 1990 and final agreement on the negotiated documents was received on February
7, 1991.
56.   The project meets all criteria for Bank emergency recovery assistance. The
Bank's strategy is to focus on the short and medium term recovery of the two
sectors most heavily affected -housing and agriculture - and support the
introduction of a national program for seismic research, risk mitigation and
information dissemination. The lessons learned from Bank experience in emergency
projects in other countries have been taken into account, particularly by
simplifying project design and managing reconstruction through existing
institutions.
E. PROJECT DESCRIPTION. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Objectives
57.   The objectives of the proposed project are to assist the Government in:
(a) setting up an effective organizational framework for managing reconstruction;
(b) developing long-term measures for seismic risk prevention and mitigation;
(c) improving seismic design standards in the reconstruction of housing; and (d)
ensuring greater efficiency and economy through international procurement.



- 17 -
Project Description
58.   The proposed project covers a portion of the overall EERP and consists of:
(a) recovery and restoration of economic activities in two key sectors,
agriculture and housing, through the import of critical construction equipment,
tools, construction materials, and farm machinery and spare parts; (b)
reconstruction of rural and urban housing, taking into account earthquake
resilient technology; and (c) the setting of the foundation for improving
earthquake risk preparedness and developing a broad national program of seismic
risk prevention and mitigation. The proposed loan of US$250 million will
disburse against a portion of the housing and agricultural reconstruction
programs, and the seismic risk prevention and mitigation program (financing 30
percent of the foreign exchange requirements) as follows:
Part A: Agriculture   (US$70 million): purchase of construction
machinery and materials for the repair and improvement of irrigation and
drainage facilities and land levelling, pumps to restore water supply, and
agricultural equipment for farming operations (see Table 3 - Agriculture
Sector Imports List);
Part B: Housing (US$171 million): (i) purchase of equipment and
tools for rubble removal, site preparation, transport of construction
materials, plant equipment and storage facilities for the Housing
Foundation up to an amount of US$71 million ; and (ii) purchase of
construction materials for households to repair and rebuild on-site
permanent houses with earthquake resilient techniques up to an amount of
US$100 million (see Table 4 - Housing Sector Imports List); and
Part C: Seismic Risk Prevention and Mitigation (US$9 million): (i)
purchase of seismological equipment; (ii) conducting research on seismic
safety of construction; (iii) carrying out studies on risk assessment and
reduction; (iv) updating and enforcement of building codes; (v) carrying
out education and training programs, and increasing public awareness (see
Table 5 - Seismic Risk Prevention and Mitigation Imports List).
Project Cost and Financing
59.   The proposed Bank financed project represents a "time-slice" of the
housing and agriculture components of the EERP.   The implementation of the
housing and agriculture components of the project will take place in the first
two years of the program and the seismic risk prevention and mitigation
component will be implemented over three  years.   On this basis, the Bank
financed project is estimated to cost about US$4,172 million equivalent (Rls
901.1 billion equivalent), of which US$820 million equivalent (Rls 177.1 billion
equivalent) represents the foreign cost component, or about 20 percent. The
estimated cost by component is summarized below and the details are in Table 2
of the Attachments.



- 18 -
Project Cost Summay
Rls.(billion)              US$(million) A/
Local   Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign   Total
Housing Reconst.       432.9    110.8   543.7    2004           513   2517
Agriculture Reconst.    33.9    40.2    74.1      157          186    343
Seis. Hazard Mitig.      2.4      1.9     4.3      11            9     19
Total Base Cost      469.2   152.9  622.1    2172            708   2880
Physical Cont.          46.9    15.3    62.2      217           71    288
Price Cont.            207.9      8.9   216.8     963          41   1004
Total Proj. Cost     724.1   177.1   901.1    3352          820   4172
A/ US$ 1 - Rls 216
60.   Base costs are expressed in February 1991 prices.  Cost estimates were
prepared by various government agencies for the proposed EERP and revised during
appraisal. A 10 percent physical contingency has been added for all project
components.  Price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of a 3.6
percent annual increase from 1990/91 to 1993/94 for foreign costs; local costs
have been assumed to increase at a rate of 17 percent in 1990/91, 14 percent in
1991/92, 11 percent in 1992/93, and 9 percent in 1993/94.
61.   Project financing will consist of a US$250 million Bank loan, which will
cover about 30 percent of the total foreign cost requirements, with the balance
of the foreign costs and all local costs to be financed by the Government. The
Bank loan will be made to the Central Bank of the Islamic Republic of Iran (CBI),
with the guarantee of the Islamic Republic of Iran (IRI). The CBI will enter into
a subsidiary agreement with the IRI to pass on the proceeds of the loan to
institutions implementing the project. Agreement was reached that the submission
of the subsidiary agreement between the CBI and the IRI, with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Proiect Organization and Management
62.   The project will  use  the Government's  existing  line  agencies  and
organizational framework, with the exception of the Housing Foundation which has
created a Reconstruction Unit for managing reconstruction activities. At the
national level, management of the project would be the responsibility of the
OIETAI of MEF, in close coordination with the PBO. NEF has designated a National
Project Coordinator (NPC) under the jurisdiction of OIETAI (See Chart B: Overall
Organization) who will be in-charge of the overall execution of the project.
While the responsibility and authority for day-to-day implementation of the three
components of the project would rest with individual agencies (Housing



- 19 -
Foundation, Ministry of Agriculture, and the Earthquake Committee), in case of
disputes and disagreements the OIETAI (the Vice Minister in MEF is also the
President of OIETAI) will have the ultimate authority to decide on matters
affecting  project  implementation.    The  NPC's  principal  functions  and
responsibilities will be:
(a)   organize and hold periodic meetings with project agencies to review
progress in implementation;
(b)   monitor and coordinate the activities of the project until its
completion;
(c)   be the focal point for formal communications between MEF, the Bank
and project agencies;
(d)   collect data from project agencies on physical implementation,
disbursements and procurement to present quarterly and annual
progress reports to the Bank;
(e)   assist in making arrangements for Bank supervision missions;
(f)   submit project audit reports to the Bank as outlined in the legal
agreement;
(g)   prepare a project completion report based on project agencies sub-
project reports;
63.   The agricultural component (Part A of the Project) will be implemented by
the MOA (See Chart D). In MOA, under the overall responsibility of the Minister,
the Vice Minister of Agriculture for Farming Affairs will supervise most
activities and will also be the Sector Project Coordinator (SPC) for this
component of the project. Procurement of equipment for MOA will be undertaken
by the Agricultural Machinery Development Company (AMDC). The function of the
agriculture SPC will be to support the NPC and provide data for monitoring the
implementation of the agricultural component. Specific data to be supplied
periodically include: (a) procurement and import of equipment and material
financed under the project; and (b) status of use/sales of the equipment and
material. The earthmoving equipment will be utilized and maintained by the
Ghazvin Farm Machinery Services Company (GFMSC), while the agricultural equipment
will be distributed and sold to the farmers with loans from the Agricultural
Credit Bank.
64.   The housing component (Part B of the Project) will be executed by the
Housing Foundation in coordination with the Governorships of Zanjan and Gilan,
and the Saderat Bank. The Housing Foundation will make use of the Reconstruction
Unit set-up after the 1990 earthquake (See Chart C) and a SPC for the housing
component has been designated in the Housing Foundation. The functions of the
housing SPC will be to support the NPC and provide data for monitoring the
implementation of the housing component. The specific data to be supplied
periodically include: (a) procurement and import of housing materials and
equipment financed under the project; (b) sales/delivery of construction



- 20 -
materials to households by the Housing Foundation; and (c) number of housing
loans made by the Saderat Bank under the EERP.
65.   The seismic risk prevention and mitigation component (Part C of the
Project) will be executed under the supervision of a Steering Committee composed
of one representative of each of the following institutions: MOHUD, the
Earthquake Committee of the Supreme Research and Cultural Council (ECSRCC), and
the International Institute for Earthquake Engineering and Seismology (IIEES).
The functions of the Steering Committee will be to provide general guidelines
and direction for the execution of this component, and oversee and monitor its
implementation. The representative of the ECSRCC has been designated as the
Executive Secretary of the Steering Committee and Coordinator for the component.
66.    The agencies participating in the actual implementation of this component
will coordinate their respective parts through a Working Group headed by the
representative of the ECSRCC. The Working Group will be composed of the following
agencies: (1) the IIEES; (2) the BHRC; (3) the Geological Survey of Iran (GSI);
(4) the IGTU; (5) the Sharif University of Technology; (6) the Ministry of Higher
Education, and others to be agreed upon,
67. The principal functions and responsibilities of the Working Group will be:
(a) monitor and coordinate the activities of the seismic risk prevention and
mitigation component during implementation until its completion; (b) be the
focal point for formal communications between the members of the Working Group,
the NPC and the Bank; (c) collect data from each member on physical
implementation, procurement of equipment and consultant services, and
disbursements, for submission to the Bank; (d) in coordination with the NPC,
assist in making arrangements for Bank supervision missions; (e) prepare brief
quarterly reports, as well as a completion report on the components activities
based on reports from each member of the Working Group for submission to the
Bank through the NPC. Letters of agreement between the ECSRCC and each of the
implementing agencies of the seismic risk prevention and mitigation component
of the project have been signed and submitted to the Bank.
Procurement
68.   The proposed procurement methods are summarized in Schedule B of the
Memorandum of the President (MOP) and described in detail in Note 3 of the
Attachments.   All goods to be financed under the project, will be procured
following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with
Bank procurement guidelines, except for: (i) batching plant equipment (one set
only), construction equipment, materials, vehicles, pumps and agricultural
equipment urgently needed for the start-up of the agriculture and housing
programs, estimated to cost not more than US$2 million equivalent per contract
(except for the batching plant equipment that will cost US$3.5 million
equivalent), and not more than US$45 million equivalent in the aggregate (US$28
million for housing and US$17 million for agriculture), which will be procured
based on comparing at least three price quotations from at least two countries
through International Shopping procedures in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines; (ii) equipment urgently needed for the start-up and implementation
of the seismic risk prevention and mitigation component estimated to cost no



^ 21 -
more than US$1 million equivalent per contract and not more than US$5 million
equivalent in the aggregate, which will be procured based on comparing at least
three price quotations from at least two countries through International Shopping
procedures in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines; (iii) batching plant
equipment (five sets) and urgently needed construction equipment, agricultural
machinery, pumps and irrigation systems, estimated to cost not more than US$47
million in the aggregate (US$18 million for housing and US$29 million for
agriculture), which will be procured based on comparing price quotations from
at least five bidders from at least three countries through Limited International
Bidding in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines; and (iv) spare parts,
estimated to cost not more than US$750,000 equivalent per contract, and not more
than US$5 million in the aggregate (US$3 million for housing and US$2 million
for agriculture), which for reasons of compatibility with existing equipment,
will be purchased under direct contracting procedures from the original
suppliers. Documents for all contracts expected to cost more than US$750,000
will be subject to Bank's prior review.
69. In view of the specialized nature of the technical assistance services for
the seismic risk prevention and mitigation program, direct contractual agreements
will be made with already known institutions and individual experts in accordance
with the August 1981 "Guidelines for the use of Consultants by World Bank
borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency".
DisbursRements
70.   The proposed Bank loan will be disbursed against a "positive list" of
materials and equipment (Tables 3, 4 and 5 of the Attachments) and consultants'
services for the project components shown in Schedule B of the MOP.
Disbursements for the procurement of imported equipment and spare parts for
existing equipment in the agriculture and housing sectors are estimated to take
place in the first year; disbursements for imported construction materials in
the housing sector will take place in the first two-and-a-half years; and
disbursements for the seismic risk prevention and mitigation program will extend
over the three years of project implementation. All disbursements will be made
per Borrower's written instructions and against applications supported by
standard documentation in accordance with Bank disbursement guidelines.
Accounts and Audit
71.   Each entity implementing the various components of the project will
maintain separate records and accounts of all transactions under the loan.
Furthermore, each of these entities will summarize their accounts on an on-
going basis to show: (a) expenditure in each quarter; and (b) cumulative
expenditure up to date. These accounts will be submitted to the NPC who will
prepare a consolidated account for the entire project and submit it to the Bank
at the end of each quarter as part of the quarterly reporting system (para 74).
72.   All Government agencies are subject to annual audits. The audits are
carried out by two Government instituted entities: the Divan-e-Mohasebat, which
audits all ministries and administrative departments; and the "Government Audit
Company" which audits all agencies which earn revenues and use the commercial



- 22 -
code of accounts. The standard and quality of audits carried out by the
Government Audit Company, which will audit the Housing Foundation, AMDC, and
IIEES, have been reviewed and found satisfactory. Agreement has been reached
that the project aceJunts of all the entities will be audited annually by the
Government Audit Company, and that these audit reports will be submitted to the
Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Reporting and Monitoring
73.   Agreement has been reached on the project implementation program and
monitoring indicators (Chart A and Table 7). To monitor this program, quarterly
progress reports will be submitted to the Bank within one month from the end of
each quarter. These quarterly reports will be submitted by the NPC on the basis
of reports prepared by the SPCs of the agriculture and housing components and
the coordinator of the seismic risk prevention and mitigation component of the
project. In addition to reporting the progress being made, the quarterly reports
will also explain any significant delays in the execution of the project and
outline the remedial actions that are being taken. Agreement has been reached
that the MEF (through the NPC) will submit to the Bank quarterly reports
commencing with the quarter ending June 30, 1991. Agreement has also been reached
that a project completion report will be prepared by the MEF (through the NPC)
within six months of the closing of the loan.
Suppervision Plan
74.   Four supervision missions in the first year, three missions during the
second year, and two missions in the third year, each consisting of an engineer
and a financial analyst, and each of two weeks duration (including traveling
time), will be required to supervise the project. In addition, an irrigation
engineer (Bank staff) will be required for one mission of two weeks duration in
each of the first two years. An expert on seismic engineering to supervise the
Earthquake Risk Prevention and Mitigation component will also be needed in two
of the missions in the first two years and for one mission in the third year.
On the basis of this requirement and at an average cost of US$ 7,500 for travel
cost per Bank staff member per mission (for combined missions) and US$ 13,000
for travel and consulting fees per mission of an expert in seismic engineering,
the total Bank cost of supervision missions for the project will be about US$
215,000.



- 23 -
TABLE 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHOUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
PROGRAM COST AND FINANCING
Program Cost 1/
Program                 Lgcal Cost 2/ 2LCai               Foreien          Total
Rls billion            ---US$ million Equivalent-
Housing                      675.2             3126           596           3722
Agriculture                   44.9              208           215            423
Energy                        23.8              110           60             170
Education                     65.5              303             2            305
Water Supply                  16.6               77            35            112
Transport                      8.0               37             9             46
Health                        16.8               78            39            117
Industry                      34.8              161             9            170
Other Sectors                 31.1              144            16            160
Seismic Hazard                 3.9                         ___                27
Total Cost                  920.6             4262           990           5252
1/. The total program cost in US$ equivalent is based on an exchange rate of
Rls 216 per US$.
iL^. The local cost is the actual cost in local currency.
Program Sources of Financing
Financing Source                     Local Cost        Foreign Cost
Rls billion       US$ million Equiv.
Government and Local Banks           920.6             729.5
World Bank                             ---             250.0
Islamic Development Bank               ---              10.0
UNDP                                  --.
Total Financing                      920.              ^990.0



ISLAMIC REPU8LIC OF IRM
Earthquake Recovery Project
Project cost
Suwmary Accounts Cost Sumary
Rlamillion                     USSmillion                   X Total
----------................    ...........................-  X Foreign         Base
Local   Foreign     Total       Local  Foreign   Total     Exchange    Costs
........................... ... ...........................   ..  ...    .......  ........................   .... ....... ... .... .... .... 
1. INESTIENT COSTS
...................
A. Agr.Equip.& Materials              0.0  28792.8  28792.8           0.0   133.3   133.3          100.0      4.6
B. Mousing Equipmsnt                  0.0  4693.6  46693.6            0.0   217.1    217.1         100.0      7.5
C. Seisdm  Equipmlent                 0.0    1296.0   1296.0          0.0     6.0      6.0         100.0      0.2
D. Consultantst Services              0.0    432.0    432.0           0.0      2.0      2.0        100.0      0.1
E. Concrete Rural Nousem  Nat         0.0    7961.2   7961.2          0.0    36.9    36.9          100.0      1.3
F. Steel Rural Houses Hat            0.0  13139.4  13139.4            0.0    60.8    60.8         100.0       2.1
6. Timber Rural Iouses Nat.           0.0  32682.0  32682.0           0.0   1S1.3   151.3          100.0      5.3
H. Concrete Urban Houses Nat          0.0   5831.1    S831.1          0.0    27.0     27.0         100.0      0.9
1. Steel Urban Nouses Nat.           0.0   4356.2   4356.2            0.0    20.2    20.2         100.0       0.7
J. Concrete Rural Houses CV       91491.7       0.0  91491.7        423.6      0.0   423.6           0.0     14.7
K. Steel Rural Houses CW         126254.8       0.0  126254.8       584.5      0.0   584.5           0.0     20.3
L. Timber Rural Nouses CU        126782.5       0.0  126782.5       S87.0      0.0   587.0           0.0     20.4
R. Concrete Urban Houses CV       53311.S       0.0  S3311.S        246.8      0.0   246.8           0.0       8.6
N. Steel Urban Houses CM          35064.2       0.0  35064.2        162.3      0.0   162.3           0.0       5.6
0. Agricultural IpAuts             3369.6       0.0   3369.6         1S.6      0.0    15.6           0.0       O.S
P. Animal Husbandry Forefgn           0.0  11448.0  11448.0           0.0    53.0    53.0          100.0       1.8
0. Animlt Nusbandry. Local        15292.8       0.0  1s292.8         70.8      0.0    70.8           0.0       2.5
R. Civil Works                    15292.8       0.0  15292.8         70.8      0.0    70.8           0.0       2.5
S. Training Local                    21.6       0.0      21.6         0.1      0.0      0.1          0.0       0.0
T. Training Abroad                    0.0      86.4      86.4         0.0      0.4      0.4        100.0      0.0
U. Seismic Nasard Prog. Ad.        2419.2       0.0   2419.2         11.2      0.0    11.2           0.0       0.4
Totat BASELINE COSTS            469300.7  t52918.? 622219.4       2t72.7   706.0  2880.6           24.6    100.0
Physicat Contingencies        46930.1  15291.9  62221.9          217.3    70.8   288.1           24.6      10.0
Price Contingencies           207934.7   8S93.8  216828.6        962.7    41.2  1003.8            4.1      34.8
Total PROJECTS COSTS             72416.5  177104.4  901269.9       3352.6   819.9  4172.S           19.7    144.8
11/9/19*0  1 7                                                         c_12=
_ ._._._._.................. ____.,......___.._._._____........................._.............................
111911990 17:12



- 25 -
TABLE 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
AGRICULTURE SECTOR IMPORT LIST
A. CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
Bulldozers
Motor Graders
Elevating Scrapers
Excavators
Loaders
Heavy Equipment Transporters
Mobile Workshops
4-WD Vehicles
Spare Parts
B. CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS
Cement
Steel
C. AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT
Tractors
Tillers
Agricultural Implements (plows, discs, sprayers, etc.)
Cultivating and Harvesting Machinery
Pumps and Engines/Motors
Irrigation Systems
Deep Well Equipment
Rotary Drilling Equipment
Generator Sets



- 26 -
TABLE 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
HOUSING SECTOR IMPORT LIST
A. Concrete Plant Equipment
Coarse and Fine Aggregate Crushers
Concrete Batching Plants
Truck Mounted Concrete Mixers
Concrete Pumps
Concrete Block Making Kits (Molds)
Electric Motors
Block Lifters
Ancillary Batching Plant Equipment
B. Construction Equipment
Bull-Dozers
Front-End Loaders
Dump Trucks
Trailers
Auto Concrete Mixers
Dumpers
Pick-Up Trucks (4-WD)
4-WD Saloon Type Vehicles
Fork-Lift Trucks
Truck-Mounted Cranes
Concrete Vibrators
Vibratory Compactors
Welding Equipment
C. Construction Material
Cement
Reinforcing Steel
Structural Steel Shapes and Plates
Corrugated Metal Sheets
Galvanized Steel Pipes
Welding Electrodes
Electrical Fixtures
Timber, Lumber, Plywood
Roofing Material (Jute)
Truck Tires
Loader Tires
Spare Parts for Existing and New Equipment
Miscellaneous Materials (Nails, Bolts, etc.)



- 27 -
TABLE 5
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
SEISMIC RISK PREVENTION AND MITIGATION IMPORTS LIST
Seismometers
UHF Telemetry Transmitter
Lightning Protection and Solar Panels
Amplifier Filter Module
Calibrator Module
Data acquisition and digitizer and software
Computers
Synchronized clocks
Standby power supply
Telephone/satellite transmitter
Drum recorders
Printers and plotters for computers
Digital accelerographs
Informatic hardware
Portable seismographs
Shear wave measurement devices
Equipment for microtremor studies
Accelerographs and strainmeters for buildings
Forced vibration exciters
Ambient vibration sensors and recorders
Static and dynamic material testing equipment
Loading frames
Jacks
Structural Laboratory equipment
Workshop equipment
Actuators
Soil dynamics laboratory equipment
Shaking Tables
Audio-visual equipment for training
Surveying equipment
Geotechnical and geological equipment



- 28 -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT                               TABLE 6 f
Page I of 3
HOUSING COMPONENT WORKSHEETS
Number and Type of Units
34 1I.0catia:                 I    1I-        RIRA      )      1{--RM-----)I
3  s1M11al:                   1    1          Cootbladcs    I Ceumtblod   I TOTAL    I
I                         I    .---4I---                            ^ 
3  IFra.:                     I      CcGmte  I steel   I Lumber 1lcOCtui Steel I
37 ITYPe                     1    1    A      I t      I  c   I  D   IE   I                 I
38 #iber of UWits:              1 I   26,01 36,491  41,705 110,292 1 6,62t   121,4161
4  ITYPICalArea               1d2  t          I      o      501      70      70 1  6,413,9081
41 liCst/02                   Irtahl    67,000 I 67,000 167,000 i,  100  n1,    I           I
42 Ctt per Balling uit        i.ial      3.35 1  3.35 1  3.35 I   .04 1  6.04 I   435,34 
43
3. WITOS  O IIRTED ATEkIALS BY MSING JWE
45 1A.   ntities                   i    A    :         I  C   I D    I  E    f  TItl    I
46 ICiet                      ITO. I   11.200   9.00   0.046 126.00 121.0001 1,086,50 I
47 leforge OmsSize6I8    I     1    0.3,31  0.0801  0.0001  0.3501  0.100 I    16.148 1
48 I         n  an1           11         0.303   0.02a   0.000   0.260 1 0.000       11,377 I
491    'a  'a 'a  12         I n1    0.3241 0.1631 0.0001  0.601  0.2501    23,101
50 I         n   '  14       1     1    0.000 1 0.010 1 0.0001 0.160 1 0.900 )      037  1
51 ISteel Vhudt flD OFrew   I 1 1    0.2001 0.2001 0.0001  0.3001  0.301    17,6581
F-~~~~~~~~~~ a
52 lin Profiles               I    a    0.000 1 1.600 I 0.000   0.000   2.044 1    72,412
.-                        4     I  4---4    ----   I-                    -i  -
SSISbtelbbuePlates            I      1    0.0001  0.1001  0.0001 0.0001 0.1001        4,3351
54  e                              il5  I    0.000 1 0.000 1 0.030 1 0.000   0.000 I  12511
5  kleding Elecrodn          I    1     0.0201  0.0201  0.0001 0.030: 0.0501          1,031
56 lalwanized Pipes          1    1    0.015 1 0.015 1 0.0151 0.046 I 0.0461          2,356X
S lCorrnsed NetalMehets    1            0.0001 0.000 10.200   0.000   0.0001          8,3411
Sf IElectricalFixtr          lUnit           81      81      81  i   1       14:  1,074,252 1
59latbe                       1s2        130.01  130.01    0.0   225.0   225.0111,9,0601
60 iCarpentry PIVuga        I n  1      12.6 I  12.61   12.6 1  14.01  14.01  1,553,57 1
61 RIoundStnutural Tiaber    1          0.0000:  0.0001  5.1001  0.0001  0.0001    212,691
62lftmsiau   d                1 01      0.600 00.6001 0.1641 0.701  0.3501           53,990
63 IFomest Mad                1 f    i   0.0000 t 0.000 I 3.82 I 0.000 1 0.000 I    159,397 I
+- i                                                                 t--
64 IClued Lainbd Luiber      1     I   0.0W01 0.000 1 0.3031 0.000 I 0.0001    12,637 1
5 Lt.ebw                      I         0.0000   0.000'  1.93    0.0001  0.0001      90,616



- 29 -
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                           TABLE 6
133lia eiquird tobuildlHwu:    1    A               B    I  C    I  Dow      E 
1341                  in gnths:              121      121      8a      121     12.
1351                  inquarters:             4       41       21      41       41
------ ------------          ------------.--- +     - -  -
136 IPercnt of cast /qrter                2S.00   2.00t1  50.0021  25.00O   2S.AU
4-_--____________ *__.__-----+-.+                       4-- -----t--------4-------- --------------- ---- -+-------
1371Qstterstwting  ju1-"  '   b1-20: t-901Jr91 jwl    t91 1 bl-91:        Ot-911 I a-92" Ar    -9211-
13? IQuater starting     ul Ju l-        Ju-OIOt-O1JnSIIArS  Jul-S actStIJa  2    p-52 IJul-9
128 IQuarter ending                  :      -OO90 k1 r-SI 9            I I Sl-r9gl      Oec-911  ar-92 1 Jun-92  Se-92
4____ _-   ---.4.------4-         *--- 4-----   -- ----- ---------    -------
1392I lTw A             t              Ok                                                       ak
t------ - --                     ---------- -----.-4 ---t--- -    -----4------   -              ---- --t-
140lHoaing Start       126,066   kl         800      9001  1,0001  1,600I 2,400          2,100  2,000   3,00 1  3,200
--_     ----+-      ---4-----.4-t-.                - t4--   4----4------  ------              --- t4----
141 ICultative Number Started        :      900   1,600   2,00   4,200   6,600           8        11,0  113,700 116,900
+----        ---*-+------t----4t----. 4----. 4 ---------.----  --  ---4t-
12 IouseaCoapletedQluarter          I        01      0:       0       0      9001I       800 I,O0 1,6001  2,400
t   -------t   ---~~~~~-----------+----- _----                                            -    ----
143  Culative lkabr Cpletd           :        01      01       01       0:   8001        1,600: 2,6001  4,2001 6,600
t- ------4----4 -- 4---+--_-e_  .......................... 4_ _._
144 laousesunderCanstruction                n 9o0  1,600   2,6001  4,200   5,800: I       ,100I 8,100 I 9,500   10,300
t4 -w                                         t        iOU  Ik                                ok - --- -----_
I  - -   -~~------------                         -_,
145 ITypg B            otlat a641tk90                                                                      ,0
146 IHausing Start    1 36,491   ok: 1      900   1,200 I 1,800   3,300 I 4,091          3,s0  I 3,000    ,10    4,200
147 ICulative mber Started                  900 s   2,100   3,9001 7,200  11,291 I    l4,731   17,791  21,991  26,091
148li Caplated/luater                1        01      0:       0:       0:   9001        1,200   1,9001  3,300   4,091
I       4      . - 4.---------- -4--- 
149  CewaltivamxberCpletad           1        0       01 0e              0I   9001      2,100 13,9001  7,200 I11,291
_ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~    ~     ~~                ~~~~~~~~        --- --------++         --    _+
150 WaMs under Costruction           :      900 1 2,100    3,900: 7,200 110,391         12,691  13,991 1 14,691 114,800
151 Type C            Total           ok                                                        ok
- -----4~1                - --- v----    -- ------------t
lS2llheitgStart        141,70S  ok        1,000   1,1001  1,300: 3,3001  2,9001         32,001 3,4001  50051I 5,300
153 lCuaulative lmbr Started              1,000 1 2,100: 3,4001 6,700 110,600           14,100 11 7,500  22,505  217805
154 INousaes CuplleaWduarter        I         01      0 : 1,000 1 1,100 : 1,3001        3,3001 3,9001 3,500   3,400
155 ICmultive iAber C1leatd         :         0 1     0 1 1,000 1 2,10 I' 3,400 1       6,700  10,600 1l14,100 117,5s0
S6 Images under totruction          :    1,000 5 2,100 I 2,400 I 4,60   ?,200 I         7,400 1 6,900 1 8,405   10,305
157 Itype 0           Total           ak                                                        ok
Isetiusirng Start     I10,292  ak           300:   7001   600c    9001  1,1001            900s     8001  1,192   1,200
+~~~~~~~~~~~~----- -----t-- --m-4 -----f 
159 lCuiulative lumer Started               300  1,000  1,600 I,   2,500  3,600 1       4,500   5,300: 6,492 1 7,692
160 tIHas clplated/Ouarter          :         01      01       01      0I   300e          700:   6Soo      9001  l,loo
-    ------------    4                                                           -     ---- -_---
l6 ICuMiItivelsaberCoaplatod        :         0:      0:       01      01    300         1,001 1,600   2,50    3,600
162 IH=sa under Cotnetton            1      300 1 1,00     11,600   2,500 1 3,300:      3,500: 3,70 1 3,992 1 4,092
t           --                   .-----                   _ B--                 +_.             ------
163 ITg  t            Total           ok                                                        ok
164 tHming Start      : 6,862  ak  I        150     2501    700       90      90          5 0soo.   4001    7621    700
4 --t--------------------B--I44    4
165 ICuwhative limber Strted        :       1501   4001  1,1001  2,000: 2,900s           3,4001 3,800 1 4,562 1 5,262
_*-__ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~      I _    _-i---*__
I66C l1u Cpleted/ertar              :         0       01       01      0:    1501         250:   700    9Soo        900
167lCmulativeimbarCupletad           1        0N1     01       0 1     01    150ISO       400   1,100   2,000   2,900
1688 HousesunderCwntr  6,862        1       IS0     41  1,100 1 2,0001 2,750;           3,000  2,7001   2,5621  2,32
169 ITetal Nmber of Hams            I
It    ---Y----- -           ' -           -'             -     t     _      -      -        -I--
170 lausing Start     1121,416  okt 1    3,150 I 4,050 1   5,400 1 10,000  12,3911    10,5s0    9,600  14,059 1 14,600
171 ICusulative Ibder Started       I    3,150 . 7,200  12,600 122,6o0  34,991 I    4S,491 1 5,091 1 69,150 1 63,750
4.                          f .               ..............  +--*-...
172 IHouws"CpatedQuarter                      0:      01  1,000 I 1,1001  3,450 0       6,250 1 8,000 1 10,200 111,891
173 ICMulativ  imber Cpleted                  0       01 1,000 1 2,100 1 5,550 1    11,800 1 19,800 130,000 t 41,991
174 Illuises under Constnction       1    3,150 1 7,200 1 11,600   20,500 129,"1 I    33,691 135,291 I 39,150 I 41,859



-  30  -                                                 TABLE  6
IMPLEMENTATION  SCHEDULE                                              Page  3 of  3
133 Tim Required to build I Hose                                                                                           133
134                    into   s:                                                                                           134
135                    in qusters:                                                                                         13
136 lPercent of cost /qarter                                                                                               135
t--------------- ~ ~ ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   - -- -- -- ------*---------                      *w+--_+ __+ _ _
13? 1Quarter starting    jul-O              t I           1pr-90 1ul-93 I Oct-93 I Jan-94 I Apr-94 1 Jul-94 1              13?
139 luarter erdinrg                  1     ec-92 I Nr-93 1        un9t8ep-99 1 0tc-   Ibr-    i JArS t Sep-                13f
t~~~~~  ----- -      -------- - +--- - -+- --   ---  -_ _. _+
139 'Type A            Total                       ok                                                                      139
---_ -  -----_---    ---.- .....                       -t  ---------- - ----
140 ltausing8start     1 26,085   a   1    320t0 1 2,60 1 3,3661         01       01      0 1      0       0             140
141 Cumulative Nhaet Started         I   19,900 1 22,200 1 2,06  26,066 1 26,06  1 6,066 1 26,066 1 26,066 1               141
142 Houses Complated/lQuarter        t    2,100 1  2,000 1  3,000   3,2001  3,0001  2,6001  3,366           0              142
t- -    -------- -  --                                                                            .... .++t-- _                  
143 Cumulatiw Nlar Completed         1    9,100 110,700 113,700 116,00 1 19,900  22,700 126,060  126,066                   143
144 lbuas  under Construction        i   11,200 12,000 12,3661  9,166 1 6,166 1  3,366             01       0              144
145 [Type 8            Total                       ok                                                         1            145
t~~~~~~~i --i  3-----0-                                        0 ---  +'+-   t      I    I  --
1l6 tlhong Stert       136,49    ok  1    3,60019,20o1  3,4001           0        0       0        0        0              14I
147 ICuilative Ibaer Started         1   29,991  33,091 1 3,491  35,491 1 36,491 1 X,491 1 36,491 1  ,491 1                14?
_--------                              -t-- - ----- -- -
149 kuss Cwleted/Qwturr              1    3,500 I3,000   4,1001   4,2001  ,9001  3,200   3,400M            01             148
149 ICoubtive 4iaer Completed        1   14,791I 117,791 121,691 126,091  29,091 1 33,091 1 36,491 1 35,491 1              149
---                     -          t    -        ---------t-            ----+-----t-                  4
IS0 tH       wuider Cnmtruction           IS,100 115,300 114, 001 10,UO    6,6001  3,400           0       0 1             IS0
1SI IType C            Toal                                                                                                ISI
;52 MousigSbtart       I41,705   ok  1    4,6001 4,3001  5,0001          0        01      01 0I             01              S2
153 Cuulative IAbeer Started         1   32,405 136,705  141,70         5 141,705 t U705 1 41,705 1 41,70  I 1,705 1       153
1lS4imie  CupletedlQuarter           I    S,00S   5,3001  4,600   4,3001  6,000 I        0        01      01              1S4
155 IC=eltivw Mmber Completed        :   22,505 1 27,0051 32,405 1 36,705 1 41,705 141,705 1 41,7051 41,705:               155
15 l_s wiunder hnstrulon             1    9,901t    ,900 19,300   S,0001         0        01       O I     01              156
__4--                           ==            - + 
157 IType D           Total                       ok                                                                       157
lS8 IHusingstart       110,292   dck        s8o      8001 I,O001         01      01       01       01      0               159
159 ICuelatdiv leuber Started        1    8,492 1 9,292 11IO,M  110,292 1 10,292 110,292 110,292 110,292 1                 1S9
160 IRouses Cploted/Qurter           1       900 1   9001  1,192   1,2001    9001    000   1,0001          0 1             160
1I6 lcuualtive ie  C1    4,5    1 5,300   6,492 1 7,692 1 8,492 I                     9,292 110,292 I0,9  1                161
162 llues  der Cnstructlon           1    3,9921  3,9921  3,9001 2,600 1  1,90001  1,0001          0 I     0 I             162
t--- --------------                    f-_---._ __+-4---._+_--4----4-----_---- 
163 Type E             total                       ok                                                        1             163
164 IHauangStart        T 6,862  w* Sk001   4001    ?00                  0 1     01       01      0       0I              164
+-               t     -     -      --       -       -              - -t ----t-------- - -               +-
165 ICusulative liber Started        1    5,762 1 6,1621  6,9621 6,9621 6,9621  6,862 1 6,862   6,82                       165
--------------                -            -------+---------t-
166S llbues opleted/4irter           I       s50 1   400 1   762 1   7001    5001   400 1   700 1          01              166
t------                              ------- ---    ------ - +   --                    ---+-- 4-        t-
16t? ICuuletive kueber Completed     1    3,400 1 3,600    4,562 1 5,262 I S,t62   6,162 1 6,962 1 6,862 1                 167
ISO Houses under Cnstr  6,962              2,362 1 2,3621 2,300  1,600 1,1001    700 1             0       01              168
169 Itatal &iber of Nosaes                                                                                   1             169
170 llousing start     1121,416   *  1   12,700 111,500  13,46t1         01      01       01       01      01              170
111  Cumulative Number Started       1    6,450 1107,950 1121,416 1121,416 1121,416 1121,416 1121,416 1121,416 1           171
t-- ---  -t_ --
172 IH1_us1 CompletedlQuarter        1   12,005 111,500 1 13,654 1 13,600 113,100 1 7,200 1 9,465 1        0               172
173  Cumulative Iber Comleted        1   53,996 1 65,396  79,05t 1 92,650 1105,750 1112,950 1121,416 1121,416 1            173
17 -  --   -     -      -     --- -   C---uto                                           t 2   1
174 ,fiues  under Construction    l        42,SS4 1 2,554  : 42, 166  23,7D6 1 15,66t  !  ,466 1  O i      0               1 1l



- 31 -
TABLE 7
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
MONITORING INDICATORS
Item               Monitoring Indicators
Quarterly Reports:
(a) Financing     Approved budget by sector and sources of financing.
(b) Procurement   A list of tender packages,  date of invitation for
tenders, date of opening tenders, date of tender
evaluation, date of contract award (name of supplier
and contract amount in various currencies), date of
contract signing, and delivery dates or contract
duration;
(c) Disbursement  Status of disbursement applications submitted to the
Bank and payments received (amounts by categories, dates
and currencies of payments);
(d) Reconstruction Progress
Housing           Number of loan applications approved (by locations),
number of houses under construction and completed ( by
type and location), and status of purchase of
construction material and its distribution;
Agriculture       Length of canals under construction,  repair, and/or
completed (breakdown by earthwork, lining, and structures
and by location); area (in ha.) of agricultural land
under levelling and completed; number and type of
agricultural machinery purchased and distributed to
farmers (by areas);
Seismic hazard    The status of: purchase and installation of equipment;
of studies and research sub-projects; of building code
review and implementation; of education and training
programs; of hiring consultants (individual and
institutions); and of preparation of a detailed program
and its implementation.
(e) Work Program  Detailed work program by quarters for: procurement of
material and equipment by sector; construction start;
work to be completed;and seismic studies to be started
and completed. To the extent possible bar charts should
be used to illustrate the work program.
Annual Audits:   Within six months from the end of the fiscal year submit
for Bank review a copy of the annual audit report of
project accounts.
Completion
ReRort:          Within six months from the closing date of the loan
submit for Bank review a project completion report
(format to be provided by Bank).



- 32 -
CHART A
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
PROJECT COMPONENTS
1990-91 1991-92 1992-93 1993-94
Housing Reconstruction:
Plant Equip. Procurement                     **
Constr.Equip.Procurement                     **** *
Materials Procurement                        ************ ******** **
Civil Works
Aericulture Reconstruction:
Equip.& Mach.Procurement
Materials Procurement                         *** ***
Civil Works                                                 ___
Seismic Risk Prevention & Mitigation:
Zoning and Microzoning
Research and Safety of Structures
Building Code Updating
Education and Training
Risk Assessment and Reduction                   ,    =
Public Awareness
Note. Implementation years correspond to the World Bank FY (July 1-June 30)



- 33 -
CHART B
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROGRAM
OVERALL IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIZATION
[BO  MEF     E.        IBRD|    STEERING
(NPC)   ...  l      COMMITTEE
:MHUD/IIEES
AUDITR.                              ECSRCC
SAERAT -:
SAD       ... .
BAN  HFIR             NOA                 ECSRCC
(SPC)                (PCC)
GILAN/ZANJAN .:   (SPC)
GOVERNORATES                
FIELD              END               WORKING
WORKSHOPS           USERS               GROUP
(1.4)
LEGEND:
MEF-Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
PBO-Plan and Budget Organization
MOA-Ministry of Agriculture
MHUD-Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
ECSRCC-Earthquake Committee of the Supreme Research and Cultural Council
BHRC-Building and Housing Research Center
IIEES-International Institute of Earthquake Engineering and Seismology
GSI-Geological Survey of Iran
IGTU-Institute of Geophysics, Tehran University
NPC/SPC-National Project Coordinator/Sector Project Coordinator
SUT-Sharif University of Technology
IBRD-International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
HFIR-Housing Foundation of Islamic Revolution
SPC-Sector Project Coordinator
PCC-Project Component Coordinator



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
HOUSING COMPONENT ORGANIZATION
HOUSING FOUNDATION
OF
ISLAMIC REVOLUTION
RECONSTRUCTION
CHIEF OF STAFF
IPUBLIC RELATIONS
PLAN14ING &                HEAD OF                      FIiAANCIAL &                PROCUREMENT
TECHNICAL               OPERATIONAL                   ADMINISTRATIVE                   UNIT
UNIT                    STAFF(3)                         UNIT
PROGRAMM.                                       ADMINI-                                       PROCURE-
ENGINEER      & COMPUTER      TECHNICAL                       STRATION       FINANCE          STORE            MENT
SERVICES
TECHNICAL      PROCURE-       FINANCE &        AUXILIARY
&             MENT        ADMINI-             STAFF
OPERATN'L                     STRATION         (14 GROUPS)
TECHNICAL       ADMINI-          RECON-
&           STRATION &         STRUCTION
OPERATIONAL      PROCUREMENT        SITES      I



- 35 -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN                CHART D
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL COMPONENT ORGANIZATION
MINISTER
OF AGRICULTURE
Deputy Minister                   Deputy Minister
for Farm. Affairs                 Projects & Plans
(SPC)
AED            GFESC                              AMDC
[roincial Dept        Planning
of Agriculture 
Prov ncial     Provincial                        Provincial
Office         Office                            Office
Legend
AED - Agricultural
Engineering Dept.
GFMSC - Ghazvin Farm
Machinery
Services Company
District Dept.                AKDC - Agricultural
of Agriculture *                     Machinery
Development Co.
SPC - Sector Project
District Staff                       Coordinator
AED                           Administrative
Project Staff                     Responsibility
CFMSC                     --- Technical Resp.
Project Staff
AMDC
Project Staff
Note. * The Provincial and District Level Organization showm applies to both
Cilan and Zanian provinces.



-36 -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
z
III
Z                     .......     .............. ........    ........    .........    ......    .....    :.:.-.. ...............1
2,2s ~~~~~............. 1,{-!-.1--;. 
ow   --
e%u                    ...... - .   ........         ... .  ......  .  . ......................        .                                       
_ w   0.....                       .   ..............                      . ......  ..............        .....j...........-  E 
.....1*....i.
EI 
............. ...... ..... ..
... ......   ......         ...                 .....              
.. . ........ .......  ........  .. . ......
*. .       .. . .   I   . . . .. . .   .. .. ..   .   . .. . .. .. . . . I.. . . .. . . .



nLrr of dwGi Luot
A - - - #'1im ig
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....  . . .. .:-:: ....  .............:::: ........  .....    ...... .    .....
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ....... ..... . ... 1:: ::...:- .......: ........ I. ......
+     X  &    ,wm m E\    ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.M  .X.3+.... ............I   
I s   } t   E    ,SW \w-,W moW i  bS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ........... ........    0f 
I~~~~~~~~~
IE                                                                                00 j  R >
@   r    t.                1     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. 6...... . ......
I~~~~~~~~~~~ Z
B  f   mg\g\_  -  \&< F ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....    ....... .. ............   .. .....
12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......            .......          .........    ...    .....
g         1    1 g                 - -I-----t ----    j      ....................  M
I                       I                                     Io ,,,,, 4;:
Importd Materals in MiU on $
1iOarlc1 71HIAQ03H~ MflbHELdIV3
r  zOad               -ao 03z n Has s



nurrew of dwe-n  niT 
I                                       N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ... I..411............
I            I  m = \ W  \ W g S  A .  .. ....... .......  C O
I                           CeX m m en>$t Requment-i (T................ )   g
.VI 30 3I'rnfldE t-IW--W--S
EIZ    mam\mx -!  -- t             .......... ..!.  oz
S ti tZ 1 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,,,..,,.........  .   -.,,,--,-., ,,,,,,,,M O
lt  Z-----t-------I ....... .... ............  1- -   l
ir    Z '    B     8      98    9      g      1      z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.8 I
_                    t:~~~~~wenet Reqerraft (Toms)   
iDHrosa 1Z31Aoo3s axnvHbHIJV
NVEI JO MUMnd3 DIWVISI
7F~~~~~~~~~                      8E I-E



-  39 -                                                                          I Figlufe 41
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
(ew QOOL) ueluse lb9 .1qW                                                                                I
C)
0. 1$-                    I                 i                                   I
u~~~~~~~~~...... ..... . ..... ...                      ....... ........ ....  ...,  m .......
g m4r e ;~~~~~~~~~~~~  .............. ... . ....
XW~~~~~~ ..            m-\twt   ....   ........    ......                   ...................t
S s ~~~~~~.... ' ._s\\ . X.... ........ ............................. 
si o   41 \&\\mmE 'suN              k~~~~*-,-T ........ .                                          .........
I                                                                            JF  I't  
Ji~~~~~
_  ............           . ..   ......... . ... ...,    ....... 
owB
............    .......   ..  ....     .....
..   ...... ......   .    u ~ .........



* X MeWofdwda\N*g
o s Q, ,  l ,1                                -20s  
~LD~CO~d ~I~AOD~I  vn9               A  iv
S~~~~                  X SI\m\E\m,W  
X~~~~~~~~~................... ...  ..... \- t W \tm - - -.1t t ....
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ..... .\ m\m\ .........  .....  .......
12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. ..Wm -m- .... ...  . ... .. ............
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ....... ........ - --  --1  -t 4  -
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .... . ...... ....... .... ... ..... l I
&Sol Fi)
NVUI 40 0179aaas aIwSI
I  rs tSt'S I                       -Oe



- 41 -                                                                                                                         jto 6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
0O   iTT]; 
I......................  .......................  ..............................    .....   .........   ..............T....................et-----4_  
W  E             .    ........................                                      ............... ..........        I w..................... ......... ..... .............
-i  ........          .........   .
253
...................
0    ~               ..................I......... ..         ......... ......                   .. ..... .......I...   ....... . ............ .......... ..       ........ .....
u ,;............... .......                                                         ....... ........     ..... ....... _... -h
E R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                               ...... .           ..........  ............. ... -...------- -----+t-----es---+t-- --- 
w                .                   ; .. . .. .:                                  : . ... .... ... . ..........
.............I.............      ..-1"",................  ....... . ...............    7........... ... ........... .................                              t
ii                                                                                                                                 I                                                                j~~~~~~~~~I..............
Ef s ,, ~............ .,                                     .,,  ,., ;.. ..,,1 ., , ...................,,..,... . .........,,........ . .
a ad 1=O::. 0 JOMWflN



- 42 -                             NT 
NOTE 1
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
OF THE AGRICULTURAL RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Organization and Management.
Two ministries will be responsible for the agricultural reconstruction program: (a)
the MOE for the repair of the Sefid Rud Dam, Sangar diversion dam, and other major
irrigation and drainage infrastructure in Gilan province; and (b) the MOA for the
tertiary and quarternary canals, farmer's built systems, land leveling, provision of
agricultural machinery, farm inputs, livestock, etc.
Ministry of Energy (MOE).  A contract for the repair of the Sefid Rud Dam has
already been awarded to an international contractor. Contract supervision will be
carried out with the assistance of a joint venture of international consulting firms.
Repair of the radial gates at Sangar Dam will be undertaken by local companies. Repairs
of the irrigation system will be carried out by local contractors. Responsibility for
the above works rests with the Gilan Water Board under the overall responsibility of
the Deputy Minister for Water Utilization and Management.
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). Under the overall responsibility of the Minister
of Agriculture, most MOA related activities will be carried out under the Vice Minister
for Farming Affairs. Only the responsibility for general project monitoring, budget
preparation and project evaluation rests with the Vice Minister for Projects and Plans.
The Vice Minister for Farming Affairs supervises, in addition to a number of Provincial
Agricultural Departments, a number of organizations and companies out of which three
will play a crucial role in program implementation: (a) the Agricultural Engineering
Department (AED); (b) the Agriculture Machinery Development Company (locally called
BONGAH); and (c) the Ghazvin Farm Machinery Services Company (GFMSC). At the provincial
level their work is supervised by the Provincial Director. The general ministerial
organizational structure is basically replicated at lower administrative levels: at
Province, city and district level, offices or staff representing the ministerial
departments and organizations can generally be found at each such level. Depending on
the size and nature of a specific project or task, it will be implemented or dealt with
at the most appropriate administrative level. Staff of AED, GFMSC and BONGAH working
at the district level can be considered as (temporary) project staff. Technically they
are responsible to their own agencies but administratively they belong to the District
Agriculture Divisions. Main responsibilities of and relevant facts concerning the
implementing entities are the following:
(a) AQE will be responsible for the survey, design, bidding and supervision of
construction, overall planning and management of all rural works, including tertiary
and quarternary canals, farmers systems, drainage, land levelling and diversion dams.
AED maintains provincial offices, branch offices and service centers for one or more
projects. At headquarters it employs more than 300 staff including 70 engineers and
60 technicians. A provincial office typically employs 30 staff, including 7-8
engineers, plus technicians. However, technical staff can easily be transferred from
province to province as the need arises; in addition it is used to sub-contract some
of the work to local consulting firms if constrained by staff availability. AED also
manages a pre-casting yard for concrete flumes in Gilan province (in addition to one
operated by the MOE) and installs irrigation pumps for farmers near open water
surfaces, in dug wells, and in deep wells drilled by the MOE.



- 43 -
Note 1
Page 2 of 2
(b) BONGAH will be responsible for all procurement of agricultural and construction
machinery, their sale and distribution. Also BONGAH has branches in all provinces but
for agricultural machinery it uses private dealers for after sales service and repair.
BONGAH, in association with district level agricultural staff, will monitor the
availability of scarce agricultural equipment to ensure that equipment is only sold
to farmers who have been affected by the earthquake and that the equipment made
available to them is used for the purposes for which they were intended. The heavy
construction equipment proposed to be imported under the project will be sold to the
Ghazvin Farm Machinery Services Company.
(c) GFMSC Will be contracted to carry out most of the earth moving operations
required under the program. GFMSC is a semi-autonomous organization which is run on
a commercial basis, although it still receives budgetary support. At headquarters,
GFMSC employs about 350 staff, including 8 engineers, 25 technicians and 200 equipment
operators. It operates throughout the country, employs in total about 2000 persons and
also utilizes about 2000 pieces of heavy equipment. Its present budget is about Rls
5 billion, which may be increased to about Rls 15 billion next year in view of the
reconstruction program. GFMSC is, however, in dire need of additional new equipment
to meet the demand for reconstruction works.
Execution of Civil Works. Most of the earthmoving work will be carried out by the
GFMSC under negotiated contracts with the AED in view of the urgent nature of the
works.   GFMSC may also lease some of its equipment to private contractors. Small
contractors may be provided with cement and steel imported by the Ministry of Commerce
but distributed between sub-projects by the AED. Depending on their size, contracts
for structures may be negotiated or awarded after LCB.
Contacts with Farmers. At the district level, close contacts are being maintained with
the farmers to discuss project details, obtain their agreement or participation,
discuss water rights, obtain field level information etc.
The Agriculture Credit Bank (ACB). The ACB will play an important role in that it will
provide short to medium term loans through the (private) cooperative system for
agricultural inputs and farm machinery to farmers affected by the earthquake at a 2.5
percent service fee, covering 90 percent of the purchase price and with repayment
periods ranging from one year for fertilizers and seeds, to 4 years for farm machinery.
The farmers will also be able to obtain loans for livestock and the construction of
cattle sheds and stores. For the latter, 50 percent of the costs will be given as
grant and 50 percent as loan with a repayment period of 15 years.



- 44 -
NOTE 2
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHOUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
DETAILS OF THE SEISMIC RISK PREVENTION
AND MITIGATION PROGRAM
The seismic risk prevention and mitigation program to be carried out under this
project consists of six sub-projects. The following is a brief description of each of
these sub-projects.
A. RESEARCH ON SEISMIC ZONING AND MICROZONING
The main objective of this sub-project is to revise the seismic zoning of the
country, selected cities, and regions, for the purpose of assessing seismic risks and
making recommendations for updating seismic design codes for reduction of these risks.
The revision of the seismic zoning must be on the basis of both the experience and
new knowledge derived from the earthquakes in the last few years, and the results of
the proposed earthquake risk prevention and mitigation program.
This sub-project includes (1) establishing a new seismological network; (2)
strengthening the existing strong motion network; (3) seismological studies; (4)
preparing seismotechtonic maps; (5) geo-technical and geological studies; (6) study
of case histories; (7) seismic hazard studies; (8) seismic amplification study; and
(9) formulation of seismic zoning and microzoning maps.
Seismic zoning maps, microzoning maps, seismic design coefficients and spectra
revised by using existing information and data will be ready within 3 years for (1)
detailed revision of building codes; (2) education and training program; (3) risk
assessment and reduction program; and (4) public awareness raising program. After the
first 3 years research will be continued on a long-term basis to revise seismic zoning
maps, microzoning maps, seismic design coefficients and spectra using the data derived
from the newly installed seismological network and the strengthened strong motion
network.
B. RESEARCH ON SEISMIC SAFETY OF STRUCTURES
The main objective of this sub-project is to perform a coherent and continued
research program on seismic safety of structures in order to supply the required
information and technology to code-writers and engineers responsible for the seismic
safety of construction. The sub-project includes enhancement of research facilities
in Iranian institutions by creating some new installations and improving some existing
ones. The research covers:
(a) field research on seismic response, vulnerability and seismic
resistance of actual structures;
(b) experimental study of mechanical properties of construction
materials typical in Iran;
(c) experimental study of mechanical properties of members and
assemblages typical of Iranian construction; and,
(d) analytical study of typical structures in Iran during earthquakes.



- 45 -
Note 2
Page 2 of 3
Enhancement of the research facilities include: (a) purchasing new instruments for
field research; (b) establishing new materials laboratories; (c) establishing a new
structural-mechanics laboratory with workshops; (d) improving a shaking table apparatus
at Sharif University of Technology (SUT); and (e) updating the computer center of SUT.
The enhancement of research facilities, except the soil dynamics laboratory, will
be completed within 3 years from the start of this sub-component and be ready for the
research projects. The research projects using existing information, data and
facilities will start within the first year of the sub-project, and the results will
be ready for (1) detailed revision of building codes; (2) education and training
program; (3) risk assessment and reduction program; and (4) public awareness raising
program, within 3 years of the start of the sub-project. The research projects should
continue with the aid of the newly installed facilities on a long-term basis.
C. Building Codes
The main objectives of this sub-project are to update seismic design code and
practice, and to study the measures required to enforce their application throughout
the country. A permanent committee will be established with the participation of
different sector: academics, government, practicing engineers, architects, etc.
The activities of the sub-project includes:
(a) revision of seismic zonation/design spectra of existing building codes applicable
to the whole country, taking into account lessons learned from recent earthquakes;
(b) detailed revision of the building codes, using the first results of research to
be carried out under the program financed under this project; and,
(c) adjustment of detailed revision using further research results.
Activities (a) and (b) are to be finished within one and three years respectively.
Activity (c) will be carried out on a long-term basis.
D. Education and Training
The main objectives of this sub-project are to update, promote, and expand the
knowledge of earthquake engineering and seismology within the researchers, engineers,
architects, builders, and skilled workers through extensive educational and training
programs in the country. The activities in this sub-project include:
(a) specialized education on special topics in earthquake engineering and seismology
for professionals and researchers;
(b) extension courses on practical aspects of earthquake engineering to approximately
2,000 practicing civil engineers and architects;
(c) fellowships for attending training seminars and courses abroad;
(d) scholarships for Masters and Doctorate programs in the fields of earthquake
engineering and seismology in foreign universities; and,
(e) advanced study courses, which will be established in order to provide the required
specialist manpower in the fields of earthquake engineering and seismology;
(f) education of skilled workers 'hrouZh the provision of guidelines and handbooks
published and distributed througnouc the country.
The activities for this sub-project should start in the Lirst year of the program.



- 46 -
Not 
Page 3 of 3
E. Risk Assessment and Reduction
The main objective of this sub-project is to form the strategies and priorities for
the maintenance and preservation of buildings and installations of special importance
to the city of Tehran, as a prototype case. The activities include:
(a) Assessment of hazard, vulnerability and risk of Tehran and of individual buildings
and installations of special importance to the city and the country; and,
(b) formulation of strategies and priorities to reduce seismic risk for the city and
selected facilities to tolerable levels. The strategies include actions before and
after earthquakes.
The results of the program will include:
(a) recommendations of strategies, priorities, and countermeasures to reduce hazard
and risk for the city and the selected facilities to tolerable levels;
(b) recommendations to authorities regarding possible ways of implementing risk
reduction measures; and,
(c) recommendations for future studies of risk assessment and reduction for other
cities and regions.
Activities (a) and (b) will start at the beginning of the third year after
collecting and compiling basic data of the selected facilities, and the first results
of research to be carried out under the overall program.
F. Public Awareness Raising
The main objective of this sub-project is to develop public awareness and education
regarding pre- and post-earthquake provisions. This sub-project will be implemented
with the cooperation of the Ministry of Higher Education and the public mass media.
The activities include:
(a) preparing special TV programs for children;
(b) preparing publications for children in elementary and high schools;
(c) developing country-wide educational campaigns to create consciousness about seismic
risks;
(d) preparing pamphlets for the general public to educate them about actions to be
taken before, during, and after an earthquake in their houses, schools, hospitals,
factories, etc.;
(e) helping the emergency management authorities to prepare disaster preparedness plans
for future earthquakes.
The activities should start in the first year.



- 47 -                     NOTE
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
Procurement Methods
The following procurement methods of the World Bank procurement guidelines apply
to the proposed earthquake recovery project.
International Comgetitive Iiddina (ICE)  This method will be used for all procurement
except for the equipment to be procured under the methods described below.
International Shopping (IS). This method will be used by:
(a) the Housing Foundation (HF) for the procurement of one set of batch concrete plant
equipment and construction equipment (dump trucks, loaders, trailers, 4WD vehicles,
auto mixer, concrete vibratcrs and vibratory compactors, welding equipment, cranes and
spare tires) in contracts not exceeding US$2 million equivalent each (except for the
batching plant which will be US$3.5 million equivalent) and not exceeding US$28 million
equivalent in the aggregate.   This equipment is urgently needed as it will be
operational by early spring in order to produce concrete and blocks for housing
construction.
(b) the Agricultural Machinery Development Company (AMDC) for the procurement of
trailer truck for heavy machinery, tractors, power tillers, cultivating and harvesting
machinery, irrigation systems, generators, rotary drilling machine, and 4WD vehicles,
in contracts not exceeding US$2 million equivalent each and not exceeding US$17 million
in the aggregate.
(c) the International Institute of Earthquake Engineering and Seismology (IIEES) and
associated Iranian organizations that will participate in the seismic hazard mitigation
and prevention program, in the procurement of seismic equipment in contracts not
exceeding US$1 million each and not exceeding US$5 million in the aggregate.
Limited Inter=tional Aidding This method will be used by: (a) the Housing Foundation
for the purchase of five sets of batching plants; and (b) the Agricultural Machinery
Development Company (AMDC) for the purchase of tractors, power tillers, cultivating
and harvesting equipment, and sprayers, estimated to cost not more than US$47 million
equivalent in the aggregate (US$18 million for housing and US$29 million for
agriculture).
Direct Contracting (DC). This method will be used only for (i) the purchase of
proprietary spare parts for existing construction equipment, excluding tires which will
be procured by IS, in contracts not exceeding US$750,000 each and not exceeding US$5
million in the aggregate (US$3 million for the Housing Foundation and US$2 dillion for
AMDC); and (ii) Consultants' services, either provided by universities undertaking
similar programs, or individual professors who will carry out training programs
organized by IIEES, will also be contracted following direct contracting.
World Bank Review
The procedure for World Bank review of procurement documentation and processing is
outlined below:
ICBELIB grocurement. Each entity will be required to submit for WB review, prior to
issuing invitations for tenders, a copy of complete final bidding documents (and in
the case of LIB, a list of at least five bidders from at least three countries members
of the World Bank in good standing) and, after bidding, of the bid evaluation report



- 48 -
No2te 3
Page 2 of 2
for each contract. The notice of invitation for tenders will be widely publicized in
local and international media, and copies will also be made available to embassies of
prospective supplier countries in Iran. The WB will also assist in advertising the
notices in the United Nations Business Development.
International Shoooing. No formal bidding documents are required; however, the WB
should be informed of the short listed suppliers, which shall be at least three from
two eligible countries (members of the World Bank in good standing).   Also, upon
completion of evaluation of tenders, a copy of the comparison of bids shall be
submitted to the WB for its review prior to notification of contract award. Although
no formal documents are required for IS, the documents provided to bidders, in addition
to the general information on date and place for submitting proposals and the technical
specifications, include a clear indication of the factors that will be taken into
account in the evaluation of tenders. The sample technical specifications for various
types of equipment provided by the WB mission to the HF provides guidance on the
factors normally considered in the evaluation of tenders. Generally these factors
include the price, performance indicators, delivery time and availability of services
and spare parts. Bids should also follow the standard procedure of requiring a bid
security and be submitted in two separate envelopes with the outer envelope indicating
the bid number, the subject of the bid and that it should not be opened before the date
and time for opening tenders stipulated in the invitation for tenders. The invitation
for tenders may be made by telex or fax and the bid documents faxed, mailed or picked
up in person by local representatives of bidders.
Procurement Schedules
The following schedules for the procurement of goods under ICB and IS procedures
were discussed and agreed with the Housing Foundation, the Ministry of Agriculture and
Agricultural Machinery Development Company staff. The proposed dates are tentative
and all efforts will be made by all parties to expedite procurement of urgently needed
goods.
Procurement Staae       C2=leted By        Resgonsible Agency
ICB/L1B
Draft Bid Documents      11/15/90          HFIR, AMDC/MOA
Submit Bid Doc to WB    12/12/90           HFIR, AMDC/MOA
WB review                12/20/90          WB
Complete Bid Documents  01/05/91           HFIR, AMDC/MOA
and forward copies to WB
Notification of bids    01/15/91           HFIR, AMDC/MOA
Open bids               02/19/91           HFIR, AMDC/MOA
Complete evaluation     03/03/91           HFIR, AMDC/MOA
Submit eval. to WB      03/10/91           HFIR, AMDC/MQA
WB response             03/18/91           WB
Award contracts         03/27/91           HFIR, AMDC/MOA
Sign contracts          04/25/91           HFIR, AMDC/MOA
Select suppliers        12/31/90           HFIR,AMDC/MOA,IIEES
Submit list to WB       01/01/91           HFIR,AMDC/MOA,IIEES
WB response             01/02/91           WB
Invite bids             01/05/91           HFIR,AMDC/MOA,IIEES
Open bids               01/26/91           HFIR,AMDC/MOA,IIEES
Eval. tenders           02/02/91           HFIR,AMDC/MOA,IIEES
Submit eval. to WB      02/09/91           HFIR,AMDC/MOA,IIEES
WB response             02/18/91           WB
Award contracts          02/20/91          HFIR,AMDC/MOA,IIEES
Sign contracts          03/18/91           HFIR,AMDC/MOA,II



- 49 -
NOTFE 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHOUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS
IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   General
Al.   Housing Reconstruction of the Areas Devastated by the June 21st, 1990
Earthquake in Iran. Plan, Program and Budget. July 1990. Prepared by the
Housing Foundation.
A2.  Transport Sector Damage Report, prepared by Ministry of Transport, dated
August 1990.
A3.   Iranian Code for Seismic Resistant Design of buildings, prepared by the
Building and Housing Research Center, dated February 1988.
A4.   Check List for the Evaluation of the Iranian Code for Seismic Resistant
Design of Buildings, prepared by the Building and Housing Research Center.
A5.   Iran Emergency Reconstruction Project for Manjil-Rudbar Earthquake of June
21, 1990, earthquake Damage Prevention and Mitigation, prepared by the
International Institute for Earthquake Engineering and Seismology (IIEES),
September 17, 1990.
A6.   The Manjil-Rudbar Earthquake of June 21, 1990, Preliminary Brief Report,
August 26, 1990, prepared by IIEES.
A7.   The Manjil, Iran Earthquake of 20 June 1990, An Immediate and Preliminary
Report, prepared by the Building and Housing Research Center, Publication
No 119, July 1990.
A8.   The 12 July 1986 Harairez and 11 August 1988 Darreh-Gorg-Mamasani, Iran
Earthquakes, prepared by the Building and Housing Research Center,
publication No. 120, July 1990.
A9.   Standard Housing Construction Plans for Various Types of Urban and Rural
Houses, prepared by the Housing Foundation.
A10. Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Program (EERP) Costs and Financing
Plan, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance & Plan and Budget Office,
Iranian Government, August 1990.
B. Reports by Consultants
Project Feasibility
Bl.   Earthquake Damage Prevention and Mitigation in the Islamic Republic of
Iran, Iran Emergency Reconstruction Project for Manjil-Rudbar Earthquake
of June 21, 1990, prepared by Dr. Luis Esteva, Seismologist; Dr. N.
Takahashi, Geo-technical Engineer; and Dr. Ashtiani, Director of IIEES,
October 21, 1990.
C. Project Documentation Prepared by Bank Staff
_pnraisal Records
Cl.   Aide-Memoire.
C2.   Project Cost Estimates.
C3.   Organization and Management Charts.
C4.   Housing Sector Implementation Program, Detailed Costs and Schedules.
C5.   Country Macro-Economic Data and Evaluation.
C6.   Summary of Procurement Arrangements.



- 51 -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
MAIN IRRIGATION CANAL DESTROYED
r4          _
_ :   rOtnD      TD TA TtK     Ap,,nr,rt fT



- 52 -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
REGIONAL HOSPITAL AT RuDBAR
GANJEH  -RURAL VILLAGE DESTROYED



- 53 -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
TEMPORARY SHELTER
M skaa F. T,. a



- 54 -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
PLANS OF TYPICAL HOUSING UNITS
(As)                             (c0
' 0100  100      too   130.    N    100  too ,0 o
--_
210
04012
(ti A I. A                n. A j.



- 55 -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECI
PLANS OF TYPICAL HOUSING UNITS
L     - 3.00 _.  ____ __  - )    T
. 70.?                 --
tt.7_~~-F   -it                        rr-i                l.llt   
) 87.t_  !  lh ti NP    .2   (
*    -                                   I   !!jj!     
_I~_Pt8__             <L4    _                    [. ,- J2JJiPJL 
1________!_ _LNPJla
TYPICAL STEEL STRUCTURE PLAN
Pt ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~               P*
Li'    S                  S0S' S
100-100-4  .  +        .    }fLS0.5t.5 200     
(-)            3.10 .      - 3.00 (3
TYPICAL STEFL STRUCTURE DETAILS



- 56 -
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RgCOVERY PROJECT
PLANS OF TYPICAL HOUSING UNITS
t--40    _                                                       4-X_112*   0  1F   40    X
CONCRETE STRUCTURES DETAILS
L. 50-50.5   tE 30.30.tS5
1 '.t1a i                                           1 /.60 iSCm
450~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41
L.60Cm                              30
e 3030=1-S \                            e 30-391 .           5~'5-O
o5s2Qw 6a) .0 .cm    -              J             t              5      0      ^
(S)18 48
65     _     0       ,,                     10 ___65 ,0tO_ . t or _-
FOUNDATION DETAILS



MAP SECTION



E 0                                                XISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
br  A,                              CQs p  i    lEARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
0                  ;    t      t       _-                  )        \          ---   oPaved Roads
han                ~~~~~Highways
Ma Mo  doo                                                                                        -'---=   Railroads
S. obd   Moha                   Airports
0 R  IATt4s.             N                       Z-~~1'  2-    Rivers
Kor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a-  Seasonal Lakes/Flooded
no5T                                               -u'n    Areas
35'                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cities
-'-s. --~-Grea't Salt Des ert                                        rvncCptl
p  D 9~~~~~s                                   11                     (S;   0                             Pklrovic Capitolsl
A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*Naftonal Caipitcal
Abo                                           \.  Snternationcl Boundories
MILES
~.rjor,d     0    510  100   150  200
-k  Sad i nrn b-Ksi r"                                                     0     100    200   300    400
-'    t       ~~~~K1ILOMETERS
Th..1,A,b .o .p d by Tb. worl Mb
'. G r e a t  S aand  D e seor t                     ,= -T-.r
f  a-  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.doooo,. .. o ,
2  _   b_.A,o.,, o this _~ to oat 4;-.pl  o
7>tWFe. 4;S <                _ Utet   4 \   1@                                          LP A K I S t A N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tA ptatTh ord ..&.o Aotooo.,oo
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ioo CopO.o -Woei.t o tAt t(. .
a30S  I  WS  w  d  ~ -  S  f  1
SAD
4   tA                                   PAI



IBRD 2266
-386                T TaAsia.a   4A9                                    k.                                       1                    38
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
Hoshi                                                 EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
* \  X  Epicenfer of Earthquake, June 21, 1990
Damage Intensity Zones
N                                                                       ,        Main Roads
Q                                                                        Secondary Roods
- - \ , Z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railroads
_  --   ~ Province Boundaries
ufo   \ \                   R         a       _      \             _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--   InternatIanoG Boundaries
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lali(                                                    0           2,5        50         75
KILOMETERS
37 \\\\ 0                               ___\    __   ,                                                                               371
0Abbarom                a mon0                       0%               Ramsor
100       80%   60%  0          /
\L owsho n                \                                                J     x
Ne                                                               Al4'I
Osydar             r           ~ ~~~~~~~~Takestan
J_                                                                         TEHomeeEn  -1_  5,0 }  "';    ,   -  1EHRAN
U.S.S.R.
Tabrlz    Area           '       \ ma       U. S. S. R.
IRAQ
35,
T;S>d" x                                                r   _._                           M A3Xt M            Z I
zme~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~c
SAUDI ARtAbIATA\
AR              UA.E. UhAXA  J                                                                 1 5!   bl n



