Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16615
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
(LOAN 3301-IRN)
May 30, 1997
Private Sector Development, Finance and Infrastructure Division
Country Department I (Maghreb and Iran)
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$ 1.00 = Iranian Rials (Rls) 216 "
US$ 1.00 = Iranian Rials (Rls) 1700 2
US$ 1.00 = Iranian Rials (Rls) 3000 3/
MEASURES and EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm) = 0.04 inches
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km), = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGB          Agricultural Credit Bank
AED          Agricultural Engineering Department
AMDC         Agricultural Machinery Development Company
BHRC         Building and Housing Research Center
Bonghah      Agriculture Machinery Development
CBI          Central Bank of the Islamic Republic o f Iran
ECSRCC       Earthquake Committee of the Supreme Research and Cultural Council
EERP         Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Program
FFYP         First Five Year Plan
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GFMSC        Ghazvin Farm Machinery Services Company
GNP          Gross National Product
GSI          Geological Survey of Iran
HFIR         Housing Foundation of Islamic Revolution
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IRI          Islamic Republic of Iran
IGTU         Institute of Geophysics of Tehran University
IIEES        International Institute of Earthquake Engineering and Seismology
KV           Kilovolts
MEF          Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
MOE          Ministry of Energy
MOHU         Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
MOI          Ministry of Interior
MW           Megawatts
NPC          National Project Coordinator
0IETAI       Organization for Investment, Economic and Technical Assistance for Iran
PBO          Plan and Budget Organization
SPC          Sector Project Coordinator
UNDR         United Nations Disaster Relief Organization
USGS         United States Geological Survey
FISCAL YEAR
March 21 - March 20
1/ Staff estimate of a trade-weighted average of 1991 multiple rates.
2/ Average during project implementation.
3/ Free market rate after 1995.
Vice President              Mr. Kemal Dervi~
Director                    Mr. Daniel Ritchie
Division Chief              Mr. Amir Al-Khafaji
Responsible Staff           Mr. Abderrazzak Ferroukhi, Pr. Energy Specialist
Mr. Johan Van Beuzekom, Consultant



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
(LOAN 3301-IRN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                                    i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives                         1
B. Achievement of Objectives                                          3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                5
D. Project Sustainability                                             6
E. Bank Performance                                                   7
F. Borrower Performance                                               8
G. Assessment of Outcome                                              8
H. Future Operation                                                  9
I.  Key Lessons Learned                                              10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table l:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Project Timetable
Table 3:    Loan Disbursements
Table 4:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 5:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 6:    Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDIX: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
(LOAN 3301-IRN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Earthquake Recovery
Project in the Islamic Republic of Iran, for which Loan 3301-IRN in the amount of US$250
million was approved on March 21, 1991 and made effective on July 3, 1991. The original
closing date of December 31, 1994 was postponed and the Loan was actually closed on June 30,
1996. Final disbursement took place on November 13, 1996 and an undisbursed balance of
US$4,521,206.17 was canceled on the same date at the request of the Ministry of Economic
Affairs and Finance.
This report was prepared by Johan Van Beuzekom, (Consultant, MNIPI), under the
guidance of Abderrezzak Ferroukhi, (task manager, MN1PI), and reviewed by Amir
Al-Khafaji, Division Chief, MNIPI, and Rend Costa, Project Advisor, MN1DR. The
completion mission took place from November 23 to December 2, 1996. Findings were
discussed with the Borrower during this mission. Comments on the draft report were received
from Mario Zelaya, the former Task Manager who participated in the appraisal of the project,
and from Charles Sterling, MNIPI, and were incorporated in the final report.
The Borrower has prepared its own evaluation report, included as Appendix to this
ICR. It was coordinated and organized by the Organization for Investment, Technical and
Economic Assistance (OITEAI) of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance (MEAF) of
Iran.






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
(LOAN 3301-IRN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    On June 21, 1990, the provinces of Gilan and Zanjan in northwestern Iran were hit by one
of the worst earthquakes in the country's history, measuring 7.7 on the Richter scale. The
damage was particularly severe in the towns of Rudbar, Manjil, Talesh and Tarom-E-Olya and
the cities of Zanjan, Quazin and Rasht where large number of houses, schools, hospitals, as well
as roads, water supply facilities, power lines and irrigation schemes were totally destroyed or
severely damaged. The Bank agreed, upon the Government's request, to provide assistance for
emergency reconstruction. On March 21, 1991 a loan of US$250 million (Loan 3301-IRN) was
approved to finance the Earthquake Recovery Project, which included selected actions of the
Government's Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Program (EERP).
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the proposed project were to promote economic recovery through:
a)    assisting Iran in setting up an effective organizational framework for managing
construction;
b)    assisting the Iranian scientific community in the development of long-term measures for
seismic risk prevention and mitigation;
c)    ensuring greater efficiency and economy through international procurement;
d)   improving seismic design standards in the reconstruction of housing;
e)    providing Iran with a portion of the required foreign exchange to finance its Earthquake
Emergency Reconstruction Program (EERP).
3.    The objectives were not only to reconstruct the damage and attenuate human suffering,
but foremost to assist the Iranian Government in creating or strengthening local organizations to
face present and future disasters. The objectives were clear and realistic and in the interest of the
country.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project had three subcomponents, each to be implemented by a different agency:
a)    The agricultural component consisted of the provision of equipment and materials for



ii
reconstruction and rehabilitation of agricultural facilities. This subcomponent was entirely and
successfully implemented by Agriculture Machinery Development (Bonghah), an efficient
semiautonomous organization. In fact, toward the end of the project, the funds allocated to
Bonghah were increased to utilize the savings from other implementing agencies.
b)    The housing component consisted of: (i) the provision of equipment for reconstruction
and rehabilitation of housing facilities, and (ii) the provision of materials for self-help repair and
reconstruction of private houses. This component was successfully implemented by the Housing
Foundation of Islamic Revolution (HFIR). More than 200,000 houses were reconstructed in the
record time of 28 months.
c)    The seismic component, consisting of carrying out a seismic risk prevention and
mitigation program. The implementing agency for this component was changed after project
start-up to a group of agencies already involved in scientific seismic research. The
implementation of this component was not as efficient as the other two components, but can still
be regarded as satisfactory, since 85 percent of the allocated funds were consumed.
5.    Although HFIR and Bonghah were quite efficient from the start, the project helped to
refine their management capacity. In particular, the project improved their knowledge of and
experience with intemational tendering and World Bank procedures.
6.    The project also contributed, to a lesser extent, to improving the management capacity of
the scientific institutions involved in the seismic component. However, the primary concern of
these institutions is scientific research, and administrative procedures remain a secondary
priority.
Summary of Findings
7.    Overall, the outcome of the project can be considered as highly satisfactory.  All
objectives were met. The agricultural component achieved even more than originally planned: a
power generating station, using wind power, was added to the project, financed with savings
from the housing component. Bonghah consumed US$93 million, US$23 million in excess of the
original allocation of US$70 million.
8.    The housing component was also highly satisfactory. Within 28 months some 200,000
houses were reconstructed, with Bank financing of US$140 million instead of the originally
estimated US$170 million. The savings were obtained through an efficiently managed self-help
scheme. The savings were made available to Bonghah for additional interventions in the
agricultural component and the wind power-generating unit.
9.    Lastly, the seismic risk prevention and mitigation component was also successful. If not
for the US embargo, the targeted amounts would have been fully consumed. In fact, the
consumed credit of US$8 million was barely short of the original allocation of US$9 million. An
earthquake detection network was expanded to cover the entire country, and an emergency
response plan was developed for Tehran. This plan, which is to be put into operation after an



iii
earthquake, identifies key lifelines to be protected from damage and initiates quick repair if
damaged. The building code was reviewed, updated and adapted for zones prone to earthquakes.
Public awareness campaigns were also carried out on TV and in the press. The scientific studies
are continuing.
10.   Of the total loan of US$250 million, US$245 was consumed. The tiny shortfall was due
to delays in start-up and the US embargo. All project elements remain fully sustainable. It
should be noted, however, that during a two-year period, only 16% of the loan was disbursed
necessitating two extensions of the closing date. Project implementation was vigourously
achieved during the last six months.
11.   The administrative management of the project was also satisfactory. All covenants were
complied with. No misprocurement occurred and the management capability of the two main
implementing agencies was greatly strengthened.
Key Lessons Learned
12.   Although this project can be classified as entirely satisfactory, many lessons have been
learned on how to avoid problems with future projects:
i)    Concerning procurement, although several procurement and disbursement seminars were
organized at the time of start-up to familiarize the implementing agencies with the Bank's
procurement rules, problems persisted, including the central bank's lengthy administrative
procedures for letters of credit. Each agency should have sent one or two persons to attend these
seminars, and these persons should have been responsible for the agency's procurement during
the full project implementation period. Also, a supervision mission should have been sent after
Board presentation to assist the implementing agencies with the start-up of the project. In
addition, ICB procurement methods proved to be too time consuming for an emergency project.
ii)   Project preparation was done in record time, 11 months between project identification
and effectiveness. For an emergency project, however, this is still far too long. Funds are
required directly after the occurrence of disaster. The Bank should reflect on measures to make
funds available as early as possible. For instance, an advance on a future loan could be
considered, along the line of a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). In case of non-realization of
the loan, the Government would have to reimburse the advance, and if the loan is granted, the
advance should be repaid out of the loan proceeds as soon as the loan becomes effective.
iii)   Care should be taken that implementing agencies have highly capable staff experienced in
project implementation. In the case of research programs or scientific studies, this responsibility
could be delegated to a specialized agency such as Bonghah.
Among the positive lessons learned one should mention:
iv)   The housing reconstruction process using the self-help method was very efficient. This
method, which is far more economic than the conventional construction method, enhances the



iv
population's feeling of ownership, which in turn ensures better maintenance and upkeep of the
reconstructed houses.
v)    The provision of agricultural machinery and equipment to the farmers at a price that
includes maintenance cost helps to ensure that the equipment is properly maintained and has a
life span in excess of the depreciation period of 5 to 10 years, depending on the type of
equipment.
Future Operations
13.   Iran is often hit by earthquakes, particularly in the mountainous areas of the northwest
and the northeast. Earthquakes of minor magnitude occur annually and of greater magnitude
every five to ten years. Only recently, on February 28, 1997, an earthquake with a magnitude of
6.1 on the Richter scale occurred in the northwest, near Ardebil, less than 200 km from the site of
the earthquake treated in this report. Between 500 and 2,000 people are reported to have died,
many thousands lost their homes and all their belongings, and the material losses are expected to
exceed those of the present project. In the last few months, two devastating earthquakes
clobberred the provinces of Ardebil and Khorasan. More recently, on May 10, 1997, another
earthquake with a magnitude of 7.1 on the Richter scale occurred in the northeast. More than
two thousands people are reported to have died, and tens of thousands have lost their homes.
14.   This means there is a high potential for similar projects. The two implementing agencies
could be strengthened and more emphasis could be given to the seismic risk prevention and
mitigation plan. Based on the experience gained in the present project, an efficient relief and
reconstruction project could be mounted in record time each time a new earthquake hits the
country.
15.   However, the present Bank policy prohibits new loans to Iran for political reasons. For
the moment, no follow-up project is being considered.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT (LOAN 3301-IRN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Objectives at Appraisal
1.    On June 21, 1990, the provinces of Gilan and Zanjan in northwestern Iran were hit
by one of the worst earthquakes in the country's history, measuring 7.7 on the Richter
scale. The epicenter of the earthquake was located between the cities of Rudbar and
Manjil, about 75 km south of the city of Rasht (Maps No. 22682 and 22664 attached).
The rupture area, as inferred from the distribution of aftershocks, was 90 km by 30 km.
The impact of the earthquake was widespread. Approximately 35,000 people lost their
lives, 60,000 were injured, half a million were left homeless, and nearly 30,000 people
lost their jobs. The 106 m high Sefid-Rud dam suffered extensive damage. Irrigation
systems for some 60,000 ha of farmland were damaged and another 60,000 ha were in
need of relevelling. About 80,000 heads of livestock perished and an estimated 200,000
houses were destroyed. A 360 MW thermal power station was rendered nonoperational.
More than 7,000 classrooms in 1,300 schools and a major regional hospital were
destroyed. Total damage was estimated at about 2.5 percent of GDP (1989/90).
Production losses in industrial output were estimated at nearly US$350 million, in
addition to about US$180 million lost in value added. The affected region produces most
of Iran's rice and barley. Total reconstruction investment costs (including contingencies)
were estimated at US$5.25 billion, of which US$990 million was to be in foreign
exchange.
2.    The Government formulated a three-stage strategy for responding to the
earthquake. During the first stage, rescue and relief started immediately under the
coordination of the Ministry of Interior (MOI) and the Red Crescent. Bilateral donor
support for relief was coordinated by the United Nations Disaster Relief Organization
(UNDRO) and the International Red Cross. During the second stage, temporary
rehabilitation began, again under the coordination of MOI. This stage centered on
removing rubble from main roads and rehabilitating them, repairing key bridges, partially
reestablishing power substations, tapping temporary water sources, setting up a
prefabricated hospital, and providing temporary prefabricated shelter for families and
sheds for livestock. During the third phase, permanent reconstruction and rehabilitation of
damaged structures started. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance (MEAF) was



2
given the overall responsibility for organization and coordination. Sector agencies created
special reconstruction units to coordinate their specific reconstruction programs. The Plan
and Budget Organization (PBO) adjusted the 1990 public investment program and by
October 1990, the final damage assessment, the Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction
Program (EERP), and its financing plan were completed.
3.    The Government requested Bank assistance for emergency reconstruction in early
July 1990. A first mission visited Iran between August 16-26, 1990, to assess the damage,
review reconstruction plans and organizational arrangements, and discuss strengthening
of seismic risk prevention and mitigation measures. This was followed by a project
appraisal mission during October 10-30, 1990. The Bank's strategy was to focus on the
short and medium-term recovery of the two most heavily affected sectors, housing and
agriculture, and support the introduction of a national program for seismic risk prevention
and mitigation. The lessons learned from Bank experience in emergency projects in other
countries were taken into account, particularly by simplifying project design and
managing reconstruction through existing institutions. The Bank shied away from the
dam reconstruction component for fear that the multitude of institutions and complicated
appraisal procedures might delay project preparation.
4.    The Bank project, which represented a portion of the Government's overall EERP,
met all criteria for Bank emergency recovery assistance. The EERP included the
rehabilitation of housing stock in the affected area as well as the restoration of
agricultural land and infrastructure in order to hasten the resumption of production.
Furthermore, the Government was committed to undertaking long-term measures to
reduce hazards from similar natural disasters.
5.    The objectives of the proposed project were to promote economic recovery
through:
a)    assisting Iran in setting up an effective organizational framework for managing
construction;
b)    assisting the Iranian scientific community in the development of long-term
measures for seismic risk prevention and mitigation;
c)    ensuring greater efficiency and economy through international procurement;
d)   improving seismic design standards in the reconstruction of housing;
e)    providing Iran with a portion of the required foreign exchange to finance the
Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Program (EERP).
Evaluation of Objectives and Risks
6.   Inspired by the Bank's experience in similar earthquake reconstruction projects in
Mexico, El Salvador, Nepal and Colombia, the objectives of the project were not only to
reconstruct the damage and attenuate human suffering, but to assist the Iranian
Government to create or strengthen local organizations to face present and future
disasters. These objectives were realistic and in the interest of the country. The lack of



3
familiarity of the Iranian officials with Bank procedures, and of Bank staff with Iranian
institutions, induced the Bank to set these high objectives. The Bank project concentrated
on three sectors: housing, agricultural and the seismic research and scientific sector. At
appraisal an implementing agency was proposed for each sector: the Housing Foundation
of Islamic Revolution (HFIR) for the housing sector, the Agriculture Machinery
Development (Bonghah), a semiautonomous organization under the Ministry of
Agriculture for the agricultural sector; and the International Institute for Earthquake
Engineering and Seismology (IIEES) for the seismic risk prevention and mitigation
component of the project. The first two agencies performed well, putting into practice the
recent experience they had with the reconstruction effort after the Eight Year Iraqi War.
Shortly after project start-up the Government decided, because of budgetary constraints,
to replace IIEES with a group of scientific institutions that were already receiving
budgetary allocation from the Plan and Budget Organization (PBO). These institutions
included the Institute of Geophysics of the Tehran University (IGTU), the Faculty of
Engineering of the Tehran University (FETU), the Geological Survey of Iran (GSI), the
Building and Housing Research Center (BHRC), and the Sharif University of Tehran. A
steering committee was formed under the chairmanship of the dean of IGTU. This
reorganization and the multitude of agencies caused considerable delay in start-up and
implementation.
7.    The main risk that the Bank perceived at appraisal was a potential delay in project
implementation due to the Government's limited knowledge of Bank procedures and
policies, and reciprocally, the Bank's limited sectoral knowledge and operational
familiarity with Iranian institutions. These risks were real, and caused a delay of a year
and a half in project implementation.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Overview
8.    The project had three subcomponents, each to be implemented by a different
agency:
a)    The agricultural component consisted of the provision of equipment and materials
for reconstruction and rehabilitation of agricultural facilities. This subcomponent was
entirely and successfully implemented by Bonghah, an efficient semiautonomous
organization. In fact, toward the end of the project, the funds allocated to Bonghah were
increased to utilize the savings from other implementing agencies.
b)    The housing component consisted of:  (i) the provision of equipment for
reconstruction and rehabilitation of housing facilities, and (ii) the provision of materials
for self-help repair and reconstruction of private houses. This component was
successfully implemented by HFIR. More than 200,000 houses were reconstructed in the
record time of 28 months.



4
c)    The seismic component consisted of carrying out a seismic risk prevention and
mitigation program. The implementation agency for this component was changed after
project start-up to a group of agencies already involved in scientific seismic research. The
implementation of this component was not as efficient as the other two components, but
can still be regarded as satisfactory, since 85 percent of the allocated funds were
consumed.
Institutional Development
9.    Although HFIR and Bonghah were quite efficient from the start, the project
helped refine their management capacity. In particular, the project improved their
knowledge of and experience with international tendering and World Bank procedures.
10.   The project also contributed, although to a lesser extent, to improving the
management capacity of the scientific institutions involved in the seismic component.
However, the primary concern of these institutions is scientific research, and
administrative procedures remain a secondary priority.
Physical Objectives
11.   The physical objectives of the project were fully achieved. More than 200,000
houses were reconstructed or rehabilitated in the record time of 28 months. Earthquake-
resistant house designs, based on steel frames with braces to withstand horizontal
impacts, were made available to the population involved in self-help reconstruction.
HFIR also provided technical assistance to private house builders. The old-fashioned
brick and mud housing, which has no earthquake resistance, was no longer accepted.
12.   Agricultural machinery was made available to farmers in record time, so that
damage to irrigation schemes covering 60,000 ha, fed from the damaged Sefid-Rud dam,
could rapidly be repaired and agricultural production resumed.
13.   The physical performance of the seismic component lagged somewhat because of
start-up problems and weak administrative units. However, the end result can still be
considered satisfactory, with 85 percent of the allocated funds being consumed.
Numerous modem, highly efficient apparatus were made available to scientific
institutions; in particular, a new earthquake detection network covering the entire
country was put into place.
Impact on the Environment
14.   The impact on the environment was highly positive. Damaged irrigation and
drainage systems restored to proper working order. Rubble was cleared and housing was
redesigned in a more environmentally conscience manner. Villages were relocated to
safer, earthquake-proof locations. A power generation station was built in Roodbar using
43 wind turbines connected to the national grid. This power generating station, which is



5
an environmentally clean facility, served to strengthen the rehabilitated hydropower plant.
Economic and Social Evaluation
15.   Although no economic evaluation was carried out at appraisal, the project has a
high economic rate of return, considering that the economic production of the entire
earthquake-stricken region of roughly 30 by 90 km2 had come to a standstill. Within two
years most economic activity had been resumed.
16.   The social benefits of the project were also highly positive. The project made
temporary housing available, and low interest loans were granted to the population to
finance the reconstruction of their homes on a self-help basis. Although there are no
official statistical figures available, the greater part of the project benefits was attributed
to the rural poor population category.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not Generally SubJect to Government Control
17.   The implementing agencies were constantly complaining about the Bank's
complicated procurement rules. They said, "WB's enigmatic regulations, and concurrent
insistence of the WB officials to comply with these policies, elongated procurement
procedures and inevitably the execution of the project." This problem was anticipated at
appraisal, but remained notwithstanding several procurement seminars that were
organized in the country.
18.   Another factor affecting the project was the embargo imposed by the government
of the United States of America on exports to Iran. This factor mainly affected the
seismic component, since originally most of the scientific equipment was procured from
the USA. When the embargo became effective, several contracts were not honored and
new bid procedures aiming at other supplier countries had to be started. New suppliers
also had to be identified. This inevitably resulted in delays, and even made it impossible
for Sharif University to acquire the necessary equipment and spare parts for the "shaking
table," which is used to simulate earthquakes in the laboratory.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
19.   Two factors within Government control affected the project. First, the change in
implementing agency for the seismic component, and the subsequent nomination of a
very diverse team of scientists to manage this project component, was not conducive to
efficient management.



6
20.   The second factor was related to the exchange rate of the rial and the
Government's efforts to institute a unified free exchange rate. This factor, again, affected
not only the implementation of the seismic project component, but also other
implementing agencies. At project start-up it was agreed that any agency wishing to
acquire goods in the framework of the project should pay the central bank in full for the
goods. The exchange rate applied at that time was the official rate of 70 rials per US
dollar. Two other exchange rates were also unofficially in force at this time--the
"competitive exchange rate for a selected list of imports" (600 rials per US dollar) and the
"floating exchange rate for free market imports" (1,400 rials per US dollar). After
unification of the exchange rate, the central bank asked to be paid at the official rate of
1,526 rials per US dollar. However, the budget of the University was based on the old
rate of 70 rials per US dollar, so the implementing agency did not have the required funds
to purchase goods using the Bank loan. After 18 months of negotiations the central bank
agreed to apply the original official rate for the duration of the project.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Agricultural Component
21.   The sustainability of the project's agricultural component is likely. The farmers
pay up front for equipment, and the price includes a surcharge to cover the maintenance
cost over the life span of the machinery. Considering the efficiency of BONGAH, it can
be expected that the machinery will be well maintained, resulting in a productive life in
excess of the normal depreciation period of 5 to 10 years, depending on the type of
machinery.
HousinL Component
22.   The sustainability of the housing component is also likely. Most houses are
rebuilt under the self-help method, giving responsibility to the owners. This results in
people taking better care of their assets. The materials for reconstruction are made
available against payment, which increases the feeling of ownership and the care that
owners will devote to maintenance and upkeep. HFIR was involved only during the
reconstruction period. After that all involvement was private. Since the project site is an
earthquake-prone area, a new earthquake could destroy part of the new reconstruction, but
even in that case, damage would be less extensive because the reconstructed houses are
earthquake resistant, having been built in accordance with the newly promulgated
building code.
Seismic Component
23.   The seismic component is also sustainable. The scientific program is always
ongoing, and is carried out by highly motivated, high-caliber scientists.  Budget
constraints, however, often slow the speed of the research. The World Bank contribution



7
has helped the program to advance by raising public awareness and Government interest
in the program.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
Project Identification and Preparation
24.   The Bank's performance during this phase was highly satisfactory. The Bank
reacted quickly after the Government's request for assistance, and sent a recognizance and
preparation mission in August 1990, barely six weeks after the earthquake. Drawing on
the Bank's experience with similar projects in other countries, the mission assisted the
Government in the preparation of the Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Plan
(EERP), which was ready within two months. The project was the first after a lengthy
period without Bank activities in Iran (Iran graduated in 1975, but fell below the Bank's
assistance limit (GNP/cap $1000) after the revolution of 1979). Taking into account the
relative unfamiliarity of Bank staff with the Iranian context and of Iranian officials with
the Bank's policies and procedures, the Bank decided to concentrate on short to medium-
term intervention in the housing and agricultural sectors and on seismic research and
prevention. Taking into account the urgency of the situation, the project was planned as a
time and sector slice of the EERP, making it relatively simple and quick to prepare and
appraise.
Project Appraisal
25.   During appraisal and up to effectiveness, the Bank's performance was also
satisfactory. Appraisal took place in October 1990 by a team of six high-level Bank staff
and two consulting experts in earthquake and soil science. The loan documents were
prepared in record time and negotiations took place in December 1990. Also considering
the urgency of the project, the procurement rules were somewhat relaxed, allowing an
important portion of the project to be procured through international shopping (US$50
million), limited international bidding (US$47 million), and direct negotiations (US$5
million). Final agreement was reached on February 2, 1991 and Board presentation took
place on March 14, 1991.
Project Supervision
26.   The Bank's performnance during the implementation period was also satisfactory,
with an average of two supervision missions per year. These missions were staffed with
highly competent staff who assisted and guided the implementing agencies in solving
project problems, in particular concerning procurement. The missions were also
instrumental in solving problems between the central bank and the implementing
agencies concerning applicable exchange rates. The missions were also useful to remind
the central government and the implementing agencies about their quarterly and audit
reporting, and in general their responsibility to conform to the covenants in the Loan and
Guarantee agreements.



8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
27.   The Borrower's performance on the whole was satisfactory, although project start-
up experienced some delays that could have been avoided. The Bank made a great effort
to process the project within record time--six months from project identification to Board
presentation. This effort was partially undone by the long time it took the Government to
satisfy all conditions precedent to loan effectiveness--six months instead of the expected
one month. Subsequently project start-up was also slow due to the Government's
unfamiliarity with the Bank's procurement rules, and the first disbursement did not take
place until April 1992.
28.   The Government nominated the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
(MEAF) as National Project Coordinator. This Ministry worked very efficiently with the
sector project coordinators, in particular during the later years of project implementation.
Thanks to their effort, more than US$50 million was disbursed during the last project
extension. The project benefited from the significant contribution of the office of the
Executive Director for Iran.
29.   The sector project coordinators, Bonghah for the agricultural sector and HFIR for
the housing sector, were very efficient, and put into practice the experience they gained
during reconstruction work after the Eight Year Iraqi War".
30.   As mentioned before, the originally nominated sector project coordinator for the
seismic and research component, IIEES, was replaced after project start-up with the
Earthquake Committee, an ad-hoc steering committee of representatives of various
scientific institutions (GSI, BHRC, IGTU, Sharif University of Technology). Although
the members of the committee were dedicated high-level scientists, they lacked the
management skills to quickly implement their part of the project. However, they were at a
disadvantage being nominated more than a year late, and were also handicapped by the
US embargo against Iran.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
31.   Overall, the outcome of the project can be considered highly satisfactory. All
objectives were met. The agricultural component achieved even more than originally
planned for; a power generating station, using wind power, was added to the project,
financed with savings from the housing component. Bonghah consumed US$93 million,
US$23 million in excess of the original allocation of US$70 million.
32.   The housing component was also highly satisfactory. Within 28 months some
200,000 houses were reconstructed, with Bank financing of US$140 million instead of
the originally estimated US$170 million. The savings were obtained through an
efficiently managed self-help scheme. The savings were made available to BONGAH for
additional interventions in the agricultural component and the wind power-generating



9
unit.
33.   Finally the seismic risk prevention and mitigation component was also successful.
If not for the US embargo, the targeted amounts would have been fully consumed. (In
fact, the consumed credit of US$8 million was barely short of the original allocation of
US$9 million.) An earthquake detection network was expanded to cover the entire
country, and an emergency response plan was developed for Tehran. This plan, which is
to be put into operation after an earthquake, identifies key lifelines to be protected from
damage and initiates quick repair if they are damaged. The building code was reviewed,
updated and adapted for earthquake-prone zones. In addition, public awareness
campaigns were carried out on TV and in the press. The scientific studies are continuing.
34.   Of the total loan of US$250 million, US$245 was consumed. The tiny hortfall
was due to delays in start-up and the US embargo. Furthermore, all project elements are
fully sustainable.
35.   The administrative management of the project was also satisfactory. All covenants
were complied with. No misprocurement occurred and the management capability of the
two main implementing agencies was greatly strengthened.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
Agricultural Component
36.   The future operation of the agricultural component is assured by BONGAH. This
institution was considerably strengthened during project implementation. It ensures the
maintenance and upkeep of the equipment procured in the framework of the project, and
continues to provide additional equipment to the agricultural community, financed by
other and its own sources.
Housing Component
37.   This project component provided for the construction and rehabilitation of houses
on a self-help basis and community buildings by building contractors. The Housing
Foundation was involved only during the construction phase. The future operation of
these buildings, including maintenance and upkeep, is fully assured by the owners and
communities.
Seismic Component
38.   This part of the project concerned the scientific studies, which formed the basis
for the earthquake detection and relief programs. These studies, which were ongoing at
the start of the project, received a boost by the injection of Bank funds. After the closing
of the Bank Loan the studies continue, albeit at a slower pace, financed by Government
grants.



10
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
39.   Although this project can be classified as entirely satisfactory, many lessons have
been learned about how to avoid problems with future projects:
a)    Concerning procurement, although several procurement and disbursement
seminars were organized at the time of start-up to familiarize the implementing agencies
with the Bank's procurement rules, problems persisted. Each agency should have send
one or two persons to attend these seminars, and these persons should have been
responsible for the agency's procurement during the full project implementation period.
Also a supervision mission should have been sent after Board presentation to assist the
implementing agencies with the start-up of the project. In addition, ICB procurement
methods proved to be too time consuming for an Emergency project.
b)    Project preparation was done in record time-- II months between project
identification and effectiveness. For an emergency type project, however, this was still far
too long. Funds were needed directly after the occurrence of the disaster. The Bank
should reflect on measures to make funds available as early as possible. For instance, an
advance on a future loan could be considered, along the line of a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF). In case of nonrealization of the loan, the Government would have to
reimburse the advance, and in case of a loan being granted, the advance would be repaid
out of the loan proceeds as soon as the loan becomes effective.
c)    Care should be taken that implementing agencies are staffed with highly capable
staff experienced in project implementation.  In the case of research programs or
scientific studies, this responsibility should be delegated to a specialized agency such as
Bonghah.
Among the positive lessons learned, one should mention:
d)    The housing reconstruction process using the self-help method was very efficient.
This method, which is far more economic than the conventional construction method,
enhances the ownership feeling of the population, which in turn ensures better
maintenance and upkeep of the reconstructed houses.
e)    The provision of agricultural machinery and equipment to the farmers at a price
including maintenance cost ensures that the equipment is properly maintained and
normally has a life span in excess of the depreciation period of 5 to 10 years, depending
on the type of equipment.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1       Summary ot Assessments
Table 2:      Project lTimetable
Table 3:      Loan Disbursements
Table 4:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 5:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 6:      Bank Resources: Missions






Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives          Substantial    Partial    Negligible     Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                                      V
Sector policies                         v
Financial objectives                    v
Institutional development               v
Physical objectives                     v
Poverty reduction                       v
Gender issues                                                                       v
Other social objectives                 V
Environmental objectives                v
Public sector management                                                            V
Private sector development                                                          v
Other (specify)                                                                     v
B. Proiect Sustainability                Likelv             Unlikely           Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                HiphI'v Satisfactory    Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                         v
Preparation Assistance                 v
Appraisal                               V
Supervision                            V
D. Borrower Performance            Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                            V
Implementation                         V
Covenant Compliance                                        V
Operation (if applicable)               v
E. Assessment of Outcome           Hi2hly                                             Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
V



Table 2: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle            Date planned           Actual date
Identification                    August 11! 1990        August 11, 1990
Preparation                       September 1990         September 1990
Appraisal                         October 30, 1990       October 30, 1990
Negotiations                      December 1990          December 1990
Board Presentation                March 14, 1991         March 14, 1991
Signing                           March 21, 1991         March 21, 1991
Effectiveness                     April 1991             July 3, 1991
Project Completion                April 1994             December 1996
Loan closing                      December 31, 1994      June 30, 1996



Table 3: Loan disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(in US$ millions)
250                                 ......-.--*..-      - A.
2 0 0  .. . .. . .   .. . .. . .   .. . . . . . .   ..     .. . . . . . . .   ........   .......... ; w w: 86
150   -....4............ ......-...       'Appraisal estimate
0  44.4     .    4i.l.I..4.44.......4,AIy4..b4A.
FY9;g..... ...%§ a-4;. . 011  FY92i;.ll.     .... ... .      ;l& #leS b; FY9  FY94    FY95...... ... FY96    FY97ib;.iit 
FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Appraisal estimate                          65      225      245      250      250      250      250
Actual                                        0      0.9   130.8      172   196.5   200.3       245
Actual as % of estimate                     0%       0%     53%      69%      79%      80%      98%
Date of final Disbursement                                        November 13, 1996



Table 4: Status of Legal Covenant
IRAN
Earthquake Recovery Project
Original  Revised
Covenant   Present  fulfillment fulfillment Description of
Agreement Section  type        status    date     date      covenant                                            Comments
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the
Loan      3.02      procurement    C        N/A             Guarantee Agreement.
The Guarantor shall carry out the Project in accordance with Implementing Agency
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this  for seismic component
Guarantee 2.01 (b)  execution      C        N/A             Agreement.                                          was changed
Guarantee 2.03      execution      C        N/A             Same as Loan Agreement clause 3.02
The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be maintained
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
Guarantee 3.01 (a)  financial      C        N/A             resources and expenditures in respect of the Project
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
Guarantee 3.01 (b)(i) financial    C        N/A             independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in   Some audit reports
Guarantee 3.01(b)(ii) financial    C        N/A             such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested  were submitted late
furnish to the Bank such other information conceming said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
Guarantee 3.01 (b)(iii) financial  C        N/A             from time to time reasonably request



Table 5: Bank Resources
Staff Inputs
Stage of          Planned             Revised             Actual
project cycle       Weeks  US$(000)  Weeks  US$(000)  Weeks  US$(000)
Through appraisal    N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A        31.1      95.3
Appraisal-Board      N/A       N/A       N/A      N/A          12.3     38.8
Board-effectiveness    N/A     N/A       N/A       N/A          33        98
Supervision          N/A       N/A       N/A       N/A          66     203.9
Completion           N/A       N/A       N/A      N/A           10      42.9
TOTAL                                                   152.4    478.9



Table 6: Bank Resources
Missions
Performance rating
Number            Specialized    Implemen Develop-
Stage of   Month/   of   Days in    staf skills    tation     ment     Types of
project cycle  year  persons field (*)   represented  status  objectives   problems
Identification  Aug-90    5   14  DC.SE.FA.US.ES
Appraisal    Oct-90           20  SE.FA.
Supervision   May-91      4   11  SE.FA.PS.DS               1         1 start-up
Jul-92     1   15  SE.FA                      1        1 procurement
Jan-93      1   8   PS                        1         1 -
Feb-93      1  12*  SE                        1         1 management
May-93       1  20*  SE                        1         1 -
Aug-93      2  21*  SE.FA.                     1        1 -
Jan-94      3  14*  DC.SE.FA                  1         1 procurement
Sep-94      3  14*  SE.FA.GS                  1         1 audit
Apr-95      2  13*  SE.FA                     1         1 proc/audit
Jul-95     2   8*  SE.FA                      1        1 -
Oct-95      2  10*  SE.FA                     1         1 -
Dec-95      4   8*  PA.SE.FA.PS               1         1 extension
Jun-96      2  21*  DC.FA (+loc con)          1         1 procurement
Completion    Nov-96      2   10  TM.FA (+loc con)
DC          Division Chief        (*) together with Tehran drainage and Sistan projects
PA          Project Advisor
SE          Sanitary Engineer
FA          Financial Analyst
PS          Procurement Specialist
DS          Disbursement specialis
loc con     Local Consultant
GS          Generalist (Trainee)
US          Urban Specialist



APPENDIX
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR






IBRD 3301-IRN Earthquake Recovery Project
Views of the Iranian Government
Introduction
i .       Following the 1990 earthquake in Gilan and Zanjan
provinces, and to assist in the reconstruction efforts, the World
Bank (WB) offered the Islamic Republic of Iran (IRI) a loan
totaling US $250.00 milllon, of which $245 million was disbursed.
Primarily four years was estimated for the project's completion,
although due to the factors that will be presented later, with
two extensions, the project, achieving all of its reconstruction
objectives, was executed in five and half years.
ii.       The borrower of the loan was Central Bank of Iran
(CBI), and it was guaranteed by the government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran. The emergency nature of the project called for
assigning relevant agencies for the implementation attempt, and
the following agencies took on the task: (a) Housing Foundation
of the Islamic Revolution (HFIR) for the reconstruction of
buildings and the other related facilities; (b) Agriculture
Machinery Development (Bonghah)- a semi autonomous subsidiary of
the Ministry of Agriculture- for helping the resuscitation of the
agriculture sector of the region; and (c) the Earthquake
Committee as an impetus to catalyze the research divisions in the
country and accommodating a better understanding of seismic
activities in Iran.
Borrower's Perormance
iii.      After almost 15 years dormant relationship between the
two sides, this was the first loan that paved the way for a fresh
start. This genial effort-i.e., the implementation of the
project-materialized other unforeseen predicaments as well: there
was a minimum understanding of WB regulations and guidelines in
the institutions that dealt directly or indirectly with the
project, e.g., the banking system and the implementing agencies.
These difficulties were within the confinements of both
withdrawals from the loan account as well as procurement of
equipments and machineries.
Iv.       Despite all of the straits that were encountered during
the execution period, the implementing agencies reached a zenith
of optimum performance, and not only utilizing 98% of the loan
proceeds, but also, most important, attained all of the targets
of the project including developmental and infrastructural
reconstruction. The enormous work of all of the organizations
that were directly or indirectly involved in the attempt has paid
off, and the once decimated region has now reached its full
recovery.



Performance of the Bank
v.        During the implementation period, the Bank provided
maximum cooperation concerning sending no-objections and issuing
Special Commitments. In such cases that there were needs for
clarifications regarding regulations and guidelines of the WB,
the said Bank' s officials furnished the requested explanations
with enthusiasm. Also, in the execution period, WB missions
visited Iran periodically. These visits aimed at not only
providing feedbacks and clarifications concerning WB guidelines
and regulations, but also they endeavored at following-up on the
project as well as the surrounding issues.
vI.       One noticeable and commendable operation occurred
during the final six months of the project. During this period,
cooperation between different departments of the Bank (loan
department's officers, division chief and task manager) with
Iranian officials reached its pinnacle and led to disbursement of
almost US $50.00 million, which is one fifth of the amount of the
loan.
Difficultes
vii.      Such issues as local currency's depreciation and a lack
of familiarity with WB's guidelines and regulations decelerated
the progress of the project. Also, one difficulty that was faced
during the project's execution related to incongruity of WB's
guidelines with the domestic ones regarding procurements and the
other related procedures.
Vili.     Nevertheless, there were other factors that contributed
to dawdle in the progress of the project, and among them Is the
United States' embargo against Iran.  Regarding the embargo and
its impact on the software part of the project, Sharif University
devoted lengthy time for procuring a 'shaking Table' from the US
for surveying and understanding seismic activities-which could
translate into saving thousands of lives. Upon the embargo, the
procurement never materialized and Sharif University ran out of
time for launchlng another procurement process.
Achievements
ix.       Implementation of the project exhibits such triumphs
as: (a) repairing and rebuilding 200,000 residential buildings,
which are earthquake resistant. in 2a months; (b) procurement and
supply of agriculture machineries and equipments that revitalized
the agriculture sector of the earthquake battered region; and (c)
in the software sphere, procurement of the related equipments as
well as improving the  Strong Motion Network', in the vicinity of
various faults in Iran will expedite a far-reaching erudition
about the seismic activities in the country.



HOUSING FOUNDATION OF ISLAMIC REPVOLUTION
IaW. 1asLghAars  Au.n.
P. o. Boa Zs-wIsZ. s,   L n. tRAN    Our ft4f2.'2 .
. ~~~) 2 TL 4*MZaSs t.mJ                              Yawr .f.~....  .,
_F_ F:    S4dSt:3 D             :,-,)a .. -A
t-~~~~~~C V_!@ '. '! ' -
IN THE NAME OF GOD
TO; TIE WORLD BANK
'oR THE KIND AT1NTION OF MR A. FERROUKU1, INDUSTRY AND  ERGY )'P!)
DEAR SIR.
FTURTHER TO THE LETrTER NO.vai,-76z DBTED 17.12.95 AN,) ,
Di4TED 2&J.Q61,H.F.l..&, MEANWHZIL SEND INO  47ABES The A E.Vct.Z.).w ,:
FIERZWrrN I WOULD LIXE TO DRAW YOUR ATTENTION TO THZ FOLOW. '
ITEMS:
I - ACCORDING TO THEAGREEMENT BETWEENH OUSIVG FOULN),4 TO )N -' .I
THEF WOALD BANK WE BAD TO USE D.C METHOD I/V AMOUV%T .V1 i:
-3000000 AND I.S METHOD IN AMOUNT OF USD 30252700 BUT FOR CRi'.t '...
COAMf9ETrIO  BZETWEEN THE SUPPLtERS AND FOR AEcE!zv INc rH7fF. fr;O
TO THE BEST PRICE & QUA.LIrTY, HJ.J. R TOOK ACTION TO PURIH .iri± a -
L.I.B & i.C3B METrOD. SO FROM I.S & D.C DETERMINED AMOUNT. Wf' E;..?:.
USD 16096665 I.S AND  THE REMArINIG THE LOAN WAS SPF TAr   iI. Jr d.
I.C.B METHOD, INCLUDING USD 366623 LJ.B AND LSD 74056661) t.(. S. ..i .¶
*WE DIDN'T USE FROM D.C. METHOD.
MZEANfW5II  THAJVKIrNG FOR YOUR HtEARTILY COOPZRA.47rN  J.'
WE DESCArBED AT TIHE MEETrING IN IRAN . COMPLfEZTItq O)!
CONSTrAUCTrONAL STANVDARDS AND RECOVERY TWE VILZAG.A.S rs,t.'
OF TA(E MOST iMPORTAArNT ACTION ANDr HJ.A-R IS AEASPONVSBLr/BZ. T ,- 7T'w:
,i 



ROUSING FOUVDATION OF ILAIMIC ARVOLUTION
W1. 1akjrAanL Amx&n al
P. 0. Dow . JJW"4?fl 2dahrn. 1.3. ZRAN  Our JI-fl  -
*  .                            s
*           SUBJECT. AS YOU A"  WELL AWARE 42 SPEC,ALIZPP            r
PROJEC7S MA VE BEEN PROVIADED BY M. F!.R & U.M.D.P.
1 *S   OU AE JSOlO, RE KNDLY REQUESTED To ATTEND rO LAb O..fW t.J 
A4TTENT7ION TO THEFOLLOWIANG PROPOSAL.'
I - FOR REMOVING ANY PROBLEM IN T7HE ABV""E SUBJEFC. 'r:l,:
WOZLD BAWi( SHfOULD INVEST BZAOAE AN'YACCIDENV7
2- THE WORLD BANK INCREASE 1.5 & D.C DETERM.J.,VEtt ,.5,, P.7  . J
ORDER TOrTHJrBORROWERCAN PROVIDE NECE.SSARY V 'A,j-~
*             4?~~~~  THE EAPJJEST P?OSSIL-E: TIM E.
\.CC:~ MA MOHAMAMED 19ENOUANI SINrOR FINANCIAL ANALYST
CC: MAIL TAGIIA I, COMPTROLLER AN.DFINANVCIAL DrRECT-or. mtN,Sr.?!f
r          ~~~OF ECOAVOMWIC A.FFAIR AND FINANCE.
..
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~v '.



II. CONTHLUCTfON E.QulPE1-'-
DISCRIHlTO0N Ot GOODS                     QUANTITY  APPLICATIONNO.    D.C.                       LID ICB
OIALALLOCATION                                      _1411400    16260000   37500000
CRIH1)N  DISBURSEMENT PLAN                                            ---     14595592   24639181   49094896
t  BULL* DOZERS                                           6UNITS          26                                 1392160
2  FRONT- END LOADERS                                    40 UNITS          9                     36Z1320
12 LlNTS        23                     1300200
10 UNITS         r                     2275370          .
3  DUMPTRCKS                                             4BOUNITS                                                       44820873
4  TRAILERS                                              75 UNTS           24                                6769273
5  AUrOCONCRETE MIXERS                                   50 UNITS          26                    2000000
6   UMPERS                                                  _      -                ___         _              -
7  PICK - UP TRUCKS (4 -WD)                              156 UNITS         27                    3963797
8  4 - WD SALOON TYPE VEHICLES                           156 UNITS         21
9  FORK-LFTTRllCKS                                       20 UNTS           30                     1434905
10 TRUCK*MOUNTEDCRANES                                    6 UNITS          22                                3516070
I 1 CONCRETE VIBRA1OHS                                   1340 UNITS        25                                2826017
12 VIBRATORY COMPACTORS                                  225 UNITS         8                                  1336071
131 WELDING EQUIPMENT                                    169 UNITS         2                                 1147530
i4 GFiADER                                                20 LUNITS        4                                 2471760
15 ROUGHTERRAIN  HAWIN 5Irs                                              kIF 31                     B_ 38700
t6 EXCAVATOR HYDROIC                                   1 UNITS      iHF .36                               1245_00
17 .rdtMI1§ t.OtRIl I                                              -.l8   L*. 35       __         |j    281Y.735
lii i                          -W    -                             f*- - 3--__   
f  CRtAWLERUfiILL           _                             SUNItT         1iF 38I  IJ5282B
S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-l -- _I- -.----  sI-I
|10I jAI>Cl Mni:I\                   !                      UfIii.i      li.      _      -i               --  _________-_  I  iA
AAI¢ *- - -lIUlI:-'l                      .,i.                                                                            .
.J9VIEH ~~fW4E                  -                           LIIT.       -F                                              _



I                 ii  1 :-I -1 * :
*; *J .~.. .:J{_' J;s ;j';,'4..j-4i' *~a , {8
_-...- g.',
C. CONSTRUCTICN MATERIAI
DISCRIBTION OF GOODS                     QUANTITY  APPLICATION NO.   D.C.          I.S.        UB         ICB
TOTAL AL.OCATION                                      3000000   6000000    3430000   80842000
DISBURSEMENT PLAN                                                             1323458   46488966
1 CEMENT                                               3000001ONS      HF- 25                                         17100000
2  REINFORCINGSTEEL(h1OT ROLLEO STEETS)                                 HF-22                                         21883S66
3  STRUCTURAL iTEEL SHAPES AND PLATES (HOT7 ROLLED     2700 TONS       HF -23                                          945000
. SHEE_S)
4  CORRUGATED METAL SHEETS   (ALUINUM SHEETS)           1000 TONS       HF -24                             5310000
(GALVAN&IZED SHEETS)     2000 TONS       HF -26                              125000
5  GALVANIZED ETEEL PIPES
6  WELG ELECTRODES
7  ELECTRICAL F!XTURES
8  T IMBER, LUMAE, PLYWIOOU
9  ROOFING MATERAL (JUTE)
10 TRUCK TiRES                                          6504 SETS                                           743475
11 LOAOER TIRES                                         G tO SETS 1                                         579983
~~___.__-__~                               .~~...I~L
12 SPARE PART Fh EIXISTIIG AND EVW EEUli'[N r                                        .            .
13 MiSCFIIAI*0113 MAlI RIAl II4AIL S 1101 '; EIr;j          . .         .  .            .  



I *.!t.-... g:.i;Sz   -.   I                         7iO
EARTIADSBLA    LfitC '_ F'FOJkET i          DC               I                                it l  
1 14 1-          I
i~~e~:LI bACHiEL hI--:  $At IJW0
IIIUC U31N19) CtisCF    UIANiziI       $* i                                                  WW;*; :S; .                                 ' .
:o C(T P''' IJ3 I;;'  IwV  II fFF@e                                    ,        |     @9   . ,         iad'.s                           ^iLt^i                   j   ,
r     CiL1Z,i                   r                                     ___                                         I          __ ._                            - 
BI.OC,( LTERSCiERl  l#S!!                                                                                
FRONT - END LOADERS
DUMP MUCKS                                                             -             14595592         24639)91         46965057
TJWAPERS
K .- UP IRUCCS 14 S .WD
4.-WD SALOON TYPE VEHICLES
FONCfiX LIFT TRUCKS
IRUCK - MOUNIED CRANES
CONCRETE VIORA TOqS
VIBRATORY COMPACTORS
WELDING  EQUPMENJ                                                                 _________ .                                        ________________
C. CONSTRUCTIONI MATFERIAL                                           300000           6000000          343000           50142600
CEMAENT
REVW-ORCHB STEEl.LIIOT ROLLEO STEETS,
SIRUCTLNiAL STEEL SHAPES AND PLATES (HOT ROLLED SHEFTS)                                                1323458         21513965
CORRUKiAIEDMEIAL SHEETS1
ELRONT  ENLETRODES
TIMBER LUMBER. PLYWOOD
T CJFI.C;   A(IiE J I  
4. WD SSLOON TYPE I EHICLE5*
PAP; REf VOf              d .41ORSnOI
MOCILVWVNMAI 1AL'I . (-A.SUL IS It IC V                                                                          
... ... - -. *..I -..  -,                        ,1A -A.- .    I..
C.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  CONSTRUCTION .MILmi ERIALf'0' 3Q0J000                                                AItUt.l3t3Re4601U
CEI4ENT~~~~ _                                                _ _   _  __                       _   _..._ 



A. CONCRETELLIANT EQUIPMIENT
DISCRIBTION' OF GOODS                   QUANTITY  APPLIC.ATIoNNuO    D.C.        I.S.        LIB       ICB
TOTAL Al-LOCATION                 1 _______9341300    2720000
DISBURSEMENT PLAN       11____    1501073   10702484   3187527
1 COARSE AND FINE AGGREGATE CfRUSHERS                  6 UNITS        I11                    1501073    1647177
1 1UNITS      HF-27
2 CONCRETYE BATCHING PLANTS                            6 UNITS         12                                891451
3 TRUCK MOUNTED CONCRETE MIXERS                        36 UNITS         6                                1380599
4 CONCRIETE PUMPS                                      6 UNITS          S                                l8t2244
5 CONCRETE BLOCK MAKING KITS (MOLDS)                      -                                     --
6  ELECTRIC MOTORS                                     8BUNITS          I                       -288598
4 UNITS         10                               344867
1 BLOCK LIFTERS
8  ANCILLARY BAJCHUnGC PLANT EQIJIPMFNT                 5 NIMTS         3                                  -3187627
EXCAVATORS (Dli *GLNE)
9 CONCREI E PUM                                         4 UNITS T     HF-33                              989900
10 MOUJIE SHO1ICRETE                                    6 UNITS       IIF -34                            1416400
11 JOWIEP CONCRETE PLANT & FLACE iCE MACBI!JE           1 UNITS       HF -41                             1931250



IBRD 3301-IRN Earthquake Recovery Project
Views of:
Housing Foundation of Islamic Revolution (HFIR)
Agriculture Machinery Development (BonghaIi)
The Earthquake Committee
November of 1996






Table  of Contents                                             PaQe
Views of HFIR                                              1
Introduction                                               1
WB's Performance                                           2
HFIR's Performance                                         3
Relationship Between the WB and HFIR                       4
Difficulties                                               4
Achievements                                               4
Views of Bonghah                                           5
Introduction                                               5
WB's Performance                                           6
Bongliah ' s Performance                                   6
Relationship Between the WB and Bonglwh                    7
Difficulties                                               7
Achievements and Outcome                                   8
Sustainability                                             8
Views of the Earthquake Committee                          8
WB's Performance                                           8
the Committee's Performance                                9
Relationship Between the WB and the Committee              9
Difficulties                                              10
Achievements                                              10
Sustainability                                            10
Map                                                       11






In the name of God
Views of Housing Foundation of Islamic Revolution
(HFIR)
Introduction
1.1       At 12:30 a.m. of June 21, 1990, an earthquake with a
magnitude of 7.7 on Richter scale, clobbered two provinces of Gilan
and Zanjan (the epicenter of the earthquake was actually located in
the city of Roodbar, Gilan), and generated shockwaves that were felt
within 600,000 square kilometers.' In the mentioned provinces,
suffering most from the earthquake, 2,754 residential areas (villages,
cities, etc.) were damaged. The casualty was enormous too: 11,772 and
3,228 fatalities in Gilan and Zanjan provinces, respectively. Of
course, 1,572 educational and 697 health centers should be added to
the list of havoc as well.
1.2       Derived from HFIR's experience in reconstruction of the War
and flood ruined areas, and the fact that the said foundation provided
a comprehensive plan for rebuilding the earthquake damaged areas, it
was assigned by the related officials as the implementing agency of
the Earthquake Recovery Project.
1.3       Focal points of HFIR's reconstruction scheme included the
following:
(i). Minimizing government's investment in the
subsidiary realms such as housing and promoting self-
sufficiency in those sectors.
(ii). Government's investment in the infrastructure.
(iii). Offering financial assistance to the damaged
area's residents by the banking system.
(iv). Promote people's cooperation and verve in the
effort.
(v). Avert creation of parallel organizations with
similar tasks in the reconstruction management.
(vi). Comply the construction of new buildings with the
local pattern and culture.
(vii). Incorporate residents' penchant in designing
buildings, and attract their participation in this
respect
(viii). Pilot the reconstruction effort in spheres that
residents were unable for engrossing, which included:
(a) exploration and preparation of new and
safer population centers: e.g., assure that
new towns are not going to be located on
earthquake faults;
(b) abrading the debris, and preparation of
the grounds for new constructions;
1.61 kilometer=one mile.



(c) hoist residents' financlal ztrent-th --
low interest loans:
.d) large-scale procurements and deliver-y of
building materials and machineries to the
earthquake battered region;
and (e), transport the procured materials to
the region and supply them to the residents
at cost.
1.4       Obstacles at the threshold of the reconstruction effort
were: (a) inaccessibility of some areas in the earthquakle ravaged
region; (b) high population density; (c) capaciousness of the region;
(d) amplitude of the destruction; and (e) the scattered population.
1.5       These factors led to a situation in which impelled a higher
delicacy in: (a) procuring heavy machineries and equipments for
preparing new population centers; (b) obtaining transportation
vehicles for supplying building materials to the residents; (c)
securing machineries to equip construction sites in the region for
producing building materials; and (d) maximizing the use of local
potentials towards observation of construction methods.
1.6       The reconstruction campaign enticed international
cooperation towards the genial effort of soothing the aftermath of the
earthquake.  Following the WB's announcement of its readiness for
participation in this effort, eventually a US $250 million loan to the
Islamic Republic of Iran was approved, of which $170 million was
earmarked for the Housing Foundation. Below is an evaluation of the
protagonists in the implementation of the project.
WB's Perfoimance
1.7       Rating the conducts of the WB, especially considering
issuing Special Commitments (SC) and sending no-objections, as
praiseworthy, below is a list of shortcomings:
(i). Though according to preliminary estimates, US$820
million was assessed as the needed foreign expenditure
for the implementation of the project, only $250
million (30% of the needed foreign expenditure) was
granted. Out of this amount, $170 million was set
aside for HFIR, which was inadequate for the
reconstruction effort.
(ii). The earthquake occurred on June 21, 1990, and the
reconstruction began around August and September of the
same year. Yet the negotiations, the approval and to a
higher extent procurement process lasted so long that
the first procurement received WB's no-objection on
April 16, 1992 and took place on May 11 of that year.
(iii). The allocated foreign expenditure ($170 million)
was scanty and methods of procurements were time
consuming. The WB's insistence in using the
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) method-and the
subsequent date extensions of bids few times-emitted
delays in procurements.



3
subsequent date extensions of bids few times-emitted
delays in procurements.
(iv). Since the progress of the project was not
reciprocal to the procurement process, i.e., the latter
did not complement the former and lagged behind the
projected schedule, the related officials at HFIR had
to adjust and often readjust their policies concerning
methods and kinds of procurements. Adjustments, amid
their primary intentions, radiated postponement in
procurements.
(v). WB's enigmatic regulations, and the concurrent
insistence of the WB officials to comply with these
policies, elongated procurement procedures and
inevitably the execution of the project.
HFIR's Performance
1.8       The reconstruction scheme in the housing sector of the
project avoided parochial efforts, and mobilized and deployed
resources from the other provinces.
1.9       To identify the extent of the destruction in residential
areas, a canvass was carried out. This aimed at surveying the
destruction level: as a result, 215,000 houses were classified
(ranging from annihilated to lower magnitude of destruction).
1.10      The next phase was employing the Triage: classifying damaged
buildings and demolishing the most blemished ones. During the
demolition phase, an estimated area of 1,038,500 square meters of
debris was abraded. Ferreting out 178 new safer locations for
building new houses coincided with the other efforts as well. All of
the mentioned tasks were carried out by the procured machineries.
1.11      The reconstruction program professed on encouraging self-
sufficiency in the earthquake decimated area. Adhering to this
strategy, and simultaneously ameliorating the financial ability of the
victims, HFIR referred the earthquake tormented applicants to the
banking system for receiving low interest loans during the
implementation interim.
1.12      HFIR used the WB loan proceeds to decipher the problem of
procurement and distribution of building materials too. This was
untangled by a twofold process: (a) setting up construction sites in
the region to produce building materials and transport the material to
the location of constructions; and (b) to supplement the regional
production, materials were procured from internal and external markets
and supplied to the applicants.
1.13      Besides HFIR's own resources in the other provinces, of
which seventeen designated missions were mobilized and dispatched to
the decimated region, the followings were procured for the project,
utilizing the loan funds: 2899 machineries for US$98,757,865; 7,114
tires for $1,323,457; 300,000 tons of cement for $17,100,000; and
iron, aluminum, etc. for $26,648,909.



4
Relationship between the B and HFIR
1.14      As mentioned in item 1.7 (iii), assigning procurement mode
as ICB, non-familiarity of both sides with the other's regulations and
disparity between procurement and progress of the project bred a delay
in the execution of the project.  For instance, procurement of
concrete making machines took so long that by the time they arrived,
40 percent of the work was completed. Or, in case of mobile "Cone
Crasher" machines for producing standard sand, the procurement was
canceled at the end, since stationary machines were already set up.
1.15      Overall, and despite few shortcomings, the relationship
between the two was cordial. The WB and HFIR strived to set in motion
the project, and assured that it would be carried out efficiently and
swiftly.
Difficulties
1.16      There were difficulties that surfaced during the
implementation period, and the major one was a lack of familiarity of
the implementing agencies and the Iranian banking system with
regulations and procedures of the WB concerning procurements and
withdrawal methods. Of course, these problems emerged because this
project was the first one after almost fifteen years lull in
borrowing/lending relationship between Iran and the WB.
Achievements
1.17      The project's execution and its successful outcomes-
achieving the projected rebuilding and developmental purposes- will
endure and extend well beyond its closing date. Accordingly, below is
a list of these achievements.
(a). Constructing and repairing over 200,000
residential buildings at the interval of 28 months.
(b). Renovating construction methods in the earthquake
ruined area.
(c). Employing modern techniques and sturdy materials:
e.g., using concrete and bricks instead of traditional
sun-dried mud bricks in the construction of buildings
in the region.
(d). Assembling construction sites in the region to
optimize maximum utilization of resources. By the same
token, this aimed at: (i) deterring black markets; (ii)
reducing cost of transportation; and (iii) amplifying
the use of local resources.
(e). Capitalizing on modern techniques in rebuilding
towns and residential areas (for instance, creation of
drainage system) propelled an upgraded health and
hygiene situation in the region.



Introduction
2.I        In the early morning of June 21, 1990 an earthquake with a
magnitude of 7.7 on Richter scale jolted Gilan and Zanjan provinces in
the Northeastern part of Iran.  This puissant earthquake scattered
rays of destruction in a 90-kilometer diameter.  With the epicenter
located in Roodbar and Manjil cities, in the Southern Caspian sea
region, this disaster induced such corollary as: 15,000 deaths and
60,000 injuries. 30,000 of the residents, due to the earthquake,
became unemployed too. Irrigation facilities as well as agriculture
estates totaling 60,000 hectares were severely damaged and an equal
portion needed relevelling.  The 110-meter height Sefid Rood dam (with
its 360 Megawatt power generation station) was among the ruined
facilities as well.  Taking into account obliterated homes, schools
and the other mentioned destructions, the earthquake caused damages
equaling 2.5 percent of jranian fiscal year 1369's (1989-90) Gross
Domestic Products (GDP).'
2.2        Instituting on the experience gained by the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) during and after the Imposed War in the
reconstruction of War damaged agriculture facilities and farms, this
Ministry-along with HFIR and the Earthquake Committee-was assigned to
carry out, as one of the implementing agencies, the reconstruction
efforts. In this trio, MOA was mobilized to rebuild the aericulture
sector of the earthquake stricken area.
2.3        Since the extent of the damage invoked the urgency for
international cooperation, and with the announcement of the World Bank
(WB) of its readiness for offering a loan to Iran for the
reconstruction of the damaged area, a project was appraised and
launched.  Execution of this project was financed in part with a US
$250.00 million loan from the WB. Out of this amount, primarily $65
million was earmarked for Bonghah, though eventually this amount was
raised to S93 million, of which all was disbursed.
2.4        The proposed project aimed at: (a) assisting the Islamic
Republic of Iran in setting up an effective organizational framework
for managing the reconstruction; (b) facilitating the development of
long-term and preventive measures against seismic risks; (c) improving
the design of homes' reconstruction; and (d) ensuring greater
efficiency in the methods of international procurements.
2.5        Therefore, the said project, analogous with internal
resources and efforts, shouldered such exertion as revitalizing the
economy of the region in agriculture and housing sectors.  The tools
to achieve this end included: (a) importation of equipments and
machineries for both the housing and agriculture realms; (b) providing
such construction materials as cement to the region's residents for
building safer houses and facilities; and (c) offering know-how to the
residents for building earthquake resistant buildings. Hence, the
following is an evaluation of factors that contributed to the success
of the IBRD 3301-IRN Earthquake Recovery Project.
WB's Performance
Based on USS1=216 Iranian rial.



6
of the IBRD 3301-IRN Earthquake Recovery Project.
WB's Peiformance
2.6       Materializing the targets of the project hinged on a close
observation of the WB rules and policies-and doing so led to
acceleration of procurements. Thus, no-objections, Special
Commitments (SC), and in particular, acting on payments to suppliers
with the Direct Payment (DP) method, were all delivered with speed and
efficiency. An example is the quick transmission of no-objection
concerning the purchase of the Romanian parts.
2.7       Visits of WB missions to Iran during the execution of the
project provided effective and constructive feedbacks. Evaluating WB
rules and regulations, especially considering methods of performing '
biddings and evaluation of bids, it can be argued that the WB reacted
with logical flexibility.
Bonghah's Perfonnance
2.8       MOA utilized its full resources to reconstruct the
infrastructure of the agriculture sector of Gilan and Zanjan
provinces, which are among the important agriculture centers of Iran.
In doing so, during the reconstruction period, it obtained machineries
and equipments and distributed them in the earthquake damaged region.
The total amounts disbursed by Bonghiahi for the reconstruction effort,
out of the loan account, equaled to $93 million. At the end of the
implementation of the project, $10 million out of this amount was set
aside for purchasing wind-turbines for setting up a power generation
station in Roodbar.
2.9       Below is a list of equipments and machineries that Bong/iah
used the loan's proceeds to procure:
Heavy Machinery                                             Units
Loaders (domestic and foreign made)                          20
Bulldozers                                                   40
Scrapers                                                     30
Graders                                                      40
Excavators (domestic and foreign)                            45
Agriculture Machinery
Combines (domestic and foreign made)                        200
Tractors (light weigh; domestic and foreign)                800
Tractors (heavy)                                            200
Forage Harvesters                                            30
Deep Seeders                                                200
Combinats Machines                                           50
Tillers                                                  2,000
Reel Machines                                               250



7
Agricultural EQuipments
HD Offset Discs                                             100
HD Subsoiler                                                 50
Rotovator                                                   100
Reversible Plows                                            200
Domestic Heavy Transportation Vehicles                       20
500-ton Cold Store                                            1
and
Needed Spare Parts for the Procured Machinery
2.10      The heavy machineries mentioned in the list were rushed to
the region for the reconstruction effort as well as for developing and
revitalizing the area's infrastructure. The rest of the machineries,
such as heavy and light tractors, tillers, deep seeders and the parts,
were distributed among the farmers at cost and on low interest loans
basis. This distribution was coordinated by the related officials.
Relationship Between the Bank and Bonghah
2.11      The relationship between the two sides mainly poised on the
coordinations concerning procurements, and instructions from the WB
on: performing international biddings and guidelines.
2.12      Overall, concerning such matters as procurement procedures,
sending no-objections and advancing payments to suppliers by the WB,
the relationship between the two was congenial.
Difficulties
2.13      During the implementation of the project, no major
difficulties were encountered. However, there were such cases as the
Romanian parts contract, of which a delay in transferring payment to
the said supplier occurred. In spite of that, with the collaboration
between Central Bank of Iran (CBI) and the Ministry of Economic
Affairs and Finance (MEAF), and the cooperation of the WB, this plight
was cleared up and DP was employed as the mode of payment to the
supplier.
2.14      Below is a list of predicaments that mushroomed in the
implementation process:
a. There was a time gap between the occurrence of the
earthquake and the negotiation and signing of the loan.
This radiated negative effects such as dally on timely
procurement of equipments and machineries.
b. Though the adequate amount appraised for the
agriculture sector of the project was estimated around
US $220 million, there was an inception of only $65
million.



8
c. A general unfamiliarity with the WB's regulations
and policies, specifically in the Iranian banking
system, evoked obstacles in procurements.
Achievenments and Outcome
2.15      As mentioned in the beginning parts of this report
(Bonglah's), the overall implementation of the project can be
considered as its achievement. Gilan and Zanjan provinces, being
among the top centers of agriculture in Iran, during the earthquake
suffered damages in such sectors as agriculture, housing, energy,
irrigation, transportation, communication, health and sanitation, and
education. The extent of this destruction, for instance in the
agriculture realm, had a devastating reverberation in the region.
2.16      Thus, the optimum utilization of the procured machineries
and equipments to alleviate the aftermath of the earthquake actually
paved the way for a profound reconstruction of the infrastructure of
the region. These activities propelled the recovery of the economic
and agriculture sectors of the region: for instance, the
reconditioning of 60,000 hectares of lands was fully achieved. This
in turn led to the resuscitation of the agriculture sector in the
region. Therefore, taking into account the level of allocated foreign
expenditure and the local funds, it can be proclaimed that the project
accomplished its objectives.
Sustainability
2.17      The project's implementation, and subsequently, the
dissemination of fruits of its success among all of the sectors were
fulfilled parallel to world standards. Targets of the project,
including the reconstruction, increasing the reliability and safety
aspects of buildings and agricultural facilities, all endorse
longevity of positive effects. Besides, the effects of distribution
of the agriculture machineries and the adjoin training of the farmers
will eventually increase self sufficiency of the region; therefore,
the effects of the implementation of the project go beyond its closing
date and will sustain for many years to come.
Views of the Earthquake Committee
Members of the Earthquake Committee: Geological Survey of Iran,
Geophysics Institute of Tehran University, Sharif University and
Building and Housing Research Center.
World Bank's Performance
3.1       Overall, performance of the World Bank (WB) during the
project's execution is rated as satisfactory; issuing Special
Commitments and processing payment inquiries were carried out
punctually. Albeit, there was frailty pertaining to approval of:
procurement of books and related periodicals, training and sending
graduate students abroad for supplementary !ducation.  In this regard,
WB missions presented different and sometime. contradicting views.



9
3.2       Also, in meetings with some visiting WB missions,
occasionally the Committee members made proposals, but there were not
any immediate responses from the former.  This was due to the fact
that the raised issues had to be referred to the higher authorities at
the WB for their approval. It appeared these missions were not fully
authorized to make decisions on their own initiatives. This invoked
hurdles in the progress of the project.
3.3       Using loan proceeds towards sending graduate students abroad
for obtaining Ph. D. and Master's degrees became a daunting task too.
This predicament, with the consent of the WB and the cooperation of
Central Bank of Iran (CBI), was eventually unraveled, although only
the Geophysics Institute secured tuition for enrolling one student in
a Ph. D. program abroad.
Earthquake Committee's Performance
3.4       Between the loan's approval date (March of 1991) and
February of 1993, cooperation among the Committee members-assigned to
do the software part of the project-was not immaculately optimum.  In
addition, during the execution of the project, each Committee member
paid more attention towards procuring its needed equipments-this in
turn prompted retard in loan disbursements.
3.5       Furthermore, bureaucracy in the banking system and the
related ministries (for obtaining necessary permissions towards
opening LCs) prevented timely meeting of the project's deadline-
considering this was an emergency natured project.
3.6       Notwithstanding, after February of 1993, when coordination
of the Earthquake Committee was assigned to the managing director of
the Geological Survey of Iran's (GSI), cooperation among the members
was elevated. Thus, no major difficulty was encountered for the
remaining of the project's execution.
3.7       Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance (MEAF), during the
implementation period, provided maximum cooperation in:
troubleshooting, attending bid openings and following-up on the
related issues to catalyze the execution of the project.
3.8       About the software part of the project-data communication
and training-there was not as much progress as it was in the
procurement of equipments.
Relationship Between the JIB and the Committee
3.9       In general, the relationship between the two was harmonious
and no major hindrance was confronted.  There were times that bidding
procedures seemed myriad and somewhat time consuming, which ensued
deceleration in the progress of the project. However, coinciding with
the advancement of the project, the Committee members became cognizant
of the WB regulations and that allayed these difficulties. Ergo, due
to the cordial relationship between the Committee members and the WB,
the former disbursed US$8 million out of the loan account towards
purchasing its needed equipments.



10
Difficulties
3.10      The following factors lured torpidity in procurement of
equipments: (a) lack of familiarity of both sides with each others'
rules and regulations; (b) the bureaucracy; and (c) United States'
embargo against Iran (since Sharif University primarily engaged in
procuring the 'Shaking Table' from the United States, the embargo
thwarted securing this machine which can save thousands of lives by
surveying seismic activities).
Achievements
3.11      From the Earthquake Committee's earmarked funds,
approximately $2,600,000, $5,355,786 and $170,000 were disbursed by
BHRC, Geophysics Institute and GSI, respectively. Unfortunately,
Sharif University, due to the sanctions imposed by the United States
was unable to benefit from its allocated funds and did not disburse
any amount out of the loan account.
3.12      Conspicuously, implementation of the Earthquake Recovery
Project will revitalize and boost research divisions within the
Committee's institutions. Among the positive outcomes of this project
is procurement of such seismic experimentation equipments as:
Seismograph; Strong Motion; Concrete Lab, and Compression & Tension
Test Apparatuses, plus spare parts (for Soil Mechanic Laboratory);
Magnetotulleric; and Paleomagnetism. These equipments will facilitate
and foster studying seismic activities. Implementation of the project
also enabled the Committee members to have access to foreign funds for
obtaining these expensive seismic equipments.
Sustainability
3.13      Since Iran's plateau contains numerous seismogenic faults,
the procured equipments and the installation of the seismological
network will amplify understandings concerning earthquake activities
in the country.
3.14      The earthquake, with its ensuing high casualties and
economic downturns, once again evoked the necessity for preparation as
well as cooperation between engineers and seismologists to encounter
any such disastrous events. Setting up a "Strong Motion Network" in
the vicinity of major faults in Iran is a recompense of this
cooperation. Procurement of the equipments for the above network,
which complemented the existing network, will enable researchers to
expedite a comprehensive erudition about time, place and frequency of
seismic activities.
3.15      Therefore, the domino effects of implementation of the
Earthquake Recovery Project will be nourishing and perpetuating this
panorama: finer cooperation among experts, who are furnished with more
sophisticated equipments, will result into a more comprehensive
understanding of seismic activities in the country.



MAP SECTION






AZERr)e                          so 2O s3                                                                60                                  65
E: 0                                                   .                   T U R K M  E N I S T A N              ILMCRPBI                      FIA
TURKMENISTANISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
X,                      EARTH UAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
_Kh 350. {   m jRan &-av h<7 non                                    ashur<orba-e-eydoyeh=''                   Paved Roads
.d..6  t                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Highways
Hokn,o6ad          Saad          '--- Railroads
M.                                     C <ilamot.bod                                                    Mashbz              4'°     International Airports
30R            ml X4                                                                    Airports
T.  t  hra  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----- Rivers
T., t .              ~~~Seasonal Lakes/Flooded
-  _  K U W        A      u    7     9             s                    lGah     Vp=>         /       tJav~~~~~~~~0 nK-1
r6.t-.-H.yd.. ehAreas
Great Salt  Desert       ( ~~~~~~~   Major Ports
.    45°  >  k-  ~rus eh   >v   R <\6Other Ports
M. Y.   Ark                                                                                                      Cities
h..                                            4       G)     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Province Capitals
rrom Aba  B.d   ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~I    ~ *                                          National Capital
(            ~~~~International Boundaries
Clsod.o-Molno       Biriod
M                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
eshk Shahr-e-Kord   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~\                       0    50    100   150   200
0      100     200     300      400
1 lz 'Al                                      G r e a t    a n d  D e s e r             Z.             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
0                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30'-
Sul                       rman~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zhea 
Kh.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h'I
ir z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a. nf,oto  ho, 
45'        Ban ar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,l. n                                                       pdo
-< ARABIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L ohAofKnI ,T A N)






IBRD 22664R
I                                         .              ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3B  To Astara   4                                       5                                       51°
8           Ccaspion                              -    LAMICMPUWOF IRAN
EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY PROJECT
Hashtpor                S ea
i  ,.'\*  Epkcentr of Earlhquake, Jun. 21, 1990
IDomog intensity Zones
,   \\                                                 _     ^¢t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Min R@oo
N   C.,                                                                        Scondy Rods
X   ^         =                                        |  | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rairoad
t \ Ks ¢ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~> ~~~Provic  odde
TURKEY  >"~                           4p~   'K~Rasht
.p--   t9  .    ! 67,
370  \\\\ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 4t~~~~~~~~~ \ \ % 37~~~~~~~~~~~32
Zanla L_ ff  >owshon n                                                                                5 )oK)shon
, a \\\ ,,, -ss QD . ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
QeydarO                    A6hoO                           /                                                             A 
-36,   Tonoio  oos    oiso-odon  t  nonbn             ~                         <s,                        E  H    Rg/     
Th.w on ..s d- opf do-no ..ti-y  -d -Y potf o .f -t. Nh ol vt'.',
49°    To Hmonnooon {-_50-0.,. HA
. _ RUSSIA          |KAZAK.j         W- 1.                  KYRG.'                                                )
_    IRAQ >- N              N iIC REP.d                       JKGANSAZAK/                                                 -
90L '.                      " 1FIRN                                                   /         f 
SYRIAN                      e  anAITN    .                                                      X   
oARAB         AI                        .                             -Lo
AVS~~~~-- A  IC                            ,p REP.ia                                    k 
RAQ    '--                                                      D                  oAo    >                   'iT (so






I



IMAGING
Report No.:         16615
Type:     ICR



