Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3301 IRN
                   (Earthquake Recovery Project)
                              between
                     ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated March 21, 1991
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3301 IRN
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 21, 1991, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
IRAN (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and the Central Bank of the Islamic
Republic of Iran (the Borrower), having been satisfied as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      (B)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower
a loan in various currencies equivalent to two hundred fifty million
dollars ($250,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan as
provided in this Agreement; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. The General Condi-
tions shall apply to this Agreement to the extent the provisions
thereof are consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                   Guarantee; Provision of Funds
      Section 2.01. (a) The Guarantor declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, economic, financial and technical practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Guarantor and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and
commissions and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any,
on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all
the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Guarantor responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Guarantor shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
Page  3
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six (6) months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably request-
                  ed; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section, the term "fiscal year"
means the period from March 21 of any calendar year through March 20
of the succeeding calendar year.
                            ARTICLE IV
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
      Section 4.01. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance of
the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Guarantor:
            Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
            Tehran
            Islamic Republic of Iran
            Telefax:                      Telex:
                  98-21-307043              951-212830
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
                        By /s/ A. Mirakhor
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  4
                        By /s/ R. K. Chopra
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
                      Implementation Program
      The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes
of Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement.
A.    Overall Coordination and Management
1.    The responsibility for the overall coordination and management
of Project execution will continue to be assigned to the Organiza-
tion for Investment, Economic and Technical Assistance of Iran
(OIETAI) of the Guarantor's Ministry of Economic Affairs and
Finance.
2.    OIETAI will designate a National Project Coordinator (NPC)
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The NPC will,
inter alia, prepare progress reports, in form and substance and on
the basis of indicators satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank said reports on a quarterly basis.
B.    Part A of the Project
1.    The Guarantor's Ministry of Agriculture will be responsible
for the implementation of Part A of the Project and the procurement
of the equipment and material therefor.
2.    The Guarantor's Ministry of Agriculture will continue to
designate as the Agricultural Sector Project Coordinator to provide
assistance to the NPC in monitoring and reporting on the execution
of Part A of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank.
C.    Parts B and C of the Project
1.    The Guarantor's Housing Foundation (HF) will be responsible
for the implementation of Parts B and C of the Project and the
procurement of the equipment and materials therefor.
2.    HF will designate a Housing Sector Project Coordinator to
provide assistance to the NPC in monitoring and reporting on the
execution of Parts B and C of the Project under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
D.   Part D of the Project
1.    The Guarantor will continue to maintain, with resources and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a steering committee
(the Steering Committee) composed of representatives of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Housing and Urban Development, Earthquake
Committee of the Supreme Research and Cultural Council (ECSRCC) and
the International Institute for Earthquake Engineering and Seismo-
logy (IIEES), to supervise the execution of Part D of the Project
and to provide policy advice in respect thereof.
2.    The Representative of ECSRCC will continue to be designated as
the Executive Secretary of the Steering Committee and as the Seismic
Program Coordinator (SPC) to facilitate the work of the Steering
Committee and to provide assistance to the NPC in monitoring and
reporting on the execution of Part D of the Project.
3.    The Guarantor will continue to maintain, with resources and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a working group (the
Working Group) headed by the SPC and composed of suitable repre-
sentatives of the Guarantor's Building and Housing Research Center,
Geological Survey of Iran, Institute of Geophysics, University of
Page  5
Tehran, Sharif University of Technology and the Ministry of Higher
Education and Culture, to coordinate the management and execution of
Part D of the Project.
4.    In order to assist in the carrying out of Part D of the
Project, the Guarantor will employ consultants with qualifications
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with
Section II of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. Such consultants will
also assist the Steering Committee and the Working Group in the
discharge of their respective responsibilities under Part D of the
Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $17,000,000,
for Part A of the Project; goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$2,000,000 or less per contract (except for one batching plant which
is estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,500,000 or less), up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $28,000,000, for Parts B and C of the
Project; and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,0-
00, for Part D of the Project, may be procured under contracts
awarded through international shopping on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at
least two different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.    Construction equipment, agricultural machinery, pumps and
irrigation systems estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $29,000,000 for Part A of the Project and five sets of
batching equipment estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $18,000,000 for Part B of the Project, may be procured
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited
from at least five qualified suppliers from at least three different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.    Goods which the Bank agrees are of a proprietary nature or
need to be compatible with installed equipment, estimated to cost in
the aggregate less than the equivalent of $2,000,000 for Part A of
the Project and $3,000,000 for Part B of the Project, may be
procured through direct negotiations with the suppliers thereof in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $750,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
Page  6
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded to: (A) consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
