Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2805-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
FORESTRY PROJECT
May 5, 1980
This document has a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of  |
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979                        January 1980
Currency Unit - Portuguese Escudo (Esc.)                Esc.
$1 - Esc. 48.9                              49.8
Esc. 1 = $0.020                                 0.020
Exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report: $1 - Esc. 50
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
baldios       Communal lands or lands owned jointly by a group of communities
HDGFF         MAP Directorate for Forest Development
DGOGF         MAP Directorate for Forest Management
EC            European Communities
EEC           European Economic Community
EFTA          European Free Trade Association
EIB           European Investment Bank
IFADAP        Agricultural and Fisheries Development
Fund
MAP           Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
PBI(s)        Participating Banking Institution(s)
PORTUCEL      Empresa de Celulose e Papel. de Portugal
St            Stere (unit used for measuring volume of
roundwood)
ub            Underbark (excluding bark)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Portugal
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP); Empresa de
Celulose e Papel de Portugal, E.P. (PORTUCEL), the
State pulp and paper company; and Instituto Financeiro
de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da Agricultura e Pescas
(IFADAP), the Agricultural and Fisheries Development
Fund.
Amount:              $50 million equivalent
Terms:               15 years, including 3 years of grace, at 8.25 percent
per annum.
Relending Terms:    The Government would:  (i) on-lend about $19.2 million of
loan proceeds (including contingencies) to PORTUCEL at a
rate of interest of 10 percent per annum for 15 years,
including 3 years of grace and with PORTUCEL bearing the
foreign exchange risk, to help finance PORTUCEL's expanded
afforestation program; and (ii) on-lend about $1.3 million
of loan proceeds to IFADAP on the same terms and condi-
tions as the proposed loan, to help finance the pilot
credit scheme. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk, except on the loan portion on-lent to
PORTUCEL.
Project
Description:        The proposed project would increase outputs of forest
products by introducing a long-term forest development
strategy, modernizing management practices of existing
forest lands and increasing the areas under forest to meet
long run demand from forest based industries, thereby
increasing foreign exchange earnings and promoting eco-
nomic growth. The project would support these objectives
by: (i) the establishment of about 150,000 ha of new
plantation forest by expanding on-going afforestation
programs; (ii) providing credit for pilot scale integrated
extraction, forest management and marketing operations by
associations or cooperatives of small private forest
owners; and (iii) providing technical assistance and
training to: (a) establish a forest extension service and
train forest extensionists; and (b) carry out an in-depth
study of the forestry subsector to improve existing
private and baldios (communal lands) forests and to help
define a long-term strategy for the development of forests
and forest based industries. Project implementation would
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
be coordinated by a Project Coordination Unit, which is to
be fully staffed as a condition of effectiveness. The
project faces no special technical risk, although its
timely implementation depends on the Government taking the
necessary measures to make the loan effective, to maintain
adequate organizations in the forestry sub-sector, to
enable MAP and PORTUCEL to have access to all necessary
land, and to employ consultants without undue delays.
Estimated Costs: /1
Local    Foreign    Total
-$ million--------
A.  Afforestation and Related Works              59.4      31.5       90.9
B.  Pilot Credit                                  1.0       1.0        2.0
C. Technical Assistance and Training:
(i) Extension                                0.6        0.3       0.9
(ii) Training                                  -         0.1        0.1
(iii) Studies                                   -         0.4        0.4
D.  Project Administration                        4.7       1.3        6.0
Baseline Cost                               65.7       34.6      100.3
Physical Contingencies                       8.8        4.5       13.3
74.5      39.1      113.6
Price Contingencies                         45.5       10.9       56.4
TOTAL                                      120.0       50.0      170.0
Financing Plan:                                Local    Foreign       Total
…______$ million---------
IBRD                                        -        50.0        50.0
Government /2                             65.5         -        65.5
PORTUCEL                                  47.2         -         47.2
IFADAP and PBIs /3                         1.3         -          1.3
Farmers                                    6.0         -          6.0
Total                                    120.0       50.0       170.0
/I   Taxes and customs duties are excluded.
77   Including possible external cofinancing.
75   Participating Banking Institutions.



- 1l11 -
Estimated
Disbursements:      I-BRD FY     1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Arnual       9.5      11.1    8.2     7.8       7.7    5.7
Cumulative   9.5      20.6   28.8    36.6      44.3   50.0
Rate of Return:      19 percent
Appraisal Report:   No. 2837-PO
Dated April 21, 1980






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A FORESTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Portugal for the equivalent of US$50.0 million to help
finance a forestry project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
3 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum. About $19.2
million of the proceeds of the loan would be relent to Empresa de Celulose e
Papel de Portugal, E.P. (PORTUCEL) at a rate of interest of 10 percent per
annum for 15 years, with PORTUCEL bearing the foreign exchange risk, to help
finance PORTUCEL's expanded afforestation program. In addition, about $1.3
million of the proceeds of the loan would be relent to Instituto Financeiro de
Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da Agricultura e Pescas (IFADAP) on the same terms as
those of the loan, to help finance a pilot forestry credit scheme, on which
the Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. The Government hopes to
obtain external cofinancing for some of the local cost of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "An Updating Report on the Portuguese
Economy" (No. 2214-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 8, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Between the revolution of April 1974 and September 1975, Portugal's
economy was radically transformed. The banks, insurance companies, power
companies, major transportation agencies and the large industrial groups were
nationalized. A comprehensive land reform was carried out in the central and
southern parts of the country. Trade union activity was legalized and workers'
rights safeguarded. Minimum wages were established and restraints were put on
the highest salary levels. Prices were controlled. Unemployment and social
security benefits were increased. This was a very different Portugal from two
years earlier. There was a new relationship between management and labor, and
at first there was a lack of discipline, absenteeism and reduced productivity.
Perhaps most important of all for the longer term, the revolution created
expectations of a substantial increase in consumption. Such an increase did
indeed take place initially, financed in large part through the substantial
foreign exchange reserves which had been accumulated before 1974.
4.        Portugal's economy was affected adversely by three major factors
in the post-revolution period, viz. (i) the dramatic oil price increase of
end-1973 which resulted in a sharp deterioration in Portugal's terms of trade;
(ii) the return of more than half a million Portuguese from the overseas
colonies to the mainland; and (iii) the onset of recession in Europe with
reduced demand for Portuguese emigrant labor, export commodities and tourist
facilities. The deterioration in Portugal's terms of trade in the post-1973
period led to a permanent income loss equivalent to about 5 percent of GDP



- 2 -
(measured in terms of export values). The combination of these external
factors with the structural changes brought about by the revolution resulted
initially in a sharp deterioration in the balance of payments. The current
surplus of $348 million in 1973 turned to a large deficit in 1975, which
increased to $..5 billion by 1977. Thus, the period 1974-77 saw Portugal
fighting a losing battle with the problems of maintaining private consumption
and meeting the investment needs of the economy in the face of continuing
adverse external conditions. By 1977, real consumption per capita had in-
creased by about 10 percent over the 1973 level, both the external current
account and the domestic budget were substantially in deficit, and the level
of inflation was above 20 percent, while open unemployment was over 300,000
(i.e. about 8 percent of the resident labor force).
5.        Several austerity measures and currency devaluations were imple-
mented in 1976 and 1977 but their impact was reduced by the continued rapid
expansion of credit, mainly to finance the government deficit. In early May
1978, the Government adopted a program to reduce the balance of payments
deficit in the 12 months ending in April 1979. The measures taken to stab-
ilize the economic situation included: (i) a 6.5 percent devaluation of the
escudo and the continuation of the crawling-peg depreciation of the escudo at
a rate of 1.25 percent per month; (ii) a 5 percentage point increase in the
rediscount rate, and similar increases in deposit rates and lending rates;
(iii) restrictions on domestic credit expansion; (iv) an increase in taxes;
and (v) limits on subsidies through substantial price increases for water,
electricity, gas and transportation, and essential food products. The measures
were effective in red.zing the balance of payments current account deficit for
1978 to $800 million. Policies pursued in 1979 represented a continuation
of those initiated in 1978. This resulted in a further improvement in the
external financial situation. During 1979, commodity exports are estimated to
have grown by about 21 percent in real terms while imports grew by about 8
percent. Workers' remittances also increased substantially (from about $1.6
billion in 1978 to about $2.5 billion in 1979). As a result, the external
current account position in 1979 is estimated to have attained a deficit of
only about $120 million, despite the substantial oil price increase during the
year, which caused the country's terms of trade to deteriorate slightly from
1978 to 1979. However, the country was in a much better competitive position
than two years before because relative unit labor costs adjusted for changes
in the effective exchange rate declined by almost 17 percent between 1977 and
1979. These achievements are noteworthy. Energy consumption has been con-
strained by high domestic prices for gasoline and other products. Imports
of energy (oil and coal) have been rising only slightly faster than GDP in
real terms; between 1977 and 1979, they grew at a rate of 7.4 percent while
GDP rose by 6 percent. The sharp upward trend in oil prices since 1973 is
largely responsible for the increased burden on the balance of payments. The
oil import bill accounted for around 20 percent of total imports in 1979,
compared with only 3 percent in 1972.
6.        However, Portugal had to pay a high price for its remarkable
performance in the external sector: a decline in the growth rate of GDP, the
continuation of inflation, a substantial decline in real wages, and a high
unemployment rate. The growth rate of GDP declined from 5.6 percent in 1977



- 3 -
to 3.2 percent in 1978 and 2.8 percent in 1979. Inflation remained very high
at 22 percent in 1978 and 24 percent in 1979. Real wages declined both in
1978 (by 2.4 percent) and in 1979 (by 9.5 percent). The rate of unemployment
remained above 8 percent both in 1978 and in 1979. To discourage speculative
stock building and to slow down inflation, the government which took office
in December 1979 revalued the Escudo by 6 percent in February 1980, while
maintaining the monthly devaluation rate at 0.75 percent. There is another
important cost to the stabilization program: it delays implementation of the
industrial modernization effort. Since the revolution, capital formation,
especially in the private sector, has slowed down, and modernization of indus-
try has been deferred. Capital markets were disrupted and many enterprises
experienced financial difficulties, accumulating large debts. Much of the
investment which has taken place since 1976 was in the public sector. There
is a possibility that some of the new capacity which is being created may
be in sectors and industries where Portugal might not have a comparative
advantage in the longer term. The task now is to create the climate for new
investment of the kind which Portugal will need to ensure adequate growth of
exports and employment in the next decade.
A Growth Strategy for the Eighties
7.        In spite of the improvements in the balance of payments position
over the last two years, notably the increase in exports, Portugal expects to
have a deficit of some $800 million in 1980, due mainly to the doubling of its
oil import bill from $1,200 million in 1979 to $2,400 million in 1980. None-
theless, the success of short-term stabilization policies in 1978 and 1979
should lay the basis for increased growth of the Portuguese economy in the
next decade. While no actions should be taken which would jeopardize the
recent economic gains, a gradual policy of economic expansion now appears
feasible. A doubling of per capita income by the year 2000 would seem to be
an attainable goal, which implies an annual average GDP growth rate of 4.5
percent over the period (assuming a 0.9 percent population growth). The
achievement of this rate of growth, without running into the constraints which
limited foreign exchange resources and inadequate domestic savings might
impose, will require the exploitation of Portugal's comparative advantages and
of the potentials of EEC membership (expected to be accomplished in the mid-
eighties) (para. 11). Previous analyses by Bank missions suggest that the
highest returns will attach to the export of light industrial products and to
efficient import substitution in agriculture (both specifically geared towards
potential entry into the EEC). In general terms, a strategy for development
in the eighties must center on the expansion of investment in light industry,
agriculture, tourism and housing construction. The priority of these sectors
relates first to the export potential of light industry, the foreign exchange
savings which would result from increased agricultural output, and the low
import elasticity of housing construction which enables it to be expanded
without too much use of foreign exchange resources. Secondly, the encourage-
ment of investment in these sectors should stimulate private voluntary savings,
since these are sectors which are predominantly (though not by any means exclu-
sively) in private or cooperative hands. Third, these are labor-intensive
activities which should enable significant progress to be made in reducing the
level of unemployment. To this list should be added those basic industrial



- 4 -
projects which yield adequate rates of return on the basis of an evaluation of
the price and marketability of their output. These are mainly, though again
not exclusively, in the public sector. Infrastructure should be geared to
supporting these projects.
8.        The last major planning exercise in Portugal was conducted in 1976,
in the form of a proposed plan for 1977-80 which, however, was not implemented.
Work is now underway to launch the preparation of a medium-term development
plan. The challenge for Portuguese planners and policymakers is to increase
domestic savings, promote exports, and boost employment within the limits of
prudent balance of payments management. It is estimated that an investment
program of about Esc. 1,000 billion (in constant 1978 prices) for the period
1980-84 in industry (27 percent); housing and construction (18 percent);
agriculture, transport and communications and power (8 to 9 percent each); and
health, education and other services (29 percent) would produce an aggregate
GDP growth rate of 4.5 percent per annum over the same period. However,
to implement investments of this magnitude in a timely fashion, new institu-
tional arrangements would be required to streamline decision making, as well
as project preparation, implementation and supervision. Another area where
improvements would be needed is the autonomy of public enterprises and the
economic relations between public sector entities.
9.        The industrial sector will obviously remain the leading sector in
Portugal's future growth. Here, the problem is that the export of manufac-
tures is mainly done by the private sector which has been reluctant to invest
for reasons quite unrelated to the profitability of exports. These include
the general uncertainty and the difficulties of dismissing labor once it has
been hired on a permanent basis. The Government has made a substantial effort
to restore the confidence of the private sector. Thus, provision has been
made for compensation for nationalized assets, the law on dismissal has been
eased, and profitability has been improved through lowering real wages in 1977,
1978 and 1979, depreciating the exchange rate and providing special incentives.
The private sector is likely to be the major contributor to the economic
growth rate foreseen for the 1980s. Restoring private sector confidence may
require further incentives and evidence of a government commitment to encour-
age private initiative. The Government could perhaps do more to try to orient
the manufacturing units in the public sector in the direction of exporting
from their present capacity, and of investing in new capacity for export
production. The substantial increases in industrial exports in 1978 and
particularly in 1979 indicate that improvements are underway. The Government
is also working to improve and adjust the education and training efforts in
relevant disciplines in line with the longer term manpower requirements of the
economy.
10.       Agricultural growth in the past has been sluggish and this has
necessitated increasing imports of agricultural products. It is a matter of
correcting deficiencies inherited from the period prior to the revolution, of
reorganizing the ministry and strengthening its inadequate field services.
Extension is weak in terms of personnel and of the links with the research
effort on the one hand, and with small farmers and cooperatives on the other.
The training and education of agricultural manpower and of farmers has been



very insufficient in the past and recent efforts in this area need to be
further intensified. Credit to the rural sector has neither been adequate nor
production-oriented. Fertilizer application rates are low. The situation has
been exacerbated since 1974 by the problems consequent to the agrarian reform
and changes in land tenure. Investment alone will achieve little without
substantial advances in these other areas as well. Measures to improve the
conditions in the agricultural sector are underway.
11.       Portugal is well advanced in its negotiations on accession to the
EEC, and membership is scheduled to take place within the next few years. The
efficiency of the industrial sector is particularly important in the context
of EEC membership, which will permit increased access to the European market,
but will also provide to producers in those countries the possibility of
competing more easily in the Portuguese market. If the transition to a less
protected trading system is not to be traumatic, steps will need to be taken
to strengthen some of the smaller, less efficient firms, whose contribution
to total output, and especially employment, is quite substantial at present.
Given that very little has been done in agriculture and that the institutions
are weak, the bulk of the development in agriculture will probably take place
after entry into the EEC and under the conditions which the common agricul-
tural policy will impose on the sector.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
12.      Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded well to Portugal's
need for external assistance, both for balance of payments support and for
long-term project loans.  With gold as collateral, the BalIk of Portugal  has
obtained short-term loans for balance of payments support from the Bank for
International Settlements and European central banks. In addition, as of
mid-1979, total disbursed and outstanding IMF assistance to Portugal amounted
to $253 million. The EC, EIB, EFTA, as well as bilateral agencies have
committed significant funds to Portugal in emergency concessionary aid and for
long-term projects. The Bank's contribution is summarized in Part II below.
Starting in 1977, Portugal received $750 million in medium- and long-term aid
commitments as balance of payments support from 14 countries, with the US,
Germany and Japan being the main contributors. In addition, Banco de Portugal
converted about half of its $1.9 billion short-term liabilities into medium-
and long-term debt. The Government and major banks and companies are able
to attract medium-term loans from consortia of commercial banks in the Euro-
currency market. Recent terms have been reasonable with ten years repayment
at an average interest rate of about 0.7 percent over LIBOR. The new Govern-
ment's efforts to stimulate inflows of direct foreign investment may help to
attract some capital. Portugal will however continue to require sizeable
external inflows for the investment necessary to restructure its economy. The
multilateral lenders, and in particular the EC/EIB, EFTA and the World Bank,
will have to continue to play a vital role in helping Portugal meet its
capital requirements.
13.       Portugal's public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term debt
(disbursed and outstanding) was about $1,458 million at end 1977 and $2,642
million at end 1978, with a debt service ratio (debt service/earnings from



- 6 -
exports, non-factor services and workers' remittances) of 3.7 percent and 5.1
percent respectively. These figures include the portion of Banco de Portugal
debt which was converted into MLT debt. The total debt of Banco de Portugal,
including the converted amounts, came to $1,680 million in 1977 and $1,924
million in 1973, disbursed and outstanding. Total 1/ (public and private)
medium- and long-term external debt reached about $3,990 million at end 1978,
with a debt service ratio of about 13.6 percent. Portugal's total debt
outstanding, including borrowings in 1979, still remained at manageable
levels, and presented an improved maturity profile. Portugal's total medium-
and long-term debt service ratio is expected to rise to about 17 percent
towards the middle of this decade. Portugal maintains a gold stock of about
22.13 million fine troy ounces (December 1979), which serves as a safety net.
In the light of these facts, of the stabilization efforts made by the Govern-
ment, and of the prospects for growth, Portugal can be considered creditworthy
for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL 2/
14.       The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal was during the period
1963-66 and lending was concentrated in the power sector, in line with Govern-
ment priorities which reflected the power needs of a rapidly developing indus-
trial sector. Five loans totaling $57.5 million helped finance three thermal
and two hydro-power projects, which were successfully completed to meet the
country's increasing Tower requirements.
15.       The events of the more recent past and the ensuing dislocation of
human resources have created special problems, and the transition to an open
political system has revealed social and economic weaknesses which are unusual
for a high-income developing country. The Bank has responded to Portugal's
needs by identifying, preparing and financing projects, and through economic
and sector work.
16.       The proposed loan would finance the Bank's sixteenth project in that
country, the eleventh since the resumption of lending in 1976. Bank opera-
tions since 1976 involved a sixth power project, two highway projects, two
industrial finance projects, two education projects, and water supply, agri-
cultural and fisheries credit, and fertilizer modernization projects. Total
Bank loans since the resumption of lending amount to $424 million. Disburse-
ments under the 1976 and 1977 loans are behind schedule, due mainly to the
Portuguese agencies' initial lack of experience with Bank procedures and to
slow action on procurement.  These difficulties are now being overcome.  The
1976 and 1977 loans are substantially committed, and procurement action (such
1/   Excluding Banco de Portugal.
2/   Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for the
Second Education Loan, which was distributed to the Executive Directors
on December 21, 1979.



- 7 -
as hiring engineering consultants, and awarding major civil works contracts)
has started comparatively early under some 1978 and 1979 loans, although under
two loans delays in effectiveness have created problems. Nevertheless, total
Bank exposure in Portugal is still small. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of Bank loans as of March 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
17.       In an intensive parallel effort at the macroeconomic and sectoral
levels, the Bank assisted the Government in reviewing policy and management
issues. Economic missions and the discussion of their reports have pro-
vided a basis for a review of policy at the macroeconomic level. Reviews of
the water supply (together with WHO) and the education sectors were carried
out and were discussed with the Government in March 1977. Agriculture and
manufacturing export industries were also studied, and were reviewed with the
Government in November 1977. The report entitled "Manufacturing Export Indus-
tries in Portugal" (No. 1695a-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on January 13, 1978, and the report entitled "Portugal - Agricultural Survey"
(No. 1689b-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 24, 1978.
As a major problem, unemployment has received particular attention; a report
which sums up the results of a Bank survey, entitled "Unemployment in Portugal:
Causes, Prospects and Policy Options" (No. 2285-PO), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 10, 1979. A survey of the public medium-term in-
vestments program was carried out in June 1979, and a report is under prepara-
tion which should help the Government decide on investment priorities.
18.       In the light of the economic and sector discussions mentioned above,
agriculture and industry have been identified as the areas of concentration
for Bank lending. In the industrial sector, there is a need for major struc-
tural improvements such as merging firms, eliminating uneconomic enterprises,
and modernizing equipment. Improvements in these areas are being introduced
in the fertilizer subsector and are being studied for the pulp and paper and
the textile subsectors, with Bank support and advice. A loan expected to be
submitted to the Executive Directors shortly would support restructuring and
modernization of two major state-owned enterprises in the mechanical indus-
tries sub-sector. Another important constraint to industrial development is
the insufficient financial and technical support to small- and medium-size
enterprises; the FY79 Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Development Loan (SMI)
will address this need. The importance of developing the industrial sector
cannot be overemphasized, since this sector will be the main force in the
Portuguese economy, primarily to continue the export expansion which started
in 1978, and to maintain competitiveness in the European Common Market. The
main objectives of Bank lending to industry are structural reform, export
promotion and employment creation (or preservation). In agriculture, a sector
beset with major problems, there is considerable scope for stepping up growth.
The major constraints are the still unsettled land tenure conditions, insti-
tutional weaknesses, and a shortage of trained technicians for promoting
improved technologies. The Bank has assisted the Government in creating a
sound agricultural credit institution; the proposed loan would assist in
forestry development; and future operations in this sector are likely to
foster agroindustries, fisheries, rural development, and extension (para. 38).
The trained manpower requirements of the industrial and agricultural sectors,



- 8 -
which constitute a serious bottleneck, particularly in agriculture, would be
addressed through the FY78 First Education Loan and the recently approved
Second Education Loan. The improvements in transportation required to sustain
the increased output of the agricultural and industrial sectors are being
addressed by the FY76 First Highway Loan and the FY79 Second Hi^-way Loan, and
a railways project is being prepared.
19.       The deflationary policies of 1977-1979 (paras. 5-6), while contri-
buting to the improvement of the balance of payments, have not permitted
implementation of development programs now urgently needed in many sectors.
If the restructuring needs of the economy are to be tackled seriously and the
pressing deficiencies in the social sectors corrected, long-term external
assistance would be needed to assist Portugal. It is the World Bank's objec-
tive to contribute to these efforts and to provide advice on institutional
reforms which are crucial for Portugal's long-term economic development.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE
FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR
20.       General Background.  Portugal's agriculture (including forestry
and fisheries) accounts for about 18 percent of GDP, 30 percent of foreign
exchange earnings and employs about 27 percent of the labor force. About 60
percent of the population live in rural areas, and some 20 percent of the
rural population is in the poverty target group.
21.       The rate of growth of aggregate agricultural production has declined
in recent years and domestic production has increasingly failed to meet rising
internal demand, with the result that imports of food items such as meat,
cereals, oilseeds and sugar, have increased. In 1976, these imports represen-
ted 20 percent of total merchandise imports, and this proportion has tended to
increase in recent years. To reverse these trends, a substantial infusion of
investment resources into the sector would be required, as well as the provi-
sion of strong institutional support services, such as agricultural credit,
research and extension. If the capital/output ratio is assumed to remain
unchanged in the foreseeable future, which is likely given the present level
of technology, investment in agriculture would have to be doubled to attain a
3 percent annual growth rate.
22.       The absorptive capacity of the sector is substantial, thus providing
ample opportunity for choosing and implementing varied types of projects.
Within agriculture, some sub-sectors exhibit a broad comparative advantage
over others in their potential for increased efficiency in resource utiliza-
tion, thus offering the greatest opportunities for accelerating growth. The
forestry sub-sector is one of them.
The Forestry Sub-Sector
23.       Forest Land.  Of Portugal's total area of 9.2 million ha, about
8 million ha are agricultural and forestry lands. While about 3 million ha
are in fact occupied by forests, the total potential forest area is estimated



- 9 -
at nearly 5 million ha. Most of the 2 million ha of untapped potential forest
areas are fallow, but some are used for pastures although their soils are of
marginal quality, not suitable for crop production. The opportunity cost of
such lands is low, and they can be utilized for forestry, for which they are
often best suited.
24.       The potential forestry area has not been fully exploited because
managed afforestation and reforestation are fairly new phenomena in Portugal,
and because of the shortage of investment resources. Current afforestation
programs of the Government and of PORTUCEL provide for about 21,000 ha per
year; the proposed project would accelerate that pace. In addition, two
privately owned pulp and paper companies have afforestation programs which, in
the aggregate, provide for about 6,000 ha per year.
25.       Most existing forest lands are owned or controlled by private
farmers (80 percent), with cooperatives and collectives having 10 percent,
baldios (communal lands or lands owned jointly by a group of communities)
8 percent, and the Government 2 percent. Most of the privately owned lands
belong to smallholder farmers, with the rest belonging to wood processing
plants. The distribution of areas owned or controlled by the different groups
varies by region. Baldios lands are common in the northern half of Portugal,
where the tradition of communal ownership is strong, while virtually all of
the cooperatives and collectives are found in the Alentejo region, resulting
usually from the nationalization of lands which used to belong to large, and
for the most part absentee, landowners. Since a large proportion of the
potential forest areas are located in the northern half of Portugal, most of
the project area would be located there.
26.       Of the existing forest lands, 44 percent are occupied by conifers,
10 percent by Eucalyptus, 21 percent by cork oak, 17 percent by holm oak,
and the remaining 8 percent by other species. The mean annual increments of
existing pine and Eucalyptus amount to 4.7 st ub/ha 1/ and 8.1 st ub/ha,
respectively. These production figures are well below the productive poten-
tial of these forest areas, mainly because of the fragmented ownership
pattern, poor management patterns and, to a lesser degree, because of the
shortage of investment funds. If brought under more intensive mangement,
the existing pine and Eucalyptus forest could produce 8.5 to 10.6 st ub/ha
and 15.2 to 18.7 st ub/ha respectively, which would double present yields.
According to various studies made both by the Government and by others, there
will be a shortage in the supply of industrial wood relative to demand by 1985
unless the supply is increased. This projected deficit can only be satisfied
in the short run by improving the productivity of existing forests, but in the
long run, projected additional demand would have to be met by new plantings.
1/        st ub/ha = stere underbark per hectare.



- 10 -
27.       Constraints to forestry development.  Apart from the shortage of
investment resources available to the forestry subsector, the key constraints
to forestry development, which the proposed project would address, are:
(a) the dispersed forest land ownership pattern, under which over
80 percent of forest lands are owned by some 800,000 small private
owners whose productivity is very low, and the management of, and
productivity from, about 300,000 ha of baldios forest lands, which
must be improved to secure a sustained flow of industrial wood;
(b) the unsatisfactory organization of the harvesting operations and
of the marketing system, which have resulted in the yields from
private smallholder forests being half their potential, and farmers'
share of the value of output, smaller than it could be;
(c) the absence of a forestry extension service to give assistance and
technical advice to the small forest farmers;
(d) uncertainties about the land reform legislation, particularly
about its impact on the acquisition of land and rights to land
by private wood processing industries; and
(e) the high incidence of forest fires which, over the last decade,
has resulted in the destruction of about 65,000 ha of forest.
28.       Forestry In titutions.  Overall responsibility for the development
of the sub-sector is vested in the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
(MAP), which operates in this area through two directorates: the Directorate
for Forest Development (DGFF) and the Directorate for Forest Management
(DGOGF). DGFF identifies, prepares, and assists in implementing afforestation
projects on Government, baldios and private forest lands. DGOGF manages
Government and baldios forests, enforces forestry laws and regulations, and
is responsible for maintaining forest roads and for fire protection. DGOGF
is also responsible for the protection of DGFF plantations once these have
been established (usually 3 years after planting) and manages Government and
baldios forests and assists in the management of private forests. DGFF
operates through a network of 10 brigades, each responsible for a forestry
zone. DGOGF has a regional organization of forest divisions covering 18
districts, each staffed by permanent personnel. Both Directorates would be
involved in project implementation. A weakness of the present MAP forest
organization is the lack of any specialized extension and technical service
to assist forest owners, particularly small ones. The staffing and operating
budgets of both Directorates are low relative to the needs of forest develop-
ment, and the financing allocations are far below the sub-sector's absorptive
capacity. Both have the organizational capacity for expanded operations. At
present, DGOGF manages about 57,000 ha of Government forest lands, and about
303,000 ha of baldios forests.
29.       Forestry research is conducted through MAP's National Agricultural
Research Institute (INIA) and the Polytechnic Institute of Vila Real. Other
ministries and the wood processing industries also conduct research on forestry



- 11 -
and wood technology. There is a clear need for coordinating the research
effort. The Government allocates adequate human and budgetary resources to
research, and it intends, with bilateral assistance, to address problems of
forestry management. The Government's Forestry Products Institute gathers and
analyses data on activities pertaining to forestry products, particularly on
export marketing.
30.       DGFF operates a network of some 30 nurseries, which are closely
linked with the State-run research stations. The total annual nursery capacity
is estimated at slightly over 100 million seedlings, which is sufficient for
planting 50,000 ha per year, and therefore well above the requirements of the
proposed project.
31.       The Instituto Superior de Agronomia, in Lisbon, provides advanced
training in forestry science. Total graduates to date amount to 150 forest
engineers (equivalent to a Master's degree), 600 junior engineers and 900
forest technicians. Since a large number of junior engineers and forest
technicians are at present unemployed or underemployed, no difficulties are
foreseen in meeting the additional technical staffing requirements of the
proposed project.
32.       In addition to these State agencies, some of the wood processing
industries have forestry departments and maintain nurseries. PORTUCEL, the
largest among these, has three forestry-related departments, with respon-
sibility for purchasing wood to supply mills, forest exploitation operations,
and afforestation, which is predominantly in Eucalyptus (85 percent), but
includes Pinus pinaster and other conifers as well. The quality of PORTUCEL's
afforestation work and of its forestry management is high, so that the average
mean annual increment of the company's forests is about double the national
average. PORTUCEL was established in 1976 as a public enterprise through the
nationalization and merger of five pulp, paper, and packaging companies, some
of which with very weak financial structures, and it enjoys administrative and
financial autonomy. It had poor financial records through the end of 1979.
During the period 1977 to 1979, PORTUCEL's current ratio hovered around
0.64-0.74, with a debt:equity ratio of 72:28 to 68:32. Beginning with 1980,
however, improvements are expected in the company's finances, due in large
part to the steady rise in international prices for pulp and paper, to
increased production from mills that had been damaged by accident a few years
ago, and to improved financial management. In 1980, the current ratio is
expected to be 0.96, rising to 2.0 in 1985, and the debt:equity ratio is
expected to improve from 68:32 in 1980 to 11:89 in 1985.
33.       Financial.  There are three main sources of financing in the sub-
sector:  domestic public funds, domestic private capital and external private
capital. The private capital is mainly to finance wood processing industries,
and only to a small extent for afforestation. In the past, nearly all of the
public funds channelled to the sub-sector were for afforestation, reforesta-
tion and the management of existing Government and baldios forests, and only a
small amount was used for helping private forest farmers. In 1978, the total
amount of public financing in the sub-sector amounted to $17 million. Up to
now, part of the investment on baldios and on individually owned lands has
been funded on a long-term subsidized credit basis, with a small proportion



- 12 -
extended to them as direct grants, all administered by DGFF, but only very
limited amounts have been available for such credits and grants (about $3.4
million per year). Most of the grants have been extended for baldios lands
where, in 90 percent of the cases, the Government establishes and manages the
forests for the communities involved. Subsidized credits carried an annual
interest rate of 2 percent, with loan repayment periods depending on the
species, while the average annual interest rate on other agricultural loans is
of 16.5 percent, with shorter repayment terms (8 years). Loan repayment has
been made in kind, with the Government getting between 30 percent and 50
percent of harvest, the actual percentage depending on yields and wood prices
at harvest time. At the present time, financing for afforestation projects on
private, as on baldios, lands has been out of the National Budget, with
recovery to be assured through a revenue sharing mechanism similar to the one
described above.
34.       Credit may not be the most appropriate vehicle for financing affore-
station because of the long gestation period of such projects, which varies
from 10 to 12 years for Eucalyptus to 20 years or more for pine, and because
experience elsewhere in the world has shown that farmers are reluctant to
borrow for afforestation projects, the benefits from which are so distant and
thus perceived to be risky. There is scope, however, for financing of
integrated forest extraction, and management and marketing projects, by the
Agricultural and Fisheries Development Fund (IFADAP), since these can be shown
to yield immediate cash benefits to the farmers. This is confirmed by evidence
that farmers borrow from commercial banks to buy tractors, trucks, logging
equipment, etc. Clearly, there is a need to define a clear and rational
policy for financing forest development, and a subsectoral study, expected to
be completed by the end of 1982, is included in the proposed project (para.
47), and will address these issues. Until then, DGFF afforestation under the
proposed project would continue to be financed under the budget and the cost
recouped through a revenue sharing mechanism (para. 54). PORTUCEL also envis-
ages entering into revenue sharing arrangements on terms and conditions
similar to those offered by MAP (para. 57).
35.       Project Area.  The project area (see map) would cover the wood
supply command areas of the major wood consuming industries, most of which
are located in the northern half of Portugal. Throughout the project area,
the main road network serves the wood industries to a satisfactory degree but
plantation access roads are needed. Project area soils are of generally poor
quality except for the river basins, and most of the land has a poor agricul-
tural potential but offers good opportunities for forest development, so that
there will not be a competition for land between forestry and agriculture.
36.       Because of favorable climatic and ecological conditions, a large
land resource base, and proximity to traditional export markets, Portugal
is capable of capturing an expanding share of the growing European market
for forest products. The opportunity cost of existing and potential forest
lands is very low, and thus the domestic resource cost of forest production
is low. The exploitation of forest products would therefore be very favor-
able relative to other agricultural activities on the poorer soils, and gives
the sub-sector a strong comparative advantage.



- 13 -
37.       Bank Assistance to Agriculture.  Bank lending for the development
of Portuguese agriculture is relatively new. So far, only one project has
been approved in that sector, the FY78 Agricultural and Fisheries Credit
Project, under which project implementation is only now starting after a long
period spent in meeting the loan's conditions of effectiveness. This delay
in effectiveness was due primarily to two causes. The first is the extremely
complex and lengthy procedure required under Portuguese law for the employment
by the Government of expatriate experts and consultants. The second is the
delicate political issue of land reform in that project's area, the Alentejo
region.
38.       In addition to the proposed forestry project, projects are at
various stages of processing for a rural development project in the Tras-os-
Montes region, the poorest in Portugal; for a national agricultural extension
project; for a fisheries project, studies for which are to be financed under
the on-going Agriculture and Fisheries Credit Project; and for an agro-industry
project. In addition to these on-going or planned lending activities, the
Bank carried out an agricultural sector survey (para. 17) and a study on
agricultural prices and subsidies, distributed to the Executive Directors on
August 28, 1979 (No. 2380-PO), and has provided technical support to MAP to
help it to reorganize its services. The Bank's approach is thus broad, but
still selective enough to attack different but complementary problems of
agricultural development in Portugal. The proposed forestry project fits well
in the Government's agricultural development objectives, and in the Bank
strategy for the sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       Project History.  A Bank-FAO/CP identification mission in November
1977 and reconnaissance and preparation missions in June 1978 and February
1979 helped the Government to formulate the proposed project, which was
appraised in October-November 1979. Negotiations were held in April 1980 with
a Portuguese delegation led by Dr. Antonio Labisa, which also included repre-
sentatives of the Ministry of Finance and Planning, MAP, PORTUCEL and IFADAP.
A staff appraisal report entitled "Portugal Forestry Project" (No. 2837-PO),
dated April 21, 1980 is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The main features of the loan and project are listed in the Loan and Project
Summary and in Annex III.
40.       Project Objectives.  The primary objective of the proposed project
is to increase outputs of forest products by introducing a long-term forest
development strategy, modernizing management practices on existing forest
lands and by increasing the areas under forest to meet long run demand by
forest based industries serving the domestic and export markets, thereby
increasing foreign exchange earnings and promoting economic growth. The
project would also include institution building components, promote equitable
income distribution, improve the environment, and improve the incomes of small
forest farmers.



- 14 -
Prolect Description and Content
41.       Project Description.  The proposed project, for which a Bank loan
of $50 million is proposed, would consist of the following components, the
implementation of which would be coordinated by a Project Coordination Unit
(para. 58):
(a)  the establishment of about 150,000 ha of new plantation forests by
expanding on-going afforestation programs of MAP and of PORTUCEL;
(b)  provision of credit through IFADAP for pilot-scale integrated
extraction, forest management and marketing operations by associa-
tions or cooperatives of small private forest owners; and
(c)  the provision of technical assistance and training to:
(i) establish a forest extension service within MAP and train
forest extensionists; and
(ii) carry out an in-depth study of the forestry subsector with
special emphasis on the potential, needs and approaches to
improve existing private and baldios forests, and on the
definition of a long-term strategy for the development of
forests and forest based industries, including appropriate
cost recovery mechanisms for the entire subsector.
42.       Afforestation and Related Works.  This component consists in financ-
ing a 5-year afforestation program (1981-1985) to establish about 150,000 ha
of new plantation forest at an average rate of 30,000 ha per year. Of these,
about 91,000 ha would be grown to conifers, mainly Pinus pinaster, 45,500 ha
to Eucalyptus and the remaining 13,500 ha to other hard woods. Distribution
of the species in the project area is based on ecological considerations and
on projected industrial wood requirements. The afforestation works would
include land clearing and preparation; planting; construction of a system of
forest access roads integrated with firebreaks; and maintenance of plantations
during the initial growing years by weeding and applying necessary chemicals.
The establishment techniques and the species to be used are well proven in
Portugal and are in line with experience elsewhere in southern Europe and the
Mediterranean basin. The main innovation to be introduced under the proposed
project would be wider plant spacing to facilitate intensive mechanized
weeding and thereby promote faster growth. Land clearing and preparation
would, for the most part, be mechanized because it is impractical to use
animal power and other labor intensive technology to uproot and destroy
competing vegetation, to deep rip to break up sub-surface layers of rocky
material, and to form contour furrows and ridges, or terraces, depending on
the degree of slope.
43.       Planting would be done manually, and is estimated to require about
10 to 15 man-days per ha. The labor required for this purpose would be
supplied locally, since a large pool of underemployed agricultural labor is
available in the project areas, and since the bulk of forestry planting is



- 15 -
done in the period November to March, when labor demand for other agricultural
activities is low. Seedlings would be obtained from existing nurseries (para.
30) which are located strategically throughout the forestry zones, have
adequate capacity to satisfy project requirements, and follow satisfactory
nursery practices. Seeds of some exotic species not locally available (a
total of about 1,150 kg) would be imported.
44.       Full integration of fire protection with requirements for road
access to forests and for logging would be ensured as part of the land prep-
aration works for afforestation. The standards of construction and main-
tenance would aim at keeping the roads trafficable for relatively light
vehicular requirements. Simple 4 m. earth roads would be constructed by
tractors and main forest access roads would usually be aligned just off
contour, with feeder roads linking one level to the next. Construction of a
total of about 5,500 km of such access roads and firebreaks is included in the
proposed project. Road and firebreak density would be about 20 to 45 m/ha,
depending on slope and terrain conditions. Adequate fire look-out points
would also be constructed, with radio communication between fire look-outs,
headquarters and field vehicles.
45.       Pilot Credit Scheme.  About $1.3 million of the proposed loan would
be provided to IFADAP for credit financing, on a pilot basis, of integrated
forest extraction, forest management and marketing operations by selected
associations or cooperatives of smallholder forest farmers. One of the
conditions of obtaining a credit would be the association's or cooperative's
willingness to improve forest management practices. It is envisaged that the
credit would be used to purchase chain saws, logging tractors, and loading and
trucking equipment. Since 80 percent of Portugal's forests are privately
owned, the pilot credit scheme would, if successful, lead to a much larger
forest credit scheme designed to improve their productivity.
46.       Forest Extension.  A forest extension service would be established
within MAP by mid-1982. It would primarily assist small forest farmers
and associations of forest farmers in planning and implementing forest extrac-
tion and improvement works, forest management practices, marketing of forest
products, and in obtaining credit. The proposed project would provide about
52 man-months of consultant services for this purpose, at a cost of about
$6,700 per man-month for expatriates, including travel and overhead. These
consultants would also help to prepare sub-projects under the pilot credit
component (para. 45), contribute to the formulation of a credit policy
to finance the development of the forest sub-sector, study private small-
holders' associations, and provide on-the-job training for Portuguese forest
extensionists. The Government has agreed to employ all of these consultants
by April 30, 1981 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(b)). The proposed project
would also provide fellowships for about 16 prospective Portuguese forest
extensionists for up to three months each, to undertake study tours, includ-
ing on-the-job training in private forestry associations in countries where
similar experiences exist.
47.       Sub-Sector Study.  Portugal's forestry development program is based
on sustained yield forest management principles. Achieving this goal implies
cutting overmature stock as soon as possible, and an expanded afforestation



- 16 -
program with fast growing species. The implications of an accelerated wood
production program, for instance by shortening rotations, and alternative
industrial development patterns, need to be evaluated. The proposed study
would address these issues and would assess the economic viability of new
industrial enterprises, in particular in the areas of saw-milling, wood based
panels, pulp and paper, and paperboard, each of which has different wood
requirements; and it would examine means to ensure the fullest use of wood
residuals, for instance by a closer integration of wood based industries,
over the period until the year 2000. The study would be undertaken during
the period 1980 to 1982. The results of this study, along with the experi-
ence under the pilot credit scheme (para. 45) and the study on private small-
holders' associations (para. 46), are expected to provide a sound data base on
which to build a viable forestry development strategy. About 64 man-months of
consultant services would be provided to carry out the study, at the same
costs as for the extension consultants (para. 46), and they would also be
employed by April 30, 1981 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(b)).
48.        Project Cost and Financing.  The total cost of the proposed project
is estimated at $170.0 million (including contingencies), of which the foreign
exchange component, estimated at $50 million, would be financed by the pro-
posed loan; this represents 29 percent of total cost. Remaining project costs
would be financed as follows: the Government (which intends to seek external
co-financing for part of this local cost), $65.5 million; PORTUCEL, $47.2
million; IFADAP and participating banking institutions (PBIs), $1.3 million;
and farmers, $6 million. To avoid delays during peak planting months, funds
needed by MAP for each planting season will be allocated by November 30 of the
preceding calendar year (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a)). Of total project
cost, about 92 percent ($156.8 million) would be for afforestation and
related works; about 2 percent ($2.6 million) for the pilot credit scheme;
about 1 percent ($1.9 million) for technical assistance and training; and
about 5 percent ($8.7 million) for project administration. Of the proposed
loan amount, about $46.2 million would help to finance afforestation and
related works; about $1.3 million, the pilot credit scheme; about $1.0 mil-
lion, technical assistance and training; and about $1.5 million, project
administration. The project would be exempted from taxes and customs duties,
except for minor implements and miscellaneous vehicles, the cost of which
would be minimal. Physical contingencies are 13 percent of baseline cost,
and price contingencies are 49.6 percent of the baseline cost and physical
contingencies.
On-Lending
49.        The Government would be the borrower of the proposed loan, and would
pass on to MAP a total of $29.5 million of the loan: about $27.6 million to
help finance the afforestation and related works on baldios, Government and
private smallholder lands; about $1.0 million for the technical assistance and
training program; and about $0.9 million for project administration (equipment,
supplies, and other administrative expenses). The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk, except for the portion of the loan on-lent to PORTUCEL
(para. 50).



- 17 -
50.       Of the balance, the Government would on-lend to PORTUCEL about $19.2
million of the loan amount (including contingencies) to help finance the
expanded plantation program of PORTUCEL, under a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01(b)). The on-lending terms are a 10 percent per annum
interest rate and a repayment period of 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
and PORTUCEL will bear the foreign exchange risk on its portion of the pro-
posed loan. Since PORTUCEL will not begin to earn project related income
until year 7 of the project, it would have to make the initial subsidiary loan
repayments from income generated by its overall operations. An analysis of
PORTUCEL's finances shows that it would be able to service this subsidiary
loan without undue difficulty. Since the Bank is in the process of preparing
a pulp and paper project for which PORTUCEL would be the principal beneficiary
and the borrower, PORTUCEL's finances will be kept under close scrutiny.
51.       The remaining $1.3 million of the loan amount would be on-lent to
IFADAP to help finance the pilot credit scheme, under a subsidiary loan agree-
ment to be entered into as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a)). This amount would be on-lent on the same
terms and conditions as the proposed loan, and IFADAP would utilize these
funds for loans to associations and cooperatives of forest farmers on the same
terms and conditions as those applicable for long-term agricultural loans,
i.e. an average of 16.5 percent per annum at present, except that repayment
would be within 5 years, based on the useful life of the equipment expected
to be financed under this pilot scheme. When the principal of these forest
development loans is repaid to IFADAP, the amounts not needed to service the
subsidiary loan from the Government would be available to IFADAP for the
purpose of making further forestry development loans (IFADAP Project Agree-
ment, Section 2.06).
52.       The forest extension service (para. 46) would help small private
forest farmers to organize themselves into associations or cooperatives,
help them to identify and prepare forest development projects, and would
assist them in applying for loans from PBIs; these are financial institutions
which have agreed to participate in IFADAP's agricultural and fisheries credit
system. MAP would then prepare a report on the proposed forest development
project for the PBI concerned and IFADAP. Relationships between PBls and
IFADAP are governed by on-going agreements which leave open the possibility of
introducing special conditions, depending on the source of IFADAP funds used
for a specific type of project. IFADAP's decision to lend for a specific
project would be based on an appraisal of the proposed forest development
project, to ensure that it is technically, financially and economically
viable, and that the borrowing forest farmers' association or cooperative has
undertaken to improve forest management practices. Because of the pilot
nature of the credit scheme, the results of which would contribute to the
formulation of credit policies for the forestry sub-sector, the appraisal
reports for the 10 to 15 loan appraisals expected to be proposed for approval
by IFADAP would be sent to the Bank for review and approval prior to IFADAP's
final decision to extend the loan (IFADAP Project Agreement, Section 2.02(b)
(i)). It is anticipated that, if the first five appraisal reports are satis-
factory, the Bank will exempt IFADAP from sending the remaining appraisal
reports for the prior review and approval of the Bank.



- 18 -
Implementation
53.       DGFF would be responsible for all MAP afforestation operations,
including seed procurement, plantation maintenance activities during the
establishment period, and road and firebreak maintenance programs. It is
capable of undertaking this role but, because of the increased level of
operations under the project, would need to increase its staff and equipment.
Additional equipment is provided under the project. To ensure that the
additional staff receives the necessary in-service training for project
implementation, they would be employed by DGFF by December 31, 1981 (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03(a)). There are large areas of land suitable for
afforestation (paras. 23 to 26). However, the ownership pattern makes it
difficult to arrange for the timely identification, contracting and organizing
of the farmers whose lands are to be afforested under the proposed project.
The specific sites for the first year's planting program of about 24,300 ha
have been identified. In addition, for each year of project afforestation,
all formalities for securing the land required must be completed three months
before work on these lands is to begin (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(b)).
We do not anticipate that land availability will be a problem.  In the selec-
tion of project afforestation sites, priority would be given to farmers
willing to participate in block farming operations, which would reduce the
cost of afforestation works (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(a)).
54.       In order to fully recover the public investment in the afforestation
of private and baldios lands, including an interest rate that is positive in
real terms, at least 30 percent of the Eucalyptus harvests, and at least 40
percent of the conifer harvests, would be retained by the Government (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.05 (a)). These percentages imply a 16 percent average
annual interest rate for Eucalyptus over the 10-year growing period, and a
12 percent average annual interest rate for conifers over the 30 to 40-year
growing period. In addition, the Government will develop a comprehensive cost
recovery policy for the entire forestry sub-sector by December 31, 1982 and
will thereafter, in agreement with the Bank, implement the resulting policy
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.05(b)).
55.       DGOGF would be responsible for implementing the forest extension
(para. 46) and the sub-sector study (para. 47) components of the project,
with the help of the consultants to be financed under the proposed loan. The
technical assistance program would be coordinated by an expatriate advisor
financed under an on-going UNDP/FAO project, who is already on the job in
DGOGF. DGOGF would, in addition, assume the protection and management of
baldios and Government plantations established by DGFF following their estab-
lishment (about 3 years).
56.       Under the legislation governing the organization of MAP, its ser-
vices are to be regionalized. MAP has drafted regulations which include
provisions for the regionalization of DGFF and DGOGF, and which are to be
implemented over a period of 5 years. Under these draft regulations, each
MAP Regional Directorate would have a forestry section to plan and implement
forestry projects and to oversee the exploitation of the forest resources
in its region. This reorganization implies considerable changes in staffing,



- 19 -
and would certainly require additional staff to ensure that each Regional
Directorate has an operative forestry section. Staff transfers from DGFF
and DGOGF to the Regional Directorate are likely to weaken the coordination
capacity of MAP in the forestry sub-sector, at least until the new structures
have had a cb-nce to establish themselves. As the timing of this expected
reorganization, particularly in the case of DGFF, may delay project imple-
mentation, the Government indicated that it intends to proceed with the
regionalization of DGFF's services with a 3-year transition period, and that
there would remain in MAP a core responsible for planning forestry development
at the national level. The benefits to be gained by decentralizing MAP's
services make this acceptable.
57.       PORTUCEL would implement its afforestation program on lands it
owns or which it intends to lease from private forest owners. The Government
confirmed during negotiations that such agreements could include revenue
sharing without violating existing legislation, and will provide a legal
opinion to that effect (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(c)). PORTUCEL's staff,
mostly drawn from the constituent pulp companies, is experienced and competent.
To increase the scope of its afforestation program under the project, PORTUCEL
will have to employ additional staff and acquire additional equipment. It
intends to purchase this equipment out of the loan proceeds on-lent to it
(para. 50).
58.       To coordinate the overall implementation of the project, identify
and attempt to overcome bottlenecks, coordinate progress reporting and project
completion reporting, a Project Coordination Unit is being set up and comple-
tion of its staffing is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)), and adequate funding is to be provided
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(a)).
Procurement and Disbursement
59.       Land preparation and the construction of forest access roads and
fire protection works would be shared among DGFF, PORTUCEL, and private
contractors. It is expected that, under the project, about 50 percent of
such works will be carried out by DGFF for the afforestation it will undertake
(about 90,000 ha in total), and that PORTUCEL will carry out about 30 percent
of such works on lands it will plant (about 60,000 ha in total). For these
works, disbursement would be for the procurement of equipment. The balance of
these works would be carried out by private contractors, of which there are
about 30 in Portugal, many of whom already have had experience in afforesta-
tion work; they can handle the volume of work involved, and their services
would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures except
for contracts under $100,000 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Part C(i), and
PORTUCEL Project Agreement, Schedule, Part C(1)). This procedure is accept-
able, given the geographical distribution of the afforestation works, their
timing over a period of 5 years, and the improbability of a foreign contractor
wishing to bid; local procedures allow foreign bidders to participate.



- 20 -
60.       Equipment and spare parts for DGFF's and for PORTUCEL's afforesta-
tion program would be procured under international competitive bidding (ICB)
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local suppliers would be allowed a
15 percent preference or applicable custom duty rates, whichever is lower.
Equipment which cannot be bulked for ICB and is therefore unlikely to attract
foreign suppliers would be procured under the local procedures (para. 59) up
to an aggregate amount of $1.5 million (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Part C(2),
and PORTUCEL Project Agreement, Schedule, Part C(2)).
61.       The equipment required under the pilot credit scheme would be
diverse and not suitable for bulk procurement. It would therefore be procured
through normal commercial channels or, for contracts expected to cost more
than $30,000 equivalent, through prudent shopping, which requires at least
three quotations from suppliers (IFADAP Project Agreement Schedule, para. 1).
Disbursement would be against certificates of expenditure by IFADAP (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 5), which will keep records of the corresponding
expenditures for inspection by the Bank in the course of project supervision
(IFADAP Project Agreement, Section 4.01). IFADAP's financial accounts will
be audited in accordance with Bank requirements (IFADAP Project Agreement,
Section 4.02). Seeds of exotic species would be imported by DGFF through
normal commercial channels. Overall, $16.9 million of the loan amount is
expected to be for expenditures on contracts procured under ICB.
62.       Disbursement of the proposed loan would take about 6 years.  Retro-
active financing for the technical assistance and training program is recom-
mended to ensure timely employment of the necessary consultants and initiation
of the sub-sector study, up to a maximum of $100,000 (Loan Agreement, Schedule
1, para. 4). The expected rate of annual disbursements is given in the Loan
and Project Summary. Disbursements would be made on the basis of: 32 percent
of total expenditures for civil and afforestation works; 50 percent of amounts
disbursed by PBIs under the pilot credit scheme; 100 percent of foreign
expenditure or 100 percent of local ex factory cost for equipment and materials
needed for afforestation; and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consul-
tants and for fellowships.
Benefits and Risks
63.       Eucalyptus would be cut at intervals of 10 to 12 years, depending
on the site, and connifers after 30 years, with intermediate thinning after
7 years. The total volume of wood produced over the project life would
be about 72.7 million st ub, more than 80 percent of which would be smallwood
and pulpwood to be used mainly for the manufacture of pulp and of wood-based
panels; the balance would be used for sawlogs. As indicated above (para.
26) the expected increase in demand for industrial wood is expected to fully
absorb the incremental production under the project. In addition to meet-
ing Portugal's growing domestic requirements, the anticipated project output
would make enough wood available from 1990 onward to support additional
domestic wood based industrial capacity (on the order of 700,000 tons), which
implies incremental gross foreign exchange earnings in excess of $250 million
a year in 1979 prices. The project would by the year 2000 increase exports of
industrial wood and its products over what Portugal could export without the



- 21 -
project. In the form of pulp, paper and paperboard products, demand in
Western European countries, in the Middle East and in North Africa is expected
to grow considerably by the year 2000 and the additional export potential of
Portugal due to the proposed project would account for only 10 percent of
Western European demand. Marketing of project output is therefore not a
problem.
64.       In addition to increasing the output of industrial wood, which would
result in greater foreign exchange earnings (para. 63), the project would
raise the incomes of about 50,000 smallholder farm families and create from
410 to 620 man-years per year of additional unskilled employment during
project implementation, thus providing employment opportunities to 1,000 to
1,500 farm laborers now unemployed or underemployed. The project would
create about 264 new jobs for skilled machinery operators and about 224 for
forestry technicians. The project would have indirect and unquantifiable
environmental benefits and would make an important contribution to the Govern-
ment's efforts to build institutions able to meet effectively the complex and
changing needs of the agricultural sector.
65.       Using a conversion factor of 0.60 to price the domestic cost of
unskilled labor, and costing all other items at border cost equivalents in
1980 prices, the economic rate of return (ERR) on investments under the
proposed project, based on quantifiable costs and benefits, is estimated at
about 19 percent. The benefit-cost ratio in 1980 prices and discounted at
16 percent (the probable value of the economic accounting rate of interest)
amounts to about 1.5. The ERR is not very sensitive to changes in any single
item of cost or benefit. A real increase in investment cost of 10 percent,
or a similar decrease in benefits, would reduce the estimated ERR by only 1
percent. Even a combination of an increase in costs of 15 percent with a
decrease in benefits of 10 percent would only reduce the estimated ERR to 17
percent.
66.       There is no special technical risk associated with the proposed
project, as the technology to be applied is not new to Portugal. The expected
regionalization of MAP, with its consequences on staffing, the management of
operations, etc., would constitute a risk but the Government's expressed
intention to regionalize DGFF's services with a 3-year phasing in period, and
to retain a forestry planning unit in MAP reduces this risk (para. 56). There
is also a risk concerning the timely availability of land, but the measures
agreed upon in this regard (para. 53) ought significantly to reduce this risk.
The timely employment of consultants, which has caused substantial delays in
the effectiveness of the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Project (para. 37),
is not a condition of effectiveness for this project but may be a problem in
its timely implementation. The Government indicated that it intended to seek
a simplification of existing regulations on hiring expatriates. If such a
simplification is enacted, the risk, not only under the proposed project but
under most future projects, would be substantially reduced.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Portugal and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and PORTUCEL, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and IFADAP, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
68.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. The establishment of the Project Coordination Unit, the signing of a sub-
sidiary loan agreement between the Republic of Portugal and PORTUCEL and of
a subsidiary loan agreement between the Republic of Portugal and IFADAP, are
conditions of effectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01).
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 5, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                         Annex I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PORTU(AL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AEA  TOUSANDS K.)QTUGAL  REFERENCE GROUPS (AD.CS7ED A'4zRAc;S
LANYD AREA (thoU'SAD S0. 41.)                                                      - MOS' REC'Nt !STIMA-E   -
'.O''AL            92.1                                                        SAXU         SAME      qEX  Adl.HER
ACRICL'LTURAL      41 .3                                   MOST RECENT      CERAPFIC    INCOME           :NCOt'
1960  fb    l970 Pb ESTIMIATE /b        REGION !c   CROCP 'd    GlOUP le
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    350.0         930.0    2020.0            2906.3      1942.6        3075.3
ENEPRGY COFSUFTIONl PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        382.0        7S4.0    1050.0             2033.2      1646.7       2518.6
POPLLAT-ON Ak.X VITAL STAt'S'ICS
POPULRTION  M3-CEAR (3.IO'iS)           9.0          9.0        9.6
UltAN PDFPULAT.ON (FEACLNT OF TOTAL) 22.5            26.2      28.2              56.3        51.2         72.1
POPtLATITON FROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           11.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILLIONS)                             14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATICS 1; REAClD                       2095
FOP'LATION 0ENStTY
PER SQ. Y-M.                         98.0         93.0      104.0              81.5        28.2         33.5
PEP. SQ. III. ACRICULTU..L LAND    218.0         213.0      232.0             138.8       100.5         91.3
OPFULATION AGE STRUCLTURE (FZRCEXT)
0-14 YS.                            29.2         28.5       26.0              25.6        35.4         33.3
15-64 YRS.                            62.S         61.8       63.0             62.9         56.3         57.5
65 Y.S. AND ABCVE                      8.0          9.7       11.0              10.2         5.1          5.7
POPULATION GRTO Sr RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL   *                             0.7/f   .   0.0/f       0.8               0.9         1.7          2.1
UR2M                                  1.4          1.5        2.3               2.6         3.0
CRUDE FIRH FEATE (PER ThOUSAND)        24.0         21.0       19.0              18.5        27.5         31.4
CRL'DE DEATH RATT (PER THOUSAND)       11.0         11.0       11.0               9.2         9.1          8.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 1.6           1.5       1.2               1.2         1.8          1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS  ALNNIUAL (TNOUSANIS)        ..           ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF PARRIED WOM.Y)    ..              ..         ..
FOOD AND Y'UTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             80.8        106.0       87.0             115.7       102.0         98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCEN'T OF
= EQUIREmrYTS)                    107.0        118.0   '41.0               134.2        120.8        112.7
PROTElYS (07.62S PER DAY)            77.0         85.0       94.3              95.4        80.9         70.3
OF WHICH ANItAL AN'D PLLSE         33.0         40.0         .              45.4         31.3
CKILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         7.0          4.0        2.2               1.3         5.1          2.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.3            68.2       68.7              70.0        65.6         68.7
INPANT .YORTAL.TY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              77.5         58.0       39.0              31.5        45.5         20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCE£T OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL.                                 ..            ..      65.0                ..        69.4         73.9
URBAN                                  ..           ..       90.0                ..        S5.1         94.6
RUlrL                                  ..           ..       56.0                ..        43.0         64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOQAL                                  ..            ..        ..                ..        70.1
UR8AS                                  ..           ..         ..                ..        S8.3
RlIWAL                                 3. ..                   ..                ..        3.2
POPULATION FER PHYSICIA-N            1200.0/k    1100.0       800.0             661.6      1343.2        981.8
?OPULATT2N PER NURSING PERSON        1430.0/k     1000.0      520.0            677.1        765.0        397.8
POPU'LATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               190.0        170.0      170.0             180.1       197.6        240.6
URSAN                                  ..           ..         ..                ..       260.2
RLRAL                                  ..           ..         ..                ..      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPt-AL 3ED              r.         10.0       12.0              15.3        17.3         19.2
HOUSINSC
AVERAGE SIZE OF fOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 3.9          3.7         ..                ..        -i7
UR3AN                                 4.0           ..         ..                ...
RLRAL                                 3.9           ..         ..                ..         5.1
AVERAGE LPY9ER 3F ?E.SONS PER ROOM
T.OAL                                 1.1          0.S         ..                .          1.1.
UR1AN                                 1.0           ..
RLRL                                  1.1           ..         ..                ..         1.2.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCE%T
OP D0'ELLINGS )
TO-AL                                40.5         6.2          ..                ..       66.D
SORSAN                               8S.5           ..         ..               ..         85.1
RCSLr                                27.4           ..         ..



Annex I
-24-                                       Page 2 of 5
TAiLE 3A
PORTUGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LREFtiRENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyLRAGES
PORTUGAL                          .- MOST RECENT ESTIKATE) -
SAME         SAME     NEXT HICHER
MOST RECENT      CEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   CROIIP /d    CROUP /I
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 131.0         98.0      1)2.0            105.7       101.7        107.6
MALE                 132.0         99.0      137.0            107.1       110.0
FDtAL.               129.0         96.0      129.0            104.5        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0         57.0       54.0             65.9        51.2         39.7
MALE                  24.0         63.0       5f.0              70.3       56.4
FEMALE                16.0         51.0      5".0              62.2        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  46.0           32.0       40.0             20.4        18.3
PUPIL-TEACHFR RATIO
PRIMARY                             34.0         34.0       27.0             26.7        27.1
SECONDARY                           19.0         17.0       14.0               ..        25.3
ADULT I.In:RRACY RATE (PFRCErUT)      62.0         71.0       70.0               ..        86.1
CONSUIMPT I ON
PASSEN(,f.h CARS PFR CAOUSANI)
R) PULATION                         17.0         54.0      107.6            105.5        53.4         68.1
RADIn PFCtiVERS PER THOUSAND
POPILATICN                          95.0        142.0      173.0            233.7       225.9        210.3
TV RLECIVERS PER THOUSANTD
POPULATION                           5.0         40.0       65.0            148.0       102.6        117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENFRAI.
LNTERESTC) CIRCULATIOS PER
THOUSSO1) PjLPULATION                 63.0         8 84.0     70.0               ..        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0            3.0        4.1              6.4         3.6
LABOR FnRCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3398.0       3388.0    4100.0/g
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   17.9         74.8       25.5             32.3        24.5         27.2
ACRIJItLTURF (PFRCENT)              44.1         33.3       27.0             25.8        28.9         23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  29.0         33.2       36.0             33.1        30.6
PARTICIPATIrIN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 38.5         39.3       44.6             37.6        33.8         40.1
MALE                                  66.0         62.3       56.4             57.0        51.3         55.7
FEMALE                                13.2         18.5       32.3             28.0        16.3         24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0          1.0       0.9               1.0        1.3           1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUT10N
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED NY                                                       .-
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..
HICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           56.1/h,t  56.3/4,j          47.9        57.6.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLCS       ..          6.2/h,t   7.3,Lb i          S.0         3.4
LOWEST 40 PFRCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         20.6/h,t  21.4/hj           15,4        11.0
POVERTY TARCET CROUPS
ESTIMATES AESOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      480.0               ..       550.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      480.0            436.1       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..
RLIRAL                                ..           ..         ..
Not avaIlable
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are populatIon-veight,d geometric m .os. excluding the -n:r,e-
values of the indicator and the most popul.Lted country In each group.  Coverage Ct countries amo,ng thc
Indicators depends on availabilicy of data and Is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year b.twe-n 1959 and 1961; icr 1970. tLtw.en 1969
and 197I; and for Most Rvcent Estimate, between   914 and 1977.
/c    Europc;  /d   Upper Middle Income (51136-2500 per apita. 1976);   'e  High Inco-e  (0ver $2500 per capita,
1976);   /f  Due tn emigration.  pop.I1atton growth r-te is lowIr than r.te of natural In)crease;   L.  E, ma tes
ba.ed  'n in uiry of -npv-cEnt  -ond-Cted by Institate of Nat inn-l Sta.tI. 41.;   /h. Highst 2S2 and i--Lu
257 a-Cd SC;?. of hIuseh'1ds;   /1  1968;   1   1973-7.;   /k  19i2.
August, 1979
*NOTE:  Most recent estlmate.  Primasry school years 1-4, age group 7-10.
Secondary school years 7-11, age group 13-17. Preparatory
school years 5-6, age group 11-12 are not included. Enrollment
datte wot comparable over time due to different basis in age
groups.



-25-                                                         Annex I
WI;T              £JDW L    ICATOPS                                   Page    3   of   5
Dots,Althouh t. data me. dresess  fro m            -4ar. g4~61il  judged the semI mthorit.tI,. ko  eloh.  It sbonad a1so hs  oted ltht they sp sot 0. ist.esm-
Imlonlypcmaal  beteep. Of the 1ack of at-Aad5itis     definlitioe 55, COSeOPtO 050d by differoOt  -o10tli.. In tollecttg ths data. Th. d.tlo r., smt..o
SeoPIl to 4--lrb. or.,. of SOatd,Irdien. tsoNdo. sod eh"-t.riA-..stain ftj.r diff-r00.o bmtoe.e noActfie.o
Th. adJ.,te  goup .0r,5.. for eacth inditator m. popuainto-neightod goometrte sean., .nol.dlflg ths ..trem  -r..se of the indlootor sod the most pepkalted
Q005,0.2 in  eah  _r,.  Sue t. o .0    f dIt., grOSp .erages of .11 1hO1cOtoes for C.pitol .ii,piiiO  Otl Roport.rs sod of indloator. of Atees  to Weter MAd tUort.
bb -Is.l  AisIng,  roo   ioebtln.0poel   t  other oo,.5t57tgromps at. ppoie.ti-n.eighted .sloetrte -001  nitlat ...lui..1   of the eutre.-  nU.. Ond
10 reatingoverge. o  coo  ndIct- to  -lmtber.  Th..0    ere  are soIls useful a.n.rebto                  fexetdoi.e00 h               r.n  -p-io   th0 OClur of one
lOdtatr a  a  1st.0050 he  onary  ndrefereoos  group..
NAZI AREA (th-.-sd oq.k..)   -epesstOngO1-td horoOnI(neewlt of  optlrtoni    'tot:    cbO   e   ua 
1W,icolt ..l. I    Post roetet -West te of ag utua   rea used temposselp                      pervoetoges of their r-np-ti-m  popu.boti...  Moe odipoi .. oy ie-Iud.
te pe-rso tly for crp., posture..  mokht sod kitchee N.Md.o  or to                         the ooleolo U     00 odisp ..al, nith or oithout t ...tnent, of h-.o        -.orte
f15tato.                                                                                  end0 -Oto-..t., by ..tt-b-oro  sy te.  or the  -o  of pit privie- sod  .-iLar
47P PER CAPITA (0,4)   ta e   oioetmt.n   usa   oke   res                                      o.]'ltpePoilc  - 'Popoltion dieldrd ty  e.,c I-Of p-atkitg pbyaiciohs
~Itdby 0.1wtnn-rorio   metlo  00Wrld book Atl... (1;7k-I  boi)-50lifled fro .   me.dical nnhol et uclee...cty i': I'
1960, 1970,and 1978 dote.                                                                   Pooninp RrigPr .... .Poplatine d,rided by  rui.o  prottlciap sole
~ I CC.ilSidPficiU Plo Comb- Moo.] roesumplioc of coer Iloer n.1fmae  roiutenreo  prootl                                 ..... coo on md  -sitseton rc.
ec.l So   ,gnjte, prtroleu, nobrt ..      e .:Itd hydro-, o.celert  dg-                    PocItjI- j)9r'Iid  -toal  0...b                  c  e.a       Population  11001.1 uris,,
~   d1970,- 7  dt..                                                                  .       polkic and priw-te g--.a  nodapecoalired h-top,t0.1) rd-h.ilbit.tilon, -nt-r.
Oc.pLitls are est.bli.o,iernl  Perr-etly ot.fed Ly at I0..01  -ce pyidbylO-
POPULA7TMN AND1 VtTL STAbSTIC31r                                                                itballaioomt.pwdlo   rincipallj ,cooilrr   r                        t -led    o-l
T.t.1         9.Ol-er   alloc   A. of July 1; I"c, 1970, Sod                                  h,,opita, hI.    rr,   le 10wd  h001t0 eod oedi-l c           -tront pweotroti1.y elk) )r
1977 dat..                                                                                 ty aphysicior  (tot by   ew_dico I-jtnt   r-e, oldlf,1 ~             etc.) .1101   ffor
Ureta  Poultocyrr,-t ,f trtal) - Pati.o f .,1b0 to t.t01 ppolotlool                           in-patIent .ocOmod.Li- Sod P-oIde a llimld   raorf medicoI f-cllcl.
diffe-e   4eficitir-  of .,Ur.  ar-rc cay affect  -cpur.blity of d.t.                   Arto l.ti.. por  -ictil1o  od n- Tota  nmber of  drco,tu t  or dk.ah.aere-  froa
.ongc  --itr-c; 3',60, 19)70~ moo lo75 d.t..                                               boe pitnia diwidwi by tL   nolero  brd.1
"i  iwlatiur 11_~'iT loo   Qi  - C.rron.t p,p,latio- projeetion- Ore boe  we...SI
19175 ItoW  PoP1o.lti-e by vrw 00d 00. sd IthIr mortlity  ad fertilitY                 AwneSr   fttesd(edn    e  h-nhold)  t- -W.  -.   .da                       o  r-rI 
ratu.Pejeot-o   tros-tw-  fr scrtlclty  .010  no_pri- of tb-e                                          I rdwil   csit; o'f .  ro   fidodocOr   taloccqotr
iewnle.  --nuo g lire  -opwt-,y at birth i.c--eao ito       th1  -ootryo                  1c    al  el.       I  oadrr 10dgwr may or co  not icc -nco-c  In 10-
per copite loce- lwd  ed fe-cl  lifO  wopectory otabil"ian   at                          LwOne,h.ld for totlinl.rcliOroe.
Tr5ver.   Thepoomeer  r r ferlity rate ac. hor  thre  le-el                            Aceroje  -ulrc   lrocc-rro      c .Urba. a-d rurl - Avwng-9  n-Il.
monuiog decline ie fertility   -accrig to Incom   1-e  nod pmot                          of proon  per ro   naloto    o   uo   ooidrnrh.t   uli,
fosily ebbing  p-rfoe. -e  lad, co-try iu110 th.ddigtd on  or th...                      -ep-otircly.  ter-linf,c-ocl.deoo.er _cwn   i_twotor  Sod  toIir
emt.I  .lln~U.I  c-boob ti-n  of mrtality nod fertlity treedo for pr-Jwotion           Acc-a  tr Flwotri.,ty (Porreto   iolnr(-I ),    wai  c   iCi. o.
Satireryiopptiso  - I.  Ontoti--nY VPopolt-o tbore 10 00 grjotii                           total, orbn, nod rural doelli.gs reip-ctjlvy.
.tretutmee remeala  nOtSot  t. Thi. is othlewed only after fertility eat.s           ZIlrATION
doolime  otli.elrpb.o.,ot le-e  of unit int reproductIon rate, ehm                     I71 o boelIm-t RatIo.
eac  geeeratiO  of   -e  .ePI-:.s itomIf ComotIyp 1. Te t.tiom..er  POW0-                Perlor, othool   to.tal,  aeso   eae             ,.  total,lsoensd f.mole e-el-
latlom  sloe os  etlated on the bob o  the pojected cboru '.oterlte                        net nf ni   gs0  tepIay e1.m  pertontogs  of roopetlee primary
oftepopltls  10 the yeor 2600. and the rmtm of deolime of fertility                    sooe-1og. populatiOn   etrmoellyfinloelde   ebildre aged 6-Il  e-r  hut
coeto r.plormeent IeeeI.                                                                  Q..utsd for differeat lengths of primary oductioel foe tou.trie. aith
Teac s_t.tiorp 000l.t10 i. reaoched   The pent  ho. st.tiee-r   popultion                     anleral.denlo                      -yolen    o  coomd 160 p-roet oinreoni    pupil.
ot.u ha  been eeahed.                                                              -       ate0.0. or 510- the offrwal school ago.
Poucaio    eolyhvodr tcl::ol -totel, maleon .1-0reol    Computd   .-e   secndary
Per so.  . - Kid-yer, pputiatno pee aqur  kiloot.r (100 h-etareO) of                         eutlo eqres  t le...t four Y.-.o of  pproced primary  ntulo;
totlae                                                                                     provdes Noars el Otbaa,or teacher trolAlog inotru-tion- for p00111
Per so  h.  Wg -Itnx.trl tod - Copoted -  .0ev  toe  -giuto1-4d eal  of 12rto 17 year. of age;  -oerepoadeo-  course. are gwmeralp
1,51 ato. Ad. stero~t-  (percet) - Childem   (0-1l poare), moekig.S-ogs                      voceal"Iol omoi.sa   (pe             t of  ewoday) - Voeo...Ion     itmtlutlw"a  Isolud
11.61.ye rs) a  reti1ed t.5 yea. so   we)n  pmremtgeo of sl.ketvool   outil   eohrpora   bo   prt odopoodstipor n
pepoltit  196 I     1970. ..d 1977 data.                                                      deporteoto  of antond.ry in.tlto lea..
ftmoa.ti.m  Gro.th hate (perteet) - t0.1&  - Am0.1 .0-oeti rates of total mid-                PopIb-teehor rttio                 - rmr,md ceco-do   - Total otud.at. earolled le
poor popultioss for 1950-60  100  seid 1970-77,                                              -p'esery sdscsOe                      noe d 0w  1  (limer  Of teanhews in the  -orre-
Poosletiom  Grceth isle1 (poewe) - -bn  - Anhoaal ae-soh -nte  of urhue                         spondig Ierel.
opato . fr 1950-40  19n0-70~ nod  970-75.                                           AdultP lit.r,r  r.le (percet) - iAt.r.tl adults (able to rood sod -it.) a
Cd.lrhaNt.pe  r th-ensd) - dAneal Iiee births per thosesod of mId-.                      a  enatg f total adlt popul.ti.o ged 15 y-r  So  orer.
poor wpopl.ti      1910, 1970, nod 1977 0-t.10
crot D.thR.L   (r thOu.sd) - Auomol death. pee thoifso  of old-peat                fCIDW0f 1W
j6 I       ; bii 9I0..1970, sod 1977 data.                                                Pos:fijier Car. opoth0sondZpOpoltIo  - Pauseagr rar  wompria. motor e..a
hetos  -pronioriwt  at -Awrage  umbor of d..ghtero a  00 1oUhetse1a booth     Ight peres  euldes .mhclarw, here,nd military
*1.h., soma  repodeotie. period if she mpreesrsnt age                                    -  ombitl-s 
specific fertility rates; ues14I  flee-year soeeesd,.o  10 196.0,                        P.10 Peceicergl. (hr  fthoneoodpotlc~t.htij) - All type, of receivers foe readi
1970, .1d 1975.                                                                                                 ..acet   ogeeo   0010  e  boaod of popoltloel  -nolde  uellrea.. d
Pomily Pl- OeNi    - Arcept.r., A,iom  (thon..sMd.) - AnOul  u0.r0 of                          -rereee. 10 oooeIoad in penr  sh..ari.tottiw    of radi  .et.  -05is
nonrptoro of birth-cootrol deone. ecder scwploea of astIc...l foully                       efet; data for receot yr-oramy not he comparable .1Mr. _t conries
plenabog Icroorso.                                                  o~~~~~~~~~~bo1imhed licoastag.
finally Plomieg-  User.  pecort of1 srrdons -1   Percentage of sorrd                       TV penr1ivere leer1. tuad roehltlo-) - V recicer  for lroadcOut to gmoe-s
m of nilih-esrir  age  15-44year.  etc  00 hith-oomalroi sevi.e..110  e   hoiedgppltco                         xlde. nlice...ed TV .e. .lo-r. in touonrleo
toal   arid        ineot  sse age group.                                         -     sd Ia years sh.. registr.ton of TV .et. .a. 1n effect.
XeeseoperCig,roltloe (per .thoso  oo-   Ition) - Shosthe ovrage  iroulatio
P606 AlND EtTtfPSfII                                                                                                                             ."hlygmrl  oeet  oane       eIe    uaPeroio   ulct
1550O  fo or      donlsiere Cpnt.l  (1969-71-100) - toda. of pee t.pIt.                      dseot.d primorily to  -ecodltg  ener1 noes.  It I. oosder.d to he "daIly"
odcil prodctie of all trod oo,ditieO. Prodmetlo  meludes aed -co                         If It nypear. et lent four tlsro  a ceek
feed sod is cn .caidroe yea  hsis.  Coditi.a  comr peliary &..d.                         flywma Aeeual Attemnde  per Copit. ver Year - Bheed on the .0.b0 rf t1k.-bt
( .Ig. ogr-   looteAd of .cog.K) elch oreedible and -oet.ln -tetret.                    sold dorle  tie Yeat, incudngadlsic.-  to drce-b1  010... d mobile
(e W..ofe  nd ten are eucloded).  Agreat  production of earlt  troey                  - sit..
I. bcee,d on atlool nereepe -oe  prIco .01g1t, 
Per ..Pit. supyo  rlre                geoet of roln et)-Comuted from                   LAsp TO F0
emeeg  eqoivteot  f p   fdsPplIes momig.ic   n  Ionotey pero-pit.                     Tonnl1.10    orn. (thousado) - ft.noeod-liy -t110  person, imnludlagnrd
per doy.  Avai.lolleosppli-o q.mprise dom.tie prdeotioo, iports Ie..                     foros ndr ynmp ed hot -ed1ldig h-ueiv-,  tIddetss, ste. Dnfinltlo-
e- eprts,  nd thsoemeo 1.t10k.  Met oupplies esClude  "i15.  feed, sedo.                  la  -i...u Conotri.s  -r  n-t cpoprable.
quottls05,  10 food pr-noig , sod lo.... is. diotrlbihele. Requiro-              Feel. pyecqt) - emal  labor f-re  .u peronttage of total labor fore..
sets e. e-stimated by RAO hooedtn physio1.gi.al  ord. for noesal                       A1-turn    roeot) -  ab rcfr in It  oemg  fore-te'Y,  utie'g sod.
artleity mod health  sou.Lderlg earl, -emeta1 t.epr-tor.. bdy olglts                     fishIng no preceta   of t0.t1 lb-, foece
age nod orm dIsttrbuion i    of popuIinto, nod olleelOg 10 peenet foe                  I7 utry (r-cot      1.1c  f-ew  in olnieg, cseot--oign. snofaturiag sod
s      eat t b.oShod lee.Ioilecj    tote  sd gain os percotogo of total labor fo-c.
Rwr -plta aupply of p1rotei   es,-      e   s.  - Peut-i  contet of P.e                  P-rtoi.p-Wo  Pole (percent)-ntolt _jle  nod fl~ensl  - itrtilp,ti-or e
-ca .hotnaetapply of fopeda.etuply of food 1.00r1000  _a                                  otivity rates are coOu_ dm t o tal, man  nod fr-i  lab0  fote m  pee-
aPovo. Requir.sents for all coutirie  I.tablihbe4 by U111k Provide to, a                 ...itmg.. of tota, soeo sod freale pp~oreti-r ooil oge. reopetlo-ly;
itelumo .11onence or 0-0 gr-a  of 1o101 p-toelo pee dsp sod 20 greee of                 1lb0, 1970, so  1979 data.  These at. 112-a participatlom    tote  refisla
omisl sd polo. protei, of  hi.lh 10 era.. ohmnld he soima  protein.                    og.....onr.tured  of to.pcpulatio,, sod bog time trend.  A fe: rotisotes
fseom  tboOdord  are lose  nhso those of 75 gr-  of total prot.no sod                    are from  nanoos s.mLI _ . 
25 grsm   of anImal Proteto so so-vrge for the oor105, ptepoosd by P-AD                Weoomtc Demd yPtio  -  Ratio of pepastion 000c  15 sod 65 sod  -ov  to
in the Third Wend TIod Surrey.                                                           telbrfteIs son gromp of 15-64. year..
Per rapnt. Or-tei suply fr.aIma  n               o.   -Petel  oupulp of food
Chl  ne   -)SretaloOt  (P- thrrIouod)  A-.AtuI deaths Per lho enmrd               Peontg  of prioato Ioeom  (both 10 ea.   o  bind) - R00.1000 PP richest
I% age group 1-4 Ye-rs. to rhildrco  in this age grop; for most 0001-                      5 Peros"t, rioset           r 20  pret, porest 10proent, so wporot 40 pmresot
oping e-utriea data derie   from  lIfe tnble.                                              of hoaoeholde.
HBAbTI                                                                                      P=YOT  TAPIR GOfP
lif   ge-toecy at bith (aro   - Aeermg  mushr of year. of life                             Utimated Ab-Ilt. foeb          oeben(5   .  npn)-ubo  e   oa 
enmalein  et birth; I90  17, nd l'ci. data.                                                bboonlute  oet P--- 1       1,00   to tIst len   le-e  be1- obich . si.Le1
iWfnt KStorality Rnte  Pree th-ound) - Aeni1 deaths of infente 0.00  550              ~      mntritiOoallp  doquat. lietn I pl       ... tusoLa   0-rood eequL-evts  Ia sot
Yea r Icge Per th ..oumOsto    tir  crthe.                                                 affoedab1e.
AM".s Ic Safe Wate_ (wfretem  of _rlrbtk-n  - tota.  rbebn. 000rua  -                       Suiosted Orlatiee P-ecty Inrose Lel(19 I!pee  rat) - ea  sad eu,I 
Meetr of prone (total.  rahe  nod rurl  situ  remonll  aen,toia    pean    poverty in-ome ieol       on_hrdo                                           orage poe oapita
.af. eotrr spply 1 lbldee trested surface sater  or ontreated  hut                          persn1ni--os  of the  -cutry. Urhno le... I c deri-d from  the rura  level 
_oetsntdot.e  mch no thnt from  protected bore. lr , olgs,                         with  dj..utmt for higher vest of 1leing  In urban arn..
.50  enitry  ells  ospooetogee uf their ..empetire popo1.la -m  7.                 Fotisor  PsitoneIcAsoterretir.n-Lci(e n).Urla" nod
2o   urba      are  n00111  foumntal  00 etedp.st loctate  at M-c than                     rural   PeroontI  populatio    ubnsd-ao su   r   aoncIute P.,-.
30mtors ft-o  a h-u. s"Y be  -Ldrrd s- being wIthIn reaublle
Ires  fthat h-.ude. to-Iea  are-na rea-- - -bl. .-..5 -cId lply
tht the    . Iomife or sebr   f the h--hb.ld do cit h00. to opead .                                                                 kmome  sd,   Sowla1 Pets MpLeson
dlupeoportLiots port of the day in fet.hing thm  fnmily-e oat.. n."a                                                           ..,nol  A.rUnlo   sod Projection. Pepartset
A.Sgst 197')



26 -                                                                                    ANNEX o
Page 4 of S
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMEf5  DATA
(Amoseto in Millions of US Dollars)
Shar  of GDPa
Actua1               Annual Oros.'th Rate  7.)             EStimated        market io.e GD     rn at    Iol
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                  1978        1974     1975      1976      1977      1978     1979         1960    1970    1975    1976         1980
(enohange rate 1S-43.9 n..as.d.)                                                         (PSroJeted)
Gross Domestic Prodoct                            17,810        0.7      -3.7       9.0       5.6      3.2       2.8    .  100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0          100.0
Ageicoltoro                                        2,062       -1.8     -2.7       1.5    -10.0        4.0      3.0         22.7    16.1    14.1    11.6         11.3
Industry                                          5,945        4.0      -9.3       4.3      10.4      3.3       4.4         34.5    37.3    38.9    33.4         42.0
Services                                          8,299         0.8      1.6      15.8       6.6       2.5      1.9         35.4    36.2    37.9    46.6         37.4
co-asuptoio h1                                    15,799       15.3     1.2        3.1       3.3      -1.7     -0.1         62.8    83.3    96.1    88.7          87.0
Cross Investmene                                  4 117       -6.1    -45.7       30.5      28.8     -6.4       0.7         18.5    23.5    16.3    23.1          22.8
Ecporos of GNFS                                   3,352      -15.7    -13.2        4.8       6.8      13.5     19.0         16.6    23.4    19.6    19.9         21.3
Imports of COPS                                    5,658       4.8      26.7      17.5      13.1     -2.0       8.0         22.9    30.2    32.2    31.0         31.2
Groso Notiosal asiogs                             3,317     -35.4    -39.2       -8.0      40.2      51.9      6.8         12.2    16.7      3.8    18.6         18.8
Prices
Rate of Inflaticn                                           27.4      20.4      18.3      27.0     22.1      24.2
Lorhange Rote SS                                            25.4      23.6      30.2     38.2      43.9      50.0
MERC0ANDISE TRADE                                                           nsal DIts at Cs.-tne Prioes                         As  -sereo.  of Total
Imports,Ed                                                     6          b        0         9        1                    1973    1975    1972    1978
Capital goods                                               761 35615          607        694801                         20.5    14.5    14.0    16.9
Capitoadl o goo1ds                                         2,65      2,185    2,431      3,043    2,807       .           5°.4    56.1    61.3   51.6
Poel cod rolated materIals                    5~~~~~~~~                   ~~77  6212 9  743  738           1 6.0    16.0    15.0    15.4
aot.oserion  onod,                                      677       522      595       485      435        -          15.1    13.4      9.7      9.1
Totsl Norch. Imports (c.i.f.)                              4,648     5,893         4,329  4,964   4,790     6,027        100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agricolt-ral Pr-dscto                                        369       324       312       334      376      _            18.8    16.8    16.5    15.6
Wo2d sod CoEk Producrs                                       366        306      351       364      378      -            14.8    15.8    17.9    15.6
T.otI_e *rithing cod fociwes.                                684       577       533       602      7 85     -04                  238      7.6      3.
Othiersod closhins andeqipeo                                 290       254       2503      301      325                   13.2    13.1    14.8    15.5
other                                                        569       474       596       426      549                   72.8    24.5    21.2    07.8
Total Merch. Exports (f.t.b.)                              2,276     1,9535    1,822    2,027        2.409  3351        100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
MERChANDoSE TRADE INDICES                                                      1915=100
Export Prico Index                                          103        100        90       94        102   117
Imp2t- Price Iodex                                           87        100        95        97       106   123
Tor-s ot  Trado Iodro                                       118        toO        95        97        96    95
Espoet Volsene Sodas                                        104        10O       105       Ill       120   142                   A. Percent of Total
VALn ADDED By SECTOR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1975                                                             1977    1978      1.979 ]
VALUE ADDED BT SECTOR                                  lOcToi R Datas at .1825'i Pet ces aod Enchange Rote of 25. 55)
PUBLColroto                                               2,189ANCE37           2        1,4       2,    2                 1.        12.6      12.8    12.8
Tdnocty                                                   54,32       5,721    5,7.8 6,601 6,        019.46 7 119          42.7      42.9      43.0   43.7
Servies                                                                                                                    41462  12   63.43  6846  7.017   31.0  435 2
Caoitsl  xpenditures (net)                              _13,973      13,410   14,564   15,594       50.86 16355              .4       4        5.4       6.4       6
100.0     100.0     I 9.7    10.10
UBLOR  FINANCE AHDOUTTC                                                               t  Pie WORKiR                            eA  Peroe.dt ofG CP at  oarkot PricEs
PUBLIC  FINANCE77                                                       _      127      7 03.6                             1974      1975     16           1977              1978 1979
C-str7                                                                         12108/265.1C                                23.o      24.0      27.2     27.9      27.0      26.8
Crres        o6.5                                                      2.6    153.3    182.1        29.5  301.0            22.4      27.3     32.8      29.3      51.8      30.5 
a o  "tc                                                   1.3      -9.4    -26.2      -0.5       -28.5  -5.              0.4      -.       -5t6      -1.3      -3.      -3.6
Ca Eil t7edso1ce.1                                                    02.4      19.3     34.3        50.8   46.4I           3         4.4       5.c.                .         .
Notiacorqieeo                                               5.8      2.       45.5      43.0        79.3   82.3            1.7       5.8      9.7       8.0      1.          .
Dinso...g oinedo                                            _8.3      174       48.9     44.7        897      98.8          2.4       4.6     10.4       7.2       1.5    1u.0
To4t annetlearico                            -~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~2.5  4.4  -3.4  -1.7  -10.4-16.5       0.7       1.2      0.7       0.5       1.3      1.7
1,~,BOR - EQRCE AND - OUTp   PER ~WMER           TOL-41 LAB          8/                               VALUE ADDED  FiR WORKER  11975 PRICES AND EXCHIANGE EAT  51    br-  25.55)
Cs  Thossaeds    ees74    ofTtl977                                 I   0Dolr             Pernet of Av.ra.e           Averoc  A-1 Crotch Eam
1974        1977l        1974oyed     1977r        Crorstb  Osloudrng vn  and1974                               1927 1774-77
AgrircitorO                       1~~~~~~~~~~,300  1,219     34.5         32.2             .11,684   17,59-7                               -45      -39           ~1977
I.d-sty                                      1,307        1,276         34.7         23. 7           C,.8                 4,837   5,i73                130     127                         2.3
Servo...                                     1.160        1.291         31.8         34.1            3.6                   4.02 8                       2       3                            .1
To-o                                         3,767        3,786        100.0        101.0            0.2                   3.709   4,066               100     to
A/  Alt marIet prin   opoet r  epresd a  lot orcotsso  ar                    - ne   dd ds- to no sco f ne  tdiro-  tan   ad   bsdin_
C)Statsioa  dtDopoy  0iol d is tho ocsnno    aa
c/   nh.eo eaco since FeIr,-y 1980 1000   47.7 Es-dos
21  Esniasid.
7/  ToSs1 esptoyed ScOo- fo-e  em-degse         hrss-d  .edsmeeled



- 27 -
I... S a1 5
P2ANt OY PA Td             ~         AdllD ~      M i  II D DB
3o9 2it« 923 joe. of US. Drl7. r*2a Curon~to lFtioc
1973          1974          197d           1976          1977          ij7I           1979
S1"Yof izlU[           UFri7ET
Eep7o.t   7.0.9.1                                               8,243         2,279          3,935         1.823          22027          ,            3,35-
_osrtc  Fr OB. )                                                2.743        41 227          3 603         3 932         4      533         L 1         3 027
TTrd lecicete (7-Y)                                              _932        -198,9         -26270        -2,109g       -2, iD6        -2 ,391       - 2 676
Oct Foe Fettot 0.70 tee                                            67           -54           -2i9            26             32           273           503
STegeic  i3eeetetc'"9"'e                                       'S933        .Al1          _jA )           (322'         (403)           4419)        (944)
sgutflo. e Belcote                                               -833        -2,063         -1.939        -2,293         -2,454        -2,208        -2,179
Net 29'9e80oB  IotCCn1                                             96 3e 29                    -14          -333          -179           -329          -432
Net St*Oiesek!/                                                1.097          ,113i         1.037            979         3,304         3,635       , 2.495
Be Ioteh oo Cottets 6tcote6                                       349          -923          -.97         -I 244        -1490            -80           -22
tOtets  otteigo 3,voNteeot                                        110            I0"           122            75             57            62
DLahura_ns                               15d           123           2~ ~ ~~~~              ~    ~~~      ~     ~~~31  -  3.7 59
6.tttrwtet                                                       74             6 d7          57 64                        93            9O
Bet 99e6300cCOtC                                                   94             96           254            la            294           509
Bet cl cbotce.ecte                                                              .                           .            213            240
9 het. CeFit-l                                                                                                                            49 dttote eo3d o2.t,e1  135  -82  -.9 265  392
Other Cepitel 39 9 3 )                         )                 -332            356            398          643          1,046
Foteit3 Bottctne esevete
< -   1 E re                                ~~~ ~ ~~~~                      ~~-345  554 *8  14.        --l           -360            -6.
0ffiCi81~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4esrve
o,033         2409           33        5                    3133                        13453  36
37 4'636   Oold                                               1,149         3.13           31,337        1.127         3,023          3,010 .3.
FttetgttbtO.etee                                 3 ,@ I,653     31,379            3     91 250 361                         273            935
OiU3T A1t.A h&D        .~ LO5068M5T                                                                                                                        51 dlO3 0i3T tERlor                                   3974         3975         30765        2977          2979
OSSitiel  otette 6 49.07-124-                                                     -              3            -              -             -            -.9.9 DB hteeB              9d272
eej 4t.boteed                      3,346       ~~~~~ ~~~2,23  3,`79       2.9          104
Fo333.L   Lar 94d. l.tescs d73.   Fo,                                                                                                                                                                          72            2553       3.OD5        745h4        2 949*0
2i99                                _                                     _                3        h       56            74            131         resetect St h25c63t Debt                                  23            35          39 70                     I.3
234                                                              -        _                                          _              _                9eeMste St F.,623, Det                                   98            78          95           92            09
Othet hh 126 1.tert 1                                                                                      1  226          88           149         sttelF.o83t Oebt Se.oloe                                  90           313          175           5 2         233
Cttct..2ts                                                       -             23             45            33            113           451          Otbet 2262.2 teSt  yi rtse                              340          313           137          32            B
t.o7ttlet.                                                       -             32            235            48             393          628          tote) 7962. 0D6  6B ei3te                               233           729          262          491          589
tlteato,.) tleket,                                               -            433            93            332           1731
Tote)  FolIt hUT3. 3.0.09                                         53            49             3 63          ,4t5           43          ,l              17ar   iDw1s3
Actual nebr Outstvssdiur3 =  DCe  31-  it7 Ttt L 0ebt tetoote                                                 3.7           23           3.29         5.7         35 1
2hS7                                                                                53o9                           3                                     erae  et..o of Fc6333 Debt                         .3.0          9.4          2538.4t
orher Yultl- 1tera1                                           fr         ~         ~         ~~           ~           ~         ~~~776 9.  eteeteet    5 7tt see, 08 3OS.75                                        12           4.60         4.4
Oeee,etoo                                                                          335                            .B. O                               e.ttt  ce StSriot sT_t 0905                                         5.8          4.9           4.7          4 1
trp7lletc                                                                       2,557                             743 2ee I Dehbt Ost. 4 Oiebo.cd                                                           43.          359.3        33.3         32.3          39 1
tiost3l Dcr0e043 _                                                               3_2 6                                                                     8t ihred                                          3 PoIl  2et 3             20 73                      0
TtoeslFohltcondso,o.oe                                                          3.990                            373                                 3960 Det brsetote cc7
21 64eiely ootkett ee,tttoce.
SaISd 72e2t..c teIScoloS 67.1,03 travoe tight.. 35 tet floe 0107 totte coO
,ctttrrd3  30 U  dollete et toot."  -tae.  Sepo. 3r 979 etot.  7 32.331
nf Ilon oes  w1d sve aOr1S   IflIet, Soloed *t 330a Fee Soose
d/  D hteooetesttse  ctAce acloo  2965 n .   t09ecpoortc,     -fetoosereetee, 4td
i   Does ot 1nc1 de Ptrml *saR hJrr  a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~      Eot,   ldIto.ttos,tlooetto



28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of March 31, 1980)
Amount (less cancellation)
Loan No.   Year         Borrower        Purpose        Bank             Undisbursed
Five loans for power development fully disbursed    57.5                      -
1301       1976    Electricidade de
Portugal            Power          36.0                 10.2
1334       1976    Republic of
Portugal            Highways       24.0                 19.5
1432       1977    Banco de Fomento   Development
Nacional            Finance        50.0                 31.1
1541       1978    Republic of          Water
Portugal            Supply         40.0                 40.0
1559       1978    Republic of
Portugal            Education      21.0                 21.0
1603       1978    Republic of          Agricultural
Portugal            Credit         70.0                 70.0
1649       1979    Quimica de           Fertilizer
Portugal, E.P.      Moderniza-
tion           58.0                53.3
1700       1979    Republic of
Portugal            Highways II   40.0                 40.0
1701       1979    Republic of          Small and
Portugal            Medium
Industry      45.0                 45.0 /a
1793       1980    Republic of          Education
Portugal            II             40.0                40.0 Ia
TOTAL                                     481.5                370.0 /b
of which has been repaid                  37.3
TOTAL now outstanding                     444.2
Amount sold                         2.6
of which has been repaid           2.1       .5
TOTAL now held by Bank /c                 443.7
TOTAL undisbursed                                              370.0
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1980)
None.
/a   Not yet effective.
lb   Differences due to rounding.
77   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1301 - Sixth Power Project; $36.0 Million Loan of September 24, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
While the loan is now fully committed, project completion is
expected to be delayed more than one year because of organizational changes in
the Power Authority (EDP), revisions in the Project scope and in the list of
goods. These factors delayed procurement under the loan, and the start of
significant disbursements. EDP is being reorganized with emphasis on decen-
tralizing management and merging municipal and small private electricity
undertakings within EDP. Mergers are expected to be completed by 1981. After
a poor year in 1976, owing to bad hydrological conditions, EDP's earnings in
1977 improved. In 1978, EDP generated only 4 percent internal cash, in
spite of a 50 percent increase in tariffs, owing to large increases in
interest rates. EDP estimates that it has generated 18 percent cash in 1979
and will reach a self-financing level of 30 percent in 1980. The closing date
has been postponed from the original date of June 30, 1979 to December 31,
1980.
Loan No. 1334 - Highways I; $24.0 Million Loan of March 3, 1977; Effective-
ness Date: July 8, 1977; Closing Date: July 31, 1980.
Road rehabilitation is on schedule, but other project items are
behind schedule. The Government's decision to postpone bidding until the
effectiveness of the loan resulted in a 12-month delay in purchasing highway
maintenance and workshop equipment. Delays in land acquisition (which is now
completed) caused an 18-month delay in the construction of the Covilha
bypass road; the contract for this road has now been awarded. The railways
study and the transport master plan are also 18 months behind schedule due
to delays in the selection of consultants; however, work on the study and
master plan is now approaching completion.
Loan No. 1432 - Development Finance Company Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
December 19, 1977; Effectiveness Date:  March 21, 1978; ClosigDate:
December 31, 1980
While loan signing was delayed due to legal questions raised by the
Attorney General's office, it is expected that project implementation will
catch up with appraisal estimates. Nearly all of the loan proceeds are
committed and disbursement is satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan 1541 - Lisbon Region Water Supply Project; $40.0 Million Loan of June 6,
1978; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The contract for the Castelo do Bode pipeline (about $33 million)
has been awarded. Works on the pipe plant are proceeding. A solution is
being sought for municipal arrears, which remain a problem. Studies are
behind schedule due to delays in hiring consultants.
Loan 1559 - Education Project; $21.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: September 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Architectural designs for all project institutions, including man-
agement training centers, are underway. Equipment lists are ready and procure-
ment of equipment is proceeding. All sites for project institutions (except
Lisbon Management Training Center) have been acquired. Technical assistance
is being recruited on schedule, the study on the teaching of science and
engineering is completed, the manpower study is underway. A general public
service moratorium on hiring personnel and consultants (to contain the growing
budget deficit) has delayed design work. This, combined with site acquisition
problems, has caused a slippage of about one year. Recent remedial actions and
understandings however should improve implementation of civil works.
Loan 1603 - Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Project; $70 Million Loan of
September 28, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The staffing of the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Fund (IFADAP)
and of project area offices of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries is
practically completed. Consultants have been selected for the groundwater
survey and for the fish stock assessment survey. Project implementation is
about a year behind the original schedule.
Loan 1649 - Fertilizer Modernization Project; $58 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effectiveness Date: June 1, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The selection of engineering consultants is completed; detailed
engineering work is underway. Procurement of equipment has started.
Loan 1700 - Second Highway Project; $40 Million Loan of July 27, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: November 13, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Engineering for highway rehabilitation is underway.
Loan 1701 - Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project; $45 Million
Loan of June 27, 1979; Effectiveness Date: (not effective); Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Progress has been made towards meeting effectiveness and disburse-
ment conditions. Staff for the special unit in Banco de Portugal have been
identified. A revision in the Public Enterprise for Industrial Estates'



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
1 (EPPI) rental policy has been made to ensure better returns on investment.
However, the additional time required to make changes in IAPMEI's statute has
delayed the effectiveness of the project.
Loan 1793 - Second Education Project; $40.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: (not effective); Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project implementation unit has been established.



- 32 -                           ANNEX III
Page I or 2
PORTUGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by Government to prepare project:   16 months (November 1977-
March 1979)
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:                  FAO/Bank Cooperative
Program
Ministry of Agriculture
and Fisheries
PORTUCEL (the State Pulp
and Paper Company)
IFADAP (the Agriculture
and Fisheries Development
Fund)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of first Bank mission to consider
the project:                                      July 1977; November 1977
(d)  Departure of Appraisal mission:                   October 15, 1979
(e)  Completion of negotiations:                       April 18, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                    end-September 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The project provides for retroactive financing, up to a maximum of
$100,000, for the technical assistance and training program, to ensure timely
employment of the necessary consultants, and initiation of the sub-sector
study (para. 62).
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) establishment of the Project Coordination Unit (para. 58); and
(b) the signing of subsidiary loan agreements between the Government
and PORTUCEL (para. 50) and between the Government and IFADAP
(para. 51).



- 33 -                          ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
2.        Undertakings by the Government include:
(a) employing all consultants by April 30, 1981, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (paras. 46 and 47);
(b) employing by December 31, 1981 all additional staff required by
DGFF (para. 53);
(c) allocating to MAP all funds needed for each planting season by the
preceding November 30 (para. 48);
(d) providing adequate staff and funds to the Project Coordination Unit
until project completion (para. 58);
(e)  in the selection of private sites for afforestation, giving prefer-
ence to farmers willing to participate in block farming operations
(para. 53);
(f) completing, 3 months before work is to begin, the securing of land-
required for each afforestation year (para. 53); and
(g) making arrangements to recover the full public investment in the
afforestation of private and baldios (communal) lands, including
an interest rate which, on average, will be positive in real terms,
by retaining at least 30 percent of Eucalyptus harvests and at
least 40 percent of conifer harvests; and developing by December 31,
1982, in consultation with the Bank, a comprehensive cost recovery
policy for the entire forestry sub-sector (para. 54).
3.        Undertakings by IFADAP include appraising all sub-loans under the
pilot credit scheme in accordance with procedures agreed to by the Bank, and
sending such appraisal reports to the Bank for its review and approval (para.
52).






IBRD 14735
,9r                                9@  gcv,                            E                                             JANUARY 1980
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01
42 s t_g '1 ,.
=      VIANA DO cASrELO
PORTUGAL                                           d RAPA-
F-ORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT AREA  BOUNbV                                       Araro4                ViLA REALW NDA
PARTI1CLEBOARDMOS
41;        * AL   PL.P MILLS
*  FIBREBOARb-D    L                                                                                                                      1
RAiLWAYS
D STRISCT CAPITALS                                                                            /      -7
=- .   IrTRc a        DARL   B            o EGO M o   <q                                                p
IVE
'                                                                                                                                             4 400 G
T     %pa                                                                                       ST.   BRANC a  01 ERO
World B.nk'a ot,ff oackwoo4 A',~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~f
IA' Raaa,al.ne. at oh,, ,oodaa, of ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      il. ~Ih
0 Q EeS: t \ >0 o \  z                                                       dF R.dNC  
.thde*a oopafiDtta w1 _ h /,  aD])t er uUa a,d
bouds,. da hr7 'fb,, aieand f*t) m  api/                    t 1          6                                                     /   S 
do flt aotbpifan thepart af$ Oh, ,                                         ;tAe  tr7af
WRddBemok nd It aiffda,Rtri?6eor,w anAy                                                                          , ul              e
an  or,t Pitnl a t6 affrbbs anrf ._Mdotraan ,an i
or accoeptana, af suc/l bouttid,0f   92                                                                  .. MOROC CO '-2     AL GE R I  



