Document of                   FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2837-PO
PORTUGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 5, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture IV
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay 1u- use,>l bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discl(tsd without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Portuguese Escudo (Esc)
1979 (as of November 30):
US$ 1 - Ese 50.0
Esc 1 = US$ 0.02
KEY CONVERSION FACTORS
Pine
(at 30% bark)
m3 ub               m3 ob                 Stere ub               Stere ob
1.00                1.43                  1.52                    1.85
0.70                1.00                  1.06                    1.52
0.66                0.94                  1.00                    1.43
0.46                0.66                  0.70                    1.00
Eucalyptus
(at 18% bark)
1.00                1.22                  1.43                    1.74
0.82                1.00                  1.17                    1.43
0.70                0.85                  1.00                    1.22
0.57                0.70                   0.82                   1.00
KEY ABBREVATIONS
AAC     = Annual Allowable Cut
CAI     = Current Annual Increment
CAIMA   = Caima Pulp Mills Ltd.
CELBI   = Celulose Beira Industrial S.A.R.L.
DGFF    = Directorate for Forest Development
DGOGF   = Directorate for Forest Management
IFADAP = Agricultural and Fisheries Development Fund
INIA    = National Agricultural Research Institute
IRW     = Industrial Roundwood
MAI     = Mean Annual Increment
MAP     = Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
ob      = Overbark (including bark)
PBI     = Participating Banking Institution
PORTUCEL= Empresa de Celulose e Papel de Portugal
st      = Stere (unit of measure of volume of roundwood)
ub      = Underbark (excluding bark)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUND -----------------------------------------   1
A. Project Origin and Preparation -------------------------   1
B.  The Forest Economy -------------------------------------   1
Importance to the Economy ---------------------------- -   1
Forest Resources and Their Ownership -------------------   1
Forestry Employment ------------------------------------   4
Forest Industries and Their Ownership ------------------   4
C.  Forestry Institutions ----------------------------------   5
State Agencies -----------------------------------------   5
Other Agencies -----------------------------------------   7
D.  Financing the Sub-Sector -------------------------------   8
II.  PROJECT RATIONALE ------------------------------------------   9
A.  Development Potentials and Problems --------------------   9
Potentials ---------------------------------------------   9
Principal Problems ------------------------------------   9
B.  Government's Plan for Forestry Development -------------  12
C.  Project Objectives and Rationale for Its Selection             13
Project Objectives -------------------------------------  13
Rationale for Project Selection ------------------------  13
D.  Approach to Project Design -----------------------------  15
E.  Lessons From Previous Agricultural Projects ------------  15
III.  THE PROJECT ------------------------------------------------  16
A.  Description --------------------------------------------  16
Afforestation and Related Works ------------------------  16
Forest Extension ---------------------------------------  18
Sub-Sector Study ---------------------------------------  18
Pilot Credit ------------------------------------------  19
Project Coordination Unit  -----------------------------  19
Project Administration ---------------------------------  19
B.  Project Phasing ----------------------------------------  19
C.  Cost Estimate -----------------------------------------  19
D.  Financing ----------------------------------------------  22
E.  Procurement -------------------------------------------  22
F.  Disbursement -------------------------------------------  24
G.  Environmental Effect -----------------------------------  25
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                       -------------  25
A.  The Borrower and Implementing Agencies ----------------  25
B.  Terms and Procedures of Financing ----------------------  28
Lending Terms to PORTUCEL ------------------------------  28
Lending Terms and Procedures Under the Pilot Credit ----  28
Condition of Afforestation on Private Lands ------------  29
Recovery of Cost of DGFF's Operation -------------------  30
Income to the Beneficiaries ---------------------------  31
L This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PageNo.
C.  Organization and Financial Evaluation of PORTUCEL            --  31
Organization ----------------------------------------------  31
Financial Record ------------------------------------------  32
Prospects -------------------------------------------------  32
D.  Progress Reporting, Monitoring, and Evaluation  -----------  33
E.  Accounts and Audits ---------------------------------------  34
V.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ------------------------------------  35
A.    Production  ------------------------------------------------   35
B.  Market Prospects -----------------------------------------  36
C.  Prices --…                ---------------        --------------  37
D.  Benefits and Beneficiaries --------------------------------  38
E.  Key Economic Indicators -----------------------------------  38
F.  Project Risks----------------------------------------------  39
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ------------------------  40
ANNEXES
1. Supporting Tables
T-1.  Personnel Requirements ----------------------------------  42
T-2.  Phasing of Afforestation --------------------------------  43
T-3.  Cost Estimate --------------------------------…------  44
T-4.  Estimated Schedule of Expenditures ----------------------  45
T-5.  List and Cost of Equipment Needed by DGFF, PORTUCEL, and
Project Unit --------------------------------------------  46
T-6.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan ---------  47
T-7.  PORTUCEL:  Consolidated Balance Sheet, 1976-1986 --------  48
T-8.  PORTUCEL:  Consolidated Sources and Applications of
Funds,  1977-1986  …--- --- ------------------------------     49
T-9.  PORTUCEL:  Consolidated Income Statement, 1977-1986 ----  50
T-10.  Project Output ------------------------------------------  51
T-ll.  Summary of Principal Economic Indicators ----------------  52
2.  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File  --------  53
MAP
IBRD 14735 - Project Area
CHART
World Bank 21129 - Organigram of Implementing Agencies.



I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Project Origin and Preparation
1.01      The project idea emerged in mid-1977 during the process of identify-
ing a pulp and paper project when it was felt that the viability of that project
and the long term development of the entire wood processing industry depended on
an integrated development of the forestry sub-sector. Project identification
was completed in January 1979, and the proposed project was prepared by FAO/CP
in collaboration with a Portuguese counterpart team and with assistance of the
Bank. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal team consisting of
Messrs. T. Haile-Mariam, E. Karmires (Bank), and B. Jones (Consultant), which
visited Portugal during October 15-November 1, 1979; and Mr. J. Spears (Bank),
who joined the team during October 29-31, 1979.
B. The Forest Economy 1/
1.02      Importance to the Economy.  The direct and indirect contributions
of the forestry sub-sector to the national economy are substantial. Forest
products, which account for about 15% of agricultural GDP, are the single
most important source of foreign exchange from agricultural exports. In 1978,
they accounted for about Esc 20 billion (US$400 million) or nearly 40% of
total agricultural exports (cork 40%, pulp 30%, roundwood 20%, and resin
products 10%). Forestry work provides an important source of direct income
for about 1.5 million rural inhabitants, most of whom have incomes below the
relative poverty income level, which for 1978 is estimated at about US$450
equivalent. Forest products feature significantly in indigenous consumption
patterns, supplying materials essential to economic development such as paper,
construction timber, fuelwood, furniture, railway sleepers and transmission
poles. The forests supply raw materials for wood processing industries, which
employ some 60,000 persons, many of them in small scale sawmills, joinery or
furniture manufacturing enterprises, well distributed throughout the rural
areas. The country has a good natural forest resource base which provides an
opportunity for increasing the sub-sector's contribution to economic growth
and development.
1.03      Forest Resources and Their Ownership.  The existing and potential
forest areas are estimated at nearly 5 million ha, or an equivalent of about
60% of the total land area. Of the 5 million ha, 3 million ha are presently
occupied by forests, there being a greater density in the central region
between the Douro and Tejo Rivers (1.4 million ha), followed by the southern
region (1.2 million ha), and then the northern region (0.4 million ha) (Map
IBRD 14735). Forests are extensive along the western littoral and are also
well represented in the wide basin of the Tejo River, persisting well into
the interior. The distribution of forested land is influenced predominantly
1/   This report discusses the forestry sub-sector only.  General discussions
on the agricultural sector are contained in: Portugal Agricultural Sector
Survey, Vols. I and II, March 16, 1978.



by ecological factors, but social and economic influences such as the distri-
bution of population and the distribution of the wood processing industries
have had significant influences. About 80% of these existing forests are
owned by some 800,000 individual smallholders with average holding sizes
of about 3 ha each owned in scattered plots; the rest are owned by baldios 1/,
wood processing industries, and the State. The scattered nature of private
holdings is a constraint to afforestation (para. 2.03) and marketing (para.
2.04).
1.04      The remaining 2 million ha are being left uncultivated or used for
extensive grazing. The untapped potential forest areas, as in the case of
areas grown to forests now, are owned by a large number of smallholders. Most
are barren or are occupied with scrub vegetation. The opportunity costs of
such lands are low, but they can be utilized for forestry for which they are
often best suited.
1.05      Of the existing forest lands, 44% are occupied by conifers (mainly
P. pinaster and Douglas fir), 10% by Eucalyptus (mainly E. globulus), 21%
by cork oak (Quercus sube_r, 17% by holm oak (Quercus ilex), and the remaining
8% by other species.  P. pinaster 1/ and the oaks are indigenous to Portugal,
but the Eucalyptus have been introduced. The central and northern regions
contain the major part of the pine resource. As far as the wood processing
industries are concerned, conifers and Eucalyptus have the greatest industrial
significance (para. 1.12), and hence the project will focus on production of
these trees, consistent with Government policy. The forests are well placed
in relation to existing and planned wood using industries. The project area
would also cover the wood supply command areas of the major wood consuming
industries. Both conifers and broadleaved trees are well adapted in the
project area. Project afforestation with Eucalyptus would be concentrated in
ecologically suitable zones where there is good distribution of rainfall and
absence of severe cold. These occur principally in a coastal belt from
Odemira in the southwest, to the region of Porto in the northwest. Suitable
areas also occur further east along the Tejo River basin and in the Portalegre
area. P. Pinaster will generally be used for afforestation under conditions
not well suited to Eucalyptus, such as occur in the extensive hilly hinterland
at altitudes of up to 700 meters. P. nigra var. laricio and Pseudotsuga have
been demonstrated to be suitable for elevations exceeding the optimum for P.
pinaster where the climate gets colder and windier and thus will be used by
the proposed project for this purpose.
1/   The baldios lands are properties which, by tradition, are owned jointly
by members of a given community or village, as opposed to individually
owned lands. Normally, the communal property comprises marginal land,
while the good quality lands are owned and operated by individual members
of the communities or villages. Baldios land may carry forests, but are
often uncultivated or used for grazing. In 90% of cases, the Government
establishes and manages baldios forests, the remaining 10% having chosen
to operate on their own.



- 3 -
1.06      The current total pine and Eucalyptus growing stock amounts to about
129.3 million stere and 15.2 million stere underbark (st ub), respectively.
Current annual increments (CAI) for pine are estimated at 9.1 million st ub
and for Eucalyptus they amount to about 1.5 million st ub (1.0 million st ub
for existing poorly managed stands and 0.5 million st ub for becter managed
plantations). The mean annual increments (MAI) of existing pine and Eucalyptus,
at 4.7 st ub/ha and 8.1 st ub/ha, respectively, are considerably lower than
yields being obtained from forests of the same type in other parts of the
world where the natural growing conditions are similar to those of Portugal.
Yields are low due to fragmentation of ownership into small wood-lots, and
the practice of selective "creaming" of the better trees for sale. Also, on
small private areas where reforestation or afforestation has been done by
the farmers without technical guidance, poor land preparation, use of low
quality seedlings, inadequate maintenance of regeneration and planted stock,
failure to replace planting or regeneration losses, and unsuitable timing
and intensity of thinning often limit growth and yield. With intensive land
preparation, use of fertilizer where required, intensive weeding and improved
management, the average MAI for conifers could be increased to 8.5-10.6 st
ub/ha while for Eucalyptus it could be raised to 15.2-18.7 st ub/ha. The
potential for increasing the productivity of both species has been demon-
strated in plantations owned by private wood processing industries in the
country, which have attained similar yields.
1.07      Based on the above inventory data, and taking into account planned
afforestation, the annual allowable cut (AAC) for Eucalyptus, which is owned
mostly by the wood processing industries, through the 1980's is projected
at an average of about 3.5 million st ub rising to an average of about 4
million st ub and 7.1 million st ub in 1990 and 2000, respectively.  The
projection of AAC for conifers is complicated by the diversity in the pattern
of ownership and productivity of the small private owners, and by the un-
certainty about the willingness of farmers to cut and sell their trees. For
these reasons, three projections of supply are made: a pessimistic case,
assuming that the Government will continue to manage the State and baldios
forests at a low cutting rate (447,000 st ub per annum in 1980 moving to
900,000 st ub or to an equivalent of about 2.5 st ub/ha per annum by the year
2,000) and that existing private forests will continue to give a low yield of
about 4.7 st ub/ha; most probable case, assuming that cutting from the State
and baldios forests would be increased to yield at the same rate as the
private forests, but all other factors are the same as used in the pessi-
mistic case; and an optimistic case, assuming that all afforestation will
be managed on short, 30-year rotation and that existing forests will be
upgraded and yield at the same rate as afforestation, after reforestation.
In all cases, sawmill residue waste recovery of 20% is assumed along with
availability of the entire forest area to supply industrial use. The poten-
tial supplies (AAC's) of conifers under these assumptions, which could
be sustainable at least until the end of the century, are projected as
follows: pessimistic, 8.3 million st ub; most probable, 9.8 million st ub;
and optimistic, 11.4 million st ub. Based on the above and on projections
of demand by the domestic wood processing industries, the supply of Eucalyptus
wood for domestic industrial use appears to be very tight in the 1980's, the
extent of deficit depending directly on the amount of roundwood exported
and the extent to which domestic users compete effectively with the export



- 4 -
market. Additional Eucalyptus wood will become available for industrial
expansion in the 1990's if the presently planned afforestation program for
the 1980's is implemented. Otherwise, the same critical supply situation
as is expected in the 1980's will continue into the 1990's. The supply of
conifer wood depends on several factors, the most important of which is the
rate of production in state and Baldios forests. As the present global
production appears to be in excess of the potential AAC for the 'pessimistic'
case, a fairly drastic overcut condition will occur in the private owned
forests if production is not cut back. If the latter occurs, there will be
no additional supply of wood for further industrial expansion in this century.
If either of the more optimistic cases is assumed, however, there will be
wood available for further industrial expansion, but several factors are
critical to ensure an adequate and sustained supply: implementation of the
1980's afforestation program, creation of a forest extension service to
ensure correct silviculture and management of private forests, establishment
of small-owner cooperatives or associations to enable viable credit schemes
and to allow the rationalization of further exploitation, an increase in the
ability of local industry to compete successfully with the export markets
for roundwood and residuals, and an increase in the rate of recovery of
sawmill residuals from the presently assumed level of 20 percent. This
underlines the need for the project.
1.08      Forestry Employment.  The agricultural labor force is estimated
at about 32% of the total labor force, of which nearly 130,000 (15%) are
directly employed in afforestation/reforestation works and in various stages
of wood processing. Underemployment in agriculture is a chronic social and
economic problem. It would, therefore, appear that shortage of labor would
not be a constraint in forestry development, especially since labor is rela-
tively mobile among regions in Portugal. Nevertheless, because of the scat-
tered locations of the forest areas, demand in any particular village or
locality is usually not sustained or large enough to attract a large inflow
of migrant labor from regions of surplus to forest development areas. In some
regions labor supply is a problem to be taken into account in Government
planning of forestry activities.
1.09       Forest Industries and Their Ownership.  Portugal's forest industries
comprise pulp mills, saw mills, fiberboard mills', particle board mills, and
processing plants for resin and cork. Portugal is the world's largest
producer of cork, but most of the production is from south of the Tejo River
and outside of the project area. Resin, tapped from pinaster trees, is
usually considered a secondary forest product, but comprises a significant
part of the country's exports. Traditionally, resin tapping has also been
an influence on limiting the availability of pine saw logs and pulpwood as
farmers have tended to retain the standing trees as steady sources of income
from resin tapping and as hedges against inflation. Indications are, however,
that this influence is no longer as limiting as in the past, perhaps due to
steadily increasing prices of wood, especially saw logs.
1.10      The pulp mill industry is the largest of the forest industries in
terms of value of production and fixed capital formation. Sixty percent of
the mills are owned and operated by Empresa de Celulose e Papel de Portugal



- 5 -
(PORTUCEL), a Government entity established in 1976 to hold the public shares
in operating pulp and paper companies, and to manage companies which were not
nationalized but where the Government holds a majority of the shares. The
balance of the mills are owned and operated by two private companies. The
majority shar- (71%) of the larger of these companies (CELBI) is owned by
a Swedish firm (Billeruds AB), which started its operations in Portugal
more than 20 years ago with the Government retaining a minority share (29%).
The other private company (CAIMA), 95% owned by British interests, is also
long established in Portugal, and was the pioneer of the pulping of Eucalyptus
not only in Portugal but in the world. PORTUCEL, however, accounts for
70% of pulp production.
1.11      There are over 1,000 privately owned scattered sawmills ranging
in annual production from a few to 35,000 m3 sawn lumber output per year.
Several of the larger mills have new and efficient equipment, usually with
automated pallet wood sections and dry kilns utilizing thin, small size wood
for manufacturing fruit boxes. These larger mills realize a 60-70% recovery,
and usually export nearly all of their production. Many are now installing
barkers and chippers so that 20-30% of their round wood input will eventually
be available for manufacturing pulp and wood based panels. Almost all the
sawmills are located in the pine growing region of Portugal, with the majority
scattered throughout the western portion of northern Portugal. There is a
need to consolidate many of the mills to rationalize their operations, to
increase their recovery, and to improve utilization of their byproducts for
production of pulp. One of the expected outcomes of a sub-sectoral study to
be conducted under the proposed project (para. 3.10) would be a recommendation
on the optimum size and distribution of sawmills. There are also eight
particle board plants, mostly located in the central and northern parts of the
country. In 1978, their total production amounted to about 190,000 tons,
mostly for the domestic market.
1.12      There are plans to expand existing pulp and paper mills and to
construct new ones in response to rising export and domestic demands for
pulp and paper, for which the Bank's assistance has been requested. The
volume of industrial wood utilized is projected to rise from the present
level of about 10.2 million st ub (70% conifers and 30% Eucalyptus) to about
14.3 million st ub by early 1990, and demand is expected to continue rising
thereafter. To meet the rising demand, the Government plans to bring existing
forest stands under more intensive management to raise their productivity
by providing technical assistance particularly to smallholder forest owners,
and by establishing new plantations. The proposed project would provide
support to this effort.
C. Forestry Institutions
1.13      State Agencies.  The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP)
has the overall responsibility for the development of the sub-sector. The
Ministry operates through two Forestry Directorates: the Directorate for
Forest Development (DGFF), and the Directorate for Forest Management (DGOGF).



- 6 -
The DGFF indentifies, prepares, and implements afforestation projects. DGOGF
manages baldios and State forests, enforces Government's laws concerning
forestry, and is also responsible for maintaining forest roads and for fire
protection.  The DGOGF also assumes responsibility for the protection and
management of DGFF plantations once these have been established.
1.14      DGFF operates through a network of 10 "brigades," each responsible
for a particular forestry zone. DGOGF has a regional organization of Forest
Divisions sub-divided into eighteen districts staffed by permanent personnel.
Both Directorates would be involved in project implementation. A major weak-
ness of the present MAP organization, as far as forestry is concerned, is the
lack of any specialized extension and technical service for assisting forest
owners, particularly small private farmers. The proposed project will attempt
to remedy this problem.
1.15      DGFF is staffed with 25 well qualified forestry experts and a
further 50 junior level technicians. In 1979, its total operating budget
amounted to about Esc. 194 million (US$3.9 million). In contrast, DGOGF has
100 senior and 150 junior level technicians, with a total operating budget of
Esc. 655 million (US$13.1 million). The staffing and operating budgets of
both institutions are low, relative to forest development requirements, and
the financial allocation is far below the sub-sector's absorptive capacity.
Despite their severely limited material and human resources, however, both
institutions have performed reasonably well up to now. Planning is done
at headquarters in Lisbon taking into account feedbacks from field personnel.
The record of plan implementation is generally good, although actual annual
afforestation has tended to fall behind planned targets in recent years
because of shortages of investment resources, and delay in releasing budgeted
funds which often result in loss of time during peak planting months each
year (para. 3.16).
1.16      During 1965-79, DGFF established over 115,000 ha of plantations at
an average annual rate of about 8,000 ha per year, reaching about 11,000 ha
annually during the last two seasons. 1/ DGOGF manages about 303,000 ha of
baldios and 57,000 ha of state forests. Its typical annual volume of work in
recent years has amounted to thinnings of 7,000 ha and firebreak establishment
and maintenance works on a further 30,000 ha, and the production of about
400,000-425,000 st ub of industrial wood. Given adequate additional material
and human resources, both directorates have the organizational capacity to
assume responsibility for expanded operations.
1.17      MAP is also responsible for forestry research, which it conducts
through its National Agricultural Research Institute (INIA), and the Poly-
technic Institute of Vila Real. Other Ministries and the wood processing
1/   Afforestation by the wood processing industries amounted to a total of
35,000 ha, their present average annual capacity being about 12,000 ha
per year; the rest of the afforestation was done by individual farmers on
small plots, but most of the private forests are natural stands.



- 7 -
industries also conduct research on forestry and wood technology. Research
areas include trials on plant varieties, wood quality, diseases, fertilization,
tending, growth and yield, and extraction techniques. Although the subject
matter covered by research is relevant to the problems of the country and the
quality of the research output appears good, there is a clear need for co-
ordination of the research effort. Numerous important research topics, such
as tree breeding fall into a multi-disciplinary category and require coordina-
tion in a national program to ensure effective end results and the efficient
use of the considerable range of resources required for their implementation.
Greater emphasis is desirable in species and provenance testing, genetic
improvement of tree species, and in tree seed collection, handling, storage
and testing.  Although the Government allocates sufficient human and budgetary
*           resources for research, it intends to address the problems of direction and
management as part of its general re-organization plan for its agencies and
institutions, and is using British bilateral assistance in this connection.
The coordination of research effort would improve long-run forest development
planning, but has very little direct impact on the outcome of the proposed
project.
1.18      The Ministry, through its DGFF, also operates a network of about 30
nurseries which are closely linked with the state run research stations. The
seedlings from these nurseries supply the Government's own afforestation/
reforestation needs and the needs of small individual farmers. Part of the
nursery system is a series of automated greenhouses to provide an insurance
in the event of disease epidemics, heavy frosts, or other problems that might
occur in open field nurseries, and to provide a controlled growing environment
for special seed lots. The total annual present nursery capacity in the
country is estimated at slightly over 100 million seedlings, sufficient for
planting about 50,000 ha per year. This is well above the proposed project's
requirements.
1.19      There are many specialized vocational training centers and institu-
tions of higher learning active in agriculture. Of these, the Instituto
Superior de Agronomia in Lisbon is the only one which provides advanced
training in forestry science. Virtually all of the country's senior forestry
technicians and their junior counterparts have attended this institution.
Total graduates to-date amount to 150 forest engineers (equivalent to a
Masters Degree), 600 junior engineers, and 900 forest technicians. Since a
large number of the junior engineers and forest technicians are at present
unemployed or underemployed, no difficulties are foreseen in meeting the
additional technical staffing requirements of the project (para 3.13). The
State also has a Forestry Products Institute which gathers and analyzes data
on activities pertaining to the forestry products, particularly on export
marketing.
1.20      Other Agencies.  Some of the wood processing industries have forestry
department, and maintain their own nurseries. PORTUCEL, for example, has
three forestry related departments with responsibilities for purchasing wood
to supply mills, forest exploitation operations (felling, debarking, logging,
skidding and transportation), and afforestation. The quality of afforestation
work and management of forests is high, and hence the average MAI of the



- 8 -
company's forests is about double the national average. Similarly, CELBI
has a highly developed forestry department which has carried out intensive
research on Eucalyptus planting methods and management systems.
D. Financing the Sub-Sector
1.21       There are three main sources of financing the sub-sector:  domestic
public funds, domestic private capital, and external capital.  The external
capital is utilized mainly in financing activities related to wood processing
industries.  In the past, nearly all of the public funds channeled to the
sub-sector were used for afforestation, reforestation, and the management of
existing baldios and state forests.  Up to now, part of the investment on
baldios and individually owned lands is funded on a long-term subsidized credit
basis while a very small proportion is extended to them as direct grants to
induce the owners to participate in afforestation programs. Afforestation
credits and lump-sum subsidies apply to private farmers, while the grants are
extended to owners of baldios lands. Subsidies are granted up to Esc. 30,000
(US$600) per farmer, preference being given to farmers who agree to "block-
farming" by joining in association within designated afforestation zones, with
the aim of creating large and compact blocks of afforestation. The credits
carry an interest rate of 2% per annum, and the loan repayment periods vary
between 15 and 30 years depending on the coppice rotation, compared to average
interest rate of 16.50% and shorter repayment terms on loans for other
long-term agricultural loans. Loan repayments are made in kind with the
Government retaining 30-50% of the harvest, the actual percentage depending
on yields and prices at the time of harvest.
1.22      Under a recently revised Government regulation, the tradition of
subsidized credit financing of afforestation on private lands has been sus-
pended, and the responsibility has been transferred to IFADAP (Agricultural
and Fisheries Development Fund); this arrangement does not affect financing on
baldios lands where DGFF is permitted to continue its operations as in the
traditional practices. However, IFADAP's lending operations for afforestation
on private lands are hampered by the present lack of clearly defined lending
terms and procedures. Meanwhile, DGFF continues to implement afforestation
projects on private lands on the same terms and conditions as in baldios lands
under an interim arrangement whereby the cost of afforestation on baldios and
private lands is financed through the state budget with the public expenditure
to be recouped through cost recovery mechanism similar to a stumpage fee.
1.23      The above financing scheme appears to have been formulated on an
ad hoc basis, without a detailed investigation on the sub-sector's needs,
development strategies, and alternative policy options. For instance, credit
may not be an appropriate vehicle for financing afforestation projects from
the point of view of either IFADAP or the sub-borrowers because: (a) the
long gestation period of such projects, which varies from 10-12 years for
Eucalptus to over 20 years for pine, requires extremely long grace periods for
repayment of loans, and (b) experience elsewhere in the world has shown that
farmers are reluctant to borrow funds to develop long gestation forest trees



- 9 -
because they attach a high risk premium in view of the delayed benefits. There
is, however, scope for IFADAP's involvement in credit financing of integrated
forest extraction and management operations which show immediate cash benefits
to the farmers; there are evidences of demand for credit financing of such
operations a- farmers at present borrow funds from commercial sources to buy
tractors, trucks, and logging equipment to harvest and market their own
produce. This underscores the need for a coherent and rational policy defini-
tion on financing terms in the sub-sector. The sub-sectoral study to be
conducted under the proposed project will address these issues with IFADAP's
participation. The study is expected to be completed by the end of 1982.
Meanwhile, all of DGFF's afforestation under this project would be financed
through the state budget and the cost recouped through cost recovery mechanism
(para. 4.18). PORTUCEL also envisages getting into share-cropping arrangement
with owners of lands on the same terms and conditions as DGFF.
II. PROJECT RATIONALE
A. Development Potentials and Problems
2.01      Potentials.  The climatic and ecological conditions in Portugal are
particularly favorable to forestry. Much of the total land area is covered
with thin sandy soils, more suitable to forestry than to agricultural cropping.
The rapidly rising domestic and export demands for forest products provide
favorable market outlets for the potential production (paras. 5.05 and 5.06).
Portugal also has a well established industrial base on which to build
production for both domestic and export markets. Mobilization of foreign
exchange for general development purposes is a high priority concern of the
Government, and the forestry sub-sector has a potential for significantly
increasing foreign exchange earnings. The productivity of the sector can be
increased rapidly given appropriate investment and technical assistance
inputs. The Government is committed to encouraging rationalization of output
from small forest owners to ensure sustained and increased industrial wood
supplies, and thereby promote economic growth and equitable distribution of
the gains from growth. The proposed project would support this effort.
2.02      Principal Problems.  Apart from a shortage of investment resources,
there are several problems, most of which emanate from institutional weaknesses.
Some of the weaknesses have been inherited from past neglect of agriculture,
while others emerged as a natural part of the evolution of agricultural
institutions after the revolution of 1974. Among the problems, there are five
major ones which are of significance to the proposed project. These are
elaborated below.
2.03      The first is the fragmented nature of land ownership, particularly
in the northern half of Portugal. This complicates planning of road con-
struction and timber harvesting (para 4.16). Securing simultaneous agreement



- 10 -
of several owners in contiguous blocks to purchase and operate road construc-
tion and harvesting equipment is not easy. In order to do this, the farmers
have to be organized into groups or associations as it is difficult and
prohibitively expensive to administer financial and technical support on an
individual basis. However, the farmers are generally very individualistic and
suspicious of outside efforts to organize them. The nationalization of
farmers' lands, which was the main feature of the land reform in Alentejo
region after the 1974 revolution, has created a stigma against cooperatives
partly as a result of undesirable experiences with such forms of farm organiza-
tions in the south. However, two noteworthy attempts are being made by the
farmers' own initiatives to improve the productivity of small farm forests by
the work of forestry associations in the central region, and through forestry
activities now being undertaken by private agricultural cooperatives in the
north, where there have been successful cooperatives for wine and crop produc-
tion that have been operating for years. The primary motivating force behind
these has been the potential for raising incomes of members through such
efforts. Such isolated examples indicate the potentialities for expanding
voluntary small private forest farmers' associations by providing the owners
with attractive incentives. These incentives could include provision of
combined long-term financing and technical assistance, where such an attrac-
tive package is not available at present, and also the prospect of expanding
wood markets being generated by integrated expansion of industrial wood
processing capacities. Such an approach would be tested under the proposed
project on a pilot basis (para. 3.11). The lessons to be learned from this
experiment will be used to evaluate the scope for a larger scale private
forest project at a later date to be financed under a possible second phase
project.  The initial effort will focus on farmers who are responsive to
incentives so that results achieved by such farmers could be emulated by
others. Although this part of the proposed project would be modest, it would
clearly be of high priority in relation to the overall objective of trying to
improve the productivity of the existing forests and thereby increase the
incomes of the small farmers.
2.04      The second major problem is the unsatisfactory organization of the
marketing system. Harvesting is essentially a "creaming" operation carried
out by independent logging contractors whose main objective is to secure
the best trees with little regard to future yields. This, combined with poor
silvicultural practices, has resulted in the yields from small private forests
being less than half their potential. The proposed project would attempt to
alleviate the marketing problem by organizing the farmers to market their own
produce (para. 3.11), and by identifying industrial market outlets for their
produce, thus promoting effective competition with the traditional logging
middlemen, improving the performance of the marketing system, raising the
farmers' share of the value of outputs, thereby increasing their incomes.
2.05      A third problem is the lack of small farmer forestry extension
services. No agency exists at present to give assistance and technical
advice to the small private forest owners, who own and control most of the
forest resources. Part of the reason is the shortage of manpower and funds,
and partly it is a result of the legacy of the traditional neglect of the



- 11 -
agricultural sector. There is, therefore, a need to establish a small farmer
log production and forest management extension service within MAP to give
technical advice, and to prepare and monitor sub-projects by small private
owners and/or private forest associations. This will be done under the
proposed project.
2.06      The fourth problem deals with uncertainty about the land reform
law, particularly its impact on the acquisition of land and rights to land by
the private wood processing industries. In general, it is normal for wood
processing industries to have direct control over part of the supply of their
raw material inputs. But investments in afforestation by the companies have
been severely curtailed in the past few years because of uncertainties arising
from the recent agrarian reform law. Traditionally, the companies had acquired
land for their afforestation programs using the following three options:
lease agreement with owners, outright purchase, and share cropping. The
companies' preference is to acquire land through share cropping arrange-
ment as they consider this the most attractive option, and owners of the
lands are also known to prefer this arrangement over selling or leasing. But
the agrarian reform law restricts share cropping by private companies, thus
limiting the options available to the companies for acquiring land and for
expanding their plantations. The law applies to the entire agricultural
sector without flexibility to allow, for instance, share cropping in special
cases such as in forestry. Leaving the potential forest lands unutilized
because of restrictions imposed by the agrarian reform law would only deprive
the country and small farmers of the social and economic benefits to be
gained from the productive use of the lands. Agrarian reform in Portugal is
still evolving and the problems associated with that reform have much wider
sectoral and sub-sectoral implication than this project. The sub-sectoral
study to be conducted under the project would address these issues, with the
objective of evolving a coherent forest development policy along with the
legal framework for implementing the policy, including possible amendments to
the law to remove restrictions on land acquisition and utilization by the wood
processing industries.
2.07      The fifth problem deals with forest fires.  Over the past decade,
the incidence of forest fires has been high, a total of about 65,000 ha
having been burnt. Fires in old P. pinaster forests do not cause a signifi-
cant loss of investment because the thick bark of that species provides
adequate protection and as long as salvage logging is carried out immediately,
before insect attack occurs; the major inconvenience is that of changing
operational plans and areas of work. In young conifer stands and in
Eucalyptus forest, the damage is more severe, often causing a significant
loss. Unfortunately, most of the 65,000 ha burned were young conifer stands.
The high incidence of fires does not reflect on the competence of DGOGF to
deal with the problem, as the majority of the fires are caused by factors
beyond their immediate control; the incidence of fires in the last two years,
when about 30% of the above area was burnt, has been very high, not only in
Portugal but throughout the western mediterranean region. The best way to
minimize damage is to ensure an adequate look-out system for early detection,
establish a hazard warning system, increase patrolling, establish firebreaks
and keep them free of combustible material during the danger season, prune the



- 12 -
lower branches of young stands, maintain roads in good condition for rapid
access, use fire stand-by crews equipped with appropriate fire fighting
tools, and establish a complete radio communications network. DGOGF considers
that satisfactory measures are being taken in all of these areas as far as
existing state and Baldios forests are concerned and that further assistance
from the proposed project is not required. As far as privately owned forests
are concerned, responsibility rests with the owners and it is only by educa-
tion and extension that negligent owners will be persuaded to take appropriate
action. The proposed project addresses this issue through its technical
services component. For the project afforestation, provision is made in
plantation establishment and maintenance costs for a comprehensive road and
firebreak system, for clean weeding of firebreaks and plantations during the
critical early years, for pruning of lower branches, for motorcycles to allow
increased patrolling and for vehicles and other radios to itensify the already
existing communications network.
B. Government's Plan for Forestry Development
2.08      The Government is seriously concerned to develop the forestry sub-
sector. The development strategy is to increase wood supply from both exist-
ing and new forests. The latter objective is a continuation, at an accelerated
rate, of past afforestation programs while the forest management improvement
is a fairly new objective reflecting the emerging emphasis on increasing produc-
tivity and incomes of small farmers. By following these approaches, the
Government plans to achieve the twin objectives of economic growth through
more efficient exploitation of both utilized and underutilized resources (land
and labor respectively), and of promoting equitable income distribution by
investing funds in regions where rural poverty is widespread, such as in the
project area. These objectives are shared by the Bank.
2.09      Concerning improvement of existing forests, the Government's plan
is to upgrade general silvicultural practices on private, baldios and other
forest areas at the rate of about 120,000 ha per year. This appears too
ambitious and perhaps unattainable mainly because this implies reaching
about 40,000 scattered smallholder farmers per year, which is too large
compared to the manpower resources of MAP, and the Government has not had
previous experience in this field. Moreover, the farmers can be assisted
effectively only by grouping them into associations and providing them with
combined technical and financial support to attain economies of scale in the
use of equipment for road construction, logging, transporting wood, and
constructing fire protection works. In the short term, the level of invest-
ment which can be channelled into improvement of existing smallholder private
forests cannot be substantial. A period of technical assistance, extension
service and institution building will be needed before significant investment
funds can be absorbed effectively by the small farmers.
2.10      Concerning afforestation, the Government's objective is to increase
gradually the rate of afforestation development by its agencies alone to
about 50,000 ha per year through the 1980s.  Based on past experience, the



- 13 -
projected rate of afforestation is probably too ambitious and difficult to
attain in the short-run, although it could be attainable in the long-run.
A realistic afforestation target would be about 30,000 ha per year in the
immediate future for DGFF and PORTUCEL which is still much higher than actual
achievements in the recent past. The proposed project would include a five
year time slice of an afforestation program based on this rate of development.
This rate of development will be maintained or even surpassed during the
second half of 1980's if intensive effort is made by the Government to
identify, contact, and organize owners of potential forest lands, and to
plan mobilization of unskilled labor required for planting.  By that time,
the forestry institutions would also have been strengthened to take on
expanded responsibilities, having gained valuable experience under this
project. In addition to the projected afforestation program by the Govern-
ment's agencies, the private wood processing industries plan to develop about
7,000 ha per year, the output of which would contribute significantly to
industrial wood supply. The companies would implement this program using
their own funds, and therefore no provision has been made for this purpose
under the proposed project. However, these private companies would be in-
cluded as an integrated part of the study to be conducted under the proposed
project, and part of the project area would be located within the wood supply
command areas of these companies also.
C. Project Objectives and Rationale for Its Selection
2.11      Project Objectives.  The objectives of the proposed project are to
(a) increase foreign exchange earnings (and savings) and promote economic
growth by increasing forest production on marginal lands, (b) promote institu-
tion building by establishing forestry extension service within MAP, (c)
develop a plan for a long-term integrated development strategy for the forestry
sub-sector, and (d) consequently improve the incomes of poor smallholder
forest owners.
2.12      Rationale for Project Selection.  The Bank's involvement in the
forestry sub-sector should be directed towards helping the Government to
realize the full potential of the sub-sector by alleviating its development
constraints. The proposed project's selection is influenced by this general
objective. The project's selection and design is also influenced by the follow-
ing economic and institutional considerations: there is a potential for
increasing foreign exchange earnings (and savings) through expanded production
of forest products; production of forest-related outputs is one agricultural
activity where Portugal has a comparative advantage in international trade
and there is a potential for improving the efficiency of resource utilization
and for promoting economic growth by implementing a project of this kind;
forest products are essential for domestic economic growth; there is a satis-
factory institutional base for implementing the project; and the proposed
project is a priority concern of the Government as it is part of an integrated
development program of the wood processing industries.



- 14 -
2.13      In recent years, Portugal's balance of payments has tended to
deteriorate. 1/ One of the reasons for this is rise in food imports and
decline in agricultural exports. This situation could be reversed by curtail-
ing the rising level of demand for imported foods through increased import
substituting domestic production while at the same time expanding exports,
provided of course, funds are available to pursue both policy options con-
currently. The Bank, through the on-going Agricultural and Fisheries Credit
Project (para. 2.19) would assist to increase import substituting food produc-
tion, while the proposed project would help to expand exports; the proposed
project would not compete for land use with import substituting production of
food crops. Such an approach to the development of Portuguese agriculture,
apart from helping to address the overall balance of payments problem, could
also help to release foreign exchange which can be used for importing capital
goods and technology which are essential for the overall growth and development
of the economy.
2.14      Because of favorable climatic and ecological conditions, a large
land resource base, and proximity to traditional export markets, Portugal
is in a position to capture an expanding share of the growing European markets
for forest products. The domestic resource cost of earning (or saving) a unit
of foreign exchange through the exploitation of forest products is favorable
relative to other agricultural activities, indicating the comparative advantage
of the sub-sector.
2.15      DGFF, which would play an important role in implementing the
project is one of the few reasonably well organized Government agencies
with long experience in forestry project planning and execution. It is also
one of the few agencies whose activities have not been disrupted seriously by
the continuing and uncertain reorganization of MAP, and the long-established
afforestation and reforestation program would most likely continue uninter-
rupted. At this time, when new institutions have yet to build up their
credibility, it is prudent to focus on projects which, in addition to being
technically and economically sound, are less risky, simple enough to be
implemented by existing institutions, and not likely to be affected adversely
by the continuing reorganization of MAP. The proposed project fits in this
scheme of development.
2.16      The Government has requested the Bank's assistance in financing
expansion in two of PORTUCEL's existing mills, and in the construction of a
new mill. The viability of this investment, and the long-run development of
the entire wood-based industrial sub-sector, depends on the availability of
raw materials within a reasonable distance. The project would increase the
supply of such raw materials. The proposed project fits in well with the
Bank's lending strategy for the agricultural sector and is also in line with
the Government's forest development objectives.
1/   See Portugal:  An Economy in Transition (March 16, 1977), pp. 21-25.



- 15 -
D. Approach to Project Design
2.17      Two broad approaches were considered when designing the proposed
project: the first was to include in the project improvement of existing
forests, probably requiring substantial credit facilities for small private
forest owners, together with an increase in the rate of afforestation, both
supported by a technical assistance component, thus attacking the entire
forest development problem under a single project. This approach was rejected
because: (a) very little information was available at the time of project
preparation on the potentialities, needs and approaches in respect of improve-
ment of existing forests, particularly on the role of credit to small forest
owners. This made it difficult to prepare a project which could reliably be
demonstrated to be viable in all aspects without detailed and prolonged
investigation; and (b) the Government had very little previous experience in
assisting small private forest owners and involvement in developing existing
forests would have required a sophisticated and perhaps new institution for its
implementation, thus adding to the institutional problems associated with the
changing and uncertain reorganization of MAP. For these reasons, a careful
study was considered essential before embarking on an ambitious and potentially
risky project.
2.18      The second approach, which was adopted as the most desirable alter-
native, was to proceed with the project in two phases. The first phase would
focus on components which are relatively simple to implement given the ex-
perience and capability of MAP to prepare and implement a project of this
type, and in respect of which reliable information is readily available. This
phase would consist essentially of an expansion of the on-going affores-
tation program, but would include an important institution building component
for training and studies in preparation for embarking on a more ambitious
development program in the future. The proposed project would comprise this
phase. The second phase, which would be influenced by the outcome of the
studies to be financed under the proposed project, would focus on components
which are more complex than those under the project, and in respect of which
the Government did not have enough previous implementation experience. It
would emphasize improvement of productivity of existing private and baldios
forests, and is expected to include provision of credit to forestry co-
operatives and associations, as well as the active participation of the
forestry extension service which would be established under the proposed
project.
E. Lessons from Previous Agricultural Projects
2.19      Bank lending in the agricultural sector of Portugal is fairly
new. The first loan (US$70 million) for the only on-going Agricultural and
Fisheries Credit Project was approved in May 1978. Implementation of the
project is just being initiated, and hence not enough experience has been
accumulated which could have been used as feedback in designing the proposed



- 16 -
project.  Besides, these two projects are fundamentally different in their
components and objectives and hence the technical experiences from one are not
directly transferable to the other. However, lessons from experience with
other forestry activities in the country, whether technical or institutional,
have been taken into account in designing the project. The Government is
aware of the tradition of weak agricultural institutions, which has been
accentuated by the continuing re-organization of Government agencies, and
wants to proceed cautiously by starting with projects which are within the
implementation capabilities of the existing institutions. This approach is
reasonable and the proposed project design complies with such a requirement.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01       The proposed project will consist of:
(a)  the establishment of about 150,000 ha of new plantation forests by
expanding the on-going afforestation programs, of which 90,000 ha
would be implemented by MAP through DGFF, and the remaining 60,000
ha by PORTUCEL;
(b) technical assistance and training:
(i)  the establishment of the basis for forest extension service
within MAP, and training of forest extensionists; and
(ii)  an in-depth study of the forestry sub-sector with special
emphasis on the potentialities, needs, and approaches for
improvement of existing private and baldios forests, and
on defining a long-term development strategy for forests and
forest industries;
(c)   the provision of credit for pilot scale integrated extraction,
forest management and marketing operations by associations or
cooperatives of small private forest owners; and
(d) the establishment of a Project Coordination Unit to coordinate
project implementation, progress reporting, monitoring, and
evaluation functions.
3.02      Afforestation and Related Works.  The afforestation would be done on
baldios, private, and public lands, the distribution by ownership to be
determined during the implementation stage based on the supply of suitable
forest lands in different localities. But, most of it is expected to be
carried out on baldios and private lands as these account for nearly 90%
of the potential afforestation areas.
3.03      The works would include land clearing and preparation; planting and
replacement of initial losses; construction of a system of access roads



- 1 7 -
integrated with firebreaks; and maintenance of plantations during the initial
growing years by weeding and application of necessary chemicals. The es-
tablishment techniques, spacing, and species to be used are well proven
in Portugal and are in line with experience elsewhere in southern Europe and
the mediterrarean basin. The main innovation to be introduced under the
proposed project will be wider plant spacing in mechanized areas (minimum of
3m x 3m) to facilitate intensive mechanized weeding and thereby promote faster
growth.
3.04      Most of the proposed project afforestation would take place on hilly
lands which are now occupied by scrub vegetation and scattered natural trees
which have no significant commercial value. All of these will be cleared
and the land ploughed and prepared before planting. Except in a few isolated
rocky or steep areas, where manual methods might be employed, the land clearing
and preparation would be mechanized. It is impractical to substitute animal
power and other labor intensive technology because the land preparation
requires uprooting and destruction of competing vegetation, deep ripping to
break up the sub-surface layers of rocky parent material, and the formation of
contour furrow and ridges, or of terraces depending on the degree of slope.
3.05      About 91,000 ha (60%) would be grown to conifers (mainly P. pinaster
and Douglas fir), 45,500 ha (30%) to Eucalyptus (mainly E. globulusT, and
the remaining 13,500 ha (10%) to other hardwoods. Distribution of the species
is based on projected industrial wood requirements, and on ecological considera-
tions. Seedlings would be obtained from existing nurseries, which are located
strategically throughout the various forestry zones. Existing nursery prac-
tices are satisfactory. However, seeds of some exotic species not available
locally would be imported.
3.06      Planting would be done manually.  Given the present state of affores-
tation and forest management technology in Portugal, labor required for affor-
estation is estimated at approximately 10-15 man-days per ha. Based on this
estimate, the additional labor required to meet the project's needs would be
about 150,000-225,000 man-days per annum, but since the peak demand planting
season is extended over five months (November-March), the additional manpower
required during this period would be about 1,000-1,500. No problems are fore-
seen in meeting this demand from local sources.
3.07      Full integration of road requirements for fire protection, general
access, and logging would be ensured by preparing a road and firebreak network
as part of the land preparation works for afforestation. The standard of
construction and maintenance would aim at keeping the roads open for light
vehicular requirements for protection purposes. Simple 4 m earth roads
would be constructed by tractors, with drainage ditches and stone/cement
culverts as required. Main access roads would usually be aligned just off
contour, linked from one level to another by feeder roads. Road and firebreak
densities would be about 20-45 m/ha depending on slope and terrain conditions.
The total length of the road and firebreak system would be about 5,500 km.
Adequate fire look-out points would also be constructed. The proposed project
would provide radios for communication between and among fire look-outs,
hedquarters, and field vehicles. All firebreaks would be kept weed-free and
special patrols would be put into opertaion during the high risk season.



- 18 -
3.08      Forest Extension.  For the first time, a forest extension service
would be established within MAP during 1980-82. The Service would primarily
assist small private forest owners and/or associations of such owners in,
inter alia, planning and implementing forest extraction and improvement works,
forest management practices, and marketing of forest products. Since there is
very little experience in forest extension in Portugal, consultants would be
provided for this purpose. The proposed project would provide about 52 man-
months of foreign consultant services in fields of forest extension, forest
management, sawmilling, marketing and small scale forest industries at a cost
of about US$80,000 per man-year including overheads and fee, travel, and
overseas allowances. The consultants would also: help to prepare sub-
projects under the pilot credit component of the proposed project (para.
3.11), study and help to formulate policy for credit financing in the forestry
sub-sector, and undertake on-the-job training of Portuguese forest exten-
sionists. The phased employment of these consultants would be completed
no later than April 30, 1981 on terms and conditions which are acceptable to
the Bank. Assurances were obtained to this effect (para. 6.01(a)(i)). The
Government is in the process of simplifying its procedures for employment of
foreign consultants to expedite recruitment and employment of expatriates
under this project. A detailed breakdown of consultant requirements is in
Annex 1, Table T-1. Assurances were also obtained that the forest extension
service would be established by December 31, 1982 and that the Government
would maintain it properly thereafter (para. 6.01(a)(ii)).
3.09      The proposed project would also provide fellowships for about 16
prospective Portuguese forest extensionists (one team of four experts in
logging, credit, marketing and small-scale industries for three of the adminis-
trative regions where extension is most likely to be easily accepted and
another team for the headquarters office) for about three months each to
undertake study tours, including on-the-job training in private forestry
associations in countries where similar experiences exist. The training
emphasis would be on acquiring a working knowledge of the operations of
private forestry associations. Following completion of their study tours,
the trainees would be assigned to field operations, and would also participate
in training locally other potential extensionists.
3.10      Sub-Sector Study.  There is considerable scope for improving the
data base in the forestry sub-sector to allow improved planning of development
strategy. This strategy would take into account forest resources, market
prospects, environmental aspects of forest development, alternative uses
of forest products such as for sawmilling and pulp, economic evaluation of
alternative future forest industrial development strategy, the identification
of institutional and policy constraints to achieving future targets and
recommendations for improvements, and the legal framework for implementing a
development strategy. The results of this study, which would be undertaken
during 1980-82, along with the experience under the pilot credit scheme and
the above mentined study on smallholder private farmers' associations are
expected to provide a good data base to start preparing a possible second
forestry project. About 64 man-months of foreign consultant services,
at the same cost as for the extension personnel, would be provided for this
purpose. The phased employment of these consultants would be completed



- 19 -
no later than April 30, 1981 on terms and conditions which are acceptable
to the Bank. Assurances were obtained to this effect (para. 6.01(a)(i)).
A detailed breakdown of consultant requirements is in Annex 1, Table T-1. The
findings and recommendations of the study would be submitted to the Bank no
later than December 31, 1982. Assurances were obtained to this effect (para.
6.01(a)(iii)).
3.11      Pilot Credit.  Funds would be provided for credit financing of
integrated forest extraction and related forest operations by selected small-
holder private farmers' associations or cooperatives. It is envisaged that
the credit would be used to purchase chain saws, logging tractors, and loading
and trucking equipment. The above mentioned forest extension service would
provide assistance to the farmers in planning extraction, harvesting, and
marketing operations, advice on improvements needed as a follow-up to extraction
operations, and to prepare sub-projects. An integrated approach to forestry
extraction, marketing, and forest improvement would be a significant depar-
ture from past practices where merchant middleman, with little commitment to
forest development, have encouraged "creaming" the forests. Credit would
be available only to associations which would be willing to accept obligations
to improve forest management by such practices as thinning, fire protection,
reforestation, and selective felling according to Government recommendations.
3.12      Project Coordination Unit.  A Project Coordination Unit would be
established within MAP. Such a coordinating and central unit will be essen-
tial as different components of the project would be implemented by different
agencies. The unit would be staffed with five senior officers including a
Project Manager. The project would provide vehicles and other essential
equipment and materials needed by the unit. It would be housed within exist-
ing buildings of MAP and hence no provision has been made for this purpose.
3.13      Project Administration.  In addition to the Project Coordination
Unit, financial provision would be made for incremental project staff, and for
additional vehicles which would be needed by field supervisory personnel. A
list of incremental staffing requirements is in Annex 1, Table T-1.
B. Project Phasing
3.14      The proposed project would be implemented over six years during
1980-85, commencing with the sub-sectoral study in 1980; afforestation will
start in 1981. The rate of afforestation would be increased gradually to give
the implementing agencies enough time to adjust to increased level of responsi-
bility. Details are in Annex 1, Table T-2.
C. Cost Estimate
3.15      The total cost of the project, including physical contingencies
and expected price increases, is estimated at about Esc. 8,509 million
(US$170.0 million) with a foreign exchange component of US$50 million or 29%.



- 20 -
The base cost estimate is based on the unit costs of the various major opera-
tions which are projected to prevail in June 1980. Taxes and duties have been
excluded as the project would be exempted from such charges. Physical contin-
gencies have been computed at an average of about 15% on plantation establish-
ment and related works. Allowances for expected price increases on the local
cost component are based on projected rates of domestic inflation and amount
to 22% in 1980, 18% in 1981, 14% in 1982, 12% in 1983, and 10% per annum
thereafter. The allowances for the foreign exchange component amount to 10.5%
in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and 7% per annum thereafter. Cost estimates
and the schedule of expenditures are summarized below and detailed in Annex 1,
Tables T-3 and T-4 respectively.



- 21 -
Cost Estimate /1
Estimated Cost            Estimated Cost       Foreign
Item                      Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total Exchange
----(Esc. million)----    ----(US$ million)----
Afforestation and
Related Works:
DGFF                1,792.1    950.0  2,742.1   36.0    18.9    54.9          34
PORTUCEL            1,174.1    631.4  1,805.5   23.4    12.6    36.0          35
Technical Assistance:
Extension              28.3      15.0      43.3    0.6       0.3     0.9      33
Training                 -        6.0       6.0      -      0.1      0.1    100
Studies                 1.0      20.0      21.0      -      0.4      0.4    100
Pilot Credit                50.0      50.0    100.0    1.0        1.0      2.0      50
Project Administration   244.8        64.8    309.6    4.7        1.3      6.0      22
Base Cost           3,290.3  1,737.2  5,026.5   65.7    34.6   100.3          34
Contingencies:
Physical
Contingencies
(13%)               437.3    225.0    662.3    8.8         4.5    13.3       34
Expected Price
Increase (49.6%) 2,274.8    545.4  2,820.2   45.5    10.9    56.4            19
Sub-Total           2,712.1    770.4  3,482.5   54.3    15.4    69.7          22
Total Project Cost       6,002.4  2,507.6  8,509.0  120.0    50.0   170.0           29
Expenditure Schedule
Calendar Year
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
-----------------US$ million----------------
Annual                             0.5      23.1    28.5    35.7    39.3    42.9
Cumulative                         0.5      23.6    52.1    87.8   127.1   170.0
/L   Errors due to rounding.  See Annex 1, Table T-3.



- 22 -
D. Financing
3.16      A Bank loan of US$50 million is proposed, including US$100,000 to be
used for retroactive financing of consultant services for the forestry exten-
sion and sub-sectoral studies components of the technical assistance program.
The proposed loan would finance all of the foreign exchange component. Of the
remaining cost, the Government would finance US$65.5 million, PORTUCEL US$47.2
million, the owners of baldios and small private forest lands US$6 million,
and IFADAP US$1.3 million. Contributions by PORTUCEL would cover all of the
local costs of its part of the project. Contributions by owners of baldios
and private forest lands would include labor for planting, and their total
contribution would account for about 7% of the cost of afforestation on their
lands. As the expenditures would be spread over 6 years, the Government's
contributions towards financing the project would not put a heavy burden on
the public budget, although it would mean a substantial increase in public
expenditures allocated for forest development. To help meet part of its
obligations, the Government expects to get financial assistance from the
European Investment Bank, which is willing to finance local expenditures under
this project. To avoid a loss of time during peak planting months due to
delays in releasing budgeted funds as happened in the past, assurances were
obtained that the Government would allocate funds for MAP's operations no
later than November 30 of each year for works to be executed during the
next planting season (para. 6.01(a)(iv)). The financing plan is summarized
below:
IFADAP
and
Item                          IBRD  Government PORTUCEL  Farmers  PBI's        Total
--------------------US$ Million-------------------
Afforestation                 46.2      60.4       44.2       6.0        -      156.8
Technical Assistance:
Extension                 0.4       0.9         -         -         -       1.3
Training                  0.1        -          -         -         -       0.1
Studies                   0.5        -          -         -        -        0.5
Pilot Credit                   1.3        -          -         -        1.3       2.6
Project Administration         1.5       4.2        3.0        -         -        8.7
Total                    50.0      65.5       47.2       6.0       1.3    170.0
% Share                       (29)      (39)       (28)       (3)        (1)   (100)
E. Procurement
3.17      As in the past, land preparation and the construction of forest
roads and fire protection works would be shared among DGFF, PORTUCEL, and



- 23 -
private contractors. Up to now, land preparation, and the construction of
roads and fire protection works on about 50% of areas afforested by the
Government has been done by private contractors while the remaining 50% is
done by DGFF, which maintained its own pool of machinery and service facilities.
Private contractors, of which there are about 30, accounted for about 70% of
similar works on lands owned and/or controlled by PORTUCEL. Under the proposed
project, DGFF would carry out a somewhat larger proportion of its affores-
tation and related works because of the expected competition with PORTUCEL for
the limited capacity in the private construction sub-sector, while a larger
proportion of PORTUCEL's works would be done by private contractors. The
private contractors can handle this increased volume of work. They have had
substantial experience in such operations, which are simple. Their performance
in carrying out their contractual obligations has been good.
3.18      Equipment and spare parts for DGFF's and PORTUCEL's afforestation
works would be procured following international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with the "Guidelines for Procurement Under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits - March 1977." Local manufacturers of equipment would be allowed
a 15% preference margin or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less.
A list of equipment is shown in Annex 1, Table T-5. To the extent possible,
contracts for such goods would be grouped into single bid packages of
US$500,000 or more equivalent. Equipment which cannot be suitably bulked for
ICB procurement and therefore would be unlikely to attract foreign suppliers
and/or goods under contracts of less than US$200,000 equivalent would be
procured through local procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million.
The local procedures are sound with contracts awarded following competitive
bidding. Foreign suppliers are well represented in Portugal and would be
allowed in bidding. There are adequate spare part supply and maintenance
services. All bid documents would be prepared under the general responsibility
of the Equipment Services Department of DGFF, which has many years of experi-
ence although limited to local procurement.
3.19      Afforestation works to be undertaken by private contractors,
the implementation of which would take about 5 years, would be individually
small, with the works scattered throughout the project area which covers about
75% of the country. Local contractors are knowledgeable about the working
environment in the different project sites, with their varying topography,
climate, and soils; they are also small and mobile. These provide them with
competitive advantage over foreign contractors. For the above reasons, the
private contractors' works are unlikely to attract foreign bids and are not
suitable for ICB procurement. They would, therefore, be procured by the
implementing agencies following local procedures which are satisfactory.
Contracts of US$100,000 or more equivalent would be procured through local
competitive bidding.
3.20      Goods and civil works under the pilot credit component would be
diverse and small and would not be suitable for ICB procurement. They would
be procured through normal commercial channels, provided contracts or orders
estimated to cost more than US$30,000 equivalent would be procured by prudent
shopping through solicitation of quotations or bids from at least three poten-
tial suppliers of goods and/or contractors for the civil works. The same



- 24 -
procurement procedures were agreed upon under the ongoing Agricultural and
Fisheries Credit Project. Seeds of exotic tree species (including Preudolsuga
menzesii, about 380 kg; Pinus nigra var. Laricio, about 730 kg; and Laric
decidus, about 40 kg) would be imported by DGFF from overseas supply companies
through normal commercial channels. Estimated amounts of project components
to be procured under ICB and local procedures would be as follows:
/1
Procedures and Amount
Item                                     ICB         Local        Total
--------(US$ million)-------
Afforestation and related works                16.9        140.1        157.0
Technical assistance and pilot credit            -           4.5          4.5
Project Administration                           -           8.5          8.5
Total                                    16.9        153.1        170.0
/1   Including contingencies.
F. Disbursement
3.21      The proposed Bank loan of US$50 million would be disbursed over six
years as follows:
% of Expenditure
Category                                                to be Financed
(a) Afforestation and related works
(i)  Equipment for DGFF (US$10.4 million),   100% of foreign expenditure
and PORTUCEL (US$3.4 million), and        or 100% local exfactory cost
the project unit (US$0.1 million)
(ii) Contractors' works, DGFF
(US$14.8 million),
and PORTUCEL (US$13.6 million)           32% of total expenditure
(b) Technical assistance
(i)  Extension (US$0.4 million)                  100% of foreign expenditure
(ii)  Training (US$0.1 million)                   100% of foreign expenditure
(iii)  Studies (US$0.5 million)                    100% of foreign expenditure
(c)  Pilot credit (US$1.3 million)                     50% of sub-loans amounts dis-
bursed by PBI
(d) Unallocated (US$5.4 million)



- 25 -
3.22      Disbursements for the pilot credit component would be made against
certificates of expenditures by IFADAP, the documentation for which would be
retained by the agency and made available for inspection by the Bank during
the course of supervision missions. IFADAP has the capability to prepare
certificate of expenditures according to the Bank's requirements. Disburse-
ments against all other items would be made following receipt of the standard
documentation. An estimated schedule of disbursements is summarized below and
detailed in Annex 1, Table T-6.
Calendar Year
1980 /1 1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986 /1
Disbursements            __--------------------US$ million…-…-----------------
Annual                    0.3    15.4       7.1     8.4      7.1     8.8     2.9
Cumulative                0.3    15.7    22.8    31.2    38.3    47.1    50.0
/1   Six months of disbursements.
G. Environmental Effect
3.23      The project plantations will have a beneficial environmental impact
in that they will protect vital watersheds, minimize soil erosion and provide
a secure environment for the protection of wildlife resources. The forests
will also provide an amenity outlet for both urban and rural populations. The
sub-sectoral studies component of the project includes provision for an
environmental consultant to assist the Government in defining appropriate
environmental protection policies, particularly relating to: industrial
pollution, preservation of endangered species, and soil quality and moisture
relationships in fast growing plantations.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. The Borrower and Implementing Agencies
4.01      The Government of Portugal would be the Borrower of the proposed
Bank loan, since most of the proposed project would be implemented by MAP
and PORTUCEL, with only a minor pilot credit component to be administered
by IFADAP. The Government will bear the foreign exchange risk, except on
the amount which would be on-lent to PORTUCEL for which the latter would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
4.02      The Government would pass on to MAP about US$29.5 million of the
proposed loan, including US$3.2 million from the unallocated category, to:
help finance the afforestation cost on baldios, nationalized, and smallholder



- 26 -
private lands (about US$27.6 million); for the extension, training, and
sub-sectoral studies components of the technical assistance program (about
US$1.0 million); and for purchasing equipment and supplies for the Project
Coordination Unit and for other project administration purposes (about US$0.9
million). The Government would pass on to IFADAP about US$1.3 million for
financing the pilot credit component under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
would on-lend to PORTUCEL about US$19.2 million, including US$2.2 million from
the unallocated category, to help finance the plantation expansion program of
the company under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
PORTUCEL. IFADAP's and PORTUCEL's obligations concerning their portions of
the proposed project would be defined in Project Agreements between the Bank
and the institutions. Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and PORTUCEL, and between IFADAP and the Government, would be
conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 6.02(a)).
4.03      DGFF would be responsible for all MAP afforestation operations,
seed procurement, and for all maintenance activities during the establishment
period (see Chart-World Bank 21129). It is capable of undertaking this
responsibility, but due to the increased level of operation under the project,
it would need additional technical staff and equipment, all of which would be
provided under the project. The additional staff would need to be employed
sufficiently ahead of the commencement of project implementation to provide
them with the necessary in-service training, and assurances were obtained that
their phased employment would be completed no later than December 31, 1981
(para. 6.01(a)(v)). DGFF's brigades would be responsible for implementing
MAP's share of the proposed project plantation establishment, and for road and
firebreak maintenance programs. This would be done in accordance with annual
plans of operations drawn up at DGFF Headquarters in Lisbon in consultation
with the field officers and with the Project Coordination Unit.
4.04      DGOGF would be responsible for implementing the extension and
subsector study components of the proposed project. The small farmer forestry
extension service would be established within the agency and the consultants
who would assist in establishing the service would also work under DGOGF. The
agency would also administer the recruitment and training of extensionists,
and identify and prepare sub-projects for financing by IFADAP under the
pilot credit component. The technical assistance program is expected to be
executed under the umbrella of an ongoing UNDP/FAO project administered by
DGOGF, which provides technical advice to the Government on general forestry
development problems. The UNDP/FAO project covers the salary of one expa-
triate advisor. At the request of the Government, this advisor will serve as
coordinator of the technical assistance component of the proposed project.
DGOGF would also continue to protect and manage plantations established by
DGFF following their establishment.
4.05      There is one potential problem with the organization structure of
DGFF and DGOGF. In line with MAP's plan to regionalize its various institu-
tions, there is a draft decree to regionalize the activities of both agencies.
Under this proposal, each Regional Service of the Ministry would have a
forestry section to plan and implement forestry projects, and to manage
the exploitation of forest resources in the respective region. The coordina-
tion of regional plans would be centralized in MAP. If fully implemented,



- 27 -
the new scheme would mean a considerable reorganization of both directorates.
From a forestry standpoint, a reasonable decentralization of DGOGF is accept-
able because highly centralized control is not so critical for the efficient
performance of its traditional activities. In the case of DGFF, however,
central control is the preferred alternative because: the institution's task
is better achieved through planning at the national rather than .egional
level; the wood supply command areas of the existing and planned large wood
processing industries cover more than one region, and the rationalization of
wood supplies will be easier to achieve with a national as opposed to a
regional approach; and the new organization plan is untested and it may take
a long time before the plan becomes fully and effectively operational thus
creating a problem for smooth implementation of the project. A more workable
alternative would be to leave the present organizational structure of DGFF
intact at least during project implementation, and to strengthen the agency.
This would not preclude redefining the boundaries of the brigades to conform
to the boundaries of the new regions in order to facilitate coordination of
activities and administration. The Government is determined to regionalize
its institutions, and in the interest of uniformity in administration, it is
not prepared to exempt some agencies, such as DGFF, from this decision.
However, it is considering the possibility of a phasing-in period of about
three years before fully decentralizing DGFF to minimize any adverse impact on
the project and to ensure the project's smooth and efficient implementation.
After regionalization, the Government also intends to retain a core group of
technicians within MAP to ensure coordination of planning for forest develop-
ment throughout the country. These steps are positive indications of the
Government's determination to minimize the initial adverse consequences of the
regionalization process. However, there is risk arising from the uncertain
and untested regional administration, and this aspect of the project organi-
zation would need to be monitored closely during the implementation of the
project.
4.06      PORTUCEL would implement its plantation program under the respon-
sibility of its Afforestation Division through staff in six afforestation
districts located in key forestry zones. Although constituted as a national-
ized holding company only recently, the majority of PORTUCEL's staff, including
the forestry technicians, have been drawn from the constituent pulp companies
and the forestry personnel have experience in planning and implementing
industrial plantation projects. The company will be able to accommodate part
of the increased afforestation operation using existing staff, but it will
need additional equipment, which will be provided under the project, and it
has already made arrangement to employ additional technical staff.
4.07       IFADAP would administer the pilot credit component.  According
to its statutes, its role in forestry development is mainly the refinancing
of loans made by Participating Banking Institutions (PBI) to private forest
owners. IFADAP will also collaborate in formulating lending policy for the
forestry sub-sector. IFADAP's participation in the proposed project would
not strain its operational capacity. The experience it would gain under the
proposed project would enhance its future lending operations.
4.08      The Project Coordination Unit would coordinate preparation of
progress reports and of a project completion report; and identify implementa-
tion bottlenecks, if any, and take appropriate measures to resolve them or to



- 28 -
ensure that measures are taken for their resolution. It would also coordinate
timely preparation of project operational plans and ensure that this program
of work is kept under continuous review and that timely corrective actions are
taken as needed; collaborate in foreward location of potential afforestation
areas and negotiation of land acquisition and contracts; and ensure effective
collaboration and coordination among all the implementing agencies. Establish-
ment of the Project Coordination Unit would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan (para. 6.02(b)). Assurances were obtained that the Govern-
ment would maintain the Project Coordination Unit staffed adequately at all
times throughout the implementation phase (para. 6.01(a)(vi)).
4.09      The new Forestry Extension Service would participate in the study
on wood producing cooperatives and associations, and would have prime respon-
sibility for helping the cooperatives and associations to prepare forest
harvesting and improvement works; for assisting them to prepare subprojects
for financing by IFADAP, exploring marketing opportunities for their forest
produce; and for providing them with technical assistance on silvicultural
practices in cooperation with qualified forestry technicians.
B. Terms and Procedures of Financing
4.10      Lending Terms to PORTUCEL.  The Government would on-lend to PORTUCEL
the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan at a 10% interest rate per annum for a
maximum of 15 years including 3 years of grace. The company will bear the
foreign exchange risk on its portion of the proposed Bank loan. These terms
are the same as under a previous Bank loan to Quimigal (Government's holding
company for nationalized fertilizer plants) for an on-going Fertilizer Project
(Loan 1649-PO).
4.11      The harvest from the company's plantation would be utilized as
raw materials for the company's pulp mills. Since it takes at least seven
years before the first thinnings are harvested, the company would not earn
adequate project related income when it starts repaying the proposed Bank
loan. Hence, it would have to be repaid from income generated from the
company's overall operations. An analysis of the company's finances shows
that it would be able to meet its debt obligations without creating an undue
burden (paras. 4.20-4.23).
4.12      Lending Terms and Procedures Under the Pilot Credit.  The Govern-
ment would pass on to IFADAP the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan for this
project component on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan. IFADAP
would on-lend these funds, through PBI's, to cooperatives and associations of
small individual forest owners on the same terms and conditions as other
long-term agricultural loans. Under the on-going Agricultural and Fisheries
Credit Project, the sub-loans carry an average interest rate of 16.50% ranging
from 11.75% in the first year of the sub-loan to 22.25% in the sixth year and
thereafter. The same rates would apply under this project, with the additional
provision that the subloan would be repaid within 5 years based on the working
life of the equipment to be financed under this scheme. As this is only an
experimental scheme, the results of which would help to formulate credit policy
in the sub-sector, the terms of on-lending would be flexible to accommodate
results of the study to be undertaken under the proposed project, all in



- 29 -
consultation with the Bank. Assurances were obtained to this effect (para.
6.01(a)(vii)). When the principal of these sub-loans is repaid to IFADAP, the
amount not needed to service the subsidiary loan from the Government would be
available to IFADAP for the purpose of financing further forest development.
Assurances were obtained to this effect (para. 6.01(c)(xiv)).
4.13      The new forest extension service would help small individual forest
owners to organize themselves into associations or cooperatives, help them to
identify and prepare sub-projects, and assist them in applying for loans to
PBI. The PBI would review the sub-loan application and MAP's report, checking
in particular the applicant's creditworthiness in relation to the proposed sub-
loan, to determine the amount and terms and conditions of the sub-loan. IFADAP
would provide a supplementary guarantee on sub-loans made by the PBI when the
collateral offered by the eligible sub-borrowers are not sufficient, and/or if
this proves to be essential to encourge farmers to participate in the project;
IFADAP is permitted to do this under its charter. All sub-loans would be
approved by the PBI Board of Directors, subject to the concurrence of IFADAP's
head office in Lisbon. The relationships between the PBI and IFADAP would be
set forth in Subsidiary Loan Agreements stipulating their respective roles and
financing responsibilities as well as details of loan processing and supervision
procedures. Assurance were obtained to this effect (para. 6.01(a)(vii)).
4.14      Lending decisions would be supported by adequate appraisals to ensure
that sub-projects are technically, financially, and economically viable; that
the sub-borrowers would follow proper silvicultural, logging, and forest
management practices as recommended by the Government; that they are willing
to be fully committed to the cooperatives/associations of smallholder forest
owners; and that sub-projects would generate a sufficient cash flow to cover
debt service and other expenses in addition to satisfactory dividends to the
participants. Assurances were obtained to this effect (para. 6.01(a)(vii)).
In order to ensure that the above procedures are being followed, and because
of the importance of this pilot scheme for setting precedent for future credit
financing in the sub-sector, the Bank would review at least the first five of
the estimated 10-15 sub-loan appraisals and approve them. Assurances were
obtained to this effect (para. 6.01(a)(vii)).
4.15       The on-lending PBI would disburse the sub-loan in accordance with
a disbursement schedule agreed with the sub-borrower, and would submit a
re-imbursement claim to IFADAP for the proportion of IFADAP's participation.
IFADAP would transfer to the PBI's account in Banco de Portugal (the national
bank) the requested amount against usual lending documents. IFADAP, in turn,
would claim from the Bank re-imbursement of the Bank's loan share in IFADAP's
participation in the sub-loan.
4.16       Condition of Afforestation on Private Lands.  Priority would be
given to smallholder farmers who are willing to participate in block farming
operations, preferably in minimum size of 100 ha each. It is difficult and
inefficient to afforestate isolated, small, and fragmented holdings because:
roads and fire protection works have to be constructed to serve large tracts
of land rather than individual plots, and logging operations will be simplified,
marketing costs reduced, and benefits from economies of scale in equipment use
increased if farmers are organized into contiguous blocks instead of planting



- 30 -
on isolated pieces of land. This would also enhance cooperation between the
Government and the owners in providing technical assistance for improving
management practices of smallholder forest farmers. The Government could help
to manage such forests as in the case of the baldios forests, and/or the
farmers could continue managing their forests under more strict Government
supervision than in the past. Because of the individualistic nature of the
farmers and based on past experience, it may be difficult to get many farmers
to agree to block farming on a large scale, but serious effort would be
initiated under the project to set the precedent to make block farming a
normal condition of afforestation in the future. Assurance were obtained
that for afforestation of private smallholders' lands, Government would give
priority to farmers who are willing to participate in block farming operations
of at least 100 ha (para. 6.01(a)(viii)).
4.17       Recovery of Cost of DGFF's Operation.  As in the past, the Government
would recover the public investments in the afforestation of public and
baldios lands by retaining part of the harvest, with an additional requirement
that the recovery would include implicit positive interest rate. The
underlying principle of cost recovery under this project would be that cost
recovery should be an integral part of the forest development policy as there
are shortages of public funds to replicate the project on a large scale, but
that also due consideration should be given to equity and financial incentives
to induce farmers to participate in the project. Assuming: (a) the MAI's for
Eucalyptus and conifers are as stated in paras. 5.01 and 5.02 below; (b)
minimum domestic farmgate prices (presently Esc 450/st ub for Eucalyptus and
Esc 340/st ub for conifers) continue to increase as in the past at an average
rate of 10% per annum; and (c) 90% of the investment would be financed through
public funds and the remaining 10% from the farmers' own resources, then the
entire public investment in Eucalyptus afforestation could be recovered,
including an implicit annual interest rate of 16%, by retaining about 30% of
the harvest from such forests; the remaining 70% of the harvest, which would
be retained by the farmers, would yield a financial rate of return on their
equity of about 50%. For conifers, retention of about 30-40% of the harvest
by the Government would recover the public investment, including an implicit
interest rate of about 12%. The financial rate of return on the farmers'
equity in this case would amount to about 35%. The differences in the terms
of recovery and in the rates of return on the farmers' equity are due to
variations in yields, prices, and rotations of the different species. If the
farmers' contributions to investment are doubled, the Government would still
have to retain 30-40% of the harvest to recover the public expenditure includ-
ing interest rates of 12-16% per annum, but the financial rates of return on
the farmers' equity would drop to 30-40%.
4.18       It is evident that the terms of cost recovery, and the correspond-
ing financial rates of return on the farmers' equity would depend on several
variables, the most important of which are the share of investment financed
from the public and the farmers' resources, the expected yields of the differ-
ent species, the types of trees grown, and projected domestic prices of wood.
The analyses in para. 4.17 above is based on the most likely projections about
each of these variables. The results indicate that the Government could
recover the entire public expenditures with interest, leaving enough of the
harvest to the farmers to enable them to obtain substantial returns on their



- 31 -
investment. With projected domestic inflation rates of about 10% per annum
beginning in mid-1980's, the implicit interest rates of 12-16% on the public
investment are positive. These, however, would be slightly lower than the
average interest rate of about 16.50% on long-term agricultural loans charged
by IFADAP, implying implicit subsidy of 0.50-4.50%. The subsidv is justified
in this case mainly because: (a) the beneficiaries, whose holdings are small,
fragmented, and of poor soil quality, are among the poorest in the country,
and the subsidy is a means of transferring income to them without adversely
affecting the efficiency in the use of investment resources; and (b) forestry
projects have large unquantifiable externality benefits to society, and hence
the public should share in the cost of afforestation as well. For purposes of
this project, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Govern-
ment would recover all public investment in the afforestation of private and
baldios forests under the project with positive interest rates by retaining a
portion of the harvest of not less than 30% for Eucalyptus and not less than
40% for conifers and other hardwoods unless otherwise agreed between the
Government and the Bank (para. 6.01(a)(ix)). Further assurance were obtained
that the Government would develop a comprehensive cost recovery policy for the
entire forestry sub-sector in consultation with the Bank, as part of the
sub-sector study to be conducted under the project, and that a final report
and recommendation on this matter would be submitted to the Bank no later than
December 31, 1982 and that, thereafter, the Government would implement the
resulting policy as agreed upon with the Bank (para. 6.01 (a) (x)).
4.19      Income to the Beneficiaries.  For a family that uses its holdings
exclusively for growing Eucalyptus, income would accrue four times at inter-
vals of 10-12 years. If the land is used exclusively for growing other
hard woods or conifers, then there would be income from intermediate thinnings,
at intervals of about 7 years, in addition to a lump-sum income which would be
obtained at final felling. Each family can, of course, re-invest its lump-sum
earnings to obtain additional income on a continuous basis. The actual income
which would accrue to each family would depend on, inter alia, the size of
holding, the species grown, the time of harvest, and prices of outputs.
Depending on the types of trees to be grown, prices of wood, yields, their
contribution to investment, and the share of harvest to be retained by the
Government for recovering the public expenditure for afforestation, the
farmers would get substantial return on their investment (para. 4.17). The
return would be obtained from investments to be made by the Government with
very little contribution by the farmers, and from lands which have very little
alternative uses for the farmers. Thus, the farmers have substantial financial
incentives to participate in the project.
C. Organization and Financial Evaluation of PORTUCEL
4.20      Organization.  PORTUCEL was established about four years ago as a
public enterprise through nationalization and merger of five private pulp,
paper, and packaging companies, some with very weak financial structures.
The company enjoys administrative and financial autonomy with limited direct
Government interference in its management decisions. Its management organs
are a Board and an Audit Committee. The Board, appointed by the Council of
Ministers and consisting of the President and six members, is responsible



- 32 -
for the management and development, administration of company property, and
representation in and out of court. The Audit Committee, appointed by the
Ministers of Finance and Industry and consisting of three members, is res-
ponsible for overlooking the company's activities and ensuring that the
legal and statutory requirements are followed by management. It monitors
the execution of operational and financial plans, and verifies the financial
statements.
4.21      Financial Record.  The company had poor financial records through
the end of 1979 (Annex 1, Tables T-7, T-8, and T-9). Net losses increased
from Esc. 138 million in 1977 to an estimated Esc. 856 million in 1979.
During the same period, the current ratio hovered around 0.64-0.74 with debt/
equity ratio of 72:28 to 68:32. The main reasons were inadequate equity
capital; depressed international market for exports which showed signs of
recovery only after the end of 1978; government pricing policy where internal
prices of pulp were kept below international prices with the company obliged
to sell a portion of its outputs in the domestic market at low prices; and
unusual disruptions of production, where serious accidents occurred at two
of the company's mills which required prolonged periods for repairs.
4.22      Prospects.  Beginning with 1980, steady improvements are expected
in the company s finances. Net profits are projected to rise from about
Esc. 300 million in 1980 to about Esc. 1,624 million in 1985, and continue
to improve thereafter. The current ratio would rise from 0.96 in 1980 to
2.0 in 1985, with the debt:equity ratio improving from 68:32 to 11:89 during
the same period. The reasons for the projected improvements are: steady rise
in the international prices for pulp and paper; increase in the domestic
prices based on Government decision to narrow the gap between external and
internal prices; and improvement in capacity resulting from completion of
repairs of past accidents. In addition, the company has consolidated various
medium term external loans into one under financial terms more favorable than
the previous ones. This is expected to produce savings in financial charges
for the next five years of about Esc. 40 million per year. Production (and
sales) of pulp is projected to increase by 161,000 tons in 1980 to 463,000
tons (up from 302,000 tons in 1979), and by additional 45,000 in 1981. The
increase in pulp production alone accounts for additional revenues of Esc.
2,900 million in 1980 and Esc. 1,000 million in 1981. Also, an increase of
29,000 tons of kraftliner paper production is projected in 1981 (up from
152,000 tons in 1980) with additional revenues of Esc. 540 million. The
increase in production up to 1981 reflects only the restoration of production
capacity to nominal production levels from improvements now underway and is
not result of the future expansion program for which PORTUCEL is seeking
financing from the Bank. During 1980-1985 the projected accumulated net
profit would amount to Esc. 6,154 million which would enable PORTUCEL to
recover all its accumulated losses by 1983, restore its current and debt to
equity ratios to acceptable levels, and raise the necessary funds to finance
its portion of the project.
4.23      The company would not earn significant revenue from the proposed
project until after ten years following planting. Since the project is an
integrated company operation, the company's share of project costs and the



- 33 -
Bank loan repayments would have to be financed by other regular company
operations. The company's share of the project costs and loan repayments
would account for at most 3% of the total company operational costs. A
comparison between total net after-tax profits realized during the proposed
project imple-lentation period and total financing provided by the company in
the form of equity shows that 30% of these profits are required to finance the
project. It would, therefore, not be very difficult for PORTUCEL to finance
its share of the proposed project cost from internal cash generation and
at the same time attain a satisfactory financial position. The company
will have no problem to repay the Bankts loan either. The repayment of
principal begins in 1984 when substantial net profits and excess cash are
produced. The annual amount of debt service on the proposed Bank loan would
not exceed Esc. 130 million, which is small compared to the company's pro-
jected total profits.
D. Progress Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.24      Responsibility for preparing progress and completion reports and
for continuous monitoring of project implementation would rest with the
various implementing agencies. The Project Coordination Unit will coordinate
preparation of all reports and consolidate the same for submission to the Bank
according to mutually agreed schedules. It would also participate in monitor-
ing project execution on the basis of targets agreed with the implementing
agencies, and help to resolve problems, if any.
4.25      Progress reports would be forwarded to the Bank every six months
starting on June 30, 1981. The documents would comprise written reports,
supported by summary tables where necessary, on: afforestation and progress
in land acquisition; road and firebreak maintenance; procurement; recruitment
of personnel; project financing arrangements; progress on studies, training,
and activities of forestry extension service; and lending operations under the
pilot credit component. For each topic selected, the report would: record
achievements during the period under review; compare results with projected
targets; give reasons for shortfalls in attaining targets, if any; identify
problems and describe remedial measures that are being taken to correct them;
and indicate action, where appropriate, that has been taken on recommendations
of previous supervision missions. Assurances were obtained to this effect
(para. 6.01(a)(xi)).
4.26      Monitoring and evaluation is a normal part of the present operations
of the implementing agencies, particularly DGFF, DGOGF, and PORTUCEL. There
is frequent exchange of information between field personnel, district offices,
and Headquarters. The field personnel gather and evaluate relevant informa-
tion on implementation, and their evaluations are used to plan future opera-
tions. These practices would be continued under the project, and much of the
information which would be incorporated in the semi-annual progress reports
would be summary of data to be gathered during the course of continuous
monitoring and evaluation of project implementation. The Project Coordination
Unit will ensure that this will be done. The UNDP Project Coordinator, in



- 34 -
addition to his role as supervisor of the technical assistance program , would
assist the Project Coordination Unit in formulating periodic reporting require-
ments. He would also assist in improving monitoring and evaluation systems,
if necessary. Details of the contents of reports to be submitted to the Bank,
along with formats for presenting information, have been discussed and agreed
during negotiations.
F. Accounts and Audits
4.27       DGFF, DGOGF, the Project Coordination Unit, IFADAP, and PORTUCEL
would each keep separate accounts for project expenditures including those
related to goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the proposed
Bank loan. There are strict physical and financial controls of the operations
of Government agencies such as DGFF and DGDGF to prevent misuse of public
funds and to ensure that funds are used for the purposes for which they are
intended. Each field office has to prepare weekly and consolidated monthly
reports on all physical activities and associated expenditures, and send such
reports to headquarters in Lisbon, along with all supporting documentation,
which are then checked independently by separate internal control units of the
directorates. The directorates in turn prepare and submit similar reports
to MAP's Technical and Administrative Inspection Unit, which has the respon-
sibility for "audit and control" of expenditures by the Ministry's agencies;
if necessary, the Inspection Unit conducts spot checks in the field to verify
the contents of these quarterly reports. Consolidated annual reports are then
sent to the Tribunal de Contas (Court of Accounts), the highest financial
control agency of the Government, which ensures that public funds are utilized
properly. Except under extraordinary circumstances, the Tribunal does not
"audit" the accounts of DGFF and DGDGF, but instead delegates this responsi-
bility to the Inspection Unit of MAP. Audit reports on IFADAP's portion of
the project would be included in the certified audit reports of the institu-
tion to be submitted to the Bank, by April 30 of each year starting with audit
reports for 1981, under the on-going Agricultural and Fisheries Credit
Project under which disbursements against statements of expenditure are made
also (para. 6.01(c)(xv)). The statutory law of PORTUCEL is not very specific
regarding audits of financial statements. Since the Company's creation, the
accounts have not been audited by independent auditors. Up to 1979 no internal
auditing department or function existed either. In 1979, one person was hired
as internal auditor. It is, therefore, evident that the accounts of PORTUCEL
are far from being audited according to standard practices. The Company,
however, has already contacted a reputable firm of independent auditors who
are scheduled to start audits soon. These auditors are considered sufficiently
competent and independent to audit the accounts of PORTUCEL. For purposes of
this project, the company's project and consolidated accounts would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and a certified audit opinion
would be submitted to the Bank by June 30 of each year for accounts of the
previous year starting with audits of the 1980 fiscal year. Assurances
were obtained to this effect (para. 6.01 (b)(xiii)).



- 35 -
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
5.01      There will be four cuts of Eucalyptus at rotations between 10 and 12
years, depending on site, the first cut being followed by three coppice rota-
tions. The expected MAI at first cut varies between 14 and 21 st ub/ha, again
depending on site; the weighted average MAI for the first rotation is 16.8 st
ub/ha. The yields from the coppice rotations relate to the first rotation in
the ratio 1:1.2:1:0.8, giving the following MAI's: 1st rotation 16.8 st ub/ha,
2nd rotation 20.2 st ub/ha, 3rd rotation 16.8 st ub/ha, and 4th rotation 13.4 st
ub/ha.
5.02      Conifer plantations will be grown on a 30-year rotation with inter-
mediate thinning yields taken at varying times - depending on species. The
first yield will come from P. radiata after seven years. The MAI's would vary
between 9 and 15.9 st ub/ha, with a weighted average of 12 st ub/ha. Hardwood
plantations other than Eucalyptus will also be grown on a 30-year rotation with
an intermediate thinning at 20 years. The average MAI is expected to be
about 11.4 st ub/ha.
5.03      The yields quoted above reflect intensive forest management treat-
ments. They are higher than national averages for existing forests, although,
in many cases, well-managed plantations are showing yields greater than those
assumed for the project. The use of a 30-year rotation combined with heavy
thinning will serve the multiple objectives of producing both pulpwood and
sawlogs, and also sufficient trees of a size greater than 20 cm overbark (ob)
diameter to allow resin tapping to take place, if necessary. The estimated
average diameter, at final felling, will be about 30 to 55 cm ob. The total
volume of wood which would be produced over the project life would be about
72.7 million st ub, of which 60.4 million st ub is estimated to be smallwood
to be used mainly for manufacture of pulp and wood-based panels. The remaining
12.3 million st ub would be used for sawlogs. Details are in Annex 1, Table
T-10.
5.04      The present gross value of production by the forest industries
amounts to Esc. 16 billion (US$320 million) per year, some Esc. 7 billion
(US$140 million) representing direct payments to domestic suppliers of raw
materials, with leakages through imported factors of production accounting for
less than 10% of the total value of outputs. There would thus be strong
backward linkage between the wood processing industries and the project. The
final demand linkage induced by the project is likely to be equally strong,
because most of the suppliers of the domestic raw materials are poor smallholder
farmers whose average propensity to consume is high, and whose expenditure
patterns reflect demand for domestically produced items. This means that
higher expenditures on consumer goods induced by the correspondingly rising
factor payments by the wood processing industries would stimulate production
by the domestic suppliers of consumer goods. Thus, the multiplier effect
on the domestic economy of rising outputs of wood products would be substantial.



- 36 -
B. Market Prospects
5.05      Domestic demand for all categories of forest products has grown
steadily over the last decade, and is projected to continue growing in
the foreseeable future. Based on a demand study undertaken by the Forestry
Division of FAO, which took into account the effect on consumption of changes
in population and income, along with consideration of various income elasti-
cities of demand for different forest products, domestic demand for finished
major forest products is projected to grow between 1975 and 2000 as follows:
Item                         Unit              Estimated Demand
1975     2000      % Change
Paper and Paper Board        '000 tons       310       800         58
Sawnwood                     '000 m3       1,390    1,700         22
Woodbased Panels             '000 m3         190       700        268
Forest products are also important source of energy, particularly in rural
areas. At present, an equivalent of nearly 10% of the total supply of round-
wood is estimated to be used as fuelwood. With rapidly rising cost of other
sources of energy, particularly oil, demand for fuelwood can be expected to
increase, although at a slow rate due to an estimated low income elasticity
of demand for such product. The roundwood required to satisfy the domestic
demand, along with the estimated total supply of roundwood and the surplus
roundwood which could be available for export, are shown below:
Item        Total Supply         Consumed Domestically/3       Exportable Surplus -
1975 /1  2000 /2   1975             2000           1975         2000
------------------------(Million st ub)--------------------------
Conifers      8.0      9.8        4.2             6.4             3.8         3.4
Eucalyptus   3.0       7.1        0.6              1.8            2.4         5.3
/1   Allowable cut as calculated by DGOGF.
/2   Based on appraisal projections of supply assuming the "most probable" of
three possible AAC options.
/3   Assuming domestic self sufficiency for all products except newsprint.
/4   Some of the exportable surplus is marketed in the form of roundwood, but
most is assumed to be sold in the form of processed products. Presently,
for example, only 0.6 million st ub is exported in the form of roundwood,
a large part of the export being in the form of pulp and woodbased
panels.
5.06      As shown above, the roundwood supplies exceed significantly the
volume of logs needed to ensure domestic self-sufficiency, and, overall, there
would be an increasing surplus of wood available for export. Portugal's best
export market prospects are in the traditional outlet of the Western European



- 37 -
countries (France, U.K., Italy, Holland, Belgium, Federal Republic of Germany,
and recently Spain), but there are also new and growing markets in some
countries of the Middle East and North Africa. With income growing rapidly in
these latter markets, the demand for forest products would also rise, most of
which would have to be satisfied by imports. The value of Western Europe's
net imports of manufactured forest products (mainly sawn lumber, hardwood
logs, newsprint, wood pulp, and wood based panels) exceeded US$20 billion in
1977. Expressed in terms of roundwood equivalents, imports of pulp, paper, an(,
paper board products alone into Western Europe are anticipated to exceed 80
million st ub equivalent by the year 2000, with the projected exportable
surplus from Portugal accounting for about 10 percent. The country's proximity
to Western European markets provides it a competitive edge over other potential
exporters, and with rising costs of transportation induced by increasing
cost of fuel, the country can be expected to capture an increasing porportion
of the expanding demand in these markets. Portugal's most promising export
prospects in the short term are pine lumber, particle board, and bleached
chemical pulp. In the longer term, prospects are most favorable for the
expansion of exports of Eucalyptus-based bleached chemical pulp. Enough
wood would be available from 1990 onwards to support additional domestic
industrial capacity on the order of 700,000 tons, implying incremental gross
foreign exchange earnings in excess of US$250 million a year in 1979 prices.
Thus, no problems are foreseen in marketing project outputs.
C. Prices
5.07       In line with the general practice of fixing prices of different
agricultural inputs and outputs, the Government sets prices of forest products
each year and monitors the application of such prices. In the case of
forestry, however, the Government sets only the minimum prices, with higher
prices being left to be determined by the free interplay of demand and supply.
For the current year, the minimum millgate price of pine amounts to Esc.
600 (US$12) per st ub, while for Eucalyptus it is Esc 710 (US$ 14.2) per st
ub. The actual market prices are often higher than the minimm prices. For
instance, the average 1979 FOB prices of Eucalyptus and coniferous pulpwood
exported to Spain, which imported more than 90% of such exports from Portugal,
were about three times the minimum domestic prices. The corresponding current
farmgate economic prices derived by deducting marketing and processing costs
from export prices of pulp amount to about Esc. 1,680 (US$33.6) per st ub
for Eucalyptus, and Esc. 1,210 (US$24.2) per st ub for pine. Since about
80% of the project output is expected to be used for producing pulp, the
prices derived from the export of pulp were used as the basis for economic
evaluation of the project. These are considered conservative since 20%
of the outputs are projected to be used as sawlogs which normally command
much higher prices but for which the derived pulpwood prices are assumed for
purposes of the project's evaluation. The price of hardwoods other than
Eucalyptus is assumed to be the same as for pine. Because of the projected
world shortage of industrial wood relative to demand, the real economic
stumpage prices of all species are projected to rise at an annual rate of 1.5%
through the turn of the century.



- 38 -
D. Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.08      The direct quantifiable benefit of the proposed project would be
an increase in the output of industrial wood which would help to earn for-
eign exchange. The proposed project would also raise incomes to about
50,000 smallholder farm families who own the areas to be afforested. In
addition, some 410-620 man-years per year of additional emloyment for unskilled
laborers would be created during the implementation stage providing employment
opportunities for about 1,000-1,500 farmers, most of whom are unemployed or
underemployed. The proposed project would also create job opportunities for
about 264 skilled machinery operators, and about 224 forestry technicians.
The proposed project would also have indirect and unquantifiable environmental
benefits (para. 3.23). The technical assistance component of the project
would make an important contribution to the Government's institution building
effort to serve effectively the complex and changing needs of the agricultural
sector.
E. Key Economic Indicators
5.09      The economic rate of return on investments in the proposed project,
based on quantifiable costs and benefits, is estimated at about 19%. The
benefit-cost ratio, computed in 1980 prices and discounted at 16%, 1/ amount
to about 1.5.  All imported equipment, spare parts, and materials have been
valued at their CIF prices. The domestic cost of unskilled labor, which is
used predominantly for planting, has been shadow priced by multiplying such
cost with a conversion factor of 0.60; skilled labor, mostly consisting of
tractor operators is priced at its full domestic wage rate. Costs of all
other items have been converted into their border cost equivalents by multiply-
ing them with the standard conversion factor for Portugal, which is estimated
at a probable value of 0.85. 2/ Costs and benefits have been computed in 1980
prices.
5.10      The economic rate of return is not extremely sensitive to change in
any single item of cost or benefit. A real increase in investment cost by
10% or a similar decrease in benefits would reduce the project's rate of
return by only one percent. The project costs would have to be increase by
about 50% or the benefits would have to be reduced by about 30% before the
1/   The probable value of the "economic accounting rate of interest" in
Portugal.
2/   These national parameters have been estimated by Banco de Fomento
Nacional (of Portugal). For details, see Jose Manual Toscano, Avaliacao
Economica de Projectors Sequendo a Methodologia do Banco Mundial (Banco
de Fomention Nacional Estudos #14).



- 39 -
rate of return drops to 16%. As project costs have been computed using
detailed actual unit costs of various works for different topographical
regions, and as the benefits have been computed using conservative estimates
of mean annual increments, it is unlikely that real costs would increase or
that real benefits would decrease to such an extent as to lower the rate of
return below the economic accounting rate of interest. Even if the real
prices of wood remain unchanged, the economic rate of return would be about
17%. The main economic characteristics are detailed in Annex 1, Table T-l1.
F. Project Risks
5.11      The technology to be applied under the proposed project, which is
fairly simple and straightforward, is not new in Portugal and hence the
technical risk facing the successful implementation of the project is low.
There could, however, be a risk associated with the institutional evolution in
the country, particularly the changing reorganization of MAP, with all its
consequences on staffing and the management of operations, particularly on
institutions which would play key roles in implementing the project such as
DGFF (para. 4.05). The project would attempt to alleviate these problems in
many ways, but there is no substitute for genuine local initiative and plan-
ning, and for a stable political environment. There is room for substantial
improvement in this aspect of institutional development in Portugal.
5.12      There is also a risk associated with the timely availability of land
to carry out the entire afforestation program. Although there are large areas
of potential forest lands, the ownership pattern creates a logistic problem of
contacting and organizing the farmers, getting their cooperation to participate
in the project, and identifying and preparing sub-projects suitable for
inclusion under the project. There could be a further problem regarding
PORTUCEL's ability to get all the land the company would need to carry out its
share of the proposed afforestation program. In any case, steps are being
taken to minimize the risks and to implement the project. To date, about
50,000 ha of baldios lands have already been secured in agreement with the
owners of such lands, and a further 5,000 ha of private lands have been
appraised for use in afforestation by DGFF under the project. The combined
area is equivalent to the land required for the first two years of project
afforestation. The Government is confident that it would have no difficulty
securing the necessary land to carry out the proposed afforestation program,
citing the potential forest lands available and the gradual increase in the
areas afforested by DGFF over the past few years. In this regard, the con-
straint to the Government's ability to carry out the entire afforestation
program through DGFF is the capacity of the directorate to identify, prepare,
and implement the entire program by using its own equipment and personnel
and/or by using private contractors' services, rather than shortage of land.
Given this constraint, the maximum area which can be implemented under the
responsibility of DGFF over the five years of project execution is about
120,000 ha. PORTUCEL can, of course, continue to acquire land through leasing
and outright purchases from private smallholders, which own more than 80% of
the potential forest lands. In the event the Company is unable to get all the



- 40 -
land it would need to implement its share of the afforestation, the Govern-
ment's share of the proposed afforestation program could be increased and
PORTUCEL's share could be reduced without changing the total area to be
afforested. This issue of PORTUCEL's ability to acquire land, along with the
capacity of DGFF to take responsibility for afforestation of a larger propor-
tion of the total project area, would need to be monitored closely during
implementation of the project. Meanwhile, assurances were obtained that the
Government would complete, and help PORTUCEL to complete, all formalities for
securing the land required for afforestation in any afforestation season three
months in advance of the commencement of works for that season (para. 6.01(a)
(xii)).
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreements were obtained on the following:
(a)  Government would:
(i)  complete employment of all consultants no later than
April 30, 1981 on terms and conditions which are
acceptable to the Bank (paras. 3.08 and 3.10);
(ii) establish the forest extension service by December 31,
1982 and maintain it properly thereafter (para. 3.08);
(iii) submit to the Bank the findings and recommendations of
the sub-sector study no later than December 31, 1982
(para. 3.10);
(iv) allocate funds for MAP's operations no later than
November 30 of each year for works to be executed
during each planting season (para. 3.16);
(v)  complete employment of all additional staff required by DGFF
no later than December 31, 1981 (para. 4.03);
(vi) maintain the Project Coordination Unit staffed adequately
at all times throughout the project implementation phase
(para. 4.08);
(vii) ensure that all sub-loans under the pilot credit scheme
would be appraised and approved according to the procedures
outlined in paras. 4.12, 4.13, and 4.14;
(viii) for the afforestation of private smallholders' lands, give
priority to farmers who are willing to participate in
block farming operations of at least 100 ha (para. 4.16);



- 41 -
(ix) make arrangements to recover all the public expenditures on
the afforestation of private and baldios lands with positive
interest rates by retaining a portion of the harvest of not
less than 30% for Eucalyptus and not less than 40% for conifers
and other hardwoods unless otherwise agreed between the Govern-
ment and the Bank (para. 4.18);
(x)  develop a comprehensive cost recovery policy for the entire
forestry sub-sector in consultation with the Bank, as part
of the sub-sector study to be conducted under the project,
and submit to the Bank a final report and recommendation
on this matter no later than December 31, 1982, and, there-
after, implement the resulting policy as agreed upon with the
Bank (para. 5.12).
(xi) make arrangements to furnish to the Bank necessary data and
information on all project components through periodic semi-
annual reports (para. 4.25); and
(xii) secure, and help PORTUCEL to secure, not later than October 31
of each year, all land required for the following year's
afforestation program (para. 5.12).
(b) PORTUCEL would:
(xiii) submit to the Bank a report on its finances, along with project
accounts, audited and certified by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, annually no later than June 30 starting
with audits for the 1980 fiscal year (para. 4.27).
(c) IFADAP would:
(xiv) utilize the sub-loan amounts repaid to it by the beneficiaries
for financing forest development sub-loans, if such
repayments are not needed to service the subsidiary loan
from the Government (para. 4.12); and
(xv) submit to the Bank report on its finances, along with project
accounts, audited and certified by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank, annually no later than April 30 of each year
starting with audit reports for 1981 (para. 4.27).
6.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
loan:
(a)  the signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and PORTUCEL and between IFADAP and the Government (para. 4.02); and
(b)  completion of staffing of the Project Coordination Unit (para. 4.08).
6.03      Agreement having been reached on the above conditions, the proposed
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$50 million equivalent to the Govern-
ment of Portugal, for a term of 15 years including three years of grace at an
annual interest rate of 8.25%.



- 42-
ANNEX 1
Table T-1
PORTUGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
Personnel Requirements
Expertise                          Foreign Consultants               Incremental
Extension    Sub-Sector Study         Project Staff
--------(man-month)-------    DGFF PORTUCEL Total
----(Persons)-----
Technical Assistance:
Program Coordinator            12                12             -       -       -
Economist                      12                12             -       -        -
Extensionist                   12                12             -       -       -
Marketing Organization          5                  4            -       -        -
Sawmill Expert                  3                 3             -       -       -
Environmentalist                -6                              -       -       -
Forest Management               4                 5             -       -       -
Pulp & Paper Engineer           -                  6            -       -       -
Contingency                     4                 4             -       -       -
Total                    52                 64
Project Staff:
Forester                        -                 -             12      -      12
Forest Technician               -                  -            15       7     22
Senior Field Foreman            -                 -             20      20     40
Field Foreman                   -                 -             40      99    139
Nursery Assistant               -                 -              7       4     11
Truck Driver                    -                 -             17       5     22
Tractor Operator                -                 -            100    122    222
Mechanic                        -                  -            20       -     20
Total                                                    231    257    488
March 1980



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Table T-2
PORTUGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
Phasing of Afforestation
Implementing Agency                           1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    Total
--------------------(ha) --------------------
DGFF
Conifers (mainly P. Pinaster)             10,300  11,500  13,300  13,300  12,100  60,500
Eucalyptus (mainly E. globulus)            2,750   3,050   3,500   3,500   3,200  16,000
Other Hardwoods (mainly Castanea sativa) 2,250   2,550   3,000   3,000   2,700  13,500
Sub-Total                       15,300  17,100  19,800  19,800  18,000  90,000
PORTUCEL
Conifers (mainly P. pinaster)              4,600   4,900   6,000   7,000   8,000  30,500
Eucalyptus (mainly E. globulus)            4,400   5,600   6,000   6,500   7,000  29,500
Other Hardwoods (mainly Castanea sativa)   -          -        -       -        -        -
Sub-Total                        9,000  10,500  12,000  13,500  15,000  60,000
TOTAL FOR ALL
Conifers (mainly P. pinaster)             14,900  16,400  19,300  20,300  20,100  91,000
Eucalyptus (mainly E. globulus)            7,150   8,650   9,500  10,000  10,200  45,500
Other Hardwoods (mainly Cast~aiea sativa) 2,250   2,550   3,000   3,000   2,700  13,500
GRAND TOTAL                     24,300  27,600  31,800  33,300  33,000 150,000
December, 1979



- 44 - 
Table T-3
PORTUGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Esc Million                US$ Million/- 71 Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
Afforestation and Related Works
DGFF
Plantation Establishment                     1,757.5   832.4   2,589.9   35.2    16.6         51.8       32
Seeds                                            -        5.4       5.4    -        0.1        0.1      100
Plantation Road Maintenance                      5.4    17.6       23.0    0.1      0.3        0.4       75
Firebreak Maintenance                            3.1      1.0       4.1    0.1      -          0.1       -
Equipment Maintenance Vehicles & Equipment       8.1      9.3      17.4    0.2      0.2        0.4       50
Mechanical Workshop Tools                        -       30.0      30.0    -        0.6        0.6      100
Protection and Patrolling Equipment              -        5.0       5.0    -        0.1        0.1      100
Labor and General Transport Vehicles and
Operating Cost                                18.0    48.8       66.8    0.4      1.0        1.4       71
Miscellaneous Tools and Equipment                -        0.5       0.5    -        -          -         -
Sub-Total                        1,792.1   950.0   2,742.1   36.0    18.9         54.9        34
PORTUCEL
Plantation Establishment                     1,156.8   593.3   1,750.1   23.1    11.9         35.0       34
Plantation Road Maintenance                      9.6    14.9       24.5    0.2      0.3        0.5       60
Firebreak Maintenance                            5.9      1.9       7.8    0.1      -          0.1       -
Protection and Patrolling Equipment              -       15.7      15.7    -        0.3        0.3      100
Labor and General Transport Vehicles and
Operating Cost                                 1.8      5.4       7.2    -        0.1        0.1      100
Miscellaneous Tools and Equipment                -        0.2       0.2    -        -          -         -
Sub-Total                        1,174.1   631.4   1,805.5   23.4    12.6         36.0        35
Technical Assistance
Extension                                       28.3    15.0       43.3    0.6      0.3        0.9       33
Training                                         -        6.0       6.0    -        0.1        0.1      100
Pilot Credit                                    50.0    50.0      100.0    1.0      1.0        2.0       50
Studies                                          1.0    20.0       21.0    -        0.4        0.4      100
Sub-Total                            79.3    91.0      170.3    1.6     1.8        3.4        53
Project Administration
DGFF
Staff and Supplies                             109.7      -       109.7    2.1      -          2.1       -
Personnel Transport                             22.0    35.6       57.6    0.4      0.7        1.1       64
Sub-Total                           131.7    35.6      167.3    2.5     0.7        3.2        22
PORTUCEL
Staff and Supplies                              85.8      -        85.8    1.7      -          1.7       -
Personnel Transport                             15.7    24.5       40.2    0.3      0.5        0.8       62
Sub-Total                           101.5    24.5      126.0    T       0.5        2.5        20
Project Unit
Staff and Supplies                              10.1      -        10.1    0.2      -          0.2       -
Personnel Transport                              1.5      4.7       6.2    -        0.1       0.1       100
Sub-Total                            11.6     4.7       16.3    0.2     0.1        0.3        33
Total Base Cost                   3,290.3 1,737.2   5,026.5   65.7    34.6       100.3        34
Contingencies
Physical                                       437.3   213.8      662.3    8.8      4.5       13.3       34
Expected Price Increase                      2,274.8   556.6   2 820.2   45.5    10.9         56.4       19
Sub-Total                        2,712.1   7        3,482.5   54.3    15.4        69.7        22
TOTAL PROJECT COST                6,002.4 2,507.6   8,509.0  120.0    50.0       170.0        29
/1 Errors due to rounding.
January, 1980



PORTUGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
intimated Total Cost                    1980                           1981                           1982                           1983                           1984                           1985
Local   Foroig    Total   Local   Forign    Total   local   ForIgn   Total   Looal   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign    Total   Loca    Forign    Total
Aff-retation and Related Works
00FF
Plantation iatahlishmeant                           1,757.5     832.4  2,589.9        -         -298.6                       142.1    4,40. 7   333.5       159.4     492.9      386.2    184.4       570.6     385.6    184.2       569.8    353.6      162.3      515.9
Sands                                                   -          5.4        5.4     -                    -         -         1.5        1.5      -          1.5        1.5       -         1.2        1.2        -        1.2        1.2       -         -          -
Flan.tation  Road Maintenanco                           5.4       17.6      23.0                                                                   0.5        1.5        2.0        1.0      3.2        4.2        1.7      5.4        7.1       2.2        7.5       9.7
Firebrosh Maintenane                                    3.1        1.0        4.1     -          -         -                   -          -        0.3        0.1        0.4       0.6       0.2        1.8        0.9      0.3        1.2       1.3        0.4       1. 7
Equip.ent Maintenanc   VehIcles & Equipmen t            8.1        9.3      17.4      -         -          -         5.1        5.9      11.0      3.0        3.4       6.4        -         -          -          -        -          -                    --
Mechanical Workhop Toots                                -         30.0      30.0      -          -         -         -        20.0       20.0      -         10.0       10.0       -         ---                            ---                                       -
Froteotios aod Patrolling Eqoip.nant                    -          5.0        5.1 0                                  -         2.5        2.5      -          -          -         -         2.5        2.5        -        -          -                    --
Lobor nod General1 Transport Vehicles and
Operting Cost                                        10.0      40.0       66.8      -         -          -         2.0      20.9      22.9       4.0       21.9      25.9        4.0       2.0        6.0       4.0       2.0        6.0      4.0        2.0        6.0
Mi-c11lansou. Tools & Eqoip.ont                         -          0.5        0.5     -          -         -         -         0.1        0.1     -           0.1        0.1      -          0.1        0.1        -        0.1        0.1   --             0.1     -0.1
Soh-Tota1                               1,792.1    9§5 0.0  2,742.1       -          -          -      305.7     193.0    498.7   341.3         194.9      539.2     391.8    193.6       585.4      392.2   1793.2      58.        fT        D    ~    134
PORTUCEL
Plantation Estahliehnent                            1,156.8     593.3  1,750.1        -          -         -      173.5       94.9    240.4    202.2        100.9     303.1      231.6    118.7       350.3     261.0    130.5       391.5    289.9      148.3      436.8
Plantation Road Maioton--                               9.6       14.9      24.5      -         -          -         -         -          -        0.8        1.2        2.0       1.8       2.7        4.5        2.9      4.5        7.4       4.1       6.5       10.6
FSroibr-a  MaIterenanc.                                 5.9        1.9        7.08                                              -         -        0.5        0.1        0.6        1.1      0.3        1.4        1.9      4.         2.4       2.6        0.8       3.4
Protection & PatrolligO Eqaiponot                       -         15.7      15.7      -         -          -         -          7.8       7.08           -               -         -         3.9        3.9        -        4.0        4.0       -          -         -
Lahor and General Transport Vehicles and
Operting Cost                                         1.0        5.4       7.72                                   0.2        2.4        2.6      0.4        2.4       2.8        0.4       0.2        0.6       0.4       0.2        0.6      0.4        0.2        0.6
Misoe.llannoos  Tools &  quip.not                                  G .2       0.2     -          -         -         -          0.1       0.1      -          0.1        0.1       -      U--                               ----
Sub-Total               1,174.1      651.4   1,005.5~ ~        ~~~~~~ -T  73.7                   170-5.2    270.9   -203.9      104.7    300.-6    234.9    125.8         360.7      262      197        459      296.6      155.8      451z
Tochnicol Resits tnc
Ent-nion                                               28.3       15.0      43.3      0.3        4.4       4.9       0.6        9.4      10.0      0.1        1.0        1.1       6.3       -          6.3        8.4      -          8.4      12.6        -        12.6
Training                                                -          6.0        4.0     -          -         -         -          1.0       1.0      -          2.0        2.0       -         1.0        1.0        -        2.0        2.0       -          -         -
Pilot Credit                                           ;0.0       50.0     100.0      -         -          -        12.5      02.3       25.0     12.5       12.5      25.0       75.0    72 .0        50.0        -        -----
Studios                                                 1.0       20.0      21.0    0.7          8.2       8.9       0.2      10.8       11.0      0.1        1.0        1.1       --         -        -7         Z-        Z-                   ---
Sub-Total      79.3      91.0      170.3      1.0      TrF        13.6     13.3       5~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~3.7  47-.0  172.7  105  2 -  9.2  371.3    760        57.3        8.4       2.0       10.4     12.6        -         1.
Project Adiitration
DGFF
Staff                                                 109.7        -       109.7      6.7        -         6.7      15.0        -        15.0     22.0        -        22.0       22.0       -         22.0       22.0      -         22.8      22.0        -        22.0
FrnnlTransport                                   22.0       35.6       57.6     -          -         -         2.4       12.6      15.0       4.9      14.0       18.9        4.9      3.0        7.9        4.9      3.0        7.9       4.9        3.0        7.9
Suh-Tota1                                 131.7       35.6      16- 676.7                               17.4       12.6      30o.0     26. 9     14.0       40.9       26.9      3.0       29.9       26.9       3.0      29.9      26.9        3.0      29.9
FORTUCEL
Staff                                                  85.0        -         00.0     5.0                  5.0      12.0        -        12.0     17.0        -         17.0      17.0       -         17.0       17.0      -         17.0      17.0        -        17.0
Personnel Transport                     ~~~~~~~~~15.7  24.5   40.2      -          -         -         1.7        8.3      10.0       3.5       9.6       13.1       3.5       2.2        5.7        3.5      2.2        5.7       3.5        2.2      15.7
Sub-Total                                 101.5       24.       126.0     5.         -          5.8     13.7        8.3      220       25. 5      96        3.          05       22        2.          05        22       YT        Yt           T
Project Unit
Staff and Supplies                                     10.1        -         10.1     1.3        -         1.3       1.8        -         1.8       1.8       -          1.0        1.0      -          1.8        1.8      -          1.8       1.8        -         1.8
Pers-nnI Trans.port                                     1.5        4.7        6.2     -          -         -         0.3        3.9       4.2      0.3        0.2        0.5       0.3       0.2        0.5        0.3      0.2        0.5       0.3        0.2       0.5
Sub-Total                                  11.6        4.7       16.3     13         -          1.3      2.1        TY9       6.0       2.1       0. 2       2.         2.1      0.2        2.3        2.1      0.         23        2. I       0          2.
Total Bass Coat                         3,790.3   1,737.7   5,028.5    14.0         12.0      27.4    575.9       354.7    082.6    407.4        341.9    950.3       707.5    350.8  1,058.3        716. 3   340.3  1,056.6    719.8         333.5   1,052.3
Continge... es
phpsioal                                                437.3      225.0     662.3      -          -         -        70.0       37.7    100.5      00.3       41.4      171.7      92.7      47.7      140.4       97.0     49.4      146.4      96.5      40.0      145.3
Oopoctsd Pri-5 Inceae                                 2.2740       545.4  2,820.2   _-                               1 24.3      30.2    165.1'   704.4        7.4J,     356.4     474.1    112.0       586.2      421.1    143.4      764.5   769.3       178.4      947.7
Sub-Tota1                               2,712.1      '70.4 ~.482.5        -          -          -      197.1       76.9     240       304.3     113.0      4.70.1    566.8    1:.          7.        758.1    192.0      910.9   865.08        7.    19.
Total Project Cost                      6.002-4  2 5777      R.50f9.0   14.0        17.0      77.6    723.0       43.  11.1-56 .6   971.7    457.7  1, .   1,~274j    143           1.784.0   1,434.4    531.1  19,967.5 . _A2QL6             560.7  2.14 jj3-
J..oory 19800



PORTUGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
List and Cost of Equipment
Needed by DGFF, PORTUCEL and Project Unit
/3
Quantity                 Unit                Total Cost/3
DOFF'- PORTUCEL Project Unit Total  Cost/2  DGFF  PORTUCEL Project Unit   Total
-------------------------- (Exc '0) -------------------------------
Plantation Machines                                                                                                                         16,890
Crawler Dozer, 180-220 hp                                  3         -           -         3    5,630  16,890       -           -       196,020
Crawler Dozer, 130-160 hp                                 54         -           -        54    3,630 196,020       -           -        38,280
Crawler Dozer,  90-120 lip                                12         -           -        12    3,190  38,280        -          -         77,000
Crawler Dozer,  70- 80 hp                                 35         -           -        35    2,200  77,000       -           -         7
Tractor, agricultural crawler, 55-70 hp                   33        103          -       136       930  30,690   95,790         -       126,480
Tractor, agricultural, rubber tyred, 60-75 hp             22         19          _        41       680  14,960   12,920         -         27,880
Plantation Machine Attachments and Implements
Loader, front-end, for 60-75 hp tractor                    8          6          -        14       100      800       600       -          1,400
Harrow, trailed, 16X760-765 mm disc, 3-ton                34          -          -        34       250   8,500       -          -          8,500
Harrow, linkage mounted, 14-16 discsX550-660mm.           33         25          _        58        90   2,970    2,250         -          5,220
lHarrow, disc for hydraulic tool bar, 55-70 hp tractor -             78          _        78        90    -         7,020       -          7,020
Plough, share, single furrow                                         55          -        55        50    -        2,750        -          2,750
Plough, 3 disc, 0.5 ton, mounted, for 60-75 hp tractor-               7          -         7        70    -           490       -            490
Trailer, 6 ton, for 60-75 hp tractor                      21          -          -        21       170   3,570       -          -          3,570
Trailer, tipping, 6.5 ton capacity                         -         19          _        19       220    -        4,180        -          4,180
Rotavator, mounted, for 60-75 hp tractor                   -         12          -        12       100    _        1,200        -          1,200
Road Maintenance Machines
Motor grader, 135-150 hp                                   6          4          -        10    2,500  15,000   10,000          _         25,000
Protection and Patrolling Vehicles and Equipment
Motor cycles, 50 cc                                        -         72                   72        40    -         2,880       -          2,880
Radio, 2-way, FM, 30 watt for vehicle mounting            43         30          -        73        70   3,010    2,100         -          5,110
Radio, 3-way, FM, hand portable                           33        129          -       162        60   1,980    7,740         -          9,720       1
Radio, 2-way, FM, fixed installation                       -         15          -        15       200    -         3,000       -          3,000       4
Equipment Maintenance Vehicles and Equipment
Truck, 3-4 ton, 4 WD                                       6          -          _         6    1,000   6,000        -          -          6,000
Trailer-mounted service unit                              13          -          -        13       300   3,900       -          -          3,900
Trailer-mounted fuel tank                                 30          -          -        30       130   3,900       -          -          3,900
Trailer-mounted water tank                                30          -          -        30       120   3,600       -          -          3,600
Mechanical Workshop, tools and Equipment
Various, for complete mechanical base workshop             3 set      -          -         3setlO,O00   30,000       -          _         30,000
Labor and General Transportation Vehicles
Truck, 3.5-4 ton                                          44          -          -        44       690  30,360       -          -         30,360
Truck, 7 ton                                               -          5          -         5       900    -        4,500        -          4,500
Truck, 10 ton                                              1          -          -         1    2,600   2,600        -          -          2,600
Truck trailer, 10 ton, 25-30 ton capacity                  1          -          -         1    6,780   6,780        -          -          6,780
Personnel Transport
Car, saloon, light 4-5 seater                              8          7          2        17       400   3,200    2,800         800        6,800
Field vehicle, 4 WD, long-wheel base                      27          5          4        36       700  18,900    3,500    2,800          25,200
Field vehicle, 4 WD, short-wheel base                      -         13          -        13       650    -        8,450        -          8,450
Miscellaneous Forestry Tools, Equipment, and Supplies   -               -          -         -       -        500       250       -            750
Miscellaneous Office and Field Equipment Supplies            -          -          -         -       -       -         -          250          250
Total (Exc '000)                                                                             519,410  172,420    3,850         695,680
Total (US$ '000)                                                                              10,390    3,450          80       13,920
/1  Includes equipment for technical assistance program.
/2  Include about 10% provision for spares.
/3  Exclude physical contingencies and allowanocs for expected price increases.
April 1980



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Table T-6
PORTUGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
of Bank Loan
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                        Cumulative Disbrusement
(US$ Million)
1981
September 30, 1980                                           0.2
December 31, 1980                                            0.3
March 31, 1981                                               4.4
June 30, 1981                                                9.5
1982
September 30, 1981                                          12.7
December 31, 1981                                           15.7
March 31, 1982                                              17.7
June 30, 1982                                               20.6
1983
September 30, 1982                                          22.8
December 31, 1982                                           22.8
March 31, 1983                                              25.1
June 30, 1983                                               28.8
1984
September 30, 1983                                          30.2
December 31, 1983                                           31.2
March 31, 1984                                              33.3
June 30, 1984                                               36.6
1985
September 30, 1984                                          37.5
December 31, 1984                                           38.3
March 31, 1985                                              40.4
June 30, 1985                                              44.3
1986
September 30, 1985                                         45.7
December 31, 1985                                           47.1
March 31, 1986                                              48.5
June 30, 1986                                              50.0
April 1980



PORTUGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
PORTUCEL: Consolidated Balance Sheet, 1976-1986
Actual               Est.     Budget                          Projections
1976     1977       1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985       1986
… - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - …(ESC Million) -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Assets
Cash                                 247       292       481        33        30        30        30        30         30        30        30
Accounts Receivable                 1112      1410      1831      2349      2700      2700      2700      2700      2700       2700      2700
Inventories                        1476      1984      2571       3192      3800      3800      3800      3800      3800      3800       3800
Sub-total                       2835      3686      4883      5574      6530      6530       6530      6530      6530      6530      6530
Excess Cash
For the Project                                                                                 -                   -          -         -
Additional                                                                            -        80       493      1256      3119      5828
Fixed Assets                       8370       9839    19322 aJ 20986    22181    22181    22181          22181     22181     22181      22181
Less Accum. Deprec.             2476      2967      7067 a!  8519       10179    11869      13559    15249    16939       18629    20319
Net Fixed Assets                   589       6872     12255      12467     12002    10312       8622      6932      5242      3552       1862
Other Assets                           -         -         -         -         -        35       111       234       410        645       880
TOTAL ASSETS                    8729    10558      17138    18041       18532    16877    15343    14189        13438     13846     15100
Liabilities
Accounts & Notes Payable           3131      4256       6491      6757      5636      4247      3329      2929      2065      2665       2665
Current Portion of L-T debt           -       1500      1000       800      1200      1600      1600      1263      1263        663       663
Sub-total Current Liab.         3131      5756      7491      7557                          4929       4192      3328      3328      3328
Long-term debt                     4104       3446      5395      7088      8000      6916      5444      3934      2841       1771      1108
Equity
Capital and Reserves                1726      1726     5397 a/  5397        5397      5397      5397      5397      5397      5397       5397
Value of Afforested Land               -         -         -         -         -        35       111       234       410       645        880
Accum. Profit (or Loss)                -      (232)     (370)   (1145)   (2001)   (1701)   (1318)         (538)      432       1462      2705
Net Profit (or Loss) for
the period                       (232)     (138)     (775)     (856)       300       383       780       970      1030      1243      1682
Sub-total Equity                1494      1356      4252      3396      3696      4114      4970      6063       7269      8747     10664
TOTAL LIAB. AND EQUITY             8729    10558    17138        18041     18532    16877    15343    14189    13438         13846      15100
Current Ratio                          0.91      0.64      0.65      0.74      0.96      1.12      1.32      1.56      1.96       1.96      1.96
Debt to Equity Ratio                  73:27    72:28    56:44    68:32    68:32    63:37    52:48    39:61            28:72     17:83       9:91       H
a!  Includes gross value ESC 7205 million of revaluated fixed assets and ESC 3534 for accumulated depreciation.                                        H ~
Net value of ESC 3671 million shows as increase in equity.
December 1979



PORTUGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
PORTUCEL: Consolidated Sources and Applications of Funds, 1977-1986
Actual        Est.   Budget                          Projections
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981         1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - (ESC Million) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
A.  Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation
Net Income (Profit) a/                 -        -        -       300      721     1181     1740    2274    2707    2894
Depreciation & Amortization           600      681    1452    1660    1690    1690    1690    1690    1690    1690
Total Internal Cash Generation    600          681       52             241171 28          3430    3         4397    4584
Increase in Equity                        -      3671           -             -        -        -        -        -        -
Long Term Loans                           -        -                          -        -        -        -        -        -
IBRD                                   -        -       -        -       116       128      153      170      193       -
Others                               1108    2218    2993    1912          -        -        -        -        -        -
Increase in Short Term Loans            3266    1267        -      (721)      _        _
"1   in Other Current Loans         366      468       66       -        -        -        -        -         -        -
Other Sources                            153       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                  5493    8305    4511    3151        2527     2999    3583    4134    4590    4584
B.  Uses of Funds
New Investments/Renewals                1728    2393    1664    1195          -        -        -        -        -        -
Other Capitalized Expenditures             2    3671        -        --                -        -        -        -        -
Increase in Current Assets               851    1197       691      956       -        -        -        -        -        -
Repayment of Long Term Debt
IBRD                                   -        -        -       -         -        -        -        63       63       63
Others                               2774      269    1300    1000    1200        1600    1663    1200    1200         600
Total Repayment of L-T Debt
Repayment of Short-Term Debt              -        -        -        -       989      918      737      864       -        -
Interest on Loans                         -        -        -        -        12       23       36       51       62       65
Other Uses (Taxes)                        -        -        -                          -       288      687      829    1122
Net Income (Loss) b/                     138      775      856               326      378      446      506      573       25
TOTAL USES OF FUNDS                     5493    8305    4511    3151        2527     2919    3170     37-1   2727        1875
Annual Excess Cash                             -        -       -        -         -        80      413      763    1863    2709
Cummulative Excess Cash                                 -        -        -        -        80      493    1256    3119    5828
a/ After interest and before taxes of PORTUCEL without the Project.
b/ From 1981 and on amount shown is loss for the Project before interest.
December 1979



PORTUGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
PORTUCEL: Consolidated Income Statement, 1977-1986
Actual        Est.   Budget                        Projections
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
- - - - . 7-- - -- - - - - - (ESC Million) - -    - - - - - - - - - - - -
Sales Revenue                       5274    5792    8344   14698   16302   16302   16332   16362   16362   16362
Less:  Variable Prod. Cost       2440    2756    3270    5151    5943    5994    6060    6118    6183    5706
Sales Cost       429      389    1280    2263    2577    2577    2577    2577    2577    2577
Total Variable Cost              2769    3145    4550    7414    8520    8571    8637    8695    8760    8283
Gross Margin                        2405    2647    3794    7284    7782    7731    7695    7667    7602    8079
Fixed Production Costs              1156    1444    1760    2233    2298    2298    2298    2298    2298    2243
Sales Costs                    44       51      100      133     133      133      133      133      133      133
Administrative Expenses               93      121     183      205      215      216      218     220      222      206
Depreciation and Amortization        600      679    1452    1660    1690    1690    1690    1690    1690    1690
TOTAL FIXED COSTS                 1893    2295    3495    4231    4336    4337    4339    4341    4343    4272
Ln'
Manufacturing Profit                 512      352     299    3053    3446    3394    3356    3326    3259    3807               0
Interest Charges                     530     807    1200    2781    3128    2679    2163    1674    1252    1003
Other Income (-)                      -        -      (45)    (28)    (65)    (65)    (65)    (65)    (65)            -
Other Expense                        120     320       -        -        -        -       -        -        -
Total Other Expenses                 60    T127    1155    2753    3063    2614   -209    T10             1187    1003
Net Pre-Tax Profit (Loss)           (138)   (775    (856)  )         300   3 83   780    1258    1717    2072    2804
Taxes (40% of Profits)                -        -       -        -        -        -      288 a/  687       829    1122
Net Profit After Taxes             T(1        738   ZW57)                M      7M      -'70'  T0U    TM682
Sales Volume b/                      426     400      484      680      754      754     754      754      754      754
Pre-Tax Profit as % of Sales        -2.6   -13.4   -10.3       2.0      2.4      4.9      7.7    10.5    12.7    17.1
Interest Charges as % of Sales   10.0    13.9    12.3    18.9    19.2    16.4    13.2    10.2              7.6      6.1
a/  288 = 40% of 720 (1258 profits for the period - 538 outstanding accummulated loss).
b/ In thousands of metric tons for pulp, paper, and packaging.
December 1979



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
PORTUGAL                        Table T-10
FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Output
Output/-
Year             Conifers            Eucalyptus       Other Hardwoods          Total
Smallwood  Sawlog  Total   Pulplog    Smallwood  Sawlog  Total
_______________________-_---…('000 st ub)--------------------------
1987        90        -       90                                        -         90
1988       100        -      100        -            -         -        -       100
1989      120         -      120        -            -         -        -       120
1990       250        -      250        230          -         -        -       480
1991       290        -      290        270          -         -        -       560
1992      150         -      150      1,430          -         -        -     1,580
1993      150         -      150      1,720          -         -        -     1,870
1994      140         -      140      1,810          -         -        -     1,950
1995       680        -      680      1,660          -         -        -     2,340
1996       740        -      740      1,730          -         -        -     2,470
1997       880         -     880        -            -         -        -        880
1998       940        -      940        -            -         -        -       940
1999      950         -      950        -            -         -        -       950
2000      270         30    300         280          240       -       240      820
2001       300        30    330         320          270       -       270      920
2002      350         40    390         360          320       -       320    1,070
2003      590         70    660         360          320       -       320    1,340
2004      590         70    660       1,680          290       -       290    2,630
2005      930        160  1,090       1,690          -         -        -     2,780
2006    1,050        180  1,230       1,830          -         -        -     3,060
2007    1,220        210  1,430       1,990          -         -        -     3,420
2008      860        150  1,010       2,070          -         -        -     3,080
2009      810        140    950         -            -         -        -       950
2010    1,560      1,560  3,120         230          270      270      530    3,880
2011    1,710      1,710  3,430         270          300      300      600    4,290
2012    2,020      2,020  4,040         300          360      360      710    5,050
2013    2,150      2,150  4,300         300          360      360      710    5,310
2014    2,170      2,170  4,340         280          320      320      640    5,260
2015      -          -       -          -            -         -        -       -
2016      -          -       -        1,120          -         -        -     1,120
2017      -          -       -        1,410          -         -        -     1,410
2018      -          -       -        1,530          -         -        -     1,530
2019      -          -       -        1,660          -         -        -     1,660
2020      -          -       -        1,920          -         -        -     1,920
2021      -          -       -          210          -         -        -        210
2022      -          -       -          240          -         -        -       240
2023      -          -       -          240          -         -        -       240
2024      -          -       -          220          -         -        -        220
2025      -          -       -          -            -         -        -        _
2026      -          -       -
2027      -          -       -          -            -         -        -       -
2028      -          -       -          900          -         -        -       900
2029      -          -       -        1,130          -         -        -     1,130
2030      -          -       -        1,220          -         -        -     1,220
2031      -          -       -        1,330          -         -        -     1,330
2032      -          -       -        1,380          -         -        -     1,380
Total  .22,060    10,690 32,750    35,320          3,050   1,610   4,630   72,700
/1 Errors due to rounding.
December 1979



PORTUGAL
C                                                     FORESTRY PROJECT
BD                                        Summary of Principal Economic Indicators
CD
'-4
Item                                                                  Economic Indicators
Internal Rate of Return'-  Switching Values    Present Value           Benefit/Cost
Cost     Benefit  Cost  Benefit   Net        Ratio
---------(%)---------       ---(% Change)---  ---(Esc Million)---
Assumptions For IRR Calculation
Basic run                                  19
Cost up 10%                                18
Cost up 15%                                18
Cost up 20%                                18
Benefit down 10%                           18
Benefit down 15%                           18
Benefit down 20%                           17
Cost up 15%, Benefit down 10%              17
No change in real prices of outputs        17
Discount Rate
12                                                           +165        -62   3,211   8,526   5,314        2.65
13                                                           +129        -56   3,096   7,076   3,980        2.28
15                                                           + 72        -42   2,884   4,972   2,088        1.72
16                                                           + 51        -33   2,786   4,205   1,419        1.51
/1 Rounded to the nearest whole number.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
PORTUGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in
Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sub-Sector
A-1.  Baretto, Luis S., Uma Aplicacao da Engenharia De Sistemas:  Programa
Unificado de Planeamento Do Sector Florestal (Lisbon, 1978).
A-2. MAP, Distribuicao da Floresta Em Portugal Continental: Areas
Florestais Por Concelhos (1978).
A-3. MAP, Inventario Florestal, 1968.
A-4. MAP, Inventario Florestal Nacional, 1977.
A-5. MAP, Plano de Arborizacao da Serra de Bornes (1970).
A-6. MAP, Programa de Apoio a Floresta Privada Projecto - Organizacao E
Gestao da Propriedade Florestal Privada (Lisboa, 1977).
A-7. MAP, Study of the Forestry Sub-Sector, First Progress Report:
Analysis of the Sub-Sector (December 30, 1977).
A-8. MAP, Support Program for Private Forestry (Lisbon, 1977).
A-9. Teixeira Lopo, V.R., Investment Problems in Forestry and Wood Process-
ing Industries From the Industry Point of View (October 19, 1977).
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating
to the Project
B-1. FAO/CP, Cooperatives and Associations of Small Forest Owners,
Including Forestry Credit (September 1979).
B-2. FAO/CP, Portugal Forestry Project Preparation Technical Annex: Forest
Inventory (October 14, 1979).
B-3. FAO/CP, Working Paper of the Portugal Forestry Preparation/Preappraisal
Mission (September 14, 1979).
*             B-4.  UN/DP/FAO Project POR/77/024.  Forestry Development:  Portugal (Second
Draft of Proposed Project Document Comprising Parts I, II, III, Project
Budget, and Appendix III. February 1980).
B-5. IFADAP, Study of Credit Mechanisms for Improvement in Silviculture:
First Phase (October 1979).
C. Selected Working Tables
C-1. Projected AAC of Eucalyptus Wood, 1980-2000.
C-2. Projected Supply of Coniferous Wood, 1980-2000.



- 54 -
C-3. Derivation of Farmgate Economic Price of Pulpwood.
C-4.  Cost and Benefit Streams Used For Economic Analysis,
C-5.  PORTUCEL:  Balance Sheet Without the Project, 1976-86
C-6.  PORTUCEL:  Income Statement Without the Project, 1977-86
C-7.  PORTUCEL:  Sources and Applications of Funds Without the Project,
1977-86
C-8.  PORTUCEL:  Project Balance Sheet, 1981-86
C-9.  PORTUCEL:  Project Income Statement, 1981-86
C-10  PORTUCEL:  Project Sources and Applications of Funds, 1981-86
C-ll  Cost Recovery Implications Under Various Assumptions on Investment
Financing, Species Grown, and Changes in Prices of Wood.



PORTUGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
ORGANIGRAM OF IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
Ministry of       l                        l   Ministry of Agriculture  |                        [       Ministry of
Industries                                         and Fisheries                                          Finance
...............              .....  '., t               .. .........
Portucel                    DGFF                      Project Unit                 DGO                        IFADAP
Afforestation Division                                                                 UNDP/FAO                     Technical
in Lisbon                         t               ,                               Assistance                  Assistance
Afforestation Districts         Field Brigades                  1r                          I r
_________                 ~~~~~Sub-                  Forestry
=i               i                                            Secto,r                    Extension                  Pilot Credit
t  _  _  Study    ,       Training              _
Afforestation                                                ,                             ..............
Pulp & Paper    |                                        Resorce
Resou rces
Industry                                                              I
Saw Mill
Industry                                             Extraction
Wood Based Panels                    _    _    _
*                                              * S
industryrMakes                                 r
Other Users                                             Institutions
Long-term      L 
Development
Strategy       r
Wrold Bank-21129






IBRD 14735
b-                                 V9°   Vigo h>                                                            7           JANUARY 1980
42'
VIANA DO CASTELO                                   Voida        ,               ,
PORTUGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY                                                               VILA REAL
R* TA CLEBOARD MILLS                       Jt      rt                 /             |e et
41-       A*    PULPh MILLSP                                                OT                                
F PIBREBOARD MILLS                                                                                                                             41/
-PRIMARY ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS                       AVEI
R?AILWAYS
4~PORTS
RIVERS
®    DI5TRICT CAPITALS         F.     g      /ts
DISTRICT BOUNDARtES             cdf F        C B /        -
AGRARIAN REGIONAL BOUNDARIES -
-  -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NotI, Sawntills (100  eppn-) ote dpedrsed                                                                                                        40
fh eTy iovth of the Tejo Rise/r
K~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~II 4g                                                                 BRAN)
U"                                                 )                              zAAREM  LEG
.0''-'m39-
39~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31
38'                      _ 1                    S l n         e     < (          <     _      >                                                           3
0   2    40, hp, TOO
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                F R      N  C E
This map has heen prepared by the,
Woald rRaslr staff fOfOiOOl hrORA
the -ovenenoofthereader of                                                                                                P       N
the.report tohwhichit s att d sh|d
The fe,,m,n ati-ns used a,,d the
bossdores how  onthis map
do not ithpIY. on the part of the
World Rank aod irt affiliatfs, any
,sdmen -n the legal tft- of
a_y territsry or anendst ot                                         FARO * d-i
or a_oeptaoce of -suhboundaries. h-                                                                             MOROCCO           L GERI



