OFFICIAL          LOAN NUMBER 1853 PO
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Forestry Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1853 PO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    d0sdB*6&  2.            , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower,
INSTITUTO FINANCEIRO DE APOIO AO DESENVOLVIMENTO DA AGRICULTURA E
PESCAS (hereinafter called IFADAP) and EMPRESA DE CELULOSE E
PAPEL DE PORTUGAL (hereinafter called PORTUCEL) with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to IFADAP and PORTUCEL parts of the proceeds
of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and IFADAP and
in a project agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
PORTUCEL;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "IFADAP Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and IFADAP of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(b) "PORTUCEL Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Bank and PORTUCEL of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time;
(c) "IFADAP Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and IFADAP pursuant
to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
IFADAP Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) "PORTUCEL Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Agree-
ment to be entered between the Borrower and PORTUCEL pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all Schedules to the
PORTUCEL Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e) "MAP" means the Borrower's Ministry responsible for
agriculture and fisheries, including forestry;
(f) "Escudo" and "Esc." means the currency of the Borrower;
(g) "Statute" of IFADAP means the Borrower's Law No. 14/78
of March 23, 1978, including the Statute therein, as amended from
time to time;
(h) "Statute" of PORTUCEL means the Borrower's Decree-Law
No. 554-A/76 of July 14, 1976, including the Statute therein,
as amended by Decree-Law No. 330/79 of August 24, 1979, and as
such Decree-Law may be further amended from time to time;
(i) "Project Coordination Unit" means the unit to be estab-
lished within MAP pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(j) "PBI" means a banking institution established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower to be selected pursuant
to Section 2.02 (a) of the IFADAP Project Agreement;
(k) "PBI Loan Agreement" means an agreement to be entered
into by IFADAP and a PBI, pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of the
IFADAP Project Agreement, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time with the approval of the Bank, for the purpose
of rejending to such PBI a portion of the Loan;


﻿-3-
(1) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by a PBI to a Sub-borrower for an Investment Project in which
IFADAP has agreed to participate by relending to such PBI proceeds
of the Loan under a PBI Loan Agreement;
(m) "Sub-borrower" means the Borrower under a Sub-loan;
and
(n) "Investment Project" means a specific investment project
to be carried out by a Sub-borrower, utilizing the proceeds of
a Sub-loan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil and afforestation works, to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Schedule to the
IFADAP Project Agreement and the Schedule to the PORTUCEL Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A.1 and
B of the Project through its MAP with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate afforestation, forestry manage-
ment and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose and, in particular, the Borrower shall
allocate to MAP by November 30 of each year until completion of
the Project all funds necessary for operations with respect to
Part A.1 of the Project during the next planting season.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 'the Borrower shall
cause IFADAP and PORTUCEL to perform, in accordance with the
provisions of the IFADAP Project Agreement and the PORTUCEL
Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations therein set
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable IFADAP and PORTUCEL to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of $1,300,000
of the proceeds of the Loan to IFADAP, and the equivalent of
$19,200,000 of the proceeds of the Loan, or such other amount
as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, to PORTUCEL,
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and IFADAP and a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
between the Borrower and PORTUCEL, respectively, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.


﻿-5-
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
IFAD)AP Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the PORTUCEL Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the IFADAP Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or the PORTUCEL Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank not
later than December 31, .1982 or such other date as the Bank may
agree, the findings of the study under Part B.2 of the Project
and exchange views thereon with the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1981, cause MAP to employ qualified and experienced
staff in sufficient numbers to carry out Part A.l.of the Project.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part
B.1 and 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than
April 30, 1981, employ or cause to be employed consultants (about
116 man-months) whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank,
including consultants to assist in credit financing, logging,
sawmilling, marketing and small-scale indu4cies.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall promptly establish and
maintain within MAP: (a) until completion of the Project, a
Project Coordination Unit with an adequate budget and adequate
facilities and qualified and experienced staff in sufficient
numbers comprising inter alia at least five senior officers
including a Project Manager, responsible for coordinating the
Project, timely preparation of operational plans, reviewing work
progress in accordance with such plans, ensuring corrective action
in case of delays and participating in identification of land and
negotiation with its owners for purposes of Part A of the Project;
and (b) by July 1, 1982, the forest extension service under Part
B.1 of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall recover its investment
costs for goods supplied and services rendered by it to private
land owners and associations thereof in respect of afforesta-
tion under Part A.1 of the Project, including interest thereon,
by retaining a portion of the harvests of not less than 30% for
eucalyptus and not less than 40% for conifers, unless other-
wise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1982
furnish to the Bank recommendations for a cost recovery policy
pursuant to the Study under Part B.2 of the Project, exchange
views with the Bank on such recommendations and thereafter imple-
ment such recommendations as shall have been agreed upon with the
Bank.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause MAP to give
priority in afforestation under Part A.1 of the Project to associ-
ations of forest farmers including cooperatives entering into a
commitment towards the Borrower to participate in block farming of
at least 100 hectares.
(b) Until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall
secure, and shall enable PORTUCEL to secure, not later than
October 31 of each year, all land required for the following
year's afforestation program under Parts A.1 and 2 of the Project,
respectively.
(c) In order to carry out its obligations under paragraph
(b) of this Section and without limitation thereon, the Borrower
shall by June 30, 1981, or such other date as the Bank may agree:
(i) take all measures which may be required to authorize PORTUCEL
to enter into revenue-sharing agreements with farmers, on terms
similar to those of MAP, for purposes of securing land to carry
out Part A.2 of the Project, and (ii) furnish to the Bank evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that PORTUCEL is legally authorized to
enter into such agreements.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of or cause to be
insured, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan with respect to Parts A.1 and B.1 and 2 of the Project
and for the Project Coordination Unit against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,


﻿-7-
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; (iii) on and after June 30,
1981, shall furnish to the Bank, through the Project Coordination
Unit, a progress report with respect to all Parts of the Project,
every six months, including summary tables on afforestation,
road and firebreak maintenance and recruitment of personnel; and
(iv) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by the Borrower, PORTUCEL, IFADAP and
the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement,
the PORTUCEL Project Agreement and the IFADAP Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, 'in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution


﻿-8-
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the -rdinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) IFADAP shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of IFADAP under the IFADAP Project
Agreement;


﻿-9-
(b) PORTUCEL shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of PORTUCEL under the PORTUCEL Project
Agreement;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that IFADAP will be able to perform its
obligations under the IFADAP Project Agreement;
(d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that PORTUCEL will be able to perform
its obligations under the PORTUCEL Project Agreement;
(e) a change shall have been made in the Statute of IFADAP
or in other laws or regulations of the Borrower controlling
IFADAP or its operations which would materially and adversely
affect the financial condition and operations of IFADAP or the
carrying out of Part C of the Project;
(f) a change shall have been made in the Statute of PORTUCEL
or in other laws or regulations of the Borrower controlling
PORTUCEL or its operations which would materially and adversely
affect the financial condition and operations of PORTUCEL or the
carrying out of Part A.2 of the Project;
(g) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolucion or disestablish-
ment of IFADAP or for the suspension of its operations; and
(h) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestab-
lishment of PORTUCEL or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that any event specified
in paragraphs (a), (b), (e), (f), (g) or (h) oi Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower and IFADAP or PORTUCEL, respectively.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
(a) the IFADAP Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and IFADAP;
(b) the PORTUCEL Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and PORTUCEL; and
(c) the Project Coordination Unit has been established
pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the IFADAP Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by IFADAP, and is legally binding upon
IFADAP in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the PORTUCEL Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by PORTUCEL, and is legally binding
upon FORTUCEL in accordance with its terms;
(c) that the IFADAP Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and IFADAP and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and IFADAP in accordance with
its terms; and
(d) that the PORTUCEL Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly a--horized or ratified by the Borrower and PORTUCEL and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and PORTUCEL in accordance
with its verms.
Section 6.03. The date      a.OvML     29 5(, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time being
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for thd purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist&rio das Finangas e do Plano
Avenida Infante D. Henrique
1100 Lisbon
Portugal
Cable address:                    Telex:
Ministerio das Finangas        12143 MINFIN P
Lisbon
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   240423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
ByJ4(                                 ()q
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment:
(a) Parts A.l, B.1        10,400,000    )   100% of foreign
and 2 of the                       )   expenditures
Project                            )   and 100% of
)   local expendi-
(b) Part A.2 of            3,400,000    )   tures ex-
the Project                        )   factory
(c) Project Coor-            100,000    )
dinating Unit
(2) Civil and afforesta-
tion works:
(a) Part A.1 of           14,800,000    )
the Project                        )
)   32%
(b) Part A.2 of           13,600,000    )
the Project                        )
(3) Technical Assistance:
(a) consultants and          900,000        100% of foreign
other services                         expenditures
under Parts B.1
and 2 of the
Project


﻿- 13 -
Loan Allocated         % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(b) fellowships under        100,000        100% of foreign
Part B.3 of the                        expenditures
Project
(4) Sub-loans tinder Part C      1,300,000       50% of dis-
of the Project                              bursements by
PBI's to sub-
borrowers
(5) Unallocated                  5,400,000
Total 50,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expend-
itures prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals


﻿- 14 -
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000
may be made in respect of Category 3 (a) on account of payments
made for such expenditures before that date but after May 1,
1980.
5.   Each request for withdrawal from the Loan Account in respect
of payments for expenditures in respect of Category (4) shall be
accompanied by a certificate issued by IFADAP by which IFADAP
certifies that the disbursement on account of which the withdrawal
is requested has been made for an Investment Project; the certifi-
cate shall be in such form as shall have been agreed between the
Bank and the Borrower and IFADAP.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank
are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the
IFADAP Project Agreement or the PORTUCEL Project Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
1.   Establishing and planting by MAP of about 90,000 hectares
of forest plantations, including the construction of about
3,300 km of an access road and firebreak network as well as fire
lookouts and the provision of adequate and sufficient communica-
tion equipment for purposes of fire protection.
2.   Establishing and planting by PORTUCEL of about 60,000
hectares of forest plantations, including the construction of
about 2,200 km of an access road and firebreak network as well as
fire look-outs and the provision of adequate and sufficient
communication equipment for purposes of fire protection.
Part B:
1.   Establishing and maintaining a forest extension service
within MAP to assist forest farmers and associations of such
farmers inter alia in planning and implementing afforestation
projects and forest extraction and improvement works, forest
management practices and marketing of forest products, and in
assisting farmers in obtaining credit under Part C of the Project.
2.   Carrying out a study, with the assistance of consultants, on
the Borrower's forestry sub-sector, including an assessment of
forest resources, and prospects of the development of such
resources as well as policy recommendations with respect to such
development including comprehensive cost recovery in the forestry
sub-sector.
3.   Training of staff of MAP in inter alia, logging financing,
marketing, small scale industries in particular with respect to
associations including cooperatives of forest farmers.
Part C:
Provision of Sub-loans, on a pilot basis, to associations
including cooperatives of smallholder forest farmers to finance


﻿- 16 -
investments for forest extraction, marketing and related opera-
tions.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1986.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1983
through   December 1, 1994                   2,085,000
On June 1, 1995                                   2,045,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                        1.65%
before maturity
More than three years but not                    3.30%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                      6.00%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                   7.15%
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                         8.25%
before maturity


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods for Parts A.1
and B.1 and 2 of the Project and for the Project Coordination Unit
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For such goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such.
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.    To the extent possible, contracts for such goods shall be
grouped into single bid packages of $500,000 or more equivalent.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of such goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 20 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of such goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manu-
factured in the Republic of Portugal may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of such goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of Portugal if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in
the Republic of Portugal equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manu-
factured in the Republic of Portugal.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, -xcluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs


﻿- 21 -
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C. Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil and afforestation works shall be procured through the
Borrower's procurement procedures, provided, however, that works
under contracts estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent
shall be procured through local competitive bidding.
2.   Goods under contracts estimated to cost less than $200,000
equivalent may be procured through the Borrower's procurement
procedures, provided, however, that such contracts shall not in
the aggregate exceed $900,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods required under Parts
A.1, B.1 and 2 of the Project and for the Project Coordination
Unit estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison


﻿- 22 -
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to th.e Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order !7nder such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  24)     day of0   ., 1980
FOR SECRETARY


