OFFIC I AL           LOAN NUMBER 1853 PO
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Forestry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA DE CELULOSE E PAPEL DE PORTUGAL, E.P.
Dated        ,           L        , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1853 PO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  OC4,Aour     2.             , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and EMPRESA DE CELULOSE E PAPEL DE PORTUGAL,
E.P. (hereinafter called PORTUCEL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars
($50,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that PORTUCEL agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PORTUCEL, parts of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available
to PORTUCEL on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS PORTUCEL, i consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
('onditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PORTUCEL shall carry out Part A.2 of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and forestry practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil and afforestation works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) PORTUCEL undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by PORTUCEL to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, PORTUCEL
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) PORTUCEL shall, through the Project Coordi-
nation Unit, furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work
and procurement schedules for Part A.2 of the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) PORTUCEL: (i) shall, in cooperation with the Borrower,
maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of Part A.2 of the Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank, through the Project Coordin-
ation Unit, on June 30, 1981 and every six months thereafter, all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
Part A.2 of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds,
including summary tables on afforestation, road and firebreak
maintenance.


﻿-3-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, PORTUCEL shall prepare and furnish to the Project
Coordination Unit, a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of Part A.2 of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by PORTUCEL and
the Bank of their respective obligations under the Project Agree-
ment and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan with
respect to Part A.2 of the Project.
(d) PORTUCEL shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of PORTUCEL and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.05. PORTUCEL shall duly perform all its obligations
under the PORTUCEL Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, PORTUCEL shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the PORTUCEL Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) PORTUCEL shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part
A.2 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the PORTUCEL Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan with respect to
Part A.2 of the Project.
(b) PORTUCEL shall inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A.2
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by PORTUCEL of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the PORTUCEL Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. Until completion of the Project, PORTUCEL shall
secure, not later than October 31 of each year, all land required
for the following year's afforestation program under Part A.2 of
the Project.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PORTUCEL
Section 3.01. PORTUCEL shall at all times conduct its busi-
ness and operations in accordanc3 with appropriate administrative,
financial and industrial practices, under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management and staff, and in accordance
with its Statute.
Section 3.02. PORTUCEL shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PORTUCEL shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. PORTUCEL shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than June 30 of each year after the date of this Agreement,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for the preceding
fiscal year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
PORTUCEL and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.


﻿-5-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of PORTUCEL thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify PORTUCEL thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provi%o'fns
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to t' , party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For PORTUCEL:
Empresa de Celulose e Papel de Portugal, E.P.
Rua Joaquim Antonio de Aguiar, 3 - 70
1092 Lisbon
Portugal


﻿-6-
Cable address:                      Telex:
CELULOSE P                         12140 CELOSE P
Lisbon                             Lisbon
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of PORTUCEL may be taken or executed
jointly by any two members of PORTUCEL's Management Board or such
other person or persons as PORTUCEL's Management Board shall
designate in writing, and PORTUCEL shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such perL)n.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
EMPRESA DE CELULOSE E PAPEL DE PORTUGAL, E.P.
ByAuhrzdRpeettv
Li       Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods for Part A.2 of
the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For such goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, PORTUCEL shall prepare and forward to the
Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days
prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. PORTUCEL shall provide the nec-
essary information to update such notice annually so long as any
goods remain to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
3.   To the extent possible, contracts for such goods shall be
grouped into single bid packages of $500,000 equivalent or more.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of such goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of such goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manu-
factured in the Republic of Portugal may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of such goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Republic of Portugal if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of PORTUCEL
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Republic of
Portugal equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Republic of Portugal.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales or similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further


﻿-9-
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil and afforestation works shall be procured through the
Borrower's procurement procedures, provided, however, that works
under contracts estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent
shall be procured through local competitive bidding.
2.   Goods under contracts estimated to cost less than $200,000
equivalent may be procured through the Borrower's procurement
procedures, provided, however, that such contracts shall not in
the aggregate exceed $600,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods requested under Part
A.2 of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, PORTUCEL shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, PORTUCEL
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time


﻿- 10 -
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compar-
ison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform PORTUCEL and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be fur-
nished to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, PORTUCEL shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform PORTUCEL and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, PORTUCEL shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform PORTUCEL and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of 1     , 1980
FOR SECRETARY


