Page  1
1
Project Information Document (PID)        
29069
Project Name 
Institutional Capacity for Sustainable Fiscal 
Decentralization Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) 
 
Region  
 
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office 
 
Sector 
 
Economic Policy Sector Group 
 
Project ID 
 
PE-P088809-LEN-BB 
 
Borrower (s) 
 
Government of Peru 
 
Implementing Agency  
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
 
Address: Ave. Jr. Junín 319 
 
Cercado de Lima 
Lima 1-Perú 
 
Phone: 
(51 1) 427 3930
 
Fax: 
(51 1) 428 2509
 
Web: mef.gob.pe 
 
Environment Category 
Not rated 
 
Date PID 
 
May 4, 2004 
 
Project appraisal date  
May 13, 2004 
 
Project Board Date 
 
July 8, 2004 
 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Though the economy is stable and recovering (from both an economic slowdown 
and political turmoil),the Government’s reform agenda continues to face difficult 
challenges.  Peru has been going through rapid reforms during the last two and a half 
years.  The Toledo Government initiated in 2002 a process of decentralization of public 
functions and resources to regional and municipal governments.  Decentralization is part 
of a broader reform agenda on democratization and modernization of the state. 
Until 2002, Peru was one of the most centralized countries in Latin America, with 
more than 97 percent of the tax revenues collected by the central government.  
Consequently, regional and local expenditures were heavily dependent on transfers from 
the central government.  Up to 2002, regional authorities were appointed by the central 
government, with only local authorities voted through elections.  Understandably, one of 
the most deeply felt demands of the Peruvian population has been to reduce the 
Page  2
2
concentration of power by decentralizing public functions and resources to lower levels 
of governments.  Toledo’s administration has responded to this demand by enacting 
major number of reforms, including a modification of the Constitution to allow for the 
creation of own elected regional governments—with elections taking place in late 2002.  
Decentralization offers considerable opportunities for better governance.  In 
principle, decentralization could improve the local provision of public goods, tailored to 
local preferences and responsibility.  Moreover, combined with more efficient taxation 
and spending, decentralization should bring greater prosperity to the new regions.  
However, decentralization also involves risks, such as disruption of services, 
fragmentation of public interventions, uneven distribution of public resources, disparities 
in access to public services, and potential over-indebtedness.  Peru has had the advantage 
to build on experience from other countries that adopted devolution much earlier and has 
adopted a program that is guided by three principles: (i) Decentralization should be 
fiscally neutral, meaning that the decentralization process should not create additional 
fiscal burden on the public sector with 
pari pasu
 reduction in central government 
expenditures as the responsibilities and resources are transferred to sub-national entities, 
and by limiting borrowing by regional or local government. (ii) Decentralization should 
be gradual with transfers of resources and responsibilities to take place by phases and be 
restricted to those entities which have demonstrated effective capabilities. (iii) 
Decentralization should enhance economic competitiveness with local and regional 
governments geared up to facilitate and undertake needed investments and mobilize 
private sector resources. 
2.  Objectives 
Peru has been gradually maturing its vision of a decentralized state. Since the 
inception of the congressional (political) decision to decentralize, the government 
introduced three key guiding principles geared to ensuring fiscal sustainability, protecting 
quality of services and orienting the regional level towards enhancing competitiveness.  
This project supports the country's advance towards fulfillment of those three principles, 
at the pace and sequential order of Peru's strategic path towards the decentralized state.  
In particular, the project i) reinforces the fiscal and financial planning, accounting, 
budgeting,  reporting and overall management capacity of subnational governments. At 
the same time, it strengthens the capacity of the national government to monitor and 
evaluate fiscal and financial performance in accordance with the ceilings and targets 
already established in the laws; ii) supports the initial steps towards incentives for and 
evaluation of quality of expenditure at subnational levels, and iii) provides technical 
assistance to reduce transaction costs, enhance operational efficiency and mobilize idle 
resources at subnational levels. 
Most components and subcomponents of this project are expected to have a direct 
or indirect impact on each one of the three guiding principles of Peru's decentralization.  
Still, it is possible to associate each main component or subcomponent with the principle 
it is expected to have the most influence on.  The proposed project would seek to build on 
progress made to date under the ongoing decentralization process and public sector 
modernization program, currently supported by the programmatic DECSAL.  While the 
main beneficiary is the Ministry of Finance, as it has been identified as the counterpart, 
Page  3
3
the loan will support activities that provide regional and local governments with tools and 
institutional settings for a more efficient and transparent management of their finances. 
3.  Rationale for Bank’s Involvement: 
The Bank is currently assisting the Government of Peru in the design and 
implementation of reforms related to the decentralization, primarily through two 
Programmatic Adjustment Loans.  The social reforms, within the decentralization 
process, are being supported by the Programmatic Social Reform Loans (PSRLs
—
currently the fourth of these loans is under preparation), while the broader 
decentralization process, including fiscal sustainability, institutional reforms and regional 
competitiveness is supported by the Decentralization and Competitiveness Structural 
Adjustment Loans, (DECSAL, the second of which is currently under preparation).   
The World Bank is currently financing other complementary loans including the 
Accountability for Decentralization in the Social Sectors TAL (under preparation), the 
Trade Facilitation and Productivity Improvement Technical Assistance Loans, and a 
Justice Services Improvement Loan.  Also, a JSDF Grant “Giving Voice to the Poor in 
Influencing, Planning, and Evaluating Service Delivery”, which complements activities 
financed by the proposed project is under implementation. I n addition other 
organizations are financing various aspects of the decentralization process. The teams 
working on decentralization in Peru have maintained close coordination with donors 
throughout the identification and preparation of proposed operations.  Furthermore, co-
financing of selected decentralization activities have been supported by DFID, and the 
second DECSAL will be co-financed by KfW.  The design of this Project has involved 
careful mapping of all these Projects in order to avoid overlaps and to seek synergies.  
4.  Description: 
The loan will support Government actions in four main areas.  As regards to 
protecting fiscal sustainability and ensure aggregate discipline, it will strengthen (i) the 
central government’s capacity vis-à-vis fiscal policy formulation, implementation and 
monitoring capacities, and (ii) strengthen regional and local government’s capacity for 
fiscal and financial planning. Secondly, it would contribute to enhancing the quality of 
public expenditure by (i) assisting in the design of an initial set of institutional 
performance management indicators for projects and activities; (ii) evaluate and improve 
the existing Results Management Agreements (CARs) in correspondence to the newly 
decentralized system. Third, it would enhance strategic planning for public investment 
and public asset management by consolidating and expanding the existing systems at all 
levels of government.  Fourth, it will support Peru’s public sector modernization efforts 
by empowering and expanding the existing Integrated Financial Management System 
(SIAF) . In particular, this loan will provide regional and local governments with the 
necessary tools for planning, monitoring and evaluating sustainable finances. Finally, this 
technical assistance will finance a change management activity, which will be part of the 
project management component.  The purpose is to assist the government in the process 
of planning, designing, implementing the reforms needed for decentralization. 
5.  Financing: 
IBRD: US$8.0 million 
Total Project Cost: US$11.0 million 
Page  4
4
6.  Implementation: 
The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) will be responsible for overall 
Project implementation.  Within MEF, responsibilities will be split into two.  The 
Coordination Unit for Sectoral Loans (UCPS) will be responsible for all administrative 
and fiduciary aspects of the Project.  The Economic and Social Affairs Directorate 
(DGAES) will lead all technical aspects of the Project.  A coordination committee 
including PCM, CND, regional governments and municipalities will be established to 
ensure adequate coordination and consultation.  The DGAES will coordinate directly 
with other institutions, ensuring that the relevant activities which might impact them are 
appropriately reflected in the Plan of Activities. 
7.  Sustainability: 
F
INANCIAL
.
Financial sustainability of the project is ensured by the fact that 
project costs will be more than compensated by improved managerial capacity reflected 
in fiscal savings and efficiency gains.  The fiscal savings would arise from the areas of 
improved fiscal planning, budget and public investment management, effective debt 
monitoring, reduced leakages and corruption in the flows of public spending, and reduced 
inefficiencies through a duplication of responsibilities and transfers due to unclear 
responsibilities at different levels of government.  
I
NSTITUTIONAL 
S
USTAINABILITY
.
The institutional sustainability of the project 
will be supported by the ample legal and institutional decentralization framework that has 
been created during the last three years.  The ambitious decentralization agenda launched 
by the current administration has been advanced quite rapidly in an increasingly 
extensive legal framework that establishes the rules and responsibilities for 
decentralization, including strong controls for fiscal decentralization.  New institutions 
such as the National Decentralization Council as well as new subnational levels of 
government (regional) and new institutions, such as Coordination Councils have been 
created.  This legal and institutional drive for decentralization is accompanied by strong 
demand for decentralization throughout the population, which sees decentralization as the 
most important policy achievement of the administration  
S
OCIAL
.
Social sustainability in the implementation of the project will be 
addressed through a participatory approach which cuts across all its components.  Project 
preparation has benefited from consultations with civil society, on the basis of a close 
dialogue established during the DECSAL which has helped shape project design.  This 
participatory approach will enhance the ownership, support and ultimately sustainability 
of the project by all involved stakeholders, including civil society organizations. 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector: 
The Bank’s long experience with programmatic adjustment loans shows that, in 
addition to the political commitment to go ahead with the reforms, technical support is 
also needed in some critical areas to maximize the implementation of the agreements 
under the adjustment loans.  In particular, the agreements reached on fiscal sustainability, 
especially subnational debt, budgeting and reporting, as well as public investment need 
substantial investment in reforms of the SIAF and SNIP to ensure that the achievement of 
these goals.  Such fiscal and institutional reforms need to be complemented by financial 
Page  5
5
investments for structural changes as well as capacity-strengthening at different levels of 
governments, starting with the central government to effectively implement and monitor 
the commitment assumed under the LTRF and the LDF to support to subnational 
governments for adequate subnational budgeting, reporting and public investment in line 
with the consolidated MMM. 
9.  Environmental Aspects (Including any Public Consultation): 
The Project is rated as Category “C” as no environmental impacts are expected. 
10.  List of Factual Technical Documents: 
Loan Documents for Peru Programmatic Decentralization and Competitiveness 
Structural Adjustment Loan (Peru DecSAL) (project identification number PE-
P082871-LEN-BB and 26837-PE) 
Loan Documents for Peru Programmatic Social Reform Loan III (Peru PSRL III) 
(project identification number PE-P078951-LEN-BB and 26754-PE) 
Loan Documents for Peru Accountability for Decentralization in the Social 
Sectors (project identification number PE-P078953-LEN-BB) 
 
11.  Contact Point 
 
Task Manager:  
Rossana Polastri 
The World Bank 
Avenida Alvarez Calderon 185, Piso 7 
San Isidro 
Lima 27, Peru 
Mail Stop: J B3-100 LIMWB 
Phone: (51 1) 615 0660 x259 
Fax: 
(51 1) 421 7241 
 
12.  For Information on Other Project Related Documents Contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20433 
Phone: (202) 
458-5454 
Fax: (202) 
522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
Note: This is information on an evolving project.  Certain components and 
implementation may be modify in the final project 
 
