The Wold Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
RepIt No. P-3909-LBR
REPORT AID RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 2.7 M.LLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A
SECOND PETROLEUM TECENICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
March 8, 1985
rhib i.cmmtM ku a restricted dblribowh mii may be used by reipeitseul my in the peifoummiue of
tbd oficalduffe lbs eCUutm  may nt otherwis be adislsd wihu Worl Dank a0mboizatIu.



The ofEicial monetary snit is the L    ;herim dollar, with
par valb  equa to that of the US dollar. The US dollar
Is legal tender In Liberia.
FISCAL TEMR
July 1 - June 30
A3BREVIhTONS AND) ACRONYSII
AlL           Atlantic Resouces Limited
Digicon       Digicon Corp. of USA (Geophysical Company)
EPEC          Ecowouic and Fiunancal Management Comcittee
LEC           Liberia Electricity Company
LPRC          Liberia Petroleum Refinivg Company
MLME          ministry of Lands, Mines and Energy
NFEC          National Energy Co=iittee
USAID         United States Agency for Intervational
Development
GWh           gigawatt hour
kgoe          kilograms of oil equtvalent
mg            megawatt
toe           tons of oil equivalent



FM OFFICIAL U. WONLY
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND PETROLEMN TECHNICAL ASSISTANC  PROJECE
CREDIT APD PROJECr SMeIAr
*      Borroer:               sRepublic of Liberia
Beneficiary:            Ministry of Lands, Mines and Energy
Amount:                 SDR 2.7  illion (US$2.6 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Project Description:   Mhe project is a follow-up on a successful effort
made under a first project to promote petroleum
explaration in Liberia. Under the flrst project,
Liber a was able to lease two thirds of Its offshore
acreage on attractive texms. There is still free
acreage however that could be of interest to the oil
industry. To promote this acreage would require the
acquisition of additional seismic data and the
processing and interpretation of existing and new data
-ith the latest techniques available. The proposed
project would assist the GJwernment in thi6 task, whic-
would include participation and funding by private
companies. In addition, the project would continue
vith the institutional strengthening initiated under
the first project and assist in the formulation of
rationai policies in the petroleum sector, particalarly
-ith regard to the procurement and storage of petroleum
p.roducts in the country. More specifically, the
project includes: (i) the acquisition, processing,
integration and interpretation of about 1,000 km of new
seismdc data; (ii) a review, reprocessing, modeling
and integration of existing seismic and other data;
(iII) a gravity survey onshore, laboratory and
sampling work; (iv) the services of consultants to help
with the iuonitoring of oil company activities; (v) a
regional technical study that could integrate data from
Ivory Coast and Sierra Teone; (vi) preparation of a
promotional package for the oil industry; (vii)
construction of core storage facilities for well
samples; (viii) acquisition of mi_rofiem!1g and
laboratory equipment and vehicles; (ix) technical
training for four Liberians in petroleum geology,
geophysics, engineering and economics; and (x)
petroleum product procurement and storage feasibility
studies.
This document ha a striced distributioo and may be used by recpients only i the perfonn*ce
of their official dutes Its contents may not othrwse be disclosed without World Bank authorizautm



-ii-
Bbeefits and Risks:    The pro&ect's main benefit to Liberia would be
to enhance the capacity of the petroleum subsector to
attract further private capital to undertake
hydrocarbon explorati,a on acreage that is still free.
The project would also assist the Government find the
means of reducing the cost of petroleu products sold
in Liberia. The risk assor,ated with the project is
that the prospects uncovered may not be attractive
enough for oil companies to sign exploration contracts.
In vim of the geological potential, the interest
already expressed by some oil companies and the
experience under the first project, the potential
benefits outweigh the risk. Moreover, some of this
risk would be borne by a private geophysical company
%,aich has agreed to finance a part of the rosts of
acquring and processing seismic data on the aL eage
that is open.



Estimated Cost:
(excluding identifiable taxes and duties)
Foreign   Local   Total
(-S'0OO)-
Imstitutional Support                            635      100      735
Offshore Exploration Promotion                 1,585       -     1,585
onshore Exploration Promotion                    120      110      230
*Procurement and Storage Studies                 320       30      350
Baseline Costs                            2,660       240    2,900
Physical Contingencies                       170       20      190
Price Contingencies                          270       40      310
Total Project Costs                       3.100       300    3Z.400
Financing Plan:                               Foreign  Local   Total
IDA                            2,600       -     2,600
Government                        -       300       300
Digicon                          500                500
Total                       3.00       300    3.400
Estimated Disbursements:                        IDA Fiscal Year
FY86    FY87  FY88    FY89
(us$' O)00)-
Annual                      1,000     700      500     400
Cumulative                  1,000   1,700   2,200   2,600
Rate of Return:                      N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:              None
IBRD 18368



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECCM ENDAION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TIb EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOM A SECOND PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Liberia for the equivalent of
a           SDR 2.7 million (US$2.6 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Second Petroleum Technical Assistance project. The project would
be cofinanced by Digicon, a private company, which would provide an equity
investment of $500,000.
PART I:  THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Liberia: Recent Economic Develop-
ments and Medium-Term Prospects" (No. 4178-LBR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1982. An updating of economic prospects,
as well as in-depth analysis of special economic issues, was undertaken in
the process of preparing and appraising a proposed structural adjustment
credit to Liberia. The conclusions of this economic work have been inclu-
ded in this report. An Energy Assessment Mission visited Liberia in
February 1984 and its findings are set out in the report: "Liberia-Issues
and Options in the Energy Sector" distributed to the Executive Directors in
December 1984.
Background
3.        Liberia has a dual economy in which an enclave sector of foreign
iwvestments, utilizing advanced technologies and skills, co-exists vith a
traditional agricultural economy using rudimentary technologies. The
wholly export-oriented enclave or "concession" sector includes iron ore
mining, rubber production and forestry and provides about 83 percent of
export earnings, generating about one quarter of the GDP. On the whole,
the links between the concessions sector and the rest of the economy are
weak. However, stronger links exist in the case of the rubber industry in
the form of demand for labor services (about 7 percent of the labor force
is employed by rubber concessions) and material inputs. Contributions by
the concessions to Government revenues in the form of profit sharing
provided the strongest linkage with the rest of the economy until 1976/77.
Because of low iron ore profits since the late seventies, contributions to
revenues now mainly take the form of royalties and income tax levied on
employees, and Indirectly in the form of duties on imported inputs that are
1/  This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report on
the Second Water Supply Project (P-3865-LBR) of February 27, 1985.



not exempt under the term of the concession agreements. Revenues from the
concessions sector, which historically accounted for about one third of
total Government income, now account for a mere 2.5 percent.
4.        Outside the enclave sector, Liberia is like other very poor
African nations: about 66 percent of the population live in rural areas
and depend for their livelihood on agriculture; the bulk of them are
traditional farmers producing mainly rice and cassava for subsistence.
Rubber, coffee and cocoa are the country's major cash crops, yet they
contributed only 15 percent of monetary GDP and 22 percent of export
earnings (1980-82). Almost all rubber is processed and exported by foreIgn
companies. Non-agricultural productive activities outside the enclave
sector are very limited; the largest of these, manufacturing, contributes
about 5 percent of GDP. This structural imbalance in the economy between
the modern, largely enclave sector and the traditional agricult-al sector
is reflected in a sharply skewed income distribution. With a population of
about 2 4illion, average per capita GNP in 1982 was estimated at about
US$490. However, 80 percent of Liberia's households received less than
30 percent of total income.
5.        The Liberian economy exhibits a number of other distinguishing
features. Liberia's currency is the US dolar, and the economy operates in
liberal trade and payments regimes. The economy has few price distortions.
The private sector-both domestic and foreign-has continued to play a
dominant role in the economy, encouraged by the Government's positive
attitude, the open door policy towards foreign investments, and the con-
vertibility of the currency. Agricultural pricing ts marked by the absence
of interventions, except in the rice sector where the Government maintains
producer prices to increase rice production. Libei a is endowed with a
relatively abundant land resource base which has and ca !,rovide the basis
for a growing agricultural sector with appropriate policies and adequate
investments.
6.        The effectiveness of Liberia's public institutions is severely
handicapped by a scarcity of trained manpower at all levels. Though
Liberia has some competent managers in public office, they are insufficient
in Dnmber and their effectiveness is handicapped by a shortage of trained
people for middle management positions. Organizational weaknesses further-
more result in poor communications within the Government and its agencies
and in duplication of effort. These inadequacies of public institutions
are not only a bottleneck to the effectiveness of day-to-day government but
to the public sector's development effort as a whole. The large number of
unproductive workers on the public payroll has, especially in recent years,
swelled the Government's current expenditures and prevented the accumula-
tion of savings for an adequate investment effort.
7.       With a crude birth rate of 50 and a crude death rate of 14 per
1,000 population, Liberia's annual rate of population increase of
3.4 percent is among the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. The rate has risen
from 3.1 percent during the 1960s and is expected to accelerate to



-3-
3.7 percent by the year 2000. Consequently, the current population of
about 2.0 million is projected to almost double by the yea 2000. The high
population growth rate has put pressure on social services, infrastructure,
etc., and, in the light of a declining economy, unemployment has risen,
especially in Monrovia where migration from rural areas accentuates the
problem. Given the delayed Impact of family planning programs on popula-
tion growth, an active family planning policy needs to be pursued i[me-
diately. The authorities have recognized that Liberia's rate of population
growth is a heavy burden on the country's development effort. The Ministry
*           of Health and Social Welfare, the Family PlAnning Association of Liberia
and other agencies are now involved in family planning activities. The
need for further efforts to reduce fertility and the rate of infant morta-
lity, while Improving the health status of the population, is compelling.
The Government has shown its receptiveness to assistance in these two
fields, in which the Bank is currently preparing a project.
8.        About 58 percent of Liberia's domestic energy needs were met by
local fuelwood and charcoal in 1981, another 35 percent came from imported
petroleum and its products and 7 percent from domestic hydroelectric power.
Petroleum imports cost Liberia US$129.6 million in 1981, or 24 percent of
export earnings, as compared to US$12 million or 5 percent of export
earnings a decade earlier. Although the reduction of world oil prices
since late 1982 has provided some relief, problems of paying for oil
imports persist. There is a clear need to implement programs to promote
more efficiency in the use of energy, seek adjustments in the use of
imported oil by substituting domestic hydropower to the extent possible,
promote petroleum exploration by private oil companies and revamp the
operations of the power utility compary.
9.        The country has a poorly developed economic and social infra-
structure outside the enclave areas. An incomplete and inadequate road
system is poorly maintained, but the Bank is providing assistance in this
field through a road maintenance project approved by the Executive Direc-
tors in December 1983. Only some 20 percent of the non-enclave population
has access to dependable water supply, while education and training have
been inequitably distributed and are of inadequate quality. The Bank is
also providing assistance in this area through a fourth education project.
The health status of the majority of Liberians remains poor-life expec-
tancy at birth is 54 years, and morbidity and mortality are high. The
infant mortality rate is 91 per thousand live births (1981). The existing
health care system is inadequate and unsuited to the country's health
problems. Moreover, maintenance of health-related facilities is poor and
the supply of drugs to public hospitals is erratic at best. Poor health
and malnutrition continue to plague vulnerable segments of the population,
especially pregnant and lactating women as well as young children.
10.       Liberia's military rulers which seized power in 1980 promised to
return the country to democratic and constitutional rule in 1985.   A new
constitution was adopted through a national referendum in 1984 and the ban
on political activity, which had been in effect since April 1980, was
lifted in July 1984. A number of political parties are being formed with a



-4-
view to contesting presidential and other national elections now scheduled
for October 1985. In the meantime, the People's Redemption Council (PRC),
which ruled the country since April 1980 and which was nostly composed of
military personnel, has been abolished. Instead, an Interim National
Assembly (INA), with broad membership but including some former PRC members
as a minority, has been appointed by the %ead of State. The INA will
deliberate and advise the Head of State on national policy during the
transition period.
Recent Economic Developments
11.       MIacro-economic Performance. The military Government which took
power in April 1980 inherited a sluggish and strained economy in which
GDP growth had averaged less than 1.0 percent per annum between 1974 and
1979. The economy was suffering from the effects of a heavy oil import
bill and a large debt burden at a time when demand for Liberia's major
exports-iron ore, rubber and timber-was depressed.  The commodity concen-
tration of Liberia's exports aggravated the impact of the international
recession. In addition, in its very early life the military government
a de inappropriate policy decisions and took actions that reduced investor
confidence. A doubling of the public sector minimum wage without regard to
productivity and indiscriminate hiring into the already swollen ranks of
the civil service and public corporations exacerbated the fiscal crisis.
Capital flight, the exodus of experienced personnel, placement of inexpe-
rienced people in public sector management positions, occasional harassment
and interference in the running of private firms and Government agencies.,
and a severe shortage of public funds for investment, hurt the economy.
Public enterprises were increasingly inefficient and subsidies to these
enterprises became a drain on scarce budget revenues. The depletion of the
banking sector deposit base restricted external credit lines and a general
liquidity crisis made management of the economy difficult during the
present administration's first two years of office and, to a large extent,
still continues to plague economic managers. To meet its foreign currency
obligations, the Government relies on off-shore tax revenues paid by
concessions, the foreign exchange earnings of the Liberia Produce Marketing
Corporation, maritime revenue payments and external grants and borrowings.
These sources of off-shore funds have been eroding at the same time as
external payment obligations, particularly debt service, are growing.
Therefore, the public sector balance of payments has recently deteriorated
to crisis proportions as the National Bank of Liberia no longer has ade-
quate foreign reserves to meet the cost of oil imports, service debt and
make payments for needed public sector imports.
12.       There has been a decline in GDP each year since 1980.  Between
1980 and 1982, real GDP declined by about 15 percent and real consumption
by over 16 percent. The decline in the economy is mainly attributable to
the continuing weak performance of exports. Exports account for a high
share of GDP (56.3 percent in 1982). Between 1980 and 1982 export earnings
fell by 20.5 percent, from US$600.5 million in 1980 to US$477.4 million in
1982. Export earnings declined further by 10.2 percent in 1983, to
US$427.6 million, due primarily to the reduced earnings from iron ore.



- 5 -
Prospects for export earnings in the short-run are uncertain due princi-
pally to the depressed steel market, but look better in the medium term as
the anticipated recovery in the OECD countries gathers momentum. However,
in order to respond to stronger demand in the medium term, substantial
investments will need to be undertaken in the export sector.
13.       After deteriorating considerably in 1980 following the doubling
of the minimum wage, fiscal performance improved as a result of expenditure
restraints under successive stabilization programs supported by the IN.
Total expenditures declined from US$391 million in FY82 to US$334 million
in FY84. While expenditure restraint has been successful, revenue perfor-
mmoe has been disap?ointing in part due to the deterioration in the
economy Dut also due to poor tax adminii.tration. Revenue and grants
totalled US$270.5 million in FY84 compared with US$277.3 million in FY82.
14.       The domestic savings performance has declined since the late
1970s as a result of the general decline in the economy and high levels of
Government consumption. The total domestic savings rate declined from
27 percent in 1979 and 1980 to 12.5 percent in 1982 and the national
savings rate fell from 20 percent to 2.2 percent of GDP during the same
period, primarily because of overexpenditure by the public sector. There
have been negative public sector savings since 1978; all savings in the
economy have come either from the private sector or from abroad.
15.       The major reasons for the Government's poor savings effort are
excessive expenditure on wages, large subsidies to inefficient state
enterprises, and a growing debt service burden. Although revenue growth
has slowed down since 1979, Liberia still has one of the highest tax to GDP
ratios in Sub-Saharan Africa, at about 28 percent of monetary GDP or about
24 percent of total GDP. In a period of declining GDP, averaging about
minus 4 percent over 1980 to 1983, the tax ratios have also declined to
about 25 percent of monetary and 21 percent of total GDP respectively.
However, they still remain high in relation to othe. Sub-Saharan African
economies due to the continuing shift towards direct taxation of wages and
salaries and the relative stability of maritime revenue which accounts for
about 10 percent of total revenue.
16.       The control and reduction of expenditures in recent years has
been accompanied by significant changes in the structure of expenditure.
Following the doubling of wages in 1980, wages and salaries rose from
US$67 million in FY78 to $138 million in FY81, increasing their share in
recurrent expenditures from 55 percent to about 60 percent, but have been
reduced in FY84 to $126 million or about 50 percent. The share of debt-
servicing (interest and amortization) has risen from 12 percent of total
expenditures in FY82 to 27 percent in FY84. Non-wage and non-debt recur-
rent expenditures have declined, resulting in inadequate maintenance of
public assets because of insufficient materials and supplies and some
accumulation of arrears to vendors to the Government. However, the brunt
of adjustment has been borne by the level of development expenditures which
declined from 20 percent of total expenditures in FY79 to 9 percent in
FY84. Moreover, the composition of development expenditures has shifted to



-6-
the detriment of expenditures on vital economic services (e.g., agricul-
tural development, roads, transport and communication, etc.), which in FY78
accounted for 50 percent of total development espenditures but only repre-
sented 36 percent in FY83. The proportion of total development exoendi-
tures going to social and comiunity services has remained constant at about
18 percent, but there has been a sharp decline in absolute terms. Develop-
ment expenditures on education and health, for instance, declined from
$20 million in FY78 to $8.2 million in FY82. On the other hand, transfers
to public corporations (some of which provide social services) including
funds for investment as well as undetermined amounts to cover operating
losses, increased their share of total development expenditures from
19 percent in FY78 to 33 percent in FY82. Transfers to three corporations
alone-the Liberia Electricity Corporation, the Liberia Water and Sever
Corporation and the National Port Authority-accounted for half the latter
total in FY81 and FY82.
17.       While the sharp decline in development expenditures in support of
the productive sectors and social services is of concern given the negative
impact that this could have on economic activity and the quality of life in
the future, of more Immediate concern is the extent to which maintenance of
public assets and the quality of services has been neglected. In reducing
their current expenditures, many branches of Government and public agencies
have been cutting down on expenditures for materials, spare parts, fuel,
etc. needed for maintenance as well as for operating purposes, while
maintaining the same number of people on their payroll. Those who are
aseigned to maintenance (of the road network for instance) cannot carry out
their tasks because of lack of materials and logistical support. A more
appropriate balance between expenditures on materials and the payroll is
clearly required.
18.       The quality of investments in the public sector over the last
five years has been mixed. Many investments with acceptable returns have
been made in agriculture and infrastructure, usually in cooperation with
external donors. However, heavy outlays of Government funds for the
meeting facilities constructed for the 1979 Organization of African Unity
(OAU) Conference as well as some recent urban-based construction projects,
have had low or negative returns.
19.       The composition of revenues has also undergone marked shifts,
with the share of individual income taxation having risen from 15 percent
of revenues in 1980 to 24 percent in FY84. Among indirect taxes, the level
of import related taxes has fallen from US$76 million to US$54 million
between 1980/81 and 1983/84, while export related taxes have fallen from
US$10.2 to US$4.2 million over the same period. The most important reason
underlying this poor performanc- of revenues is the general decline in the
economy, which im turn follows largely from adverse international develop-
ments in Liberia's export markets. However, a number of other factors are
also at work, including the effect of the appreciation of the dollar on the
competitiveness of Liberia's exports and on the valuation of Liberia's
imports for the levy of import-related revenue charges; the unsystematic
approach to incentives, and their effect on output and new investments in



-7-
the rubber and timber sectors; the still cautious attitude of the private
sector towards investment in Liberia; and generally poor tax administra-
tion.
20.       Liberia's use of the US dollar and its traditional open-door
trade policies created a favorable environment for private Investment in
the past. Since the economy was, and remains, an open one with little
protection, there have been no gross misallocations of private investment.
Since 1981, however, the balance of payments has deteriorated considerably
and massive capital outflows have taken place.  Since Liberia uses the
US dollar which has appreciated against other currencies in spite of the
adverse balance of payments situation, a distortion has been created in the
*           foreign exchange market.  In addition, Liberia is further losing competi-
tiveness vis-a-vis the rest of the world due to past excessive wage in-
creases in the public sector which have affected wage levels in the economy
as a whole. Thus, because of these factors the incentive to produce for
export markets has been eroded. Moreover, excessive fringe benefits
introduced in the rubber concessions at the Government's urging may also
have worsened the competitive position of Liberian plantations relative to
others in Asia where labor productivity is higher.
21.       Relationship with the IMF.  Since mid-1980, the present Govern-
ment has pursued stabilization as its principal economic policy objective.
IMF standby programs have been in force continually since then. Their
principal aim has been fiscal adjustment through public expenditure con-
tainment and borrowing ceilings, as well as new revenue measures aimed at
offsetting the post-1980 decline in trade-related taxes. Liberia has
successfully met the performance criteria agreed upon with the IMF, except
for the May/June 1983 borrowing and foreign arrears targets.
22.       The Liberian authorities have recently concluded negotiations
with the IMP for a fifth consecutive standby program covering 18 months,
from July 1984 to December 1985. This program was approved by the IMF
Board in December 1984. Like previous programs, its principal elements are
fiscal adjustment policies and measures to improve the external position of
the National Bank of Liberia as well as the general financial environment.
A critical feature of the program is a reduction of the Goverrment's wage
bill from US$126 million in FY84 to US$115 million in FY85. The policy
instruments for attaining this target are part of the structural adjustment
reform program which will be presented for IDA support in the near future.
23.       Liberia's record of five consecutive Standby arrangements attests
to the persistence of the authorities in seeking economic stabilization
since mid-1980.  Total IMF resources outstanding as of October 1984 amount
to 290 percent of quota, however, and the Fifth Standby Arrangement is for
60 percent of quota. As a result of these heavy past drawings, repayment
obligations over the next five years will rise sharply. Even with the
anticipated drawings under the Fifth Standby (SDRs 42.78 million over
18 months) net transfers from the IMF to Liberia will be negative by
US$21 million commencing in FY85 and will be negative by US$47 million,



- ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     8
US$72 million, and US$60 millicm in FT86, F87, and F88 respectively.
These outflows are superimposed on an already difficult debt service
Problem arising from past debts, stagnant export earnimgs and declining
goverment revenue.
24.       Creditworthiness. Liberia has experienced mounting debt service
dIfficulties In recent years and the Bank Group was forced to suspend
disbursements for brief periods In 1983 and 1984. The debt service problem
is not apparent from the conventional ratio of debt service to export
earfnings, hich was only 11 percent in 1982183. Since most of Liberia's
debt is public while iach of export earnings are not channelled through the
National Bank of Liberia under its payments regime, a better measure of the
public debt service burden is the ratio of debt service to total public
revenues. This ratio reached 22 percent in 1980. A major reason for this
was that Liberia bad earlier obtained comercial bank loans to finance
expenditures related to the 1979 OQU Conference. which was Losted by
Liberia. 'hile debt service rechedulngs (discussed below) kept the ratio
of debt service to Government revenue to 14 percent in 1983. this ratio is
expected to be over 40 percent for FYB5 and around 55 percent for FY86 even
after debt relief from the Paris and London Clubs, but Inclusive of ITF
repurchases and charges.
25.       External public debt outstanding and disbursed reached
US$630.3 million at the end of 1982 and increased by 10.9 percent to
US$699.1 million at the end of 1983. Ihe Bank Group's share of external
public debt outstandig and disbursed was about 20 percent in 1982 and 1983
and was about 23_1 percent by the end of 1984. Payments to the Bank Group
were about 22.6 percent of total debt service payments in 1982 and in-
creased to 36.2 percent in 1983. They were about 24.1 percent by the end
of 1984.
26.      The Government obtained four rescheIulings under the Paris Club
In recent years. In 1980. US$19.4 million of debts contracted before
January 1, 1980 were rescheduled. In December 1981, the Paris Club granted
further relief by reschedling debts amounting to US$24.8 million and
aDturing between January 1982 and June 1983. Liberia's third request was
considered in December 1983 when the Paris Club granted relief on official
loans and insured export credits valued at US$23.6 million maturing between
July 1, 1983 and June 30, 1984. Debt service falling due in FY85 was
rescheduled in December 1984. The London Club agreed to reschedule private
bank syndicated loans of about US$27 million in December 1982 and negotia-
tions for further relief, which included settlement of arrears of
US$26 million under a facility to purchase petroleum, were concluded
recently.
27.       Liberia's debt service capacity will depend on export prospects
over the medium and long-term as well as on the quality of economic manage-
ment and the Government's policy framework. The movement in world prices
of Liberia's main export commodities between 1981 and 1983 was unfavorable
and, moreover, the recent appreclation of the U.S. dollar, which Liberia
uses as its currency, has adversely affected the country's competitiveness.



-9-
Nowevr, growth in export earnings is expected to be higher iX tha medium-
tem, minly beeause demmnd for rubber and timber is expected to streng-
then.    r    ore, ongoing agriculture development projects that promote
coffee, cocoa and palm oil cultivation as vell as exploration of mining
resources, Including oil, may help diversify the economy and could accele-
rate the rate of export growth during the next few years, provided that
growth in the industrialized countries is maintained.
28.      Even with improvements in export performance and economic manage-
went and with the additional debt relief which Liberia way obtai- in the
future, the country's debt burden will remain considerable in the short and
medium-term. Debt service as a percentage of Government revenues, inclu-
*         sive of IKE repurchases and charges, is expected to Increase to about
70 percent by 1987, assuming no further Paris and London Club debt relief,
and about 55 percent with debt relief. This is in part because previously
rescheduled losma, as vell as debt to multinarional institutions such as
the IMP, the Bank and IDA, are not subject to rescheduling. In view of the
country's bigh public debt service obligations, assistance from the Bank
Group will continue to be On IDA terms. Liberia also will require addi-
tional debt relief from the London and Paris Clubs for the next few years
as well as increased external assistance from other sources on concessional
terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA 1
29.      As of November 30, 1984 the Bank has approved 2.2 loans (including
one Third Window loan) for projects in Liberia totalling US$155.2 million;
there have also been 15 IDA credits totalling US$106.6 million and one
technical assistance grant of US$20,000 for development planning. IYC has
made three equity investments totalling US$703,000 In the share capital of
the Liberian Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI). Annex II contains
a sucmary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of
No'ember 30, 1984.
30.      Up to the early 1980s, Liberia was eligible for Bank lending as
well as IDA support and substantial assistence vas provided for projects in
several sectors. Support was provided for six projects in agriculture,
four in power, four in highways, three in education and three In industry,
among others. With Liberia now eligible for IDA assistance only, Bank
Group support has been more selective in recent years and has been concen-
trated on c.mtiwnuing high priority development efforts in agriculture,
highways and education and in projects that would improve the country's
balance of ;,ayments.
1/  This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report on
the Second Water Supplv Project (P-3865-LBR) of February 27, 1985.



- 10 -
31.       Over the past months, Implementation of most Bank Group assisted
projects has been affected by a shortage of Government counterpart finan-
CiDg due to the sharp deterioration of public finances discussed in Part I
of this report. The National Iron Ore Company (NIOC) Rehilitition
project, which has required much greater Government contributions than
expected because the Company's earnings bave been depressed by adverse
developments in international markets, has been affected in particular, and
NIOC was forced to auspend operations in October 1984 because of insuffi-
cient working capital. The Government is discuzsing permanent closure of
the mine with the Bank and its cofinanciers. To facilitate the execution
of ongoing projects. the Bank and IDA have introduced revolving accounts to
provide working capital to executing agencies and in some cases reduced the
scope of projects to decrease claims on Government resources- Bank Group
disbursements have fluctuated between 32.5 percent of credits and loans
outstanding at the beginning of the fiscal year in FY81 to 18.1 perceat in
FY83. Disbursements in FY84 were equivalent to 26.3 percent of credits and
loans outstanding at the beginning of the period.
32.       Given the decline in Liberia's exports over the past few years
and the deterioration of public finances-which does not allow the Govern-
ment to make an adequate development effort-the principal objectives for
Bank Group operations for the imuediate future are:
{a) to strengthen institutions and improve policies in the
public sector so as to improve the efficiency with which
public resources are used, with special emphasis on the
quality of public investment;
(b)  to consolidate development programs in sectors that are
vital to the growth of the economy, giving particular
attention to those that could improve the balance of pay-
mets;
gc) to help maintain and/or rebabiitate the country's more
important physical assetrs;
(d)  to continue improving the country's human resources.
33.      A proposed structural adjustment program, with its complementary
technical assistance project, is the principal means by which the Bank
Group is seeking to bring about an improvement in the efficiency with which
public resources are allocated in Liberia. The program would set in motion
institutional arrangements to improve the use of resources in public
corporations by making the Government's oversipght practices for such
corporations more systematic and focussed and setting specific operational
and financial targets for the managements of corporations to achieve. This
macroeconomic approach to improving the performance of public enterprises
is to be complemented by Bank Group involvement in projects that would seek
to improve management practices at the level of the firm in selected public
corporations. Thus, Bank Group support is visualized for the LWSC and the
SPA, two enterprises that have performed poorly over the past few years and



- 11 -
which could have to cease providing services that are vital to the cow-
nity if   nagement practices are not improved. }azk Group involvemet
would focus on upgrading internal controls and accoumting, reducing costs
to eliminate operational loses e=d impraving regular maintenance of
physical assets, while providing spare parts and replacements so as to
reduce the risk that services be interrupted because of equipment failure.
The general results of these projects would be to reduce the claims which
the corporations make on central Government resources and to improve the
quality and reliability of services to the public.
36.       If Liberia is to overcome its present economic difficulties, it
will be necessary to revitalize its productive sectors to reestablish the
*         country' s capacity to earn foreign exchange. Bink Group strategy will be
focussed on continuing a dialogue with the authorities on policies affect-
ing the perforumce of export sectors, continuing support for ongoing
development programs that are export oriented and seeking to diversify the
sources of Idberia's export earnings, such as through the proposed project
to promote petroleum exploration and production. The structural adjustment
program provides for detailed reviews of policies affecting the performance
of the country's principal export subsectors-iron ore, natural rubber and
timber. Some policy adjustments, by which tax rates have been adapted to
present circumstances in international markets, have already been made in
the iron ore sector as a result of preparatory vork for the structural
adjustment program. Similar dialogues will be pursued in the context of
sectoral and project assistance_ The Bank Group has long been involved in
the promotion of export crops in Liberia and future assistance for agricul-
ture will seek to capitalize on the gains made under ongoing projects in
improving the technology for rubber, cocoa and coffee cultivation and
introducing new export crops, most notably oil palm. Sector issues that
might affect farmer response to these development efforts-such as the
adequacy of farmgate prices and the institutional mechanisms for marketing
and processing farm output-will receive growing attention and will be
pursued with the authorities as central issues to future support for
agriculture. An agricultural services project and a second rubber develop-
ment project are in preparation and will be appraised iu FY86/FY87.
35.      While efforts to diversify exports by promoting agricultural
products are promising, there is urgent need to find substitutes for iron
ore exports, which have traditionally accounted for between one half and
two thirds of the country's gross foreign exchange earnings. Not only is
iron ore facing vwak demand in international markets with little prospect
of recovery over the immediate term, but, over the medium term, Liberia's
export volume is likely to decline as established ore reserves are deple-
ted. In an effort to find a substitute export commodity in the mineral
sector, the Bank Group has been assisting the Liberian Government establish
the necessary legal and institutional framevork to encourage exploration
for petroleum. These efforts have had initial success as an international
oil company has undertaken an exploration program. The objective of the
proposed project is to promote a broader exploration effort in order to
increase the prospects of locating commercial quantities of petroleum in
Liberian territory. While it is too early to tell what the results of



- 12 -
these efforts might be, it is clear that, if tney are successful, the
balance of payments constraints to Liberia's long-term growth prospects
will have been removed to a large extent.
36.       The deterioration of public finances and the poor finanrial
performance of public corporations over the past few years have resulted in
Inadequate maintenance of some of Liberia's wore vital public assets.
Highway maintenance was recognized to be inadequate by the Government in
1983 and Bank Group assistance was requested to preve-t a turther deterio-
ration of the main highway network, which would hava depressed agricultural
output and further deteriorated the country's balance of payments. IDA is
providing assistance for a highways maintenance and rehabilitation project
that is helping establish routine and periodic maintenance procedures in
the M4instry of Public Works and ensuring that sufficient resources are
allocated to highway maintenance. Inadeanate maintenance of the port of
Monrovia, which haindles over half the country's exports and over 80 percent
of its imports, could also have serious consequences on the national
economy unless a rehabilitation project is undertaken soon to prevent an
interruption of port services. A project to this effect, that would
emphasize mangement improvements as well as the rehabilitation of physical
assets, is to be appraised in the coming months for possible Bank Group
support.
37.      While the Bank Group is emphasizing the resolution of Liberia's
more immediate economic problems in its operations. it cannot neglect
addressing some of the country's more fundamental long-term development
problem. One of Liberia's chief development constraints is a shortage of
skilled manpower at all levels. It vill not be possible to raise the
productivity and income of the majority of the population to any signifi-
cant extent without raising knowledge and skill levels, and for this more
and better basic education is required. The Bank Group has provided
assistance for four education projects that supported the Government's
efforts to extend and improve primary and technical education. These have
helped to better match education and training to the country's manpover
requirements. However much remaism to be done: the gross primary enroll-
ment ratio for the country as a whole is still only 66 percent. In order
to continue the institution building tasks initiated under previous Bank
Group assisted projects and improve cost effectiveness in the sector, a
fifth education project is in preparation for appraisal in FY88.
38.      Liberia has high population growth and infant mortality rates.
Given this demographic situation, efforts to deal with the high rates of
mortality should be linked to efforts to deal with fertility so as to
reduce the possibility of accelerating population growth, as this would
have a negative impact on the country's long-term development efforts. A
potentially effective health delivery system exists but needs to be streng-
thened through training and logistical support. A maternal and child
health care and family planning project that would help the Government
develop and carry out appropriate policies for the sector iS In preparation
and would be appraised in FY86.



- 13 -
PART III: TEE ENERGY SECTOR
Enerfy Resource Base, Production and Demand
39.      Liberia is relatively veln erdowed with energy resources. It is
Almost unique in the Vest Africa Region in that more than half of its
43,000 sq. miles is covered with dense rain forest and that for the great
majority of the rural population there is no fuelsood crisis. It is
estimated that three million tons of fuelvood vere consmed in 1981 and
another 2.1 million tons converted to charcoal. The residential sector
consumed vlrtually all the fuelvood and charcoal produced in 1981. In spite
of the fact that vood fuels are abundant, serious questions have been
raised about whether the country's forests are being optimally exploited.
For example, the most attractive sources of vood fuels that could be tapped
are retired rubber trees.
40.      The other significant indigenous energy resource is hydroelectric
power, although of highly seasonal flows, and the expense of water storage
is a major problem. At present, hydroelectric generating capacity amounts
to 68 Mg and accounts for 27 percent of the electricity generated.
Substantial hydroelectric potential could be developed. The principal
options for large-scale development are the St. Paul and Nano River propo-
sals, but there appears to be no economic justification for their develop-
ment for at least a decade.
41.      There are no known hydrocarbon reserves in Liberia although
exploration work done to date suggests that Liberia has attractive geologi-
cal proapects. Serious exploration was initiated by Amoco in 1984
(paras 60-61).
42.      In 1983, 0.9 million tons of oil 2quivalent (toe) were used by
various sectors of the economy. Of this total energy demand, 23 percent
was met by petroleum products, all of which was imported, 8 percent in the
form of hydroelectric power, and 69 percent in the form of fuelvood and
charcoal. Liberia's economy has been in decline since 1979 and prospects
for future economic growth are uncertain. While Liberia's present per
capita energy consumption of 438 kgoe per year is wel' above that of its
neighbors, this level of consumption is not likely to continue. In effect,
the Liberian energy econawy is evolving In the opposite direction of most
developing econoziei., vwere the share of modern fuels in the total energy
source mix increases as urbanization and industrialization proceed. The
major reason for this is the uncertain prospects for the iron ore sector,
the output of vhich could decline sharply over the next decade, greatly
reducing the base and level of economic activity and modifying the pattern
of energy consumption in the fnture. In Liberia, the overall growth in
energy supply over 1984-1993 is expected to be 3.6 percent p.a., or mar-
ginally higher than population growth, and its source is expected to be
almost exclusively woodfuels. The table below shows the present and
projected pattern of final energy consumption:



- 14 -
Ibbe 1: FNAL NMMW=  (Actual ad projected
('00 toe)
FmU       Mectriiy I/   Petroleu              Total
1983     1993    1983     1993    1983    1993     1983    1993
fi1__ActAa   Pkoted  Acl Pme                    A       Pmd
lUnin and Otber
ilstry              4.4     10.2     55.9     3.5     46.4      2.2    106.7      15.9
TciNPort               -        -        -       -      147.6    175.2    147.6    175.2
Aodalbzre              -        -       1.9     1.9      5.,      9.1      7.6     11.0
Ehbdleol            625.7    845.9      9.0    14.3      4.5      6.7    639.2    866.9
Cinrce/Goenuinet      -         -      12.0    17.9      4.2      4.5     16.2     22.4
Total            630.1    856.i     78.8    37.6    208.4    197.7    917.3   1091.4
Sb¢e (Z)          68.7     78.4     8.6      3.5     22.7     18.1      -        -
1/  bel odl accomts for abxut 65 prPcntof th electricity gerated and gs
tuzcbims and diewe  for about 8 ercutP1.
Source: Emery Aagesn_t Rqxnrt - June ME4
Government Institutions
43.       There are several agencies dealing with the energy sector in
Liberia but their relationships, functions and responsibilities are not
well defined. One of the principal agencies in the sector Is the Ministry
of Lands, Mines and Energy QMLME). It is responsible for petroleum
exploration and production in the country through its Bureau of
Hydrocarbons, which is also the Secretariat for the National Energy
Committee (NEC). The NEC was created in 1981 and has become the main
Government institution responsible for sector analysis, policy formu-
lation and coordination. NEC has benefited from assistance from USAID
and the Bank under the first petroleum exploration promotion project
(Loan 1907-LBR) and is in the process of developing a plan and strategy
for the sector. The recently completed Energy Assessment Report
provides a good basis for initiating this task. The NEC has played
a useful role in the past as a vehicle for policy dialogue in the sector.
The Energy Assessment Report has recommended that the Secretariat of
NEC (which is currently the Bureau of Hydrocarbons in the Ministry
of Lands, Mines and Energy) be strengthened with a well- staffed and
well-equipped energy policy and planning division that would have
a close adviso-y zelationship with the Economic and Financial Manage-
ment Committee (EFMC), which is the highest Government decision- making
body. Thc. Government concurs with this recommendation and will be
seeking jilateral assistance to staff the energy policy and planning
divisioi (USAID has already provided one expert). It will also determine



- 15 -
whether the membership of EPMC can be expanded to include the Minister of
Lands, Mines and Energy when energy matters are deliberated upon. The NEC
will continue to be a forum for various Government agencies and entities to
discuss sectoral issues.
44.       There are two other institutions in the sector, both of which
have experienced management problems in the past. They are the Liberia
Petroleum Refining Corporation (LPRC) and the Liberia Electricity Corpora-
tion (LEC). LPRC was established by the Government in 1978 to acquire and
operate the refinery in Monrovia.  Until it was shut down in 1982, the
refinery was the only importer of crude oil and served as the principal
source of refined petroleum products (para 49). It is at present respon-
sible for directly importing petroleum products, a function in which it has
little experience (para 50).
45.       LEC was established in 1973 by the Government to be the sole
public supplier of electricity in Liberia. LEC supplies electricity
through a grid which centers on Monrovia and has a generating capacity of
187 MW. It also supplies nine towns via isolated, small, high speed diesel
units. The LEC central system produced about 390 G1h of electricity in
1983. LEC faces severe financial and managerial problems. Power losses
have been high (35 percent of generation) and LEC has been unable to
enforce payment of a substantial part of the electricity consumption
billed. It has remained solvent by charging tariffs which are at least
50 percent higher than the costs of production. The Bank is having discus-
sions on reforms in the context of the Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program (ESNAP) which has already identified high priority activities for
vhich donor assistance is being sought, including a power system efficiency
audit.
The Petroleum Sector
46.       Petroleum Product Demand.  In 1981, total demand for petroleum
products in Liberia was approximately 437 thousand tons which was imported
at a cost of US$115 million, accounting for 22 percent of commodity imports
and 24 percent of export earnings. Approximately 50 percent of total
imports was consumed by the mining sector. The transport sector accounted
for 30 percent of petroleum demand, while only small amounts of petroleum
were used in industry, commerce, agriculture and other activities.
47.       There has been a fall in demand for each petroleum product
between 1979 and 1983. Since 1981, the reduction in petroleum consumption
has been in proportion with the decline in GDP, with the energy intensity
of the modern sector of the economy remaining virtually static over this
period. Petroleum product consumption is summarized in the table below.
The most important factor determining Liberia's petroleum consumption
pattern is the performance of the mining sector.  The 30 percent decline in
petroleum product consumption since 1980 has been due mainly to reduced
iron ore production. Petroleum product demand in 1993 is expected to be
256 Mtoe, or 165 Mtoe lower than that of 1983. a 40 percent decrease.



- 16 -
Almost 90 percent of this decline is expected to be due to the fall in fuel
oil demand generated by a decrease in iron ore production.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS CONSUMPTION 1979-93
('000 toe)
Actual                     Projected
1979        1981        1983         1988       1993
LPG                      0.6         0.5          0.6           0.3        0.1
Motor Gasoline          97.5        77.6         71.7          80.9       89.6
Aviation Gasoline        0.7         0.7          0.6           0.8        0.9
Kerosene                10.0         7.7          5.4           6.9        7.8
Jet Fuel                46.0        29.1         30.4          36.3       42.4
Gas Oil                212.1       143.0        131.9          88.4       76.5
Fuel Oil               234.0       213.0        180.9         172.6       38.9
Total             600.9       471.6        421.5         386.2      256.2
Source: Energy Assessment Mission estimates, LPRC.
48.       Supply of Petroleum. Not only is the impact of oil imports on
the balance of payments as severe In Liberia as in many other African
economies, but because the foreign exchange for the procurement of petro-
leum products had to come from the public sector, the impact of oil pro-
curement on fiscal and external balance of payments is overwhelming.
Indeed, financing petroleum imports and debt service have been the most
important elements in the Government's external payments problem.
49.       Up to December 1982, most of the country's petroleum requirements
were met by processing imported crude oil at the Monrovia refinery. The
refinery, which was built in 1968 by Sun Oil Corporation, had a sustainable
throughput of 13,500 barrels per day. It was operated until 1976. when a
major fire disrupted operations. The Government bought the refinery from
Sun Oil in 1978 and formed the Liberia Petroleum Refining Corporation
(LPRC). Since then it has been operated at up to 10,000 bbls/day.
50.       In December 1982 the refinery was closed due to LPRC's inability
to meet a major payment for crude oil. Subsequently, the Government
decided not to reopen the refinery because further evaluation indicated
that it was cheaper to import petroleum products than to refine them
locally. Petroleum imports were entrusted to LPRC, a function it has
perfermed since 1983 but with little experience and lacking sufficient
knowledge of the international oil industry to maximize LPRC's purchasing



- 17 -
efficiency. In obtaining its supplies, LPRC allows potential suppliers
only one week to respond to its invitations to tender. This limits the
ability of suppliers to offer reasonable prices. The short lead time for
procurement also prevents suppliers from reducing shipping costs by combin-
ing shipments to two or more locations in West Africa. In 1983, for
example, LPRC paid premia which averaged US$14 to US$15 per ton above the
level of the international spot market. In addition, there are demurrage
costs and the cost for Letters of Credit that add about US$43 per ton to
the final cost. More seriously, however, LPRC estimates the total of its
other costs at US$132 per metric ton.  These are extraordinarily high by
international standards.
51.       A key issue in the sector is, then, how best to improve the
efficiency of petroleum procurement and supply and what should be the role
of the Government. On the basis of the present outlook and Liberia's
rapidly declining liquid fuel demand, there appears no prospect for a
viable refining operation in Liberia within the next 10 years. Hence, in
the context of a Struct-aral Adjustment Credit being negotiated with IDA,
the Government has decided to close the refinery. Given the experience of
the past 2 years and the high cost of procurement, the question has been
raised whether in the longer run product procurement and depot management
could be handed back to the private sector. This would have a number of
immediate benefits, such as reduction in premia, and lower handling costs,
but it also raises problems from the Government's point of view. There is
need to define the roles of the Government and the private sector in
petroleum procurement and supply and confirm the interests of both in this
function. Funds have therefore been included in the proposed project to
examine the reasons for the apparent lack of private sector interest in
petroleum product procurement at the present time, to help identify condi-
tions under which it might assume this function and to define the role of
the Government. The consultants would also help locate private sector
companies and help the Government with negotiations and determine how best
to handle the storage capacity now owned by the Government (para 52).
Terms of reference for the consultants were discussed during negotiations.
The Government has agreed that their study would be completed within six
months of credit effectiveness and that its recommendations would be
carried out as agreed with IDA (Section 3.04 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
52.       Petroleum Product Storage and Distribution.  The storage of
petroleum products is a function presently handled by LPRC though the
Government has ended its monopoly and the private sector is free to
perform these functions if it s' wishes. Even though there is ample oil
storage capacity in Monrovia, this is not all suitable for refined pro-
ducts. There are at present some 41 storage tanks with a combined capacity
of 719 Mbbls. However, only about 60 percent of this capacity can store
refined products (less than 2 months' supply) wbile the remainder is
designed to store crude oil. Also complicating the situation is that part
of this storage capacity is located at terminals near the import jetty at
the waterfront while the remainder is located four miles away in the
refinery area. This factor, together with the limited pumping capacity to



- 18 -
transfer products by pipeline from waterfront terminals to the tanks in the
refinery area, limits the parcel size in which products are delivered by
ship to 5,000-10,000 tons. In addition, the product jetty is undersized
and has been so damaged by collisions that it is unsafe.
53.       Considering Liberia's refined product needs, the present confi&u-
ration and location of storage tanks and existing product handling facili-
ties imposes serious limitations. There is need to rehabilitate the jetty,
convert and transfer the storage and supply facilities from the refinery
yard to the waterfront port area, construct five new product storage tanks,
and install a new pipeline (1,000 feet) from the jetty to the terminal.
Fortunately, considerable infrastructure is already in place at the
waterfront area. The cost of this construction/rehabilitation is estimated
to be US$7.5 million. It is justified by savings in operating costs,
reduction in product losses, fewer demurrage penalties, and increased
security of supply. Funds have been included in the project for feasi-
bility studies that would help determine how private sector involvement in
petroleum product storage could be obtained.
54.       The transport of petroleum products to retail distributors is
currently carried out by the private sector.  The retail distribution at
pump stations is also in private hands.  Both the transport and distribu-
tion functions appear to be performed crudely but efficiently. Transporta-
tion and distribution charges are about 11 percent above the wholesale
price for the Monrovia area and as high as 16 percent in the more remote
parts of the country.
55.       Petroleum Pricing.  Domestic prices of petroleum products are
Government-controlled. They have moved swiftly in line with increases in
int.rnational petroleum prices. At present, the pricing of petroleum fuels
as welI as electricity is, for the most part, above the economic costs of
supply.
56.       Petroleum Geology and Status of Exploration.  The petroleum
geology and potential of Liberia is discussed in Annex IV. Most of the
onshore area of Liberia is composed of igneous and metamorphic basement
rocks of Pre-Cambrian and Cambrian ages. Only two onshore coastal areas
contain sedimentary rocks and are known as the Roberts and Bassa Basins. In
1981, the area was leased out to a private group for petroleum exploration.
It conducted an airborne gas sensing survey and was planning to drill a
well in 1982 but ran into financial difficulties and relinquished the area.
57.       The onshore basins extend offshore onto the continental shelf
where they become a single sedimentary area also referred to as the
Roberts/Bassa Basin. The sedimentary basins are separated by areas where
basement rocks may occur at shallow depths.  The total thickness of the
sedimentary section can exceed 15,000 feet.
58.       Active exploration for petroleum began in Liberia in 1969 when
the Liberian Government established a petroleum code and divided the
offshore into four concession blocks which were awarded to oil companies



- 19 -
for exploration. From 1969 through 1972 an active seismic program was
undertaken by several companies, including Chevron, Uniou Carbide, Mobil
and Frontier. In 1971, four wells were drilled in the concession areas on
large atructures revealed by the seismic surveys. Two of the well. were
drilled by Union Carbide, one by Chevron and one by Frontier. Although
three wells showed traces of hydrocarbons, they failed to shcm commercial
potential and the concessions were relinquished by the companies in 1972.
The oil companies which carried out the exploration programs in Liberia,
and drilled the four wells, were primarily interested in finding large
structures on the shelf, since under the economic conditions then prevail-
ing (with oil selling below US$3/barrel) smaller deposits could not be
commercially developed and it was still not technically feasible to explore
for better prospects in deeper waters. They therefore decided to abandon
their efforts in Liberia (and several other countries along the West
African Coast) asd concentrate their exploration activities elsewhere.
Active exploration resumed in Liberia only in 1984 after a successful
promotional effort carried out under the first project in the petroleum
sector financed by the Bank Group (para 59-62 below).
The First Exploration Promotion Project (Loan 1907-LBR)
59.       The objective of the first exploration promotion project apvroved
on October 7, 1980 was to promote the resumption of the offshore hydro-
carbon exploration in the country which had been at a standstill since
1972. The total cost of the project was estimated at US$6.0 million, and
the Bank extended a loan of US$5.0 million. The project consisted of (i) a
new seismic survey of Liberia's offshore, and the computer processing,
interpretation and integration of the new data; (ii) assistance for the
promotion of new exploration permits; (iii) assistance for energy planning;
and (iv) expert assistance and training for the Bureau of Hydrocarbons of
the Ministry of Lands, Mines and Energy.
60.       Implementation of the proiect has proceeded satisfactorily.  Over
96 percent of the loan has been disbursed and completion of the project is
expected by September 1985. Under the project, promotional seminars were
held in Monrovia and Houston which were attended by over 35 companies. The
general reaction of the oil companies to the project was favorable, both to
the presentation of the technical data and to the flexible contractual
framework proposed by the Government. Four companies purchased the techni-
cal report and other data presented at the seminars. Although the decline
in oil prices and reductions in oil company exploration budgets is affect-
ing the interest shown in exploration, Amoco expressed interest and was
awarded about half of the offshore acreage available in 1983: Blocks HI,
H4, Sl and S3 (see Map). The agreement calls for the drilling of two wells
offshore and a minimum seismic program of 3,500 km. The first two wells
are currently being drilled.
61.       In preparation for drilling the wells, Amoco shot about 5,000 kms
of new seismic and reprocessed all previous seismic lines available
(including those of the 1981 survey financed under the Bank project)



- 20 -
utilizing the latest techniques. A major effort was undertaken to inte-
grate and interpret both the old and new geophysical and geological data.
The results of Amoco's efforts are impressive. They show a uore extensive
and more complex picture of Liberia's offshore basin and indicate the
existence of attractive geological prospects on the slope (more than
200 m of water) which possibly prolongate into the shelf area. As a
result, Amoco applied in 1984 for additional acreage and was awarded two of
the middle blocks (S2 and H3), iucreasing its acreage from about 23,000 sq
km to 33,000 sq km, or almost two-thirds of all of the offshore acreage
made available (51,000 sq km) under the first exploration promotion
project. Amoco has agreed to shoot a minimum of 1,500 km of additional
seismic and drill two more exploration wells.  Thus, within the span of a
few years, Amoco will have shot nearly 7,000 kus of seismic lines in
Liberia and drilled at least 4 exploration wells, a program of investment
well in excess of US$40 milli.n, compared to an exploration promotion
budget of less than US$5 million.
62.       Under the project, several Liberians were also trained in geolo-
gy, geophysics and energy economics, mostly in the U.S. Energy planning
and petroleum pricing studies have been completed in collaboration with
USAID. These studies have been of considerable use to the National Energy
Committee and other agencies involved in the sector.
Sector Objectives and Project Origin
63.       The Government intends to pursue its policy of attracting private
companies to undertake exploration under conditions which would ensure
maximum work commitments and early commencement of drilling. Impressive as
the results of the Government's initial efforts may have been, there is
still free acreage that it would like to contract to other private compa-
nies.  It would also like to begin to plan promoting acreage that will be
relinquished by Amoco in the next two years.
64.       The total offshore area not contracted out amounts to about
17,000 sq. km (Blocks H2, H5 and S4). Although this acreage was offered to
the industry in 1982 and 1983, it was not taken largely because previous
seismic coverage Was limited on Blocks H5 and S4 and therefore their
potential was unknown. After studying the problem and discussing it with
Amoco, the Government's consultants have concluded that the prospects
evidenced in the western part should also exist in Blocks ES and S4. They
have also concluded that promoting the acreage would require the gathering
of new geophysical information on Blocks H5 and S4 and the reprocessing of
existing information on Block H2 using never techniques. They have recom-
mended a 1,000 km seismic survey be carried out on the 2 blocks with a
digital cable to prove the existence in those blocks of the same type of
prospects as in Amoco blocks. The Government approached the Bank Group for
assistance in financing the survey. After approaching a number of private
firms, the Government and Bank staff succeeded in interesting a geophysical
company, Digicon, as well as Amoco in the survey. Digicon, which shot the
seismic survey for Amoco in Liberia and uses the digital cable, agreed to
finance 70 percent of the costs on the understanding that the Government



- 21 -
would finanes the remainder and that the Government would allow Digicon to
sell the data to the oil industry (para 73). The proposed project includes
the financing retroactively of 30 percent of the cost of the survey.
Although Amoco does not want, at present, to increase its exposure in
Liberia, it is prepared to purchase the data generated by the survey and
eventually consider acquiring a minority interest in the two blocks.
Digicon would actively assist the Governmiit in marketing the data and
promoting the free acreage.
*          65.        Onshore acreage has been awarded to a Texas-based oil company.
The company is expected to shoot about 320 km of seismic and drill two
wells. The Government is not certain that the company will be able to
carry out its obligations given its small size. It would therefore like to
be prepared to promote the area with other companies if the present con-
tractual commitments are not fulfilled. Sustained interest on the part of
exploration companies could be obtained if the existence of a sedimentary
basin of sufficient thickness and a relationship with the offshore basin
can be demonstrated. To this end there is need for a gravity survey that
would delineate basement blocks and depth and define possible prospects.
There is also need for a detailed sampling program to clarify stratigraphy
and a geochemical analysis of the sedimentary rocks, including the
bituminous shales which are periodically washed on the beaches from nearby
submarine outcrops. These shales are probably similar to those known in
Ivory Coast and Ghana and could indicate migration and possible trapping of
hydrocarbons in shallov reservoirs.
IDA's Role
66.       The Government's approach to oil exploration has been sound.
With the assistance of IDA, it has succeeded in obtaining company commit-
ments to drill by providing the industry with new geologic leads and a
revised legislative framework that has been considered favorable. The
proposed project could be equally successful in promoting acreage that is
free. Also, there is need to continue to support the Government's capabi-
lity to monitor the expanded exploration program being undertaken by Amoco
professionally and to manage the geological and geophysical data generated
by this increased activity. These efforts will need to move forward
rapidly prior to the termination of Amoco's drilling program to take
advantage of the momentum created by this increased activity. There is
also need to continue with the institutional strengthening initiated under
the first project through the provision of experts, equipment, training,
and other facilities including the construction of core store facilities to
store samples from wells drilled by oil companies.
67.       While the Government's approach to hydrocarbon exploration has
been sound, its experience with petroleum procurement and refining, as
noted, has been less fortunate. Under the program discussed with IDA in
the context of a Structural Adjustment Credit, the Government intends to
start reforming the petroleum subsector. In order to obtain private sector
involvement in petroleum product storage and handling, the project would
include consultant assistance. This would help formulate rational policies



-22 -
and provide ZDA a vehicle to maintain a dialogue with the Government on
policie for a sector that has a large Impact on the economy. The proposed
project has already been successful In obtaining private sector interest in
fu r eloti.
PART IV - THE PROJEC
68.      The proposed project was identified during spervision of the
first project ad appraisal was copleted in Augst L984 - Negotiations
were held in Washington in February 1985. The Liberian delegatiim was
headed by Mr. V. Aara Fsremam, Deputy Minister of Lnds,  ines and Energy.
A credit and project swary appears at the beginning of this report and
supplemutary data on the project are presented In Ame III. No Staff
Appraisal Report bas been prepared.
Project Objectites
69.      The proposed project wold be a logical continuation of the first
one and would aim at promoting hyd        exploration in the country.
continuing the institutional support to the Ministry of Lands, Mines ad
Energ  and helping formlate rational policies for the petroleum sector.
Project Description
70.      The proposed project would consist of the folloing compoents:
(a) Istitional support ould include the provision of
consultants' services, training, equipmet and other
facilities to strengthen the Bureau of Hydrocarbons in the
Ministry of Lands., ines and Energy. Consltants' services
vould be used to (i) assist the Government in the management
of both past geologieal and geophysical  formation and new
data that are being and will be generated by Amoco's explo-
ration program; (Ii) study all Iandstat and Side Looking
Aperture RadAr (SLAR) coverage available and integrate it
with existing data; and (i:i) assist the Bureau of Hydrocar-
bons monitor the exploration activities of Azoco and possi-
bly otber companies- This component would also provide for
construction of storage space for well cores and other data.
vehicles and laboratory equLipment, microfilming technical
data, and training of Liberian staff;
(b) Offshore exploration promotion would consist of promoting
Blocks E2 and H5 and S4 Which are free and the acreage that
will be relinquished by Amoco in the near future (about
8,000 sq. km). The component would include acquisition of
new seismic data (1,000 ki), review of all existing informa-
tion, reprocessing of some old seismic lines, application of
seismic stratigraphy and modeling of certain seismic



-23 -
sequences and facies from selected sections of e3dsting data
sad basin synthesis studies that could be used in the future
in cooperation with ueighboring countries;
(c) Onshore exploration promotion would consist of a gravity
survey and geochei  aalysis of the two sedimentary
basins known as the Roberts and Bassa Basins, including
labor.'.cory vork on sa=ples collected onshore. If ezplora-
tion =zo:k is in fact carried out by the private company rou
operating in the area, funds allocated to this componeat
(US$230,000) voule !n cancelled;
(d) Petroleum procurement and storage techiical assistance would
help examnle how t-he procurement and suppiJ of petroleum
products could be tr-asferred to the private sector. The
consultants would etso analyze the feasibility and Cost of
improving the petrolam product storage capacity and
rehabilitating the waterfront jetty.
Cost Estimates and Fin.-ncing
71.      The total cost of the project, net of duties and taxes from which
the project would be exempt, is estimated at US$3.4 million, of which about
US$3.1 million, or 92 percent, would be foreign costs. Physical
c.nt.rmgencies of 10 percent and price contingencies of 5.0 percent in 1985
and 7.5 percent in 1986 and 8.0 percent thereafter were applied to the
project components, except for the seismic survey which has already been
completed. Total contingencies amount to about 17 percent of base line
cost and 15 percent of total costs. Estimai. -d costs by project component
are given in the credit and project summary and in Annex V. The proposed
IDA credit of US$2.6 million would finance about 75 percent of the costs of
the project. Digicon vould finance 15 percent of the costs of the project
(70 percent of the costs of the seismic survey and processing), and the
reaining costs of the project (US$300,000) would be borne by the Govern-
ment. The Government would make the proceeds of the credit available to
the Ministry of Lands, Mines and Energy.
Project Implementation
72.    Implementation of the project vould be the responsibility of the
Bureau of Hydrocarbons of the Ministry of Lands, Mines and Energy, which
would be assisted in this task by exploration and other consultants.
Experience with implementation of the first project has been fJlly satis-
factory.  The Bureau is gradually building up a staff of capable people and
is gaining experience it previously did not have in the sector. Further
training would be provided under the project. The Government has agreed to
prepare an appropriate training program for staff of MIME by January 1.
1986 (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). MLME
expects to continue to retain the services of Atlantic Resources Limited
(ARL) as exploration consultants for the duration of the project. ARL has
performed satisfactorily under the first project. The geophysical survey



- 24 -
has been carried out by Digicon under the supervision of ME and ARL and
the results have been satisfactory. All consultants would be acceptable to
the Government and IDA and employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
73.      MnE and DIgicon vould market the seismic data collected under
the project for a price yet to be determined. Revenues from the sale of
the data packages would be split 75/25 between Digicon and the Government
until Digicon has recovered its investment. After that, all of the reve-
nues vould go to the Government unless Digicon is asked to continue to
market the data, in Which case it would keep 10 percent of the revenues to
cover its marketing costs. This proposal is reasonable and in Line vith
industry practice. The project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.
Procuremeut and Disbursement
74.      The contracts for the construction of core-store facilities and
for the acquisition of equipment (estimated to cost less than US$150,000
each) would be awarded after considering price quotations from at least
three qualified contractors or suppliers. The seistrat modelling
(US$350,000) and laboratory work (US$60,000) would also be carried out
after considering price quotations from at least three specialized firms
qualified to do the work. The seismic survey was carried out by Digicon
after the Government solicited bids from various qualified geopbysical
firms in a manner satisfactory to IDA; Digicon submitted the bid with the
lowest cost to the Government, given the fact that the company would
finance 70 percent of survey costs. There were also technical advantages
In using the same boat that had made previous seismic surveys in the area.
75.    The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against 50 percent of
total expenditures for civil works, gravity survey and shallow sample
drllling, 30 percent of expenditures for the seismic survey, 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for the supply of equipment, vehicles and other
facilities and consultant services, and 100 percent of the cost of training
abroad and auditing services. Reimbursements for payments against con-
tracts of less than US$10,000 equivalent would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure and the minimum reimbursement application size
would be US$30,000 equivalent.
76.       It is proposed that a special account in the amount of US$100,000
be established in an offshore account in a commercial bank in order to
accelerate disbursements and reduce the number of applications received by
IDA involving small amounts. The special account would be established on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Section 2.02(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The account would be replenished upon
receipt of satisfactory evidence of expenditure.
77.      The advantageous bid from Digicon for the seismic survey was
based on the fact that its boat was already present in Liberia. According-
ly, and in order to take advantage of its bid and not delay implementation



- 25 -
of the project, 30 percent of the expetures for the ueiumc survey and
procesing incurred after November 1, 1984, not exceeding US$275,000. would
be financed retroactively (para 64).
78.       The proposed ven core storage facilities would be witbin the
present offices of the Bureau of Hydrocarbos. These offices, hovever,
are rented from a private individual and MLXE is considering buying the
office facilities. Disbursement for this component (US$130,000) vould be
made only after the Government has made satisfactory arrangements to secure
the site (Schedule 1 of the draft Developmet C-edit Agreement). The
proceeds of the credit are expected to be fullT disbursed about four years
after credit effectiveness.
Accounting and Reporting
79.       Separate accounts would be maintained for the project and reports
satisfactory to the IDA would be submitted quarterly Indicating how work
has progressed. These accounts would be audited by an independent firm of
accountants acceptable to IDA and audit reports would be submitted not
later than six months after the close of the fiscal year. The Government
would also submit a Project Completion Report not later than six months
after Closing Date of the Credit.
Project Benefits and Risks
80.      Promotional efforts and investments made under the project are
ezpected to attract additional foreign capital to undertake hydrocarbon
explorations, both offshore and onshore. Any ensuing petroleum discovery
vould have a positive impact on the country's economy by boosting Liberia's
foreign exchange earnings capacity. The project would also assist the
Government In adopting rational policies for the sector that would greatly
reduce the cost of petroleum supplies to Liberia. The risk associated with
the project is that the areas offered for bidding may not appear attractive
enough to foreign companies. However, given the geological conditions and
the interest shown by the companies, including Amoco and Digicon, the
advantages of proceeding with the project outweigh this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMEN4TS AND AUTHORITY
81.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Liberia and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
81.       The draft Development Credit Agreement conforms to the usual
pattern of agreements on petroleum technical assistance projects. In
addition to the special conditions of the Development Credit Agreement set
forth in Section III of Annex III to this report, a condition of



- 26 -
disburse8Met for core storage faclties would be the completion of
I_ts to secure the site of the offices of the Bureau of
Hydrocarbons (para 78).
82.      I as satisfied that the proposed credit would comply vith the
Articles of Agreent of the Association.
PART VI -RCOHDIO
83.      I recommd that the Execative Directors of the Associa
approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clumsen
President
By Ernest Stern
Attchets
Washington, D.C.
Narch 8. 1985



-27 -ANE 
*Ai-a                          Fa Page 1 of 5
m cm us. m 8
YGIAL                               £11.       11L.4        111.4
L6.2         6.1          6.1
or mGo=  (Ml                       £40.0      250.0        490.0            11129                   U149.6
cKlumocaAs or OIL uSwromWE)         66.        416.0        373.             529.0                    422.1
P090L =     -13 c2 Ns3             976.0      £333.        2016.0
-wa  OPOILA7.Wx CZ Or TOTAL)        20.5        26.2         34.4             29.7                     48.2
POPUL*?10 I N MaRt 2000 (L)                      -          3.7
9                 ~~~~~~~SVT*240  P0rw?Z   CmR111                             124
POIULATIW 140ff3                                            La
M31S                                4.        1MO          17.4 5t.6                                 36.3
PM So. 3.          LA0            15.6       2203         317.?             111.5                   4I.7
IOPMAUOAG SIR57C0113CZ)
0-14 715                          45.4       46.6         46.6             45.4                     42.4
15.6" Us                           MO.        50.          50.7             51.7                    53.1
4, AIM 0OW                          2.6        2.9                                                    3.3
?OSAL                               2.6        LI           3.4              2.6                      2.6
gum                                 3.4        5.6          5.7              5.2                      4.5
cm    WISI RAZZ (PM Wa3)            50.1        48.8         50.1             47.0                     Q40.
ClU=  mm*7 RAZ: CPER WINS)          20.6        16.5         14.3             15.                      11.3
cNOWS WzraooUc?I0  mm1                3.4        3.4          3.4              3.2                      2-9
FAKI12 PLANIN
ACEVOS 43OL  C  IE
POOR A      -
z     or FM  MM. PM c. m
(1969-72-100)                       96.0       IOL.O         66.0             91.6                    97.3
PM Caim 503312 OF
camPC or WPZDX          tSQ       114.0      £01.0        116.0             96.2                     1c.8
PR021ZRS CO    PU VA?)            44.0        43.0         51.0             56.7                     70.1
OF 03MC1*1611W. AM0 PMLS         L10        12.0         13.0 fe          17.0                     17.8
C6ILD CAUl     1.4) 3312  RATE      42.0        27.0         16.0             16.7                     14.6
gmm
LEM gWr?r AT 3IR7N lIaRS)           44.1        49.1         53.              51.7                    37.5
INwArT Pay. ROMK (PER~              173.0      132.0         91.0            £02.7                   101.5
A=S TO Sant WA=n (270
TOL                                 5.          .0 Id         -              5.6                     59.7
URA                                            4.0 7         ..-  55.1                              66.5
3*R1...                                         6. 0         .              27.3                     36.4
ACCES t0 O       DISPOS..,
x Or POPUATION)
TOTAL                               ..        11.0 1
333Wls                       1       M. *3  .0  35.0 W7
oAlL                     IL                    6.  T
POPULATII  PU PSZCIA              1260.      11750.0       9610.0 f.       1194.3                   4365.1
POP. PU (I3N Pam                   1610.0 If  2670.0       1420.0 I74.9                             1831.1
For. FM 307121  3m
ToAl.                             710.0      590.0        700.0 I.         986.9                    632.9
no"                               160.0      190.0          6..            3.7                     545.5
X31AL                               ..          .01. ..                    0.1                    2513.5
AOKXSSZU  PUM  S?ITAL 333.                      27.7          -..                                     2G.2
(:161.0 SI2 OF OIISOWL
TUIL0 ..                                        ...                                                    -
TV=ss                               350                      -
1031.1                  ..     ~    ~~ 6.0 ..
_131*0 30. OF DMOIu00
tlJ                                1.7                .. 
333*1                      ~..         ..           .             02t21.
A MM TOzci. CZ Or AMLuIGS).
TOL                                  ..         ..           ..               ..                       .
uR  3.9.    ..           ..               ..                     77.7
R                                    .          ..           ..               ..                      6.1



- 28 -
ANN= I
TA3LEZ 3s                                           Page 2 of 5
-   L DRTA             - SOCIAL  DICATU  OM UII
LIBEI                                I          CROUPS CWECLEMD AVENA) is
M                    (WST  cOw  STDq2) lb
RaT           NIDDIE INWIE            NSE INCOX
atkb    1im&         n iDUa         mmC  S. oF 548A       S. Ari= a M  EAT
ADJUlT    E MOUMEr S
PRIKAT: T' AL                      31.0        50.0         66.0             91.0                     UL3
MAIX                    45.0        67.0         82.0             90.5                    102.5
lOUAU                    O.0        33.0         50.0             73.6                     73.6
SE :UDIRT! TOA                      2.0         9.0        20.0              17.4                     43.0
MAlS                     3.0        13.0         29.0              23.7                    52.3
nLUA                     1.0         4.0         O1.0             14.                      33.0
VOC&TIOAL (Z OF SECONDARY)           tl.7         5.3         4.3               5.3                     10.3
PUIL-TACE MAXID
PaItART                            3Z.0        36.0         M.0             38.6                     30.3
SECOEDAR                           14.0        17.0        20.0              24.3                     23.1
AWZ LrTUACT  lEzz CZ)                 8.9  b      M5.0        Z5.4             35.6                     43.S
FASSENC   CARSDIOUSAD t0              1.0        mll          5.5 la           20.7                     17.8
nADXow RUERVEU   DUO    10P         102.2       116.1        170.8            100.8                    138.8
TV           -DUSAXD PM               1.5 II      5.2         1L2              18.5                     46.1
INWSWAPT C"86XFZ GERAL
urW) C DuM
PER 31001*10 POPULATIOl             0.8         5.2          6.1 Li          17.2                     3L2
CUIN   ANEW  aTrIm__ZCA?TE            0.8         0.7         0.8  0j 0.3                                L.7
TOTL LABOR FORCE (TOM00)            380.0        820        680.0
lEUI  (RQJT)                       33.9        32.5        31.4              33.8                     10.8
AGRICULIIEE (PUCEWI)               80.0        75.0         70.0             57.1                      2.4
INV==  (CEIII)                     10.0        12.0        14.0              17.4                     Z7.9
PARTXCXPA7IOU RATE (PURCZT)
TOTAL                              3S.9        36.1         33.6             36.3                     26.2
MALE                               51.9        49.0        46.4              67.6                     46.4
1E31                               26.1        23.3        21.2              25.1                      5.8
ECOfIC DEPENDENCY RATI                12          1.4         1.5               1.4                      1.8
T cr DESIIICn
icuCE  or OMV     D=E
RECErVED BY
RiXaEST SE aF U111CIIIUIS                      61.7 .k
EItsr 2s oF DUSEODIS                ..        72.6 W
UOVEST 2  OF c    USEN0D             ..         5.3 h*
LWCST 40O   fG goSEWS                .         10.9          ..
ZSTDIA4W ABSOLUTE POVSrIT DCQIC
L      (USS PER CI)
gumBA                                 .S ..                   ..            525.3                    276.8
RURAL                                ..          .         75.0 Ic          249.0                    177.Z
ESTIMnAD R     EATI  POVERT! IE
LZVEL CUSS Pt CAPIT
CUBAN                                .                     137.0 11         477.4                   406
R L                                  o. ..                  s.o 7           186.0                    288.9
ESrIDAX  POP. SEWo  ASUm
blur? flEa  LEL (:)
033*1                                ''         ..         23.0 /C
RURAL                                ..          ..
NUr AVAILABLE
Mr APPLICABLE
x oT E S
ta  The group averqe  fac macb Indicato  arm jopelatlon-valghted aritheectc seams. Covera  of coatrie        g the
Indlctocs depend an avaIlabiLIty of data and Lo not unifom
/b   Dnlea otberwie noted. 'Mtn for 196SO refer to may yewr betwe   1959 and 1961; 'ate for 1970" betwen 1969 and
1971; and data for coat Vacent Elasts  betwcn 1980 and 198Z.
Ic   1977;  Id 1974; la 1978; /f 1964; LI 1956. City of Monrava only; /b 1962;  11 1963; LI 179; A   boptaatul
hilher inomT  calculated" arndual. Ineuea azatriae; /I 1975.
JmNE. 1986



-29-
-Pag 3 of 5
mi     0ma   ee    mE    nIs1a   -                          U5    mIdas.A  smem Wm me mm "am Om  Mr  m   ism.n
a inaaein. idles. mm.   amememeIN  cm    jo8161mm                m _ _ _  .                                      W
ils"Il   mo 4110111111 Sbemd      am        saNB  00VM Imil 0001111113   s ma m11am1111m m111e11saI
j_m_    ge* r -. Sm&&- mm ma mes'                     3          m      acim  dUl   c5    a1m                   t~    dm
W. etNN woks an1       mmm I                  es  eldolej kaktmJwMr VW of             NO         emWIP IMe ONem VA  SM  mVWs a1
m,m5se em macsc  mm  samtdlm.. - lbm. -    @UA  eUWIV edel me mama mmW own "NOW W  maw _    nb   -W                                   -
-_a- _mma  n..                                 ~m l                                       -Sbli   caa _Iu me. _a smme
m_ad_ _els- me  _esisaw U_  em ad i"   m-a I_sis.                   _amma~iii~ns.. muse smem a Mm                  e aeM,
am  _e                                                                                        *F haams cam( s, me. s! vs-Ida| |z
Y3_ A_,,,,,                               ,,um   ir -_   ,-_ =   _ ,, 
mm  a qfiesamssl -  sad ge.u. ""M low                                                        ms-.e.emaa    m
I_~~~W                 m    M" Wm tom  _tL W  _ _m_ _ 1 _
s-    ll. inti ad U1101m sinm W so UVp tela. Ag".              em       Nd.
am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mO-0  adG ,mam.
I_                            _  _, awe,  , msmsm,ue.      I    _tes" __ mea.  madam. rnm.gcaq -         i        medi"l-_a
= md _               mm"" Neom  , _am ae.  de  beaU s-_
*-ee *              n  "     . -   al              m    i nI_. _ -u _mem mmale  .   sI- us_         . or . mft_
dl memi easeauheemvl as ulepso a sam _dll-c -em.           tis.O I1mt n           a MGsM   mcw t-C   e 14 teslti.
a_m  __ ama _ me|_ _.                        _.a~ m a~                                             _ne      _sa smem  em em gms
left   d an   ,                                                   fif~                2-d  Thot  ~        afm. seas,W  asiaa
Wo           ._I_                C _lUr em          ad "am             AW                     C_. Ws_e EJ M's                   t_  s
a.-                      mudscmemmse,                                ad me___w mms-as. £f lam          t mu emmuada.lc  
_ _U. b _ b __ _'  |5-  _t =.6                                    I _ I _"_
* mets- ass. aim, ad asia me.                  m~~~~~~~~~~~asams.cie.a..asu.s-e.os  -1  Im,a II          m1
IIM165 m   ad -M ad -                                                                 -ldi t -
lema_  zs tee.U mmm   *sme *.suc  cee em s _m
* ma.. _m          am macmae, em   _elmos     m_    -a,                  a M.  din, a       . "m.m 91   emuedl..lv.
=ous          m lsinaUv '    s ut-m -em  gum aema a  e-m -NII-           --N " l
wo"-m                e, ms1. so   am -ds    ll. ,                                    4      -1e             M U te,  6 W W _   _
_m-   0-           eS  i- . . * _.             i_ W.."          _    *  .5  m   _                         le      s _ 
am esmbin., meuctcda -MM                 (mu                          mc4s-v -.- Ma._cm.            a        ..h       m -
D{_~~~~~~~M.l                          __-_ t-          _..                                       -u- ft-Wft.
_a          _, e a, _  _i._mmmc    n .  inem _me as                        mm  N  NJ~  11- dIIx,- as-mm    P.-s i        m     -
aftsI    m  cdi  m.f. 2% mu. c.em  em d.3   m . adft                  mean..  mma mis-sm -   in .....alm s           aft mu
gems   e4mb   e. VW s_e am _   lme-a                  ~m5.Ideem  m  mpw_u  - %a- - N.- Sb elnami"a mu_e _m.
as.W _ *b _ica *bI.ImUa -. *u- macic  _ *b  e-                     _L                       -MkIM Oms- lm  - elm_. am
tu. Id of "M  a                         *aS a  mum    e m                   _i a-.                    v-   W ue,d v_   a    =
~~ - em~~I% Sb    -. 1Wseicng                   -  mis-                em.II-t.,.. .eeteI. em~    ..M....  Imi              E-
as. me stem. mu mu  d-ec" fn. s -am.d           "Wn.  I  ~           .l -*.W ma         .   a
=            a       a-c                                                      s                            -_saa am
.tttm  emnae, mee.tcM L umatmt            apcaccd  smm   t.  t.      v-   at-.. ...g.t
VP.   fnp -u  _m                                                   _     d-i. fe -'-a.  a t a__.
t_       . _          sc _m.  m te. _-P  ies t               _                        S=_fi._
am.."ele. ad mm, cc.,                                 ins- tam..., S.   s1..m C- mac.e..l.sa.m a               ma)-
r-                         vt am,                                          .. _*<W"-vL_  _  _tV   I_-6_ .
if-t  Wl a             a-msea    b
__________*_____ ____- a... n-. em.. -arm  at-_a
_,Ue.  MUM ca LA C&MVW ad  s               --iU-   "M.=-, _-mm  ma mama  m t_ 
mace   m  *_   - _ _. .r _. dl Z9i.                     *.   ttm  _d stimc_>nt     - sit g,~ d  ae..I.ld
_ tt ma_ em_0 mm _t _m                                     - ~e.a s-at. em' ~dl at maIms..: s
M         _         Mf M  r1 V_L __ Fs - lmb    .r A."9 _
*  cs-  at.. ta.                       a      , n-   Iie amd   gem w                                       e   m  a  a       a      m _
am_, ccc.                                                samuft _-_9*e ,--
_|_ f_-§-   _  til_ -X    ! cumem en   _   ci cc.,s-  _ D ~ Im.claSt-                         me_-   .   g emt Cg_t -
WX t_}  O,,-2--m-l-r .-V  = M_~   tq                                                          Ub ft-  _ f tmm r. %U
mames   I. .. -    -C   ad  e..                                            e .in.tkmatb...AMkM,m....... t..     _ 3 c.* *
W         -           4M_0             .e  &                               ~                              l    tL-r _ Itd _g
tu meemmum s.ec m          iui                mm ,a  (                 m m _               S   -
hea-a.   m    mal   a.    mm 1adtq as1IM   assMg ., aWm. ad             "W.Mme. ..sin Ocl, em Ts-ma   mm.   dig ca em.ee.
mm.       ftmea .U--s-am-L -d                                                   eme  m.-gma  Oft eamgc.. m-mm-  ta 
ortO        -     s      -    .a  _D _         .               e. C=                          =           is   -S.
a ea~m   m.  ma     mps-K   c  Mie                            ,,mm._ -b -   -m_
_                    * Dt . a  e -ems                                                                          tam   S
ft. n                     byn-em-a  eML P-"m  mm
sm C d   D_e    mmin em ci n     e        m- l
fad  d   -mim   me. ma. BmIII,    ma  em.sa.(ae on".m.a scam g                                          sms. asia ci am  c        -
mmam       .1 -m.W m Cs  el.  ad~ mmd. ad%ev  I..                                   ct.gcI-cAc.  meaa..ileecisd
IAdge m a   ftad o mu ccm   on  4 "eic,. cim           am                  i.e.m.m d   m-   emuaatsm   m.  a.a
-c..                                                                      mm.t~tdinlm  W-          - , Me. _ma  E- gte I 
_ -                              _ lmcel len                   s- . in Wua&     ms--,m,.. ad-w, i w e -
mew mee.ls-    me-   male.I   -m gal.". gMo 'met son               .-s-            a. di- admm.mim.acis   msimge
aii,ad,am  Meica   an       amec  madma. ft  ,                       SbiE v;               Imue.1 Ma, i)
__           S _           _       _ rrz_
m  am.  g     I& m                                      a"     _smwe.W.Ums"                                                        m
-&&a m        mc --Gm. cmaam  my1   -   mm a W.Wm  m                    mac.
cam    m  m dmn m W -two-         dl ia ems a nai ad
"Tin    . amas       wan mesa emma   owma. la--..
ice.                                                                as-me .-Ic  -m-6 
of (me cmi sect     v-a     oft -    ma   VW   laIII     asmnm    tt   mm.1mi.!m   .  caa      ma   ta



- 30 -
au I
Pap 4 of 5
-MM  -NWM  - TmAm
;S  NATIW P r  m 1982                               AWI    ME RE Ca F U
CZ L971 OaI1ER CI)
lS$   11m        z          978-81       1982
QP at NetPrices 1/              930.7         1OD.0       -0.9        -4.3
Cms Domestic I v                233.5          25.1       -6.6        1L9
Grow NW-lalm  Saivg              93.5          10.0       18.4        -0.6
Comint nmt P3-lm                -44.6          -4.8        -           -
FzpomtI of Goods, UFS           487.4          52.4       -2.7        -9.9
hozt of Goods, 1ES              513.5          55.2      -10.3        -7.9
0M, BEMDO!W AND                  IN 1982
Value Addd     HM)YW  2/  b.ra   VJA. Pew WD*in
'U$MU.  Z    °°°   Z                Ms          I
hgricultare               345.0  36.3    515.0  79.3        669.9      45.8
TIIKIzt!y                  197.8  20.8     40.0   6.2       4945.0     338.1
Services                  407.1  42.9      94.5  14.5       4307.9     294.6
Total         949.9 100.0    649.5 100.0       1462.5
-*  !UAXE                           Ce.trl Govenuet
1981/8928
MUS$W 114   Z oE GP L/  ll$ lffllM   Z of GM I/
ruzt Receipts                 238.0      21.2        220.7        Z2.0
Obnrent *peadiUm       -      r.... 293.8  26.2      269.3        26.9
bcrrent 9zplus               -55.8      -4.9       -47.6        -4.8
Ciptal    e Wmfftures R97.1               8.6         95.8         9.6
bMermagu  Pfmnancln            39.3       3.1         34.4        3.4
iCRE, CMED= AND MM             19 l78     1979        198D        1981    1982
O jam  LgT.    $             , H 
Bawk Credit to Pbblic Sector    61.7      92.4        152.1       192.1  255.3
Bdk Credit to Private Sector    143.8     184.6       L32.9       130.9  123.7
(Gzzua Perag  )ms)
Consumer PriceIdec 3/            7.4       11.5        13.8        8.2    6.2
Bwk Credit to PdlIc Sector     315.8      49.1        64.6         26.3   32.9
ukiCreadit to Private Ser       27.6      28.4       -28.0        -1.5   -5.5
IE   All aueENbms to dollars in ttds table are at the  age emge rate
Ed     during the perind coered.
1/    GP tcie estlistes for traditlaal sector
2/  ~ip1oyn.nt data subject to ftuther verifficatm
3/    Septeer - N buer L964 - 100



- 31 -
A=I
Page 5 of 5
ADE PA!W   D CAM iAL PGS
Bff*MK OF PATEI                                  E   W   CAVERAGE 196-82)
1960     1981  1982 I/
ofwIuss  -r                       is PfL.U      Z
Epoir of   ds,       N      613.5    560.7    487.4    Iran Ore       315.6   58.9
Liorts of Gods, UPS         614.1    560.9    513.5      A mer80.8   15.1
Pesource Gap (deicit - -)    {1.4   -20.2    -26.1    Di               27.7    5.2
Lop or limbr  47.3    8.8
Interest Pyments (Net)     -23.9    -2D.2    -28.0    Coffee           25.1    4.7
I'brkers' lodrttaoe         -32.0    -33.0    -35.0    Palm Produts   4.2    0.8
Odier Factor Paymnts MIt)  483.7    -72.0    -64.0    Coooa            11.0    2.1
Net Tamsfers                 35.7     68.1    108.5    All otber
C~dities    24.0    4.5
Balance on C.reat Acaunt  -104.5    -77.3   -44.6         Total       535.7  10.0
Direct Forei4p Ivebmnt 2/ -10.7    -42.9    -45.0
Net lIT BorrawIg 3/          62.5     62.2     40.7
DIBbuRSUS            78.1     71.6      59.4
nrtfratix            15.6      9.4      18.7 EK1L  DE, DEI. 31, 1983 3/
Subtotal             51.8     19.3      -4.3 Public Debt4,El.           699.1
Ib    F  ~Priae Debt       
Ircrease in Resvs ()        -61.8    -49.3    -57.5 Total Oitstand. & Disbursed  699.1
Gross Reserues (end year)   -101.2   -150.5   -208.0 It SEBVE RA&DIOCR 1983 4/
Net Reserves (enear)          ..       ..y.
bic Debt, tl. pgranteed 7.05
wrantee Private DeIt
Total (xtstaid. & DiCwRsud  7.05
Fol and Related Materials
152.1    129.6    115.1
Debt Service as Z of
Gwerrmet PReme             13.7
PACE aF  BNlE:   US$1 -  riberan Dbolar 1
m/IDA END=  (CDEHHE 31, 1984) OMllC  US$):
tID     MA
OistarxUxig & Dis zed              99.7    61.6
26.4    38.9
Otestandirig Tnw-ling Thdisbursed   126.1   100.5
1/    Preliminary
21    Data provided by lbria  azudrities
3/    lE  Debtor RPoting Systm
4/    Debt Srvic as pert of 1983  Spos of Goods nod Services (estite).
wt availabie
ot applicable                                         Decber 1984



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of November 30, 1984)
Loan or                                                       Amount (US$ Million)            a
Credit                                                          less cancellations
Number     Year      Borrower             Purpose            Bank    IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and seven credits fully disbursed              93.52  33.47      -
Ln 1323    1976  Liberian Bank for   Third Development
Dev. & Investment    Finance              7.00   -          .40
Cr  786    1978  Rep. of Liberia      Rubber Development     -       6.00       .42
Cr  839    1978  Rep. of Liberia      Forestry Development   -       6.00      2.24
Lu 1544    1978  Rep. of Liberia      Rubber Development      7.00   -         7.00
Ln 1664    1979  Rep. of Liberia      Feeder Roads           10.70   -         6.43
Lu 1765    1979  Rep. of Liberia      Decoris Oil Palm       12.00   -         9.97
Lu 1907    1980  Rep. of Liberia      Petroleum Exploration  5.00   -           .16
Cr 1076    1981  Rep. of Liberia      Small & Med Scale
Enterprises         -      4.00 2/   2.37 3/
Lu 2080/81 1982  Rep. of Liberia      mining                 20.00   -         2.63
Cr 1223    1982  Rep. of Liberia      Urban Development      -      10.00 2/   5.29 3/
Cr 1242    1982  Rep. of Liberia      Lofa II                -      15.50 2/   7.26 31
Cr 1306    1983  Rep. of Liberia      Education IV           -      13.50 2/   7.15 3/
Cr 1447    1984  Rep. of Liberia      Bong ADP II            -       6.70 2/   5.26 3/
Cr 1449    1984  Rep. of Liberia      Highway V              -      11.40 2/   9.45 3/
Total                                     155.22 106.57     66.03
of which has been repaid                 26.93   0.19
Total now  outstanding                    128.29 106.38
Amount sold                     0.41
of which has been repaid     0.41         0.00
Total held by Bank and IDA                128.29 106.38
Total undisbursed                          26.59  39.44     66.03
8=====  = :=:
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Calculated at rate of exchange in effect at approval date.
3/ Calculated at rate of exchange at November 30, 1984.
Note: The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice
yearly and circulated co the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 33 -
Annex I1
Page 2 of 2
b.  STATENENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of November 30, 1984)
Fiscal
Year          0bligator        Type of Business   Loan      Equity      Total
1966      Liberian Bank for    Development
Development and      Finance Company
Investment                                        0.250       0.250
1977      Liberian Bank for    Development
Development and      Finance Company
Investment                                        0.306       0.306
1983      Liberian Bank for    Development
Development and      Finance Company
Investment                                        0.147       0.147
0.703       0.703
Less Sold:                                        0.001       0.001
Now Held by IFC:                                  0.702       0.702
, .. .---



- 34 -
Annex III
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
SECOND PETROLEUM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                            &
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I      Timetable of Key Events
(a)     Time taken to prepare project    : 4 months (April-July 1984)
(b)     Project prepared by               : Consultants/Government
(c)     Identification                    : Early 1984
(d)     Appraisal                          : August 1984
(e)     Negotiations                      : February 1985
(f)     Planned date of effectiveness    : July 1985
Section II    Special IDA Implementation Action:
IDA to deposit US$100,000 in special account.
Section III   Special Conditions
(a)      Consultants' study on petroleum procurement and supply to be
completed within six months of credit effectiveness and its
recommendations to be carried out as agreed vith IDA
(para 51);
(b)       Special account to be established on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para 76); and
(c)      Government to make satisfactory arrangements with respect to
the offices of the Bureau of Hydrocarbons (condition of
disbursement) (para 78).



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
Second Petroleum Technical Assistance Prolect
A.         Geology. Petroleum Potential and Status of Exploration
Onshore Area
1.       Host of the onshore area of Liberia is composed of i 'ieous and
metamorphic basement rocks of different Pre-Cambrian and Cambrian ages. Only
two onshore coastal areas contain sedimentary rocks and are known as the
Roberts and Bassa basins. Based on outcrops and on scarce gravity
information, these areas appear to contain sediments ranging in thickness from
a few feet up to as much as 10,000 feet. Details of the sedimentary section
are not known since no well has been drilled onshore to date. The sedimentary
sequence may well be older than the ones known offshore (Trias, Paleozoic).
Within the regional context, it should be kept in mind that Paleozoic oil
production is derived from Devonian Sandstones in Ghana. Also migration
towards the onshore from deeper formations offshore has been proven in Ivory
Coast and Ghana where shallow oil sands are known. No serious exploration
effort was ever undertaken of the onshore basins and the e-valuation of their
hydrocarbon potential will require a detailed sampling program to clarify
stratigraphy.  Also sedimentary rocks including bituminous shales are
periodically washed on the beaches from nearby submarine outcrops.  Although
these rocks strongly suggest the presence of source rocks, a geochemical
analysis is necessary to prove this. A gravity survey is needed as an
inexpensive first step to delineate the basement blocks and to define the
possibility of prospects and justify further seismic work which could be
carried out by private companies.
Offshore Area
2.       The onshore basins extend offshore onto thu continental shelf where
they become a single sedimentary area also referred to as the Roberts/Bassa
Basin. The sedimentary basins are separated by areas where basement rocks may
occur at shallow depths. The deposits in the sedimentary basins consist of
Mesozoic rift sediments overlain by Tertiary and Qur-ernary marine
sediments. The total thickness of the sedimentary section can exceed 15,000
feet.
3.       In Liberia the 4 wells drilled on the continental shelf during the
early 70s encountered a thick, precominantly continental Lower Cretaceous and
Jurassic section. The rifting process, which appears to have become active in
the area of Liberia during the Jurassic period, caused the formation of horsts
and grabens through tensional faulting. These grabens become the sites of
deep fresh-water and brackish-water lakes during Jurassic and Lower Cretaceous
times. Deposits of organic-rich shales, siltstoues and sandstones filled
these grabens and spilled over onto the continental slope and rise.
Intermittent volcanism associated with the rifting process intruded or covered
certain areas of these sediments during the Jurassic and lowermost Lower
Cretaceous. At the beginning of the Upper Cretaceous time, when the



-36-
AU IV
Page 2 of 4
separation of Africa and South Amerlca was complete, marine sedimentation
replaced lacustrie sedimentation as the dominat type. Karim conditions
bsve prevailed, for the most part, from Upper Cretaceous time to the present.
Petroleum Potential
4.       The best source rock potential on the sbelf as presetly known from
the few existing wells is found in the orgaicy rich Lover Cretaceous age
sediments. Studies suggest that these sediments have little chance to be
mature on the shelf. Therefore, chances to find hydrocarbons would have to
rely on possible migration from deeper parts of the basin, wostly beyond the
sbelf. consequently explGration on the shelf will depend on the proof of the
existence of actual potential In the deeper parts of the basin. Upper
Cretaceous and Cnoizoic age sediments are rated as marginal primarily because
they were iinture where found in the wells and had fairly low total organic
carbon contents. Present studies, based on statistical data, seisuic data and
c oaisons with nbighboug basins sbow good possibilities of  aturation n
the deeper basin beyond the shelf.
Reservoir focks
5.       The most likely reservoir objective would be sandstones within the
Lower Cretaceous section. This section as encountered in the wells is
predomnasntly siltstone/claystone, with scattered sandstone intervals. These
individual sand intervals are generally thin Cless thmn 50 feet) with low
porosities, although some of them have excellent porosities (152-30%).
Porosity tends to be reduced with increasing depth by the presence of a clay
matrix and calcareous or siliceous cement. Jurassic sediments tend to be
similar to the Lower Cretaceous in reservoir quality in the one well in which
they were encountered, but the presence of volcanic rocks in the section
probably contributed to more induration than would be found in non-volcanic
areas where better Jurassic reservoirs would be expected. Upper Cretaceous
sediments are found in only one well and exhibit good reservoir quaUlties,
with porosities generally in the range of 15S-30%. Unfortunately, the
thickness of section and areal extent of the sediments appear to be very
liit ed, and the section is thermally immature. These sandstones could
present a reservoir objective if found in a trap Which could have been sourced
by Lower Cretaceous shales. Tertiary sediments oonsist of both sandstones and
limestones but are also fairly thin and thermally Immature. They could be
considered to be a reservoir objective only in such places as they may be in
contact with Lower Cretaceous source rocks. The possible existence of
Paleozoic reservoirs and source rocks is totally ignored.
6.       The systems of faults delineates blocks where both structural and
stratigrapbic trapping can exist. The delineation of such blocks and their
possible coincidence with deltaic or fluvial deposits has been greatly
enbanced by the oe detailled seismic shot by Amoco as well as application of
new processing and modelling techniques.



-37-
Page 3 of 4
7.       The results of the nm seidsic data acquired by Amoco and the
geologic interpretation both by Amoco and the Government 's Conaultants (ARL)
show a largely new, more extensive and sore complex picture of Liberia's
offshore basin. It indicates the existence of attractive geological prospects
on the slope, which were largely unknown before, possibly extending into the
shelf area.
Open Areas and Future Relinui shments
8.        There is still acreage to be promoted, in particular, Blocks R2, H5
q        and S421J Amoco has indicated that considering their present exposure in
Liberia they do not desire to acquire more acreage. To promote Blocks H5 and
S4 however would require more information. Very little seismic was shot
previously on Blocks E5 and S4 because the prospects seemed at that time to be
unattractive. However, the n*.- leads evidenced by Amoco on its acreage sbould
normally extend to this area as suggested by geologic and geopbysical
interpretations carried out by ARL. Consequently, a program of around 1000 km
of new seismic is recommended on Blocks H5 and s4 using the same techniques as
Amoco. Also, recent work completed by ARL shows some new prospects o- dhe
shelf (especia y on the 12 block) which would need to be confirmed by
reprocessing and modeling studles using seismic data collected under the first
project. Application of seismlc stratigraphy and modelling of certain seismic
sequences and facies (rift, post rift, etc...) from selected sections of all
the data available will be a basic tool for the promotion of new and
relinquished areas as vell as for providing the Government with an evaluation
of the petroleum potential of the country. The initial work has shown the
great difference in quality that exists between the data acquired by Amoco and
that acquired in previous programs. Moreover, integration and interpretstion
of all data, seismic and geologic into a comprehensive report would be needed
which would be used for promotion and would also constitute a valuable
document to be used by the Bureau of Hydrocarbons for future activities.
9.      The following areas are expected to be relinquished by Amoco:
April    1986 - 30Z of blocks HI and H4 (6,700 km2);
April    1987 - 30Z of blocks SI and S3 (16,200 k12); and
Septezber 1987 - 30Z of blocks 13 and S2 (10,550 ki2).
A total of 8,000 to 9,000 km2 will be relinquished between 1986 and 1987. The
studies and reports integrating the results of the Amoco wells will, with all
new seismic and geologic data, be fundamental to th2 future promotion of this
acreage. In the meantime a study of all Landsat and SLAR coverage available
should be made. Preliminary interpretation shows that such studies will
provide the Government and the companies with a useful understanding of the
general tectonic framework, complementing the seismic interpretation and
allowing to differentiate the main sub-basins and, correlating with the
11 Blocks 15 and S4 have a surface of approximately 8000 and 7200 sp. km. on
which 2000 to 3000 can be considered as possibly prospective.



-38
Page 4 of 4
oceanic traforu faults and their contIation shore. These faults
interact with another mjor msytes of faults subparallel to the coast line of
Liberia and the proposed Integrated study should reslt iu the division of the
coastal area of Liberia Into fault bound    brc    r zones wich could be
ranked according to Wheir hydrocarbou potential.
b



- 39 -
Anhex V
Page 1 of 2
PROJE   COSTS
Estimted Cost:
(Excluding identifiable taxes and duties)
Foreign       Local         Total
(USV '000)-
(a) Institutional Support
Monitoring of oil companies, study of
Landstat and SLAR coverage and completion
of peranent evaluation (25 man-months)           305           20           325
Well core storage, microfilming of
technical dara, vehicles and laboratory
equipment                                        250          80            330
Training                                          80           _             80
Subtotal        635          100           735
(b) Offshore Exploration Promotion
Acquisition of 1,000 km of nev seismic data
including supervision,
processing and interpretation                    775           -            775
500 km of seistrat and modeling,
including supervision and interpretation         350           -            350
Review of all seismic data, reprocessing
of seismic lines and integration    -
(16 man-months)                                  210           -            210
Regional study                                   100           -            100
Report and brochure prepaf7tion
and promotional seminars±                        150           -            150
Sub-total                                      1,585           -          1.585
11 Would cover both offshore and onshore promotion.



- 40 -
Annex V
Page 2 of 2
Foreign       Local        Total
(USs 000)
(c) Onshore x-ploration Promotion
Shallov drilling for samples                     20          40            60
Laboratory work                                  60           -            60
Gravity survey                                   40          70           110
Sub-total       120         110           230
(d) Procurement and Storage Studies                  320          30           350
3ase Line Costs                                    2,660         240         2,900
Physical Contingencies                               170          20           190
Price Contingencies                                  270          40           310
Total Contingencies                 440          60           500
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                3,100         300         3,400
J



IBRD 1
103
SIERRA  LEONE
n  f  s   GUIN#EA   2> -- -
|   |   erlsoa)t   IVORY COAST
So         >                                                                          45- 
|   L         \t\                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~U8ERIA 
1   ~~0                                                                                        1
.                     LIB~~~~UERIA
OFFSHORE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION
v    WELL LOCATIOWS
IOSATHS
-o                0WPDO
a   20   40   60  so
S -OOP BUCK                      MILES 
-     INRWATIOMALOU S       KILOME    I     -
0  2     So  40 100 120
, t  _   __ _    i  }        _   g                8°        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUL'Y 1984



