DocumenE of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLLY
Rleprt ;o. P-3633-ZA
REPORT AND RECODEEXDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
_rINRAITONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
TO TEE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED  REDIT OF SDR 21.5 MIION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMRIA
FOR THE
I1IDUSTRIA  FOREST   PROJECT- PA   III
December 19, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without '.orld Bank authorization.



CURRECY EQUrVALETS
Currency Unit                      Zambian Kwadz. (K)
US$1.00                                K 1.40
US$0.71              -                K 1.00
The US Dollar/Kwacha Rate expressed above ws the rate prevaiJlig in
July 1983).
ABREVTIONS
FD - Forest Depart-mt
FIIDA  - Finnish Development Agency
GZ  -  Government of tbe Reptblic of Zambia
INDc  -  Industrial Development Corporation
IPD  -  Industrial Plantations Division
KIT        Kafubu Industrial and 7iUber Enterprise
ZAFFIOO  -  Zambia Forestry and Forest Industries Corporation, Limited
ZINQ) -  Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation, Limited
ZSBS - Zambia Steel and Building Supplies, Limited
FISCAL YEAR
GRZ     - January 1 to December 31
ZAEPICO - April 1 to March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Zambia.
Beneficiary:      Zambia Forestry and Forest Industries Corporation,
Limited (ZAFFICO).
Amount:           SDR 21.5 million (US$22.4 million equivalent).
Terms:            Standard.
Relending Terms: SDR 11.9 million (US$12.4 million equivalent) would be
onlent to ZAFFICO for 15 years, including three years of
grace, with a fixed interest rate not lover than the Bank
rate at the time of credit approval plus 10 percent;
SDR 9.6 million (US$10 million equivalent) would be
passed to ZAFFICO as equity capital.
Project
-Description:      The project aims to increase production of sawntimber and
roundwoods from exotic tree species by improving
utilization of existing investments in plantations, and
handling and processing facilities. Specifically, the
project would: (a) improve maintenance of ZAFFICO's
existing plantations; (b) improve log transport and
handling facilities; (cc rehabilitate sawnmilling
equipment; (d) improve workshop facilities; (e) provide
staff training; and (f) provide technical assistance to
strengthen ZAFFICO's management and technical operations.
Benefits
and Risks:        The program would result in incremental production of
20,000 cu a of sawntimber and 11,000 cu a of transmission
poles and agricultural posts. In addition, the project
would help strengthen ZAFMICO into a viable commercial
institution. It would also help arrest the depletion of
Zambia's natural forests. The achievement of the
production targets vould depend critically en effective
management of logging, transportation and sawamilling
operations. The proposed strengthening of these
operations through technical assistance and staff
training should minimize the risk that the targets would
not be achieved.
thei documiat hau  a res.tted dcesbution and mo y be used by recpients only in the ahrformanct of
their officia duties Its contents may noit otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Es'imated Cost
Local    Foreign    Total
-USS 00°
Afforestation                                1,139     2,431     3,570
Logging and Transportation                   1,372     4,070     5,442
Sawmilling Program                           2,077    11,421    13,497
Workshop Improvemeut                           149       566       715
Technical Assistance                           280     2,935     3,215
Training Program                               404     1,405     1,809
Detailed Engineering                            -        450       450
Project Aduinistration                          83       253       336
Total Baseline Cost                          5,504    23,531    29,035
Physical Contingencies                         734     3,640     4,374
Price Contingencies                          3,947     5.173     9,120
Total                 10,185    32,344    42,529
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
--- U---S$ 000~
IDA                                            -        22.4      22.4
FINNIDA                                        -        10.0      10.0
ZAFFICD                                       10.1       _        10.1
Total                   10.1      32.4       42.5
Esti:aated Disbursements:
Bank FY             84    85    86    87    88    89    90
---  --        -USS Million-
Annual                         1.2   3.7   7.0   3.8   3.0   2.8   0.9
Cumulative                    1.2   4.9   11.9  15.7  18.7  21.5  22.4
Rate of Return:                  25 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:          Report No. 4527-LA, dated
November 22, 1983.
Mbp:                             No. IBRD 17930.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOKNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR THE INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Zambia for SDR 21.5 million (approximately
US$22.4 million equivaJant) on standard terms to help finance the
Industrial Forestry Project - Phase III. Of the IDA credit,
SDR 11.9 million (US$12.4 million equivalent) would be onlent to the Zambia
Forestry and Forest Industries Corporation, Limited (ZAFFTCO) for 15 years,
including three years' grace, at a fixed interest rate not lower than the
Bank rate at the time of credit approval; and the balance of SDR 9.6
million (US$10.0 million equivalent) would be passed to ZAFFICO as equity.
The Finnish Development Agency (FINNIDA) would provide parallel financing
of US$10 million equivalent on a grant basis to the Government which would
onlend the proceeds to ZAFFICO on rhe same terms as the subsidiary loan
under the IDA credit. ZAFFICO would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOM!
2*        A Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia (Report No. 3007-Z&) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on March 17, 1981. This part is
based on the Report's findings and on those of more recent economic
missions to Zambia. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Zambia's economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on
government activity.  Imports and exports range between 40 and 45 percent
of GDP. Government expenditures amount to about 40 percent of GDP, and the
Government owns a majority share of mining and most manufacturing
enterprises. Mining provides over 90 percent of foreign exchange earnings
and 30 percent of gross value added. 1 Much economic activity is
dependent on expatriate technical, managerial, and administrative skills.
Current Economic Situation
4.        Zambia continues to experience an economic and financial crisis
initiated by a sharp decline in copper prices in 1975. Zambia's terms of
trade have deteriorated steadily since then, and by 1982, were 60 percent
below the average for the early 1970s. In 1982, copper prices reached
their lowest level in real terms in the post-World War II era. Real GDP
has been in a general downward trend since 1975, declining on an average
1 In constant prices. In current prices, however, the contribution
of mining has fallen to about 15 percent of GDP in recent years, due to low
copper prices.



-2-
by about one percent per year. Real GDP per capita is 25 percent lower
than in 1974, while GNP per capita (US$560 in 1982) has declined by about
45 percent, reflecting the loss to national income caused by the
deterioration in Zambia's terms of trade.
5.        The balance of payments has be.-a in chronic disequilibrium since
1975, with current account deficits averaging 8 to 10 percrnt of GDP during
most of this period and 19 percent of GDP in 1981-82. Nevertheless, the
volume of imports declined by over 5G percent between 1975 and 1982 in
spite of heavy external borrowing, accumulation of arrears on import
payments, and a draw-down of international reserves. The decline in
imports has resulted in an economy-wide problem of underutilization of
capacity and, especially in the mining sector, a large backlog of
maintenance and rehabilitation requirements which has contributed directly
to a declining trend in copper production and exports. At the end of 1982
Zanbia's total external liabilities stood at almost US$4.5 billion,
incl-iding about US$1 billion in overdue payments. By comparison, in 1982,
merchandise exports amounted to somewhat over US$1 billion.
6.        The decline in copper prices also severely affected Zambia's
fiscal and monetary positions. In the past, mineral taxes provided a large
share of government revenue, but chey have been negligible since 1976.
Deficit financing has absorbed a large share of net domestic credit and
contributed to a sharp rise in consumer prices, averaging 20 percent per
annum during 1976-78 and 12 percent per annum in 1979-82.
7.        There is no doubt that external factors have been an Important
cause of Zambia's present economic difficulties. Apart from low copper
prices, other factors over which the Government has had little or no
control include transport difficulties in neighboring countries on which
Zambia is dependent for the movement of foreign trade, severe droughts,
which for three consecutive years have necessitated substantial food
imports, and, last but not least, the fact that copper mining in Zambia is
past its peak, and that for technical reasons, such as sinking deeper
shafts and tapping less rich ore bodies, higher inputs and costs bave to be
incurred to maintain past levels of production.
8.        Nevertheless, inappropriate policies and shortcomings in economic
management have exacerbated the economic difficulties. The main deficien-
cies in economic policies were that (i) pricing and subsidy policies
favored the urban consumer at the expense of the agricultural producer,
depressing the latter's income and incentive to produce for the market;
also, controlled industrial prices led to low profitability in the
manufacturing sector and a decrease in resources available for reinvest-
went; (ii) tax incentives and low interest rates led to a pattern of
capital intensive investment; (iii) exchange rate and tariff policies have
encouraged the use of artificially cheap imported raw materials and other
inputs and discouraged the use of local materials. As a result, a highly
capital and import-intensive productive structure was created that proved
to be very vulnerable to prolonged declines in the availability of foreign
exchange. Also, little progress was made in developing the use of local
resources and diversifying production and exports.



- 3 -
9.        Shortcomings in economic management manifested themselves both at
the general government level and at the level of the state-controlled
enterprises, including the mining companies. At the general government
level, the most obvious weakness was the lack of capacity to carry out
economic policy analysis, devise coherent policy packages and take quick
and appropriate action. Further shortcomings concerned budgetary
procedures and debt management. Because of outdated budgetary procedures,
the link between recurrent and capital budget has been unsatisfactory.
Recurrent cost implications of past and new investments were not considered
adequately. As a result, despite an increase in general government
consumption, there have been inadequate allocations for the operations of
important development ministries, resulting in underutilization of existing
capital stock and deterioration in economic infrastructure. The lack of
sufficiently rigorous debt management contributed to high levels of
borrow-ing on hard terms, partly to shore up recurrent deficits, which is
now the main cause of Zambia's d.bt-servicing difficulties.
10.       The performance of state-controlled enterprises has suffered from
management problems and lack of clear objectives. The lack of managerial,
administrative, and supervisory capacity in individual enterprises has led
to increasing inefficiency. In the mining industry this contributed,
together with the technical factors mentioned before (para. 7), to Zambia's
becoming one of the highest-cost producers in the world. In the manufac-
turing sector there are also a number of instances where the cost of
production is unnecessarily high because of internal inefficiency. Second,
the objectives of state-enterprises were often not sufficiently clear in
the past. In the choice of projects, economic criteria were often not
given enough weight and the cost of pursuing non-economic objectives was
recognized insufficiently, as a result of which a number of state
enterprises have become persistent loss-makers and a drain on the budget.
Strategy for Economic Restructuring
11.       Economically exploitable ore reserves are only sufficient to
maintain present levels of copper production for another 15 years or so,
after which production can be expected to decline sharply. In the long
run, therefore, the copper industry cannot be counted on to provide the
domestic and external resources required for development. In the absence
of policies and programs to develop new sources of income, employment and
foreign exchange, Zambia may expect a drastic fall in living standards and
social well-being by the turn of the century. However, Zambia has the
potential to develop alternative sources of income, employment, and
exports. The greatest potential is in agriculture, where there are
opportunities for import substitution (cotton, oilseeds, livestock, grains,
sugar, forestry products, and fish) and for exports (beef, fish, cotton,
coffee, tobacco, groundnuts, and sugar). Once a good start is made with
agricultural development, possibilities will be created for agro-based
industries.
12.       For any long-term growth strategy to succeed, however, it is of
the utmost importance that financial balance in the economy be restored
first. As the main provider of foreign exchange, the copper industry has a
major role to play. However, it is essential that previous levels of



- 4 -
efficiency are restored to make the industry profitable again and
competitive in world markets. Without a rehabilitated copper industry, the
Government's diversification effort would fail for lack of financial
resources. The Bank is considering financing a mining rehabilitation
project which would be supported by appropriate macro-economic and sector
policy changes. The project is expected to be negotiated in the first
quarter of 1984.
13.       The Government recognizes that the rehabilitation of an industry
whose resources are dwindling will have to be accompanied by improvements
in generai economic management and policy reforms in order to create the
conditiuns for developing new sources of income, exports and employment.
The Government, with Bank assistance, has developed a package of policies
and measures to bring about better economic management and a policy
environment conducive to healthy economic growth and diversification.
14.       The Government's economic restructuring policies may be
summarized as follows:
o   Providing a system of incentives to producers and
exporters of agricultural and industrial products
in which prices are responsive to market forces;
o   Allowing greater competition in the procurement and
selling of food crops.  National Agricultural
Marketing Board (NAMBOARD), the Government's
agricultural marketing agency, will act only as the
buyer and seller of last resort to ensure the
effectiveness of Incentive pricing;
o   Improving planning, and budgetary and other proce-
dures to shift resources to productive investment;
o   Using wages and interest rate policies to reverse
past trends of increasing consumption and declinirg
investment;
o   Improving the management of foreign debt;
o   Strengthening the technical and managerial capacity
of Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
(ZIMCO), which is the holding company of most
state-controlled enterprises;
o   Restructuring the energy sector to bring about
lesser dependence on imported oil; and
o   Ensuring the competitiveness of exports through an
active exchange rate policy.



15.       In recent months, the Government has made commendable progress in
translating the above policies into tangible action. It has introduced
institutional reforms to improve economic management and has effected a
number of changes in economic policies which constitute the beginning of an
integrated program of short-term financial stabilization and longer-term
growth and diversification. It is a program in which actions developed in
cooperation with the IMF and the Bank complement and reinforce one another.
16.       The most important of the institutional reforms was the creation
by the President, in April 1983, of a -Special Economic Unit". The Unit,
backed up by a competent secretariat, is composed of senior officials in
economic ministries, the zentral bank, major parastatal units, the Cabinet
Office, and the Office of the President. The main function of the Unit is
to prepare and recommend strategies concerning the Government's policies
and efforts to stablize and restructure the economy, and to monitor
implementation of the stabilization and adjustment programs. It also has
considerable decision-making powers. In the short time of its existence it
has already proved invaluable in instituting important policy reforms, and
it clearly satisfies the long-felt need of a high-level body capable of
policy analysis and quick decision-making.
17.       Other recent institutional reforms include the following:
o Introduction, in the 1984 budget, of important
changes in budgetary procedures, which, among other
things, will ensure consistency between recurrent
and capital expenditures and prevent underfunding
of existing and new development projects;
o Reorganization of, and improvements in, ZIMCO's
management which provides for greater autonomy in
decision-making and less direct control by
ministries;
o   Improvements in foreign exchange management and the
establishment of a National Debt Management Unit in
the Central Bank; and
o   Reorganization and strengthening of agricultural
planning.
18.       A program to restore financial stability was set in motion in
1983. In April 1983, a one-year stand-by arrangement was agreed with the
IMF, and, in May 1983, a debt rescheduling agreement was reached with the
members of the Paris Club. As part of the IMF program, the Kwacha was
devalued by 20 percent in January 1983; and, in July 1983, the value of the
Kwacha was linked to a variable basket of currencies. This measure,
through which a further 10 percent devaluation was effected in the course
of August and September 1983, enables the Government to adjust the exchange
rate in a gradual manner which it has continued to do. Further measures



- 6 -
taken under the IMF program include increases in interest rates and tough
budgetary measures (including substantial reductions in subsidies and a cap
on new government employment) aimed at reducing the Government's domestic
borrowing. Preliminary indications are that the stabiiization program has
succeeded in reducing the current account deficit to less than 10 percent
of GDP and domestic bank borrowing by the Government to less than 2 percent
of GDP.
19.       At the Paris Club meeting, a total amount of US$320 million was
rescheduled, US$125 million debt service due in 1983 and US$195 million in
arrears. An unusual feature of the agreement is that it included all
officially guaranteed short-term commercial arrears. The net effect of the
Paris Club agreement is that debt service obligations in 1983 will be
lowered from 33 percent of export earnings to about 22 percent. (In
addition, another 13 percent of export earnings is due to the IMF.) By
itself this would not be enough to solve Zambia's debt service problems in
1983, but the Paris Club agreement sets the pattern for rescheduling
exercises with non-Paris Club members and financial institutions to whom
about one-half of debt service is due. The Government is currently engaged
in negotiations with various creditors, including commercial banks, on
further debt rescheduling.
20.       In terms of improving conditions for longer-term growth, the most
significant of the above financial measures were no doubt the exchange rate
adjustments. Other measures with a potentially significant longer-term
impact are increases in producer prices for agricultural crops, freer
marketing arrangements for the livestock sector and complete decontrol of
most industrial prices. Over the last three years, producer prices for
most agricultural crops have been increased considerably in real terms.
This has already led to a significant increase in the area under
cultivation. If it had not been for the severe droughts in the region in
the last two years, this would have led to substantial increases in
production. Allowing private traders to compete with official marketing
organizations in the livestock sector has changed Zambia in a few years
time from a substantial net importer of meat products to a small net
exporter. In a further attempt to allow market forces to play a more
important role in the economy, the Government abolished, in December 1982,
the control of all industrial prices (except for three essential
commodities:  wheat flo -, maize flour and candles).  Since then, prices
for a wide range of commodities have been increased, thereby helping to
restrain domestic demand, while increasing the profitability of firms.
21.       The Government and the Bank continue to cooperate in the further
development of policies and measures that would lead to diversification of
production and exports. In the foreseeable future, this may lead to sector
lending for industry and agriculture by which the Government and the Bank
are evipected to agree on further actions of economic reform, covering such
subjecLb as tariff policies, export incentives, investment criteria,
criteria for setting agricultural producer prices, agricultural services
and further improvements in the management of public enterprises. The
Government has also asked the Bank to reconvene the Consultative Group for
Zambia, which has been scheduled for the spring of 1984. To prepare for
the Consultative Group meeting, the Government has recruited a team from



the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation to assist in the
preparation of a three-year investmant program in which priority will be
given to completing ongoing projects, rehabilitating capital stock, and new
projects consistent with the goal of economic diversification.
Creditworthiness
22.       Over the past year the Government has taken important measures
towards financial stabilization and a program of economic restructuring.
More needs to be done, but there are encouraging signs that the Government
is willing and capable to take further appropriate action.  Although at
this early stage of the restructuring process external financing needs
cannot be quantified with precision, it is obvious that substantial inflows
of new capital will be needed to support the Government's economic
restructuring program.
23.       There is, however, reason for coasiderable concern about Zambia's
capacity to service new loans on conventional terms. At today's copper
prices, scheduled service oni existing external debt will remain at a level
of about 35 percent of export earnings for the next three years. Even with
an expected increase in the price of copper, Zambia will continue to
experience difficulties in meeting its debt-service obligations. The
Government, therefore, would have to continue seeking relief through debt
rescheduling for a number of years. In the meantime, the Government should
avoid as much as possible borrowing on commercial terms. For some time to
come, additional borrowing should carry sufficiently long grace periods and
maturities. In the longer term, the restoration of Zambia's
creditworthiness depends on the vigor with which the Government pursues its
economic restructuring policies. The Government has made a promising start
and is fully committed to take the necessary further steps towards economic
reform. In these circumstances, we consider the country creditworthy for
limited amounts of non-concessionary borrowing.
PART II.  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
24.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 27 loans and nine credits to
Zambia, totalling about US$640.0 million (net of cancellations). Two
additional Bank loans were made to Zambia and Zimbabwe jointly. Fourteen
loans and three credits have financed energy, transportation, communication
and rural water supply projects. Four loans and one credit for education
have helped expand Zambia's secondary and higher education systems, teacher
training, and commercial, agricultural and technical education systems.
Two program loans have helped Zambia maintain its development program in
periods of severe economic dislocation. In agriculture and forestry, six
loans and three credits have been for industrial forest plantations,
livestock, commercial crops, integrated family farming, coffee production
and smallholder dairy development. Agricultural projects in the Eastern
and Southern Provinces are assisting smallholder farmers. Other loans have
assisted Zambia's urban development program and, through the Development
Bank of Zambia, its manufacturing, agricultural and industrial sectors. A
technical assistance credit is helping the Government improve its planning
and project preparation.



- 8 -
25.       The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has invested about
US$71 million in nine projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments were
in shoe manufacturing, two in a packaging materials plant, and one each in
the Development Bank of Zambia, cobalt production, textiles, copper and
ethanol production. The latest IFC investment was approved by the
Executive Directors in May 1983. This investment (US$18.7 million
equivalent) is helping to finance an expansion of the Inter-Continental
Hotel in Lusaka and rehabilitation of the Musi-o-Tunya Hotel in
Livingstone. Summary statements of Bank Group loans, credits and
investments are in Annex II.
26.       The implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia has
deteriorated significantly in recent years, and serious delays are
currently being experienced in the execution of a number of these
projects. There are several reasons for this, the main one being the lack
of budgetary resources with which to finance local counterpart expenditures
and to prefinance local expenditures which are subsequently to be
reimbursed by the Bank. Most seriously affected lately have been the
Bank's agricultural projects for which funds, although budgeted, have not
been released to the executing agencies for several months. Other reasons
for the laggirig implementation of projects are ineffective project
management and inadequate inter-agency coordination. The Bank-assisted
agricultural projects, which require careful management and effective
coordination due to their complex design, have suffered from these
problems, as has the Third Highway Project.
27.      The deterioration of project implementation has, as expected,
substantially reduced the rate of disbursements on Bank Group loans and
credits. During the first four years of the five-year period (FY77-31),
the disbursement rate on loans and credits to Zambia averaged slightly over
25 percent per annum, higher than the Bankwide average of 21.2 percent, or
the 21.5 percent average for the Eastern Africa Region, and well above the
22.2 percent for Tanzania, 23.4 percent for Senegal and 20.2 percent for
Bolivia. In FY81, however, the rate dropped to just over 16 percent,
compared with 20.7 percent Bankwide, 16.5 percent for Eastern Africa, 23.6
percent for Tanzania, 20.8 percent for Senegal and 21.2 percent for
Bolivia. The rate has risen since FY81, reaching 20.1 percent in FY83,
which was slightly below the average for the Eastern Africa  _gion (20.7
percent) and for the Bank overall (20.8 percent). To alleviate the
problem, provision is being made for technical assistance in projects to
strengthen implementing agencies and increased use of the Resident Mission
in monitoring project execution. Revolving funds are being established
under new and ongoing projects which should ease the Government's financial
burden and accelerate disbursements. The Bank or IDA would make advance
deposits into these funds to eliminate the need for prefinancing by the
Government of local expenditures financed by the Bank/IDA. In addition,
estimates of counterpart funds required and when the funds should be made
available are being prepared by Bank/IDA staff well in advance of their
need to allow implementing agencies as much lead time as possible to plan
for these expenditures.



-9-
28.       The Ban, Group expects to continue supporting government programs
to reduce dependence on copper, while in the short run rehabilitating and
improving the efficiency of the mining industry, reduce the energy inpnrt
bill, narrow the urban-rural income gap, develop domestic coal resources
and improve managerial and technical skills. Anticipated lending reflects
the Government's emphasis on directly productive sectors, particularly
agriculture-related activities. Continued assistance to energy, industry
andtransportation is also contemplated.
PART III - THE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR
Forestry Resources and Government Development Strategy
29.       About 370,000 sq km, or 50 percent of Zambia's total land area,
is covered by forests. Only about 7 million ha of the 37 million ha of
indigenous forests are gazetted and nominally under the protection of the
Forest Department. About 70 percent of the gazetted forests are managed
and subject to concessions for felling for timber or firewood. The
indigenous forests - especially the easily accessible areas close to the
urban areas and along the line-of-rail - are now virtually depleted and
the more distant forests are uneconomic to exploit.
30.       The Government attaches high priority to the development of its
forest resources with the objectives of achieving self-sufficiency in
timber, sawnwood and wood-based products, complementing activities in
agriculture and diversifying the economy and broadening its productive
base. The Government also recognizes the ilportance of forests in
preventing soil erosion and river silting. To achieve the above
objectives, the Government has adopted an active program of protecting and
controlling the exploitation of natural forests and since the late 1940s
haas implemented an ifforestation program aimed at arresting the depletion
of natural forests. The afforestation program was stepped up in the early
1960s with the launching of the industrial nlantation program executed by
the then Industrial Plantations Division (LPD) of the Forest Department.
Since then, about 36,000 ha of pine and 1,500 ha nf eucalyptus have been
established in the Copperbelt area (N;dola, Chati, Lamba and Ichimpe) with
Bank assistance (paras. 36 and 37). The annual roundwood production
potential of these plantations is about 200,000 cu a each of pine and
eucalyptus sawlogs and 120,000 small logs. However, the actual
exploitation levels are much lower than this potential because of
management problems, inadequately trained and experienced staff and
deficiencies in the processing facilities. These problems would be
addressed under the proposed project. To help the Government formulate a
long-term development strategy for the sub-sector, a study, financed by
IDA under the Technical Assistance Credit, is being carried out with
primary focus on the following issues: adequate supply of fuelwood, the
major source of energy for rural and low-income urban dwellers; potential
for the establishment of more wood-based industries to utilize existing and
future forest resources; respective roles of the public and private sectors
in developing the sector; and improvement of efficiency and productivity in
existing sawnmilling and wood-based manufacturing industries.



- 10 -
Institutions
31.       The Forest Department of the Ministry of Lands and Natural
Resources is responsible for rormulating and enforcing the Government's
forestry policy; managing gazetted forests, including protection of forest
reserves; providing extension services to private woodlot owners; and
conducting research. At present, the department's effectiveness in
performing these functions is severely limited by insufficient staff and
budget resources. The Zambia Forestry and Forest Industries Corporation
(ZAFFICO), incorporated in September 1982 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of
the Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation (para. 14), to replace the
Industrial Plantations Division (para. 30), is responsible for managing the
Government's investments in industrial plantations and associated wood
processing facilities. The Bank supported (under the Industrial Forestry
Project - Phase II (para. 37) the Government's decision to incorporate IPD
to enhance its ability to operate as an autonomous commercial entity by
separating its activities and finances from those of the Forest
Department. ZAFFICO has a sound capital structure which was decided on by
the Government and ZIMCO after consultation with IDA (para. 53), unlike IPD
which, as part of a government department had no share capital and depended
on unreliable subventions from Government. Furthermore, the provision of
additional equity to ZAFFICO under the proposed project (para. 51), coupled
with proposed measures to improve its management and operating efficiency,
should contribute substantially to its viability as a commercial entity.
Wood Processing
32.       There are about 15 primary and 50 secondary wood processing
enterprises in Zambia. The primary processing enterprises (five owned by
ZAFFICO), located mostly in the teak forests of the Western Province and
the eucalyptus and pine plantations near Kitwe and Ndola in the Copperbelt
Province, engage in sawmilling, using mainly indigenous wood, and
production of poles and posts from eucalyptus roundwood. ZAFFICO produces
treated poles for telegraph and power transmission lines and for the copper
industry. Most of the sawmills operate substantially below capacity
because of poor location, inadequately trained and inexperienced technical
staff, poor management and obsolete and inappropriate processing equipment.
Wood Supply and Demand
33.       Although the domestic wood supply and sawmilling capacity are
adequate to meet the country's demand for timber for the foreseeable
future, domestic production at present is inadequate to satisfy demand
because of low capacity utilization in the mills (para. 32) and poor
product quality. Until recently, the shortfall in domestic supply was
covered adequatel- jy imports, but this is no longer possible because of a
shortage of foreign exchange. Based on wood products sold - excluding
fuelwood, of which about 7 million cu m are consumed annually in the form
of charcoal -- about 231,000 cu m of domestic roundwood are used annually,
far short of the estimated demand of 460,000 cu m equivalent for industrial
wood. However, if the aggregate potential of available wood, estimated at
770,000, were fully utilized, Zambia's requirements for industrial timber
would be fully met.



- 11 -
Marketing and Pricing
34.       Zambia is a net importer of paper and paper products, wood panels
and sawn softwood. All th,e local production of sawntimber and wood-based
panels is for domestic consumption. At present ZAFFICO sells its products
through its own outlets in the main consuming areas, while products from
other mills, as well as imports, are marketed mainly through private
merchants, and two ZIHCO subsidiaries. In order to reduce its sales
expenses and expand sales, particularly to the construction and mining
industries, ZAFFICO would, by October 1, 1984, draw up a marketing
strategy, satisfactory to IDA, aimed at: (a) substitution of local wood
for imported wood products in mining and const.uction industries; (b) sale
of its roundwood to other wood-based industries currently using indigenous
species; and (c) a phased elimination of its own distribution network and
use instead of independent timber merchants or Zambia Steel and Building
Supplies, a ZIMCO subsidiary (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.04). In
order to increase further the utilization of ZAFFICO's plantations in
future, ZIMCO would, by December 31, 1985, assess the feasibility of basing
some of the sawmilling operations of Mining Timbers Limited (also a ZIMCO
subsidiary) on ZAFFICO's plantations (draft Project Agreement, Section
3.05).
35.       Zambia's wood processing industry is protected by import duties
of 30 percent on sawnwood and wood panels. Even after adjusting for import
duties and quality differentials, prices of domestic sawntimber are
considerably higher than those of imports, mainly from Swaziland, South
Africa and Tanzania. In the past, ZAFFICO has been able to sell its
products, despite the high prices, only because of a large unsatisfied
domestic demand (para. 33). With improved efficiency and productivity as a
result of the project, ZAFFICO's treated sawntimber is expected to be
competitive with imports both in quality and price. The existing and
projected prices for ZAFFICO's products take into account the replacement
cost of plantations, logging and transport and equipment and machinery.
ZAFFICO would continue to base its pricing policy on replacement costs,
taking into account resource waste in pine plantations, level of the
corporation's operating efficiency, import parity prices for similar
products and need for future investments and would exchange views annually
with IDA on the application of the policy (draft Project Agreement, Section
4.03).
Bank Group Experience
36.       The Bank has made two loans to help finance forestry projects in
Zambia. The first loan (No. 562-ZA) of US$5.3 million, approved in 1968,
financed the first phase of the Government's program for developing
industrial plantations. The project, completed ahead of schedule in 1976,
financed the planting of 8,000 ha each of pine and eucalyptus, as well as
afforestation, roads, equipment and buildings. The Project Performance
Audit Report of April 11, 1977 and the Project Completion Report of
September 1976 concluded that the project was successfully executed by
IPD. Despite substantial cost overruns, the economic and financial rates
of return (13 and 10 percent, respectively) were above appraisal
estimates. The project's success was due largely to: (a) a clearly defined
government development strategy for forestry which, at the time, had the



- 12 -
limited objective of establishing eucalyptus and pine plantations; (b)
thorough preparation of project sites and improved communications through
road construction; and (c) existence of a well-managed and adequately
staffed executing agency.
37.       The second loan (No. 1424-ZA) of US$16.8 million, approved in
1977, financed (with cofinancing by the Commonwealth Development
Corporation) expansion of IPD's plantations (including maintenance),
logging and sawmilling. The project is nearly completed, and seems to have
achieved limited success. While the planting program has substantially
exceeded appraisal targets, replanting, sawmilling and plantation
maintenance have been less successful due to: project management's
over-emphasis on plantation activities at the expense of other operations,
ineffective logging and transportation program, lack of trained and
experienced staff, weak management at mill operational level; inadequate
engineering services, obsolete and inappropriate processing equipment, and
sawmill design deficiencies. These deficiences would be addressed in the
proposed project whose design incorporates experience gained from the first
two projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
38.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government, assisted by
the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. Preparation was completed in July 1982,
and the project was appraised in October/November 1982. A report entitled
"Zambia:  Industrial Forestry Project -  Phase III", No. 4527-ZA, dated
November 22, 1983, is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held
in Washington in September 1983. The Zambian delegation was led by
Mr. G.A. Zaza, Under Secretary, Ministry of Finance. The long lapse of
time between negotiations and Board presentation resulted largely from the
need for the project executing agency (ZAFFICO) to recruit key expatriate
personnel required for the successful implementation of the project.
Annex III contains supplementary project data.
39.       The project area is in the Copperbelt Province, in an area
bordering on Zaire. The existing forest plantations are situated around
the towns of Kitwe (about 21,000 ha) and Ndola (about 22,500 ha).
Project Objectives and Description
40.       The project's objectives are to improve utilization of existing
forest investments (in plantations and handling and processing £acilities)
in order to raise production and improve quality. This would reduce
imports, arrest the depletion of natural forests and also help ensure that
there are adequate linkages between investments in forestry resources and
wood-based industries. The project would include the following components:
(a) improvement of plantation management and afforestation, (b) improvement



- 13 -
of log transport and handling facilities, (c) improvement and
rehabilitation of sawmilling facilities; (d) improvement of workshop
facilities, (e) technical assistance, and (f) training and administrative
support.
Detailed Features
41.       The Plantation Management and Afforesta_ion Program would include
silvicultural management of 43,500 ha of existing plantations over five
years. The project would also fiaance planting of about 1,500 ha of
*         pine, replantir.g 1,700 ha of pine and 2,100 ha of eucalyptus, and also
pruning equipment.   In order to reduce the high cost of thinning in
eucalyptus plantations, ZAFFICO would use uniform coppicing (vegetative
regeneration) (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.06). ZAFFICO would, by
December 31, 1984, prepare a five-year plan and annual budgets for
cutting, logging and transport, as a basis for determining priorities in
infrastructure improvements (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.08). It
would also prepare and implement a fire control and protection system by
September 30, 1984 (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.08).
42.       Logging and Transportation.  The project would improve felling,
extraction, loading, log transportation and road construction in order to
increase roundwood production from 110,000 cu m to 177,000 cu m. Besides
financing equipment (power saws, tractors and skidders) and
vehicles, the project would provide on-the-job training to the existing
labor force to increase its productivity.
43.       The Sawmilling Program, aimed at increasing production from about
37,000 cu m in 1983 to 52,500 cu m in 1986 and to improve product quality,
would provide for a three-stage rehabilitation and improvement program for
log conversion and sawmills. In the first stage the project would finance
urgently required spare parts for immediate rehabilitation of existing
mills and engineering designs for the proposed wood handling and processing
equipment and machinery for the next two stages. In the second stage, the
waste handling system, water and electricity supplies would be expanded,
pole treatment plants overhauled and buildings constructed. In addition,
staff transport would be provided and log conversion facilities established
and storage sheds constructed. The third stage would improve product
quality and mix by installing new sawmills (to replace three old ones),
mechanized log decks, timber and waste handling systems, green timber yard,
drying kilns, and finger-jointing and glue laminating plants.
44.       Workshop Improvement.  New equipment and on-the-job training
supplied by the project would upgrade existing workshops and establish a
new central workshop. In addition, mobile facilities would be purchased
for servicing equipment at site of operations.
45.       Technical Assistance and Administrative Support.  Key to the
project is improving and expanding ZAFFICO's processing operations by
better management, particularly of its transportation and processing
units. Given the shortage of qualified personnel in Zambia, the project
would supply about 38 staff-years of long-term consultants to fill 12 key
positions in logging and processing, marketing, engineering and
construction, finance and auditing, corporate planning, and training (draft



- 14 -
Project Agreement, Schedule 2). A technical services contract,
satisfactory to IDA, has been awarded by ZAFFIC0 to a management consulting
firm (Silviconsult of Sweden) for the supply of specialist staff for
logging and processing, marketing, and engineering and construction. Staff
for finance and auditing, corporate planning, and training will be
recruited directly by ZAFFICO by the dates indicated in Part B of Schedule
2 to the draft Project Agreement. The project would also provide
administrative support to ZAFFICO's head office by financing vehicles and a
micro-computer.
46.       In addition to services for the preparation of detailed                         0
engineering designs and tender documents financed from a Project
Preparation Advance (para. 56), the project would provide 54 staff-months
of short-term consultants to: (a) assist project management design a
five-year wood harvesting and processing plan (12 staff-months); (b) train
staff and prepare manuals and materials for training (30 staff-months); and
(c) design a silvicultural research program and prepare a management plan
(12 staff-months). It would also provide for other consultants' services
to be determined at a later stage.
47.       Training Program.  The project would finance on-the-job training
of semi-skilled and skilled staff of ZAFFICO to be carried out by ZAFFICO's
staff supplemented by instructors from equipment suppliers and
consultants. It would also finance longer training courses in Zambia and
abroad for technical and professional staff in engineering, wood
technology, saw doctoring, accountancy and management. A draft training
program, satisfactory to IDA, has already been prepared and its
finalization would be a condition of disbursement for training expenses
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 5(b)). All
staff on long training courses would be bonded to stay with ZAFFICO on
completion of training for periods at least as long as the period of their
training (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.11).
Project Cost and Financing
48.       Total project costs over six years are estimated at US$42.5
million of which US$32.4 million are in foreign exchange. Details of
project costs are presented in the Credit and Project Summary. These costs
do not include duties and taxes because project imports will be duty-free
and taxes on local operating expenditures are negligible. In addition to
project funds, ZAFFICO will need US$25 million, of which US$1.4 million is
in foreign exchange, to maintain and operate its existing investments
during the project period. These costs will be financed from ZAFFICO's
internally generated funds.
49.       Project costs are in September 1983 prices and include a 10
percent physcial contingency, except for logging, sawmilling and workshop
equipment for which a 20 percent contingency has been included. Price
contingencies, which account for 31 percent of project costs, are 25
percent for 1983/84, 20 percent for 1984/85 and 15 percent the:eafter on
local costs; and 8 percent for 1983/84, 7.5 percent for 1984/85 and 6
percent thereafter on foreign exchange costs. The 38 staff-years of
long-term consultants' services (para. 45) are estimated to cost US$2.6
million, or US$68,400 per staff-year, including salaries, fees, travel and



- 15 -
subsistence; and 54 staff-months of short-term consultants' services total
US$0.33 million, or US$6,100 per staff-month. Salaries and wages of
incremental local staff are estimated to cost of US$0.5 million.
50.       The proposed US$22.4 million IDA credit (including a Project
Preparation Facility advance of US$450,000 (para. 56)), together with a
Finnish Development Agency (FINNIDA) grant of US$10 million, would finance
all foreign costs, or 75 percent of total costs. ZAFFICO would finance the
remaining US$10.1 million equivalent from its operating revenues. FINNIDA
would finance sawmilling and timber seasoning equipment and spare parts for
the rehabilitation and improvement of the Kafubu Industrial and Timber
Enterprises' sawmills.  The fulfillment of conditions of disbursement of
the FINNIDA grant would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
credit (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(b)).
Relending Terms
51.       Of the IDA credit, US$12.4 million would be onlent by the
Government to ZAFFICO for 15 years, including three years of grace, at a
rate of interest not lower than the IBRD rate at the time of approval of
the credit plus 10 percent. ZAFFICO would bear the foreign exchange risk.
The proceeds of the FINNIDA grant to the Government would also be onlent to
ZAFFICO on the same terms. The Government would pass the remaining US$10.0
million of the IDA credit to ZAFFICO as equity. This would materially help
ZAFFICO maintain a sound capital structure during project implementation.
The execution of a Subsidiary Financing Agreement between the Government
and ZAFFICO would be a condition of credit effectiveness (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(a)).
Project Implementation
52.       ZAFFICO, would implement the project.  The company legally is
empowered to acquire land, establish plantations, engage in sawmilling,
manufacture pulp and paper, and raise necessary funds to finance its
activities. IDA was consulted throughout the process of incorporating
ZAFFICO, including the composition of its board of directors, management
organization and capital structure. ZAFFICO has acquired all the
plantations, sawmilling operations and other assets formerly owned by the
Industrial Plantations Division.
53.       ZAFFICO's capital structure, as agreed with IDA, includes the
conversion into equity of all outstanding loans from the Government to the
Industrial Plantttions Division amounting to K 55.5 million and accrued
interest of K 9.7 million as at December 31, 1982. This capital structure,
coupled with the further injection of equity capital under the proposed
project, should give ZAFFICO a sound capital base. In order to further
strengthen its financial position during project implementation, ZAFFICO
would maintain a debt/equity ratio of not more than 1:4 and would not
declare dividends if this would result in this debt/equity ratio being
exceeded (draft Project Agreement, Sections 4.04 and 4.05). A seemingly
conservative debt limitation is proposed because of the high risk
associated with ZAFFICO's operations arising from: (a) high sensitivity of
the company's capacity utilization and revenues to general economic and



- 16 -
wood industry cyclical developments; and (b) the structure of the company's
assets, consisting mainly of plantations which cannot be readily sold in
the event of liquidation.
54.       ZAFFICU's organization and management structure, as agreed with
IDA, is headed by a 10-member Board of Directors, chaired by tne ZIMCO
Executive Director responsible for commerce and industry. The Board
formulates the company's corporate policies and approves its plans and
budgets.  The present Managing Director (former Director of the Industrial
Plantations Division) was appointed after consultation with IDA.
55.       In order to strengthen ZAFFICO's management and operations to                        g
cope with the improvement and expansion program proposed under the project,
technical assistance would be provided as discussed in paragraphs 45 and
53. The specialists would assist in establishing operating procedures and
improving management and technical standards to ensure that the company's
operations are based on sound commercial principles and practices. As part
of on-the-job training to develop local managerial talent, suitable
Zambians, either within ZAFFICO or from outside, would be appointed as
deputies to expatriates (dr.-ft Project Agreement, Section 3.01(b)).
56.       A US$450,000 advance from the Project Preparation Facility was
approved by the IDA in January L983 to finance preparation of engineering
designs and tender documents. Consultants were selected in May and
preparation work was completed in November 1983. So far, about US$120,000
have been disbursed or committed under the advance.
Procurement
57.       Procurement would be in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines on
the following basis:
Ca)  Orders for vehicles, tractors, trailers,
machinery, equipment, tools and initial spare
parts (totalling US$13.0 million) would be
packaged or bulked as far as practicable.
(i)   Orders of US$100,000 and more would be
procured through international
rompetitive bidding (ICB) from suppliers
who agree to provide adequate
after-sales service, training and spare
parts inventory (for transport vehicles,
in Zambia.  Domestic manufacturers would
be granted a preference of 15 percent or
the prevailing rate of duty, whichever
is lower; and
(ii) Subject to a limit of US$500,000 in
aggregate, orders for vehicles,
tractors, trailers, machinery, equipment
and tools costing less than US$100,000,
would be procured in accordance with
local competitive bidding (LCB)



- 17 -
procedures which are satisfactory to
IDA, and items costing less than
US$30,000 may be procured under local
shopping procedures after obtaining at
least three quotations.
(b) Civil works (totalling US$3.3 million), which
would be done in accordance with standards and
designs to be approved by IDA, would be small
and scattered (each contract not exceeding
US$150,000), and therefore unsuitable for ICB
or LCB: they would therefore be carried out
mostly by force account by ZAFFICO, which has
adequate capacity to implement the works.
(c) Selection and employment of consultants
(US$3.2 million) would, as far as practicable,
be packaged or made through a single technical
services contract in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines (Schedule 2 to draft Project
Agreement.
Equipment, machinery, vehicles and tools to be co-financed by FINNIDA will
not be subject co ICB procedures, but the technical specifications would be
determined in the detailed engineering designs prepared by IDA-financed
consultants.
Disbursements
58.       Disbursements would be on the following basis:
(a) 45 percent of local expenditures for civil
works;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
vehicles, equipment, machinery, spare parts
and materials if directly imported; 100
percent of local costs (ex-factory price) if
locally manufactured; and 75 percent of local
costs of other items locally procured;
(c) 90 percent of total expenditures for
consultancv services;
(d)  100 percent of total expenditures for staff
training outside Zambia;
(e) US$450,000 to refund the PPF advance.
All disbursements would be fully documented except for expenditures under
(a) which would he on the basis of statements of expenditure, signed by
ZAFFICO's Managing Director, which would be retained by project management
for inspection by IDA supervision missions and for audit.



- 18 -
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
59.       Separate records of all project expenditures would be kept, in
accordance with acceptable accounting practices, and audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA as has been done satisfactorily under the first
two Bank-financed forestry projects. Audited accounts. together with the
auditors' report, would be submitted to IDA annually within six months of
the end of the financial year (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.02).
Detailed annual and semi-annual reports on the project's physical
implementation, sources and use of funds and the corporate budget would
also be submitted to IDA. Within six months of the credit's closing date,
ZAFFICO would prepare and submit to IDA a report on the execution of the
project (draft Project Agreememt, Section 2.05(d)).
Project Benefits and Risks
60.       The project would result in incremental production of 20,000 cu m
of sawntimber and 11,000 cu m of transmission poles and agricultural
posts. In a "without project" situation, it is estimated that ZAFFICO's
sawmilling output of about 23,600 cu m in 1982 would decline and, possibly,
stabilize at 20,500 cu m in subsequent years. Both financial and economic
returns have been calculated over a period of 18 years (estimated life span
of the major componencs of the sawmill equipment) for incremental project
investments.
61.       The discounted financial rate of return on project investments is
estimated at 24 percent. The sensitivity analysis shows that at a 12
percent per annum opportunity cost of capital, project costs would have to
increase about 43 percent, or production decrease by 30 percent to render
the project financially unviable. A two-year delay in project
implementation would reduce the rate of return to about 23 percent.
Furthermore, domestic prices of wood and wood products would have to
decline by 35 percent to affect seriously the project's profitability.
Such an eventuality is unlikely given ZAFFICO's dominant position in the
industry.
62.       The internal e:onomic rate of return of the project, excluding
the pine plantation which will reach maturity outside the project period,
is estimated at 25 percent, reflecting the rehabilitation nature of the
project which would increase the utilization of currently underutilized
capital resources.  The analysis is based on c.i.f. border prices for
imported equipment, domestic border prices for domestic inputs and import
parity border prices at 1983 levels for all products. It also takes into
account shadow wage rates for skilled (estimated at 54 percent of market
rates), semi-skilled (67 percent) and unskilled labor (85 percent). The
sensitivity analysis shows that, at a 10 percent opportunity cost of
capital, project costs would have to increase by at least 57 percent, or
output decrease by 36 percent to render the project unviable. If project
implementation were delayed by two years the rate of return would be 24
percent.



- 19 -
63.       A major risk of the project is that the high capacity utilization
and recovery rates of the sawmills assumed in the calculation of both the
financial and economic rates of return would not be achieved if management
of ZAFFICO's logging, transportation and sawmilling operations is not
improved. The technical assistance and staff training provided under the
project should minimize this risk. In any event, both the financial and
economic sensitivity analyses indicate that the project would be only
slightly sensitive to reduction in sawntimber production.
64.       Another risk is that the current foreign exchange crisis in
Zambia could lead to protracted shortages of spare parts which could
*          adversely affect the project's production program.  The project has been
designed to minimize the need for spares by upgrading equipment and
machinery preventive maintenance services through improved staff
competence, management and supervision.
Environmental Impact
65.       The project would have generally positive effects on the
environment. The forest plantations would continue to provide protection
to catchment areas and maintain soil cover within the project area.
Increasing production plantation of wood would reduce pressure on the
environmentally important indigenous forests. Improvement in sawmilling
and waste handling designs and use of appropriate technology would result
in improved workers' safety and health. Similarly, the phasing out of the
creosotte impregnation plant would eliminate the risk posed by the use of
a chemical agent considered hazardous to human health and the environment
in general.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zambia and the Association, the draft Project Agreement among the
Association, ZAFFICO and ZINCO and the recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
67.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness include: (a) execution of the
Subsidiary Financing Agreement (para. 51); and (b) fulfillment of
conditions precedent to the disbursement of the FINNIDA grant (para. 50).
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 19, 1983



mZI cwur AVAILABLt
- 21-                                   ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
, AMRrA                - SnCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET (LEHTCD AVC C)
ZM'1ITA                               NEPE!RINCE GROUIPS OINDAERGs) La
Hb7ST                     (nAST RCENT NRTD'ATE) lb
RrENT              MIDDtL INCOHE          MIDPLE llcmx
ei<         1q7I   -   ISTINATI4    APRlCA S. OF SAHARA    H. APRICA S ITD EAST
ARIA (TIlOtAAND Sq.  KM'
TflTtA.                             x.f         752.h       752.e
A(RICULTIIIRA.                        .         300.5       401.1
CNP PER CAPITA (05$)                   23.u        360.0       600.0              1147.9                    1340.0
ExNwy CNUiM  ION PER CAPITA
(KIAWC.MRAMS OF COAlI. FQIIIVAI.E      ..       701.0        33.0               72.2                      510.4
PopULATIoN AND VITAL STATISTICS
'llIl.6ATII)NlM11-YEAR (THOUSIIANIDS)    3207.0  4259.n    5R42.n
IRiPAM rnIPIILATInN (2 OP TOTAL)     25.1        30.0        43.9               25.3                       47.4
1I'OIOLATION I'RO.IECTIONS
4OP1ILATInN IH YVAR 2000 (MILL)                            11.3
VA                       STATIONARY POrULATION (MIILL)                               40.2
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACIICP                             2143
POPUILAT IUN IIP.NFS In.
PER SU. KM.                         4.3         3.5         7.5                56.5                      34.0
IPER SQ. KM4. ACRI. LANU            8.1        10.4        14.1              131.5                      449.0
POPIILATIOIN ACE STRUCTIRE (t
n-14 YRS                          45.0        A6.1        47.1                45.9                      43.9
15-64 mRS                          52.5        51.4        50.1                51.2                      32.8
65 AND AlOVe                        2.5         2.5         2.6                2.9                        3.3
POPILATION GROWTIt RATE (2)
TnTAL.                              2.4         2.6         3.1                 2.9                       2.9
NIRtAN                              5.3         5.2         6.5                 5.3                       4.6
CRUDrE BIRTH1 RATr (Prl T72OUS)      50.6        49.6        40.4                47.6                      42.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER 72OUS5)        24.4        20.1        16.0                15.2                      12.0
CROSS REPRODICTION RATE               3.4         J.4         3.3                 3.2                       3.0
FAMIL1Y PI.ANNlNC
ACCEPTORS. ANNIAL (THOUL)
USERS (c OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..          ..
MOOD ANDl NUtRITION
TNOEX OF FOOD PROD  P.R CAPITA
(tt69-71-100)                        99.0        96.0        96..)               95.7                      97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY or
CALORIES (Z of RsqUIRIflNrS)       87.0        88.0        93.0               97.1                      1o2.3
ItoRTINS (CRArWS PER DAY)          58.0        59.0        36.0                56.0                      72.0
oF Whi:ChI ANntAL AND PULSE       14.n        16.0        14.0/c              17.2                      17.3
ClitLD (ACES 1-4) DPArH RATE         33.0        25.6        19.6               23.6                       15.2
REALTN
LrFE EXPrECT. AT MIRTH (YEARS)       39.7        44.6        50.5                51.9                      37.2
INFANT MORr. RATE (PER THOUS)       151.3       125.2       104.1              117.6                      104.2
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
T'rTAL                               ..        37.0        42.0/d              25.4                      59.3
UIRBAN                               .         70.0        86.o7               70.5                      86.9
RURAL                                ..        22.0        IG6.d7              12.3                      37.5
ACCESS Tt EKCNRETA DISPOSAL
Z or POPtIULATION)
TOTAt.                               ..        16.0        42.0/d
URBAN                                ,,        12.0        87.07..
RURAL                                          16.0        16.d- 
roPtILATION PER PHYSICIAN          9540.0      8140.0      7670.0            12181.6                     35lb.O
Pnp. "ER Nt,RSINC PERSON           9920.0/c   2430.0       1730.0             2292.0                     13iO.7
Pop. PER HOSPlTAL BED
ToTAL                             360.0       300.0       270.0/f            1075.4                     643.3
tlRRAN                            180.0/e        .*       350.071            402.3                      545.0
RtIRAL                            470.o7e        ..       240.07F           39Z6.7                     2462.0
ADrISsIONS PER HtOSPITAL cen           ..          ..        31.0/f                                        26.4
NOWMING
AVEMRGE SIZE OF HOUSSEHOLn
TOTAL                                ..         4.4
ttftflft                             ..          ..          .                   ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSfROOM
TOTAL                                '-         2.6
URRAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS To FLECT. (- oF DnELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..          ..                  ..                      46.2
URBAN                              27.5          ..          ..                  ..                      77.6
RttRAL                               ..          ..          ..                  ..                      16.1
_______________________________________  _________- ---_ -  -----------      -  --------------- - -----



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
-22 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A P 1. t, 1^
TAIILK  94~~~~~~AII
XJUUBIA                   - tIIIICAI. IMI)ICA?11199 D^  111Kg
14)91141^                                KlP9'*L1. C9 49104  (UKIIITRD AYPA6IKb) j
ttUtT                       (MUNT  1KNT icKTItFKr   f
RICanT                NIDIILI: INCIIM          MIIDL     liNg
iYWt-        lSWt' EMTIMATI"T          A...RIVA A. Ely NAIIARA    N. AV41KA A "ID RAhlT
UIUCATIOM
A0tl11ITIl ENROELHNT IRATIUN
PIR IIIAIYi   TOTAL.                 4A.t.         n9 u.        91.11                9IJ                          No.
MALI:                     lilU .         .U        I UIl UI1 1                                      9990.3
1?KKAI.It                 4.1U         19.11        dv.U                 N11. 7%4
NSlCUNUaANYI faTAL                     :.1 U.      91u           17.tl               9172                        4917
ttAEi  I                   1.61rA7 11               42.11  I               4I.                       t
FPW.0                      1.9         11.11          .                    . 1131.2
V9JCATIUNAL. (1 u0  iI:CLINUAKYI        17.4          1.  l.1                                                       169.3
PUPLh I.IACIISt krATIO
'lIIIMUY                              301.0        47.U         49.ULr               44.                         J9.5
SECUNDAKY                             14.U         ll.0          i1.Ul               21.7                        4113
AdULT LITKRACY RATE (A)                 )N.bIL.      47.1         44.U                 17.1                        t,.1J
PARWNMUV.R CAS/tIUIJWANU POP            1U.4         14.5         Il.7Lj               Il.6                        15.U
14U1o %IXCrIVICRI4/TdiOUlANII PUP        0.rLj 413.1              41.9                 91.1                        123.1
TV 1AMCKIVKERKTIIO9USAD POPI              ..          4.1          tu.t                18.4                         45.0
NEtWIPAIPS  ("DAtLY UKt;SRAL,
tNTE91;5T"3 CIRCIILAr ION
PER tfluUISANzl POPULLATIUN             *.U         13.17        19.9                 13.2                        1I.0
CINEA:N  ANNUJAI. ArK.rNDANK/C0PtTA       ..                       U.3fr                (B."                         1.7
LAWNR POCCC
TOTAL 1.4A1  ruFaCE (TilIUs)         122.0         1121.u      4U911.9
rLMALK (PIRClNTI                      33.3         32.6         32.t                 30.1                        IU97
AURICULTURE (PERCEHT)                 79.9          3.9U        b7.U                 )b.J                        41.%
lNUUSTRY (PCRCKNT3                     1.U          9.0         1I.1l                17.1                        27.8
P94TICIPATIU  URTE (PLKVCSr)
TOTAL                                 4.1          39.0U        35.9                 J1.U                        25.0
HALE                                  SS.J         54.9         05.5                 47.1                        45,4
fsIALK                                 1.J         1S:          11                   41.0                         5.b
ECONOUMIC DLUDNUENCY .LAIO               1.:          1.:           9.4                 1.3                          1.8
END=  CISTRIWTIOU
PawtCMn  uf PAlVArE IWCOI;L
LICCELFED BY
HIGcRr 54 uF 1HJUUSI9IULDS            331.7        21.9.
111GREST 20O UV iIUUIEIIOLUS          Sd:J t.l     h.l: U        b L
LOWEST 20:1 orHOUSCUiOLDIS                          3 5./h       1 3
LOWEST 4UA OF dI USEHOLUS             13.0         1U.17Et      Li.jI
ImRUTl T  nMPon
ESTIIIATED ABSULUfE POVStRTY INCOME
LEVEL (US  PElt CAPITA)
URBAN                                                 .        247.9/f              534.2                       Z7b.1
RURAL                                  ..            .          6Ibt 77             255.9                       171.1
bSTIMATEt RELATIV eloVESLrY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPtTA)
URBAN I                                                        1b./f                491.5                       4W11 0
HUHAL                                  a.             .         oS5. 71              lS .l                      263.3
eSTIMATED PUP. BLLOW AtSULUTS
POVtERTf INCIUnM  Lt;VEL (Z)
URBAN                                                           25.0/1                                           42.0
1lURAL                                                                                  .                         91U.3
:4.1r AVAILA3LZ:
SUT APPLICABLC
N u r L S
/a  The group averages for each Indicator dre populatLon-weL1hted  uritI,etic mearn.  Coverante of centri   nong the
Indicator. dependr on dvallehllty of dot. and to not  nitform.
lb  Unle*. otherwime noted.  t-ta  for 1Y90  rerfer to aiy year between 1959 and 19bL;  Data for 1970' bitween 190  d nd
1971; and data for "'Mot tecent C*tcL"tr  hntween 1979 And 191.
Ic  1977; /d 1975; /e .963; 1( 1978; L. 197b; lh 1917; 1  196I .
May 1933



BESJ 'curt AVAILSWLL
-23-                                                  ~~~~~~Page 3 of 5
meeenhleb..e  f he lack .1 eenadio    i it1-e  .5 ce.ePt...5 by di1f futmn. I  onisif  aa   h   .tae e,eta.mit
.h eee .. etee... (L) dem.teerysee   f  i.ehic  metl s,".d CL) aNC%Atiry groa  with eme-et hihe a-ena  term  thnte                      rygpo  h
of ne.)   nthe   . reern. ar    dat the enag.9  are pepetat_ _eightd arIghtltt    acfrec   nfao.              -ie nip when weJerty o  h   an.i
crwh.e data fo tt tedicaer   St-t thecergn  t. -gm                e sin tedionftor depend. - th  ewn1iLablty of d4t.U   cc L. c    -efr~ Can-a  -t he
etrieed 2*C. ttt n.c Ce -te   Iis-Cnr tocb..Ihn    -11een  ac aly aunt in '-epori"  the can  .1 -   aeda&-- at   ieae1h-emr  n
Wa(ln   .=e)fn!.rTns  ftp.".tt- dietded by oar- atprata2Ig
7at - en!erace are  rnep fteg laetrea   I.LaS e.tsr: tua,                             phscs. wle  Ir.sedet  cet at -1-4rsly Ineet
tims ned lio  dat.                                                                   v~.edate-r Pet.,       ...  Dpsimin  itnid    by e-Ar .r PL-..rIct
Wttnleta  - laini a a-        cetna  at.. weed,teunc-nty, er pe..mtl                     ant n-t fe.nt grA-ee wee   ma               re   rita    e
till nd ti  dat.                                                             pepinetcbnorPeFdesi-     d - Ital.efin. andrega - ine=atar-atn-a-
or PER Catty. L=e  - MP per rapte  nninrn  t eew  wrec Ie.                                                                  ---a-et-wie  n   ct.a  aa  and epeciltad hecoitel an
1iso. til.ad111ina                                                                       by at lat -  phtysican.  -aebtelas  r            ,t,e pr_ pLty, CeeOald
MQyW  aisnayr   PUM CS??A  A- nwe apaen           -Weee -e ni     .te-i                    nedin aster en peso-cnt str md by a physician (ha by a neural
Prim.7  -ery !-nL aagte petretm.  -eera pan ad b)dte-n mIme                              a-.i-re   an. .2*-ire.  --I. kstir offe  iw-W.2Cieearmte
ne  anEtbems  elclitrfy) in  ilerm  ef me  qicla  per -Pt-:                              prneid  - itette  flu  of sed"'a  fWilte        e  ceitrtprn
cisc. ii,.1. and ins dais                                                                urnehupicals i_tiwd  .m    .ntptgans epilal. as4 ren
npen.Kre,C ne  Tirca STCraTyo                                                              Srcsts-wpea.-tde   oy eeder  -nea
melreesem  'lt-lear (.k1. uS) - he nf M.y i.. liE, til, nd111                          atnlne -  PNpita1l td - Mt."  -War of ndasns   e o diabchne
Whwtj.slefperen of tota) - lathe of nabo. - ltn  pnp.-stieo;
dt9f  "feto etaicl- at oCh- ar. way affect enpnreLtty 5 isi
ag cnecrte; 195, 391. s. too1 dat.                                              acr   Stc  -f :=hed rereWe arheid) -md   te,a   ea
~jauiali.rsr    -  m.etpopzala  prainct-ana ste- .-    Sn is.   their wat e!-  A hntdet ac ledge  -y - way -  he iwelwdo  to
toalpettcteby aao ed no  we tbeir -nertly aSd fetligty                               the eweld tnt ntatincIc  peryne.
ren. Prj-citu  peter  for enrtsLty caa  cnntn  nf the                                erA-een    reew M E             -r  tL. arht.  -d re,,t             h.,mea
mona. an.i... h.f. apCt-ny at birth 1ac.nelg .1th  -t"-.~ Per                        ofptim e    m  o           Onen :os ecmie  mn-snlw
capita - ine-w . toel       fen. life enpoct-y etaitilagt  1 7.1                      nlan,repciey   helliept alede ee.C-pmenC ett-tm
eee-  The pertot fortctlt  rate..    a-L- beo  thre  &eeIe                           watedpen-
a-inm deier is fertility ac.dteri   to lene Iner  a       t Pestle                 an      MleerittE tneecn dalict     tt1.mne  ndrra
p=n.lr Vol.twac.  ach  --Ftt  it then antgnd m.   tin  .. la                         Caneslewa deetiiqs elM aletIity"2  t1   nrana   ecea
teh-inoam  of eweaity aSfertilit  trde forpeetc  epws                                of total. crheb, en  rura dweitiosn reporcLy.
_rntmrrecnil_ - In a cectimary Ppeneat_ tint. in we r_Ch
eltei  hrb nat 2* "-ea to the t-ch recc     4 ed aw  the age.Ce
atace   rn-a   -ct-C. ThIn 1 in achioeo   na-yaftr fttly toeinatd ee&aw                          -tt.
init  1- h  -etlarcee   lae  Of  ~ mi act rete 1r-n raoSnPie.nhn -ttl  nl  5ie    - C-ne tt.?-.ode  ad feenl
nr.nse   5  e    reylsee  isenf eterly. Th ect"ime                           enreln-ce  at  gin as lb.  p         I-&ler an perroCage of tepeIc
.eeate -sn  m. weti-nl  - the hio ef te. p.njC"n  ceacat                          petncy ninnpepeatimn  -nnLIT ZLetin  cltaao   Vge  c-li
inie   f h  VPepe-ati  to the ys l0i. .5 i      - et ofdet.. of                   pen  ha. edjnstsd tn  dIffntes lUt,ho of flIeer  orta;Fe
yea sttnar   eelri  in ranchd - 7%e pen clwLCetntlaee.                                   nic, em . pyi  -%beUo  nr aheo  de  -fitlace  qpe.
pnpetecten tine nih  hr ceanted..                            Snenedme orbeel_  -  wa.waeeSmoe-nPeemi - ahe.e ee.5ay
m id-yee pepeltlo- Per iqeet hlenot  Cleo hetane of                                prerldo geet. totima. or s-her tracn   atatec
naatrna  i1ti. t970n ne  uS das.                                                    P-tIt meyo  12 toll ? ynrn fe;eewpee    aenm
Per ea. he. CtrltltWa  L.ed - Cenpets an abee  in aEticttmo  land                        w-crly iidd
pep,,2t2- 50 Occarer  iprrnee - cKha-n  CO-IA jeer). whl-nrCut--                          nIec teeies. tlntMa. or etie  pr w  enIb ope-t   dred
-eyntl      eIre tw   er        en   tPeeetsen S1 i-Wyne                        oly ora dptte             P a ..r.cdar   aistee
tiplein  icet Oce  prcnt)-  nrl   flt  red.   -      tnS  ld             plaey  ecinendrtinnlndiiti y eehrent eahe. W                 re  nn
rentpenlatne  et 910-40. lios-M. .5 IW-St.                                        reped         a te.
fyanmnts- Creed  ate .   rat - erha - &nee greeh ecu  n  a                             AWit Ltstt.---  el. eee) - ILJot-t  ede1o Cobb to ree  an erIte)
pereistaa net in-on, ne-ia, a4 in-at,                                                 ....tnt.n  tna W   icp.pwlina  reed LS yner an  oct
Ceee  ethtee (rrChewedI - oa    nte   eteaOfedyettnret  ae(r thn-ne  er.t-l-o) - P-ee   ar  epin   eo
pealtin;tba. 1970. ad tIl d ata,                                                 tae   we.m  te nlgni pee ; nate..  ln,hetn   n
_eey~mttnetae  -  eragep -e- of dngiter sean .411 hoot 2*                          ollitayehlna
fntLCiSey nine  weInellye-y7ee   etaCen endtog 2  190. tIi@.  1                        he,ndats t- annal noble Per te-en  e- PePeCIntn; en ftloe   -
ptngrnen                                                                      U Petelnert9C  (errP-.&tineal d I en tmC-7Itcler  frbreestt
Ier a        , U          z- f- d                   F,Cm    -W                                   L ifoatn  ot, Cal  eea ases   enpC   ete  -apneaa
lnen e  e   trwectle.ant tair. i 95q~y~a~at1- lear et pe ceytt    enhlrorim  nsecoderte..iln tacern-ie5 eeertt Ce..  Itin ,anidec=
feed -an Ce noaleder P-e heels. Q_tltio- tn-o  pcy gado fa.4c                        Oman b.el Ae.-d. Per Capita ret lee  - Unod n  a~ ea.. ef
into   Ismeat iseed 1).  nareaf  ptdcl* os f -h  -ct,r L.                             webtilmio
inand no wat-inl         P.oe  prdnn ptta  orish; 1li1iS, 1970. aS listI
Pe  nta   ei  f calut-e (erWo S  eeiones - Ceneted ire                         YW       flt-cr  ith-nnnWl - t.einyacecP.-.we Lsridift ares
---ti oqiaia4    o   eeln   epIne neilbl  U*  -tty pet Mpit perfne d-ayth   ulde  heceetee.  n.d-s,Ot,  m
ecetre ne dene.in  i-h-..Pe nepla  -aie." claw! feed. -eed.                      twptheitwoil a5 1961 dan.
q.aetstln es tofespreceol. a-d Inne  In dtntrbacln.                                               -  mtothr   t  an-  pretecf toa  labor forc.
S                   Peqeireweots err. oai-CZtswa  by rS henS an physiaiuLts  -eA. for  -nel                                        lbor fnrc  C.  eew.  feeo-r, im.i,   a
nattt -ndhath reandereenelsea  ecaretre.m   -W-iht.                                finbine an Pe-men  of tota  labor f-1 tib0. LIM       till data.
weea    e -dltthei- of peucIti-. a  anen.9to 10Petetfo  -ene                     Inetrefesr) - lX     trs  2 E      iateg.  ceetecie   -afnrt-int
cih-nehu Itee; iisi.ss. 1itt nd 1910 dats                                               a   ttree. n  aS ge anpetCe   --Iata  Ibe  inte; ilsi.
Per  eic  --pie nf  -rtet Cn-   per dee - trwo2  maac  Spr  rap i-                       ti m  tni  dAta
antewly ef toed per do. Pee sepFy nO -a to deied - ab.                              fatrratePte I-er-, - tosal  -L..s  a   om - inttci1pni2*  n
Reqsim.st  for all e-teila  nihiodby lOA preldn for elate                              n        Cceiy  na   e.  Pcss an tene .wae amrt  labr frt n
niewete  if to are Of tot.I P-eS. Pr dy aW 30 ar.  Sain                               peenceeo t...I,  .I. a  lemi. reenlatI- Of dl age -oeeteelt
pelr Pr-ta.. ef chub 10 nra wheol he asle. procei-  7be                                lie. illS, ad lit dat. Thee  a  boen no Itfl. perilipetin  eae
Third Z-Lta  on Snec  ls-.       tifle   190 dat.                                    9-::t=                Olathe - caste of pepUlatia  .M,n 15 tedt a5  .t
ye~rtapretn    eppi. ire. mIVe  a  rile  - Preate newly S fedtetea   netfwc
Ghild C,e,, 24) Death PaeCrt etead) - e-Il danche per the..Wae inprrtneo   rneeIe (ehI  sn   n   i)-bcie  by crhe-t S
"ff   Taetoe C at  irt Imr)-kese           to  yeeto 5lift meil.I  colE-bWi  -el.-    me ewy appe-an-t                              -r  of petoey I-Le.. -a
51bit; te  thu     lil data.                                                      nIdcl he itatetod etch eeideinhi canine
misr_  'fat.Pee(e  heenan   - cl deed. at inisr  udtatet-1ie   Sowic ibet  n-n lee  Ift  an e.F&..) - cran  as cu-I -
por  e  n   e  iesd  i    it.   SO  1910 and lilt dataAD"-- ioeepenorty tea teo  is whe inc   1-on  hol                                           Lch a elotweL
acr   o Ino  eit  (nee   f  eoat             - tes. -then. a  ae!-emttant  dne   dint pie. -noCIa no-fod -oucn-cni is -C
metwpply CItetee  er.tnd wefsn   tor or-m           d ht                          tnetwntd Pe1at-o- F-are  tar   teei   t   c  -ca-t) - ethe  .An tet  -
eee.s.eae  nt- -nch on dt me pectecd heeln.prae. a                                     hea  reate Pee..ty I-m  1-1s Ca  -e-Itu  ar  --en  pet -api-
an   llt.mt) anp-renacu   of their resp_tte  pepaltows. In enprwnitce of tie C-nese. tih.n len  Lo aor-dtais the --ra
wta   t      pebala retai  or etpee  Istad we ost the m  weene                    ieee  etch nijeeeo  tnt MCIher me oF l g in oi  ore..
ire  nh. b  es  h  manlired w hele  enthie reoewble coe of tie                       Etattre   Pedatan- VAl. Sa-L.. e        itetI erm. inofeeee-
hem.  Z. nerd - erneneabeare eweis inty tint the heeweetfoo                             nma      mc   npplts  etnarrL                          r    cnn
eae      the hemohel inre bee to eleo  a  tpceln.eP-e w
the dat to fotiblb the factlf  mIt- wndo.
tre.e   ie   tiwmn  (arra  S eanitt) - eil sene7
aiwpnnla  preteof their reo..ette  pealtte. hrt                    eo
np &-L."e the celtte            diapena. etch or adtiho    rntoC-. ef                                                   feenwei  .5 SerIsL U."a tLiete
ea- -ncrt  ad -nt-ne    by wetb-n  opt            bn  h  a  at pIt.                                                teoei ineLywe a  Prn)nc tee  beremes
pttcl-  -m n~l-te   a-e1te-ae-                                                                                                       Way tile



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
-24-
*Iu 
Pap 4 of 5
Cai nwiA1
Pqxzlatio:      6.05 mfllhm (18)
GM  per C:"t: REow60 (1982)
NMU ALXOMNTS
momt
offi ;s$            Sble of GW at             AmrgeAF   o
at curaeC Pri)        market Pzicm (2)            iDeam (Z)
todica~~M  B  2                     (at C   Pd,ee          (t cng         1970 Pd )
1970   L975   VW    9198    1970-75     1975-5)
Grns DmsrC Prprxh2        3,462       ,00.0  11.0  100.0 100.0    2.7           -1.0
AgIailcuze                55         10.7   13.0   14.6  15.2      3.1        -0.1
4uit                      X6         35.3   13.6   16.3   5.9    -1,4         -1.6
OtbIr Imvmtry3      E      54        18.5   28.1   22.   24.7      9.4        -3.0
Servjs                  1,779        33.3   42.6   44.8  51.4      3.5         0.6
Caimtim                   2,953        54.6   79.0   81.4  85.3      4.6        0.02
Gtss Ilvmt                  817        28.4   40.5   23.5  23.6      3.7       -10.4
HiectsaE Goods&!S         1,147        54.0   36.3   3B.6  33.1   -0.1         -3.2
liUorts af Goods &s       1,413        37.1   55.8   43.5  40.8   -0.7         -8,3
ar"sa lio  #SWIq            185        34.5   11.4    8.5   5.3   -15.7        -41
GO RW  FIZW                  Gm1 GovezzuaL4          ,        raI Gova        (L98
(Kilnt)      z of          (Elfin.)       z o GP(-3.00.4)
Oiwe  Re_ts                                              834                 27.4
Ozrp  BpezidIz                                         1X149                 37.8
a-eft SUrpiz                                            -315                -10-4
Caital hcidatwes                                         119                  33
VVezrOa  FimcLig (ret)                                   247                  81
MA, LMTm   R                           970   L975   L97g  1979   19SO   l9Sl   l9B25
H-ey antl Qmsi kMe                     356    &93    639    832    907    979   12D9
Bak CstIt to Pbbc Secor               -164    373   1045   1109   1331   1495   175)
U.k CredLt to Prmte SecMt6             137    335    3(8    402    443    703    734
(Fr~   of Iod  JijubeW
1y  ad 1Qm       r as oZaf  P         28.1   31.1   29.0   32.4   30.5   32.2   37.5
Gwaa1 PrC Im  (1963-100)             102.6  145.4  240.8  Z244   25.0  33s.3  376.8
Ahnal jarcetaM dM     ir
G }aiPrLrex                            2.6   10.1   16.4    9.7   1.7   14.0   12J
Ba* Cedlt ED RFbIc Secor                    378.2   32.1    6.1   2D.0   12.3   19.1
Uwk tm&t to 1'ivaSe Sor6              21.9   17.0   34.5   30.5   10.2   58.7    4.4
1 EqualsCE pl. amt facto frwm frm  i   ym (inchlLdrg coatraC salary   g taLtu1d
tnso.).
Z At mdmt priel
3 _,an. ag Bs 
. o1x   *maudg  amm.tuctim  electricity, gas, and water.
4 Eigm r    not dfer idflaoly f_m  Central Goyern.
5 Fd-Spc,er 1982.
6 include parWtd  or zatio                                                       KJ1
7r 1982.                                                                      lY 1983



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 25 -
ANEC I
Pae 5 of 5
IRADE PA!IU  AND CAPIA   EID
BALANCE OF PAXYME1M                                                 MMCMDISE EXnws 1982
1979    1980    1981    1982                               US$ Mn.   X
(Hfflhlois US $)
ExEorts Of Goods, DES           1,526    1,459    1,180    1,147     {pr                       920    89
Iports of Goods, NES           1,22     1,645    1,524   1,413       oblt                       33      3
*    Resource Gap (deficit = -)       297    -186    -344    -266        Taad anl Zinc               32      3
-MM~  MMMM!!M  ZMMM         All   CrMc Ddities          47     5
Total                  1,032   100
Factor Servces (net)l           -223    -271    -330    -367
Net Trasfers2                   - 68    -146    -  1    -  I
Balaxce on Curent Atcotrr          6     603    -75    -634                   M T=, Dec. 31, 1982
=   -                      -                                      EUS$ 1n.
Direct Foreiax Invesent           ..       ..       ..
Official Grants                   35       35       29      44      PUbic Debt, mcd. gun-ante   2,380.6
Net M H:oovArg                                                      N             Private Dett   ..
535     629      416      311     Total 0ustaniUM & Dsbused  2,380.6
huDrt2zaticIl                  176      187      189      96
Subtotal                       359      442      227     215    IEr SRWICE         FM 19824
Net IF                            94        8      368    - 57                                         z
Otber Items (nei.)              -364      -8       135     286
Ch,g  in Rese         increase) -130      126      -4      146      Pubic Debt, in. gumrnteed
=  =     =       ltD-Qarted Private Debt
Total Oustaixllg & Di.zsed
IM/IM IEMU, Septedier 30, 1983k
RATES OF MMAM1E                                                                               lED    IIM
SIR's       ~~US$
litstAdig & Dibused  341.87  23.33
1979                           0.9763            1.2621             Undisbuild                61.60 64.42
191;0                          0.9763            1.2682             ()zrstaxdLg incl.
1%1                            0.9763            1.1466               UnLksbursed            403.47 87.75
1982                           0.9763            1.0748
1 Incbidii  wa   t sa]awy and gratdties trafers.
2  1Idiling official grants aid comcrxat salary and gmatuities tranxfers.
3 The iMaca bes been pegged tD the SIR since July 1976.
4 Ratio of debt sevice, ec1miuEr arrears axi It£ rqaynts, to ecpors of pods andl rm-fator s ices.
not available
.not alppcable
July 1983
'NoveIber 1983



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
as of September 30, 1983
Amount in USS Million
Loan   Credit                                                        (Less Cancellation)
No.    No.      Year   Borrower           Purpose                                 Undisbursed
Bank    IDA    Loan Credit *
17 Loans fully
disbursed                                358.63
900-1            1973   Zambia            Third Education         33.00           0.62
1131            1975   Posts & Tele.    Telecommunications        32.00          4.81
1356            1977   Zambia            Fourth Education         13.30           4.89
1424            1977   Zambia             Industrial Forestry    16.80            0.88
1566    798     1978   Zambia            Third Highway            11.25  11.25  11.25  10.39
863     1979   Zambia            Coffee Production                6.00           2.16
873     1979   Zambia            Technical Assistance             5.00           3.72
1790    973     1980   Zambia            Third Railway            25.00  15.00  15.87   2.78
1923            1981   Development       Second Development
Bank of Zambia   Finance Company          15.00          3.37
2001            1981   Zambia             Eastern Province
Agric. Development      11.00          10.10
1193     1982   Zambia            Southern Province
Agric. Development             18.00          16.53
1196     1982   Zambia            Smallholder Dairy Dev.           7.50           6.87
1251     1982   Zambia            Fifth Education                 25.00         21.97
2151            1982   Zambia Indus-
trial & Mining
Company          Oil Refinery              5.10          4.87
2152            1982   Zambia            Pet. Exploration          6.60           4.94
Total                                           527.68  87.752 61.60  64.42
of which has been repaid                       124.10    -       -      -
Total now outstanding                           403.58  87.75
Amounts sold                        28.58
of which has been repaid          28.47          0.11    -
Total now held by Bank/IDA                      403.47  87.75
of which is undisbursed                         61.60  64.42
IThe status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2The US$10.0 million IDA and US$6.0 million IDA Special Fund Rural Water
Supply credits, approved on May 12, 1983, were signed on JuJy 13,1983 and became effective
on November 14, 1983; and the US$4.3 million Maamba Coal Engineering credit, approved on
March 15, 1983, and signed on May 23, 1983, is not yet effective.



- 27 -                              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
as of September 30, 1983
Investment                                                      USS Million Equivalent
No.      Year                       Type of Business        Loan Equity   Total
216-ZA     1972   Zambia Bata Shoe
Company Limited    Shoe Manufacturing       0.85   0.23    1.08
250-ZA     1973   Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe Manufacturing
Company Limited    and Tannery              1.20    -      1.20
307-ZA     1975   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.78   0.21    0.99
324-ZA     1976   Development Bank   Development Finance
of Zambia           Company                  -     0.54    0.54
394-ZA     1978   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials    0.10    -       0.10
483-ZA     1979   Zambia Consoli-    Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper Mines Production              28.00    -     28.00
527-ZA     1980   Kafue Textiles of
Zambia Limited      Textiles & Fibers       7.60    -      7.60
600-ZA     1981   Zambia Consoli-    Copper Production
dated Copper Mines                         26.52    -     26.52
632-ZA     1982   Ethanol Company of Chemicals and
Zambia Limited      Petrochemicals          3.68   0.60    4.28
Total gross commitments                    68.73   1.58   70.31
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                    17.97   0.81   18.78
Total now held by IFC                      50.76   0.77   51.53
Total undisbursed                          26.81    -     26.81



- 28 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project        15 months
(b)  Project Prepared by              :  GRZ and FAOICP
(c)  First government request to IDA      July 1982
(d)  Appraisal mission departed       :  October 11, 1982
(d)  Negotiations                         September 1983
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness        April 1984
II. Special IDA Implementation Action
PPF advance of US$450.000 to finance detailed engineering studies
and preparation of tender documents for machinery and equipment
(para. 56).
III. Special Conditions
(a) ZAFFICO to continue to base its pricing policy on replacement and
resource waste costs, taking in account operating efficiency,
import parity prices and need for future investments; and ZAFFICO
to review such policy annually in consultation with the IDA
Cpara. 35).
(b)  ZAFFICO to design a marketing strategy by October 1, 1984
(para. 34).
(c) ZAFFICO to prepare, by December 31, 1984, a five-year plan,
including annual budgets for cutting, logging and transport
(para. 41).
(d)  Durirg project period ZAFFICO to maintain debt/equity ratio of
not more than 1:4 and not to declare dividends if this would
cause the 1:4 debt/equity ratio to be exceeded (para. 53).



MceD ;f To Chmingola                                                                    ToM'
ZAIRE"'
,ANGOLA t     a 
s ~   ~ ~ Vi ..~ e       ) a   
~IMBASWEI 
X ! X e ~~-X .,                                                     I    K     ITW m' jf
/                                                                                               K
Kalulushi
\*          0            .'5         Is              25
*S  * 1- C'"',"                       19 3  15



I BR D 17030
J    To Muful,ro                               Muf lra                                                                                                              MARCH  1983
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT, PHASE Ill
PROJECT PLANTATION AREAS
\ ZZI Pine Plantations
] /  /    \  C~ Eucalyptus Plantotions
L7ZIh L    I Land Avoilable for Future Plantations
A \  *    Sawmills
/  \   ^    Wood Processing Complex
- /   ~ <   \  Poved Roods
Other Roads
Built-up  Areos
Ths m-tX has bn prepared by
b,                        ~~~~~~~~~~Te 4rld SVuaink's stanl ecks
for fth conven.ence of mhe
reade,s ands excluSn'e1y for the
.enteat use of The Wo a.lSnk
and tMe k?hte,natorkt Fiance
Corporabon The denormnahons
tused and t/  boiaidanes shio
ann maos do not 0"'l. on M
.    p,adl of Tmhe WVorld Bark 3nd the
in   it emfal.an  Fwianxe Carpar5on~
/. in   
Kolibu                                                                                                                       aW p neM on/ma  e Hn     sXa l us stt
r  endKLrsemeTt or acc.a.e of
, ,.'~ MLE NDOLA
15                       20
TO Luanshya



