Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USIE ONLY
Report No. 13700
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
(CREDIT 1437-ZA)
NOVEMBER 10, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE m
(CREDIT 1437-ZA)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                   =          Zambian Kwacha (K)
Exchange Rate at Appraisal                      =          US$ 1.00 =  K 1.40
Exchange Rate at Credit Effectiveness           =          US$ 1.00 =  K 1.80
Exchange Rate at Completion                     =           US$ 1.00 =  K 650.0
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Zambia                =           1 January to 31 December
ZAFFICO                             =           1 April to 31 March
World Bank                                       1 July to 30 June
ACRONYMS
CP                   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programe
FINNIDA              Finnish International Development Agency
GRZ                  Government of The Republic of Zambia
IPD                  Industrial Plantations Division
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
MD                   Managing Director
PCR                  Project Completion Report (ICR pre-1994)
PPF                  Project Preparation Facility
TA                   Technical Assistance
ZAFFICO              Zambia Forestry and Forestry Industries Corporation Limited
ZIMCO                Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited



THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
U.S.A.
Off'ce of Dirator-Geral
Operations Evalustion
November 10, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:     Project Completion Report on Zambia
Industrial Forestry Project (Credit 1437-ZA"
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Zambia-Industrial Forestry Project Phase III
(Credit 1437-ZA), approved in 1984. Parts I and III were prepared by the Africa Regional Office
and Part II by the Borrower.
The project was the third phase of Bank support for forestry in Zambia. Phases I and II had
supported extensive development of forest plantations, and Phase HI aimed to improve the
management of plantations and industrial forestry. Project components comprised silvicultural
management, log transport and handling, sawmilling, workshop improvement, and provision of
vehicles. The project aimed to achieve many of its objectives by strengthening a newly-established
public corporation, the Zambia Forestry and Forest Industry Corporation (ZAFFICO), through large
injections of technical assistance, consultancy, and training.
The project has attained its objectives only in part. Where physical targets were met,
however, the quality of implementation was often unsatisfactory. Weak performance resulted from
several factors. Notably, the institutional design wrongly placed responsibility for management in the
hands of consultants, overwhelming and demoralizing ZAFFICO's regular staff, and failing to
contribute effectively to institutional development. In addition, ZAFFICO encountered financial
difficulties from the outset of implementation, which were compounded by the Bank's suspension of
disbursements to Zambia from May 1987 to March 1991, and from September 1991 to January 1992,
when the country failed to comply with structural adjtistment conditionalities. Lack of Bank and
counterpart funds led to implementation discontinuities. While the amount of logging increased, the
quality of forest management declined. In June 1992, a fire destroyed the newly-established sawmill,
placing further stress on ZAFFICO. At project completion, ZAFFICO remained in difficulty.
The quality of the PCR is generally satisfactory. However, the PCR's estimate of a 14 percent
ERR is not a valid reflection of project results. The outcome is rated unsatisfactory because the
project failed to meet most of its relevant objectives. Institutional development has been negligible
and sustainability is unlikely. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE m
(CREDfT 1437-ZA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  .......................................................
EVALUAnON SUMMARY .                             ............................................
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .................   1
1. Project Identity .             ............................................   1
2. Background . ..............................................  1
3.   Project Objectives and Description  ................................                                             2
4.   Project Design and Organization  .................................                                               3
5.   Project Implementation  .......................................                                                  4
6.   Project Results and Impact .....................................                                                 9
7.  Project Sustainability  ........................................    10
8. Bank Performance .                    .........................................  11
9.   Borrower Performance  .......................................    11
10. Project Relationship   ........................................    12
11.  Consulting Services and Studies  .................................    12
12.  Project Documentation and Data  .................................    12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                      ........ 13
1. Comments on Part I, the Bank's Perspective  ..........................   13
2.  Evaluation of Bank Performance and Project Relationship  ..................   14
3.  Project Documentation and Data   .................................    15
4.  Conclusion  .           ..............................................    15
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   .................................    16
Related Bank Loans .               ............................................ 16
Project Timetable  .              ............................................    17
Credit Disbursement .                  ..........................................  17
Project Implementation ..........................................    18
Project Costs and Financing   ......................................    20
Project Results .           ..............................................    21
Status of Major Covenants   .......................................    24
Use of Bank Resources   .........................................    25
ANNEXES
1. Project Cost Tables and Financial Statements  ..........................   26
2. Output of Wood Products and Roundwood Inputs   .......................   35
3. Note on Financial and Economic Analysis  ............................   44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of thdr
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
(CREDIT 1437-ZA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial Forestry Project - Phase m in
Zambia, for which Credit 1437-ZA in the amount of SDR 21.5 million (US$ 22.4 million) was
approved in January 1984. The credit became effective on September 12, 1984 and was closed on
September 30, 1993, after two extensions for a total period of two years. The undisbursed balance of
SDR 3.5 million was cancelled on May 20, 1994.
The report (Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared by a mission from the
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP), which visited Zambia in January 1994. Part II was
prepared by the Borrower. Preparation of the PCR is based, inter alia, on the Appraisal Report, the
President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and on discussions
held with the relevant institutions in the country.



I



iii
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE m
(CREDIT 1437-ZA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Industrial Forestry Project - Phase III (Forestry III) was a follow-up to the previous two
Bank financed projects which established some 36,000 ha of plantations. The objective of Forestry m
was to improve the utilization of the forest plantations while continuing their management. Project
support, therefore, focussed on improving logging, transport and sawmilling with a view to reducing
wastage and expanding production capabilities. Before the start of Forestry Ell, the management of the
plantations as well as their exploitation was transferred from a ministerial body - the Industrial
Plantations Division (IPD) - to a newly established public corporation, the Zambia Forestry and
Forest Industry Corporation Limited (ZAFFICO). The staff of the IPD were transferred to
ZAFFICO, and this arrangement was expected to lead to commercial type of management, if the
corporation was strongly supported. The project envisaged to achieve this transformation by providing
conspicuous levels of technical assistance and training.
Implementation
Implementation started with some difficulties related to poor financing and management. This
was compounded by some friction between senior staff of ZAFFICO and the long-term consultants as
the former resented the managerial role played by the consultants. The managerial and financial
difficulties of ZAFFICO, which persisted throughout the implementation period, were further
compounded by the Bank's suspension of disbursement to Zambia, from May 1987 to March 1991.
The suspension was invoked as a result of Zambia's non-compliance with structural adjustment
conditionalities. This situation had forced the project to re-arrange its plans by diverting more funds
to the logging and sawmilling components at the expense of forest management, workshop
development and long-term training. The reduction in forest maintenance costs meant foregoing
necessary silviculture works, and has been particularly damaging as it has reduced the country's
potential to produce high value logs. For the same purpose, about 32,000 ha of forest plantations have
been converted into pulpwood management circle, although there were no firm plans for establishing
a pulpmill.
In June 1992 the newly established major sawmill was destroyed by fire, placing major stress
on the financial resources of ZAFFICO. As a short-term measure ZAFFICO borrowed 5 small mobile
circular saws from the Forestry Department, while at the same time acting to replace the burnt
sawmill. The replacement mill has just been completed, but this was accomplished at the expense of
adequate management of the plantation forests. Currently, ZAFFICO is still in the middle of serious
financial and managerial difficulties and it is generally believed that its condition will not improve
significantly without a substantial capital injection and managerial support. The Government has
scheduled ZAFFICO to be privatized during Tranche 8 of the privatization program, some five years
away from now.



iv
Results
The project has partly attained its objectives in strengthening logging, transportation and
sawmilling in that log extracted and timber produced have increased, albeit slightly below appraisal
estimates. The poor management of the plantations has not permitted the production of big logs
thereby not helping to improve sawmilling recovery. Future log supply might even be worse in that
the effect of the neglected management will be felt more in the coming years. Though replantings of
4,775 ha over a period of 9 years exceeded appraisal target by about 1,000 ha, this was offset by the
fact that the target of 1,500 ha of new planting did not materialize. There was also a high incidence
of fire, as 2,045 ha of plantations have been destroyed mainly due to poor fire protection measures.
Because of poor data, the estimates of the project's financial and economic rates of return
represent orders of magnitude rather than precise figures. At completion, the project's financial and
economic rates of returns have been estimated at 18% and 14%, respectively, as compared with 24%
and 25% assessed during project's appraisal.
Sustalnability
Sustainability of the activities supported under the project is difficult to determine, given the
prevailing uncertainty about the Corporation's future. The present trend of inadequate attention to
forest management is likely to lead to inefficient use of forest products. However, if the financial and
managerial difficulties are resolved soon, as a result of privatization or other means such as joint
venture, sustainability could improve. In this regard the continuing dialogue and good relations
between ZAFFICO management and the Bank could lead to positive results.
Lessons Lered
The following are the main lessons:
a.     Large amounts of TA if not carefully planned, are likely to undermine project
sustainability, rather than improve management. Generally, TA personnel should not
be placed as managers by substituting for local staff unless special care is taken to
reach understanding between TA and local staff regarding their respective roles.
b.    It is unrealistic to assume that Government departments and their staff will
immediately abandon their previous work methods and become corporate managers by
simply incorporating them into a public corporation, albeit with strong technical
assistance and training.
c.     Full Government support in terms of funding must be ensured throughout the project
period.
d.    Public corporations cannot operate on commercial basis if the Government controls
major decisions such as pricing of their products.
e.     Components which are based on follow-up programmes, should be designed only
where the latter are firmed up to a reasonable extent. In the case of this project,



v
plantations should not have been managed as pulpwood in the absence of a firm plan
for a pulpmil or knowledge of market potential for the pulpwood.






- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLEFION REPORT
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESRY PROJECT - PHASE III
(CREDIT 1437-ZA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identty
Project Name       :     Industrial Forestry Project - Phase mII
Credit No.         :     1437-ZA
RVP Unit           :     AF6AE
Country                  Zambia
Sector             :     Agriculture
Sub-sector         :     Forestry
2. Background
2.1   About half of Zambia's total area was classified as forest land in the early eighties. However,
the forests consisted mainly of slow-growing and low yielding trees with twisted stems. Furthermore,
the easily accessible forests have been significantly reduced by clearing for cultivation, for fuelwood
and for other purposes. This situation, coupled with the continuous growth in domestic demand for
timber, had been leading to increased imports of sawnwood. In 1980, Zambia's imports of
sawnwood amounted to about 12,500 mn or 15% of total demand. Most of the country's requirements
for wood-based panels and paper products were also imported. Since the demand for thes products
was projected to grow in the future, the Government of Zambia (GRZ) gave high priority to the
development of forest resources with the objectives of: achieving self-sufficiency in sawn timber and
other wood-based manufactured products as well as conserving soils and water.
2.2 To achieve the above objectives, the afforestation programmes which had been initiated before
independence were stepped up using fast growing exotic species. In this endeavor the Government
sought and obtained Bank's assistance in two phases, from 1968 to 1982. The first phase project,
which was approved in 1968, established about 16,000 ha of pine and eucalyptus over an eight-year
period. The second phase, which was approved in 1977, established another 20,000 ha of forest
plantations over a five-year period and provided for some improvement in logging, transportation and
timber processing. By 1982, Zambia's plantation forests amounted to about 50,000 ha of pine and
eucalyptus.



- 2 -
2.3   In spite of the availability of plantation forests, however, their utilization was too low to make
full use of the resource. This was mainly due to weak institutional and managerial base on the one
hand, and lack of adequate logging, transportation and processing facilities, on the other. A third
phase project, known as Industrial Forestry Project - Phase III (Forestry III), was therefore conceived
as a follow-up to the two projects to address these issues, along with the establishment and replanting
of some plantations. In order to improve the management of industrial forestry, GRZ established in
1982 a public company, the Zambia Forestry and Forest Industries Corporation Limited (ZAFFICO),
by incorporating the Industrial Plantations Division (IPD) of the then Ministry of Lands and Natural
Resources. The project was prepared in 1982 by the government with the assistance of the
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (CP) and appraised by the Bank in the same year. It was
negotiated and approved in September 1983 and in January 1984 respectively. The project, to be co-
financed by the Bank and the Finnish International Development Agency (FINNIDA), on a parallel
basis, was signed in March 1984 and declared effective in September 1984, about two years after
project appraisal. The credit closing date, originally scheduled for September 1991, was extended to
September 1993.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1   The project aimed at increasing the production of high quality timber by improving log
transport, handling and processing facilities; improving forest roads; developing further the existing
plantations, and by establishing new plantations. Project components comprised:
(a)    Silvicultural management of about 43,000 ha of existing plantations; establishment of
about 1,500 ha of new pine plantations; replanting of 2,100 ha of eucalyptus and
1,700 ha of pine; improvement of fire protection practices; and construction and
maintenance of forest roads.
(b)    Improvement of log transport and handling through the provision of power saws,
skidding and log transport equipment.
(c)    Support to ZAFFICO's sawmilling operations by providing new equipment and spare
parts to improve the obsolete lines at KITE and Dola Hills; and provision of necessary
infrastructure and additional equipment to upgrade Kalibu sawmill.
(d)    Workshop improvement by up-grading facilities at Kafubu and Dola Hills and by
establishing a new central workshop at Kalibu.
(e)    Provision of 38 man-years of technical assistance (TA) in the fields of management,
sawmilling, fire protection, training, logging and transportation; and 76 man-months
of short-term consultancy for preparing engineering designs and tender documents for
the rehabilitation of log handling and processing facilities as well as for training and
silvicultural research.
(f)    Staff training consisting of in service and external training in engineering, wood
technology, accountancy and management; and provision of on-the-job training for
most of ZAFFICO's staff.



(g)    Administrative support to ZAFFICO through the supply of twelve passenger cars, two
four-wheel drive vehicles, one bus, one micro computer and office furniture.
3.2   The project, estimated to cost K 59.55 million (US$ 42,53 million), was to be implemented
over a period of six years. It was to be implemented by ZAFFICO under the overall control and
guidance of the Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited (ZIMCO) in the areas of policy,
management and finance. ZIMCO is the public holding company which owns ZAFFICO.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1   The emphasis Forestry III was on improving the management and the utilization of the forest
resources, unlike the previous two projects which stressed the establishment of plantations.
Accordingly, project design aimed at establishing an efficient management information system and
strengthening the logging, handling and sawmilling operations of ZAFFICO. The support to
ZAFFICO in these areas was justified, because almost the entire softwood sawmilling industry was in
its hands, and supporting ZAFFICO was expected to contribute immediately to improved domestic
supply of sawn timber.
4.2   Project components were consistent with the rationale of the project in that all were geared to
improve ZAFFICO's management capabilities and to increase the quality and quantity of wood
products. Project design took account of the future pattern of sawlog supply in determining
sawmilling areas to be strengthened. For instance, given the anticipated large future supply of pine
sawlogs from the Ndola plantations, Kalibu sawmill was expanded to handle larger logs. Because of
its central position within the plantation area, the project has rightly designated Kalibu to become
ZAFFICO's major repair workshop.
4.3   However, in retrospect, it can be said that some components were overdone. This is the case
with TA, where 38 man-years of long-term and 76 man-months of short-term consultancies was
provided for. At appraisal, this large TA was justified as being necessary to strengthen and support
the young organization, ZAFFICO. However, the risk that such a magnitude could overwhelm
ZAFFICO was overlooked. Lack of such considerations during appraisal did not facilitate the
planning of this input to become the vehicle for improving ZAFFICO's management level, and can be
considered one of the weakness of project design. The persistent managerial deficiency of ZAFFICO
indicates the failure of the TA component in raising the corporation's efficiency.
4.4   Organizationally, the project was planned along simple lines. ZAFFICO, together with its
mother organization, ZIMCO, (para. 3.2) were responsible for implementing the project. The idea
was to avoid all the conventional government bureaucratic committees. The Managing Director (MD)
of ZAFFICO was responsible to the Board of Directors for implementing the project and was to be
assisted by four divisional managers for Plantation Management; Logging and Processing Operations;
Engineering, Construction Services and Finance; and by a Corporate Secretariat and Administration.
The Marketing Manager was to be directly responsible to the MD for the execution of ZAFFICO's
marketing operations. ZAFFICO's Board consisted of ten members and is headed by a ZIMCO
representative. The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, which is the Ministry
responsible for the country's forestry development and protection, is one of the members of the
Board. The project provided managerial responsibilities to the long-term consultants and this created
friction between the senior Zambian staff and the consultants (para. 5. 1). In hindsight, this
arrangement has been found to be damaging as ZAFFICO's senior staff felt that they have been side-



tracked as they saw their positions being taken over, and their roles being played by consultants. Most
of the senior staff now explain that they were not part of the major decisions taken while the
consultants were managing the project, albeit under the MD.
4.5   In retrospect, the most serious flaw in project design was the assumption that being a public
corporation, ZAFFICO would be operated on a commercial basis. This assumption was unrealistic
because none of the public corporations were then running on a commercial basis. To the contrary
they were strictly controlled by Government, particularly in the pricing of their products. It can be
said that the persistent refusal by the Government to increase timber price in the eighties has been one
of the causes for the financial difficulties of ZAFFICO. In addition, they were dependent on
permission from their mother institutions, such as ZIMCO, albeit through their respective boards, for
any major decisions, including the reduction of personnel and business travel abroad. During the
eighties, it was next to impossible to obtain permission from the Government to reduce personnel of
public corporations or parastatals, on account of business restructuring. This explains ZAFFICO's
over-staffing situation. Another expectation which did not materialize was the change of IPD staff,
who are government civil servants, into corporate managers when they operate under ZAFFICO.
Deep rooted attitudes and practices can not be expected to die overnight.
5. Project Implementation
a. General
5.1   Implementation of the project had commenced before the credit was declared effective, since
considerable preparatory work, such as the tendering for technical assistance and some equipment was
already in an advanced stage. These activities were financed under the Bank's Project Preparation
Facility (PPF). However, project execution gained momentum only after the arrival of consultants
who initiated the development works in their respective components. Soon after the arrival of the
long-term consultants, it became apparent that there was a difference in interpretation of the role of
the consultants in the management of the project. The latter, following the staff appraisal report,
sought to manage their sections with full responsibility under the overall supervision of the MD. The
Zambian counterpart staff did not accept this interpretation as they believed the consultants were there
to assist them. This resulted in friction between the senior ZAFFICO staff and the consultants, which
lasted for about a year, until the latter decided to adopt a modus operandi that left the consultants do
the managerial work with some input from the Zambians when it was deemed necessary. Such an
arrangement enabled project implementation to move, and substantial progress was recorded in the
procurement of equipment and training until the project was hard hit by the Bank's suspension of
disbursement to Zambia in May 1987 as a result of Government's reversal of policy reforms and the
stoppage of most external debt service including the Bank.
5.2   The suspension of disbursement, which lasted until March 1991, put a brake on the
implementation process forcing the project to modify the course of implementation. A number of
components particularly in the areas of plantation establishment and management, logging and
transportation as well as workshop development, have been curtailed or eliminated. Project
management opted to complete the strengthening of ZAFFICO's processing facilities as a priority
with whatever funds they were able to find. Fortunately the FINNIDA component was progressing
unencumbered and was completed successfully, although the lack of Bank funds to procure some
equipment, such as loaders, has posed problems to its optimal operation. After the resumption of
disbursement by the Bank, some US$ 7.6 million of accumulated funds were disbursed. However,



most of these funds were retained by the Ministry of Finance and not passed on to ZAFFICO. This
has created difficulties to the corporation which had hoped to complete the necessary work using these
funds. GRZ has yet to provide ZAFFICO with SDR 1 million as part of the agreed equity
contribution. The project's momentum was further disturbed by a second Bank's suspension of
disbursement to Zambia from September 1991 to January 1992.
5.3   In addition to these setbacks, the major Kafubu sawmill complex2, was burned to the ground
in June 1992. This again obliged ZAFFICO to review its plans by putting high priority on the
replacement of the burned sawmill. Because of these events, and the resulting changes in plans,
ZAFFICO's benefit from the two successive one year extensions of the project was minimal.
Implementation details for each component are given below.
b. Afforestation Program
5.4   Silvicultural Management. The project was to provide for the silvicultural management of
the existing plantation estate. Unfortunately due to a combination of financial stringency, poor
management and a compulsion to put most effort into sawmilling production and revenue generation,
the plantation silviculture has been neglected. The short term aim has been to cut costs. The long
term price to be paid is poor plantation productivity, increased fire incidence and future timber
shortages (paras. 5.8 and 5.9).
5.5   Planting and replanting. No new planting was carried out, but 4775 ha of pine area have
been replanted, generally with inadequate care, and 2,000 ha of eucalyptus have been coppiced
without aftercare management. At Chati, in January, pine planting seed was of poor quality and
eucalyptus were being planted into 30 cm high grass, with little chance to flourish. Prescriptions
recommended planting trees into weed free ground and up to 6 machine weedings and complementary
spot hand weedings in the first year of growing. However, actual weeding has been reduced to 1. The
lack of attention to eucalyptus felled areas by neglecting weed control, gap planting and singling of
coppice is resulting in indifferent growth and quality of trees as well as poor productivity. Nursery
production fared better, and a total of 5.6 million trees were produced over the 10-year period.
5.6   Fire protection. In spite of the previous plantation losses due to fire and the dire warnings
about fire control voiced in the 1985 PCR of the Phase II Forestry Project, very little has been done
in the last decade to maximize plantation fire protection. During Forestry II (1978 - 82) 1,330 ha
were killed by fire. During Forestry III a further 2,045 ha were killed by fire. Of these, almost 2,000
ha remain to be replanted. Under Forestry III, trucks trailers and fire fighting vehicles were
purchased, but the proposed fire tower and the 35 km of firebreak and access roads were not
constructed. The plantations are reported as being completely early burned in every year. Project
consultants observed that these "controlled fires" often cause severe crown scorching and thus loss of
vigor and increment. Grading and clearing of existing firebreaks is well below planned levels of
maintenance due to non availability of machines.
2       The Kafubu sawmill complex consisted of a new frame mill, established with the aistance of
FINNIDA and a Metex mill. The cause of the fire was not clearly known, but it is presumed to
be of accidental nature.



- 6 -
5.7   Pruning. Pruning of eucalyptus has been abandoned. Work in pine was scheduled for 17,000
ha of first pruning (age 5 years to 2.2 m), 19,500 ha of second (age 8 years to 3.7 m) and 15,000 ha
of third pruning (age 11 years to 7.5 m) between 1983 - 1989. Drastic changes were made to this
schedule. In 1986, ZAFFICO acknowledged that 50,000 ha of plantations were costing too much to
maintain. Hence, to save money, it proposed to split the plantations into two silvicultural working
circles: 18,000 ha under sawn timber circle for quality wood production and the remaining 32,000 ha
under a low cost silvicultural regime for pulp and small dimension wood production. This was
expected to save about 50% of plantations operating costs. The Bank supported these proposals. All
plantations in the plantings 1980 - 86 (12,330 ha) have been designated as part of the pulpwood
working circle, even though there was no pulpwood production, where pruning is confined to access
pruning only (2.2 m). The second change in pruning schedules has been to increase the pruning
height of second pruning to 4 m (age 8 years) and to reduce the 3rd pruning height to 6.2 m (age 11
years). Costs have been further reduced by delaying the pruning to such an extent that, there is
currently, a backlog of 8,000 ha of 2.2 m pruning and 15,000 ha of higher pruning. Delay of pruning
and thinning have had a disastrous effect on the quality and volume of the utilizable growing stock.
5.8   Thinnings. Particular stress was placed on carrying out 1st (at age 11 years), 2nd (at age 14
years) and 3rd (at age 18 years) thinnings in pine plantations to favor high quality sawlog production.
However, this has not been adhered to. Studies3 carried out recently have expressed concern for the
neglect of thinning and its effect on future sawlog supplies both in terms of quality, size and
consequent sawnwood recovery. The total area to be thinned should normally be some 4,800 ha per
year in total. In 1993 the backlog of thinnings was 10,572 ha of which 2nd thinning was 6,156 ha and
3rd was 2188 ha. The status of the "pulpwood working circle" should be reviewed with the need to
bring it back to the timber working circle, since there is no market for pulpwood in the country. No
silvicultural research was carried out or thinning trials set up, as envisaged at appraisal. It is
disturbing to observe that the old Chati forest research plots of provenance trials, planting
espacements and some seed orchards for pine and eucalypt species have been ill protected, and many
are being destroyed by fire and others being clearfelled. These plots were a reference point and a
genetic source that should have been preserved for future use.
5.9    Clearfelling. It was envisaged that pine plantations would be clearfelled at 25 years of age or
older, while eucalyptus would be at any age according to the market for the product, but sawlog
production would be on a minimal 12 year rotation and a 3-coppice system. In eucalyptus the result
has been an exploitation of some 2,000 ha of plantation area without subsequent silvicultural care.
The resulting coppice has not been thinned to one or two shoots per stool and fire has been prevalent.
The next crop is thus condemned to be poorer than the first one. Pine plantations have been felled by
contractors with axes and extracted by oxen. This method has resulted in losses due to high stumps
(30 cm - 84 cm) and abandonment of large logs. This may explain part of the low sawlog figures per
unit area reported in some places.
3FINNIDA circular sawmill study (1992) and NORDIC privatization study (1993)



- 7 -
c. Logging and Transportation Improvement
5.10  General. The production of roundwood was expected to rise from 110,000 m'(r) to 177,000
m3(r)/year in line with the wood processing capacity. Apart from 1986/87, the overall trend in
logging has been an annual increase in volumes logged till 1991/92 when the felled volume was
314,000 m', the extracted volume was 299,400 m' and the amount transported to the processing unit
was 205,000 m', in that year. After the destruction of the Kafubu mills by fire, the logging totals
have declined. The 40% average annual discrepancy between felled and transported volumes has been
noted, and it was recommended that cost centers should be set up at stump, on roadside and millgate
to control wastage and loss factors at each stage. So far the reasons for the discrepancy are not clearly
known. In addition to lop and top, large logs and poles are often not extracted due to their weight/size
(para 5.9). For sawlogs, the tree length system has been abandoned in favor of the shortwood system
adding to wastage. Some 12% difference is recorded in overbark/underbark measurements.
5.11  Felling and extraction. Most of the equipment for felling and extraction was purchased as
planned, and up to 1988/89 the logging operations were mainly mechanized. Logging costs were high
due to low equipment utilization and high breakdown. Thus mechanized logging was gradually
reduced. By the end of 1993, about 80% of the felling and extraction was done by piecework
contractors using axes and animal skidding.
5.12  Loading and unloading. Loading in the forest was carried out by boom loaders (poles) and
wheeled loaders (sawlogs). A controversy over unloading at Kafubu with cranes versus wheeled
loaders was settled in favor of the latter. However, this has not improved the yard conditions which
become a moraas of mud and debris during the rains, reducing efficiency and productivity.
5.13  Transportation. Most transportation was done by truck and trailer (capacity range 20 m' - 25
m' per load) on the short wood system. Eight lorries were available in 1993. However, utilization of
lorries was generally low and maintenance a problem. Transportation remains the main weakness of
the harvesting process. Contractors carry out some transportation of poles and logs for their own use,
such as smelter poles.
5.14  Roads. Road conditions are not of a good standard. Equipment for proper road construction
and maintenance is lacking. Two graders for road maintenance were purchased in 1985/86 to maintain
the logging roads and must be considered for replacement, though hours of use are not recorded.
d. Sawmilling Programme
5.15  General. Sawmilling operations consist of log conversion, wood processing into poles, posts
and sawtimber and some secondary wood processing. Sawmill output was to increase from 20,400 m3
to 52,000 m' in 4 years. Apart from 1986/87, the project increased sawmill output annually to a peak
production of 46,100 e' sawnwood in 1989/90. Production dropped to around 40,000 m'/year for the
next two years till the disastrous fire in June 1992 that destroyed both the Kafubu mills, which
represented 70% of ZAFFICO's milling capacity. The sawmill recovery programme after the fire
consisted of borrowing 5 portable circular sawmills (total capacity 10,000 m' per year) and starting
the construction of a new circular sawmill at Kafubu, with a total capacity of 20,000 m' per year
output.



- 8 -
5.16 Three sub-programmes were planned at appraisal for the sawmill programme: (i) immediate
improvement by providing spares to Kafubu and Dola Hill mills; (ii) rehabilitation of Kafubu mills,
especially log handling, log conversion and waste disposal; at Kalibu mill the provision of utilities
seasoning and storage sheds and transport for workers; at Dola Hill semi mechanization of the log
yard; (iii) improvement programme at Kafubu, including a new frame sawmill 16,000 m' capacity,
drying kilns, timber handling and upgrading, finger jointing, a new impregnation plant and civil
works; at Kalibu the log yard was to be mechanized, kilns of 20,000 m' per year capacity
constructed, waste handling and timber upgrading introduced and the central workshop established.
5.17  Immediate improvement. Practically the whole investment of this sub-programme was spent
on spares for the frame and Metex mills which were completely destroyed in 1992. Some spares were
provided to the Kafubu and the Dola Hill sawmills and helped to improve production of those mills.
5.18  Rehabilitation. The Kafubu mechanical log deck and the extension sorting line and waste
handling were not undertaken. Power and water utilities were built up in Kalibu, and adequate timber
storage sheds established. Instead of building more houses at Kalibu, bus transport was provided to
transport Kalibu workers from Kitwe on a daily basis.
5.19 Improvement programme. A new frame mill and double treatment plant were built at Kafubu
as well as fmger jointing plant, improvement of drying kilns, lumber upgrading. However not much
was done on civil works and hard yard standing. At Kalibu the log yard and waste disposal systems
remain unimproved. The 20,000 ml per year of drying kilns are in operation. The sawmill is
currently undergoing rehabilitation work.
e. Workshop Improvement
5.20  A major boost to mechanical repairs and services was to be provided by the construction,
staffing and equipping of a new central workshop at Kalibu to carry out major overhauls of the
project's mobile and stationary equipment and machinery. At the same time the subsidiary workshops
at Kafubu and Dola Hill were to be upgraded and improved to cope with the large amount of routine
maintenance and minor repair work of the project machines. Shortage of funding and poor
organization has resulted in the construction of a shell of the central workshop at Kalibu which lies
empty, unequipped and not staffed. The workshops at Kafubu and Dola Hill have had minimal
improvements. Two mobile workshops were put into service. Repair and maintenance have remained
a weak point in ZAFFICO's operations reducing effective productivity in all fields involving
machines.
f. Technical Assistance
5.21  Long-term technical assistance. A total of 40 man years of TA was provided under the
project. Of this, FINNIDA and ILO provided 6 man years and 4 man years, respectively. Twenty
four man years of TA was provided by a private firm in forest management, logging, engineering and
construction, workshop management and sawmilling. FINNIDA provided expertise in sawdoctoring
and ILO conducted the training programmes. A Financial Director and a Marketing Manager were
also directly contracted by ZAFFICO for a total of 6 man years. The effectiveness of the TA was
hampered by poor relationship between the consultants of the private firm and the senior ZAFFICO
staff (para 5.1). Some ZAFFICO staff expressed the view that some of the TA personnel were not
qualified enough to carry out their tasks.



- 9 -
5.22  Short term consultants. Some 72 man-months of short-term consultancy was utilized by the
project. These were mostly employed under contract with the ILO in the fields of worker training,
workstudy and mechanical training. Short-term consultants have also undertaken an inventory of the
plantations in 1986 (para. 11.2). The overall performance of the consultants was satisfactory.
g. Training Programme
5.23  Long-term training. The long-term training plans were changed in 1988 from 61 staff-years
to about half, to reflect the difficulties caused by the suspension of disbursement of credit and the
reduced level of ZAFFICO's senior and middle management personnel by half in 1988. In the end,
only two people benefitted from the long-term training, and efforts were concentrated instead on
training courses in Zambia and on worker training at Chati Training Centre.
5.24  Short-term training. ILO conducted training for radio workshop management, mechanical
workshop management, workstudy, purchasing and supply, sawmilling, logging, production
management, management development, personnel management, export management and training of
trainers. Training of other staff in institutes in Zambia included Forestry Diplomas, Forest Rangers
Certificate, Automotive and Electrical Craft Certificates, Security, Secretarial and Management
Development. These internal and external training courses as well as the fellowships abroad have
improved the performance of staff generally from what was a rather low level of commercial
experience. Every worker also attended a training course at Chati covering the range of forestry
activities including fire protection, clerical, marketing, mechanics, chainsaw use, stores management,
labour supervision, kiln use, logging, security, safety and first aid and accounting.
h. Project Administration
5.25  The project provided all the vehicles and office equipment that was planned
for the management and administrative staff.
6. Project Results and Impact
6.1   In spite of the extended project implementation period the project met only part of its
objectives set at appraisal. It has largely achieved its objectives in replanting, improving logging,
transport and sawmilling operations, albeit, with considerable difficulties. However, it did not succeed
to manage the plantations by applying the necessary silvicultural practices and to establish new
plantations. Improvement in the quality and recovery of the sawntimber is also less obvious, due to
the reduced availability of big diameter logs.
6.2   An exception to this trend is the improved production of treated poles. Under the project the
quality and quantity of treated poles have increased markedly, giving ZAFFICO an aperture for some
profit earnings. In recent years exports of poles within the region have also provided the Corporation
with some foreign exchange income.
6.3    Overall, the project's impact has not been significant. The heavy TA inputs did not contribute
to improving ZAFFICO's management, or human resource capacity. The organizational and
operational levels of efficiency in the plantations and processing areas remain low. The concept of
cost centers is practically non-existent and the management information system has not been
developed (para. 12.1).



- 10-
6.4    Certainly the project's impact on the existing plantation has been negative. This is because, by
focusing on logging, transport and sawmilling activities, the management of the forests has been
neglected. Furthermore, in order to reduce maintenance costs, a large size of the plantations has been
left to be managed for pulp, although no pulp factory was envisaged (para. 7.3). This forest circle is
a source of economic wastage as it cannot be used for pulp, and only part of it can be converted to
produce sawlogs after heavily thinned.
6.5    The project had made little beneficial impact environmentally. The disposal of chemicals at the
pole treatment plants is inadequate. Recent studies have warned of the risk of contamination to the
water supplies at both Kafubu and Kalibu.
6.6    Although it was difficult to assess the financial and economic impact of the project as a result
of poor availability of data, tentative calculations indicate that the project provides acceptable returns,
albeit less than what had been expected at appraisal. This is to be expected in a situation where the
implementation period has been protracted for about 9 years and production performance had only
marginally improved. At appraisal, the financial and economic returns of the project were estimated
to be 24% and 25%, respectively as opposed to 18% and 14% estimated at completion (Annex 3).
7. Project Sustainability
7.1    The sustainability of project activities is negatively affected by the weak management. As
discussed earlier, the neglect in adhering to sound silvicultural practices has compromised the
potential production of quality sawn timber. Newly replanted areas are declining and on top of that
young plants appear to suffer from weeds. Within the sawlog circle, deferred pruning and thinnings
are every year reducing the potential for producing quality sawlogs. Within the pulpwood circle, on
the other hand, plantations are left to grow as if they are going to be used for pulp, although there is
no pulp mill in the area, nor are there plans to establish them in the near future or to sell the product
elsewhere.
7.2   If the plantation resources continue to suffer, they will produce only small- diameter logs,
hence a low-value timber. Therefore, the very rationale of strengthening the sawmilling capabilities
would be defied and the investments would have been wasted. Current trends appear to lead to a
vicious circle of poor management, poor quality logs and poor quality timber.
7.3   Fortunately, however, there is still time to be able to reverse the trend if ZAFFICO's
management is strengthened and a new plan to improve management is undertaken. The plan should
aim to introduce the prescribed silviculture practices on those plantations which lend themselves to
producing still high-value logs. At the same time it will aim to restructure the entire corporation to
make it cost effective at every cost centre.
7.4    The Privatization Study and the Corporate Recovery Plan have shown that ZAFFICO can still
be made profitable if high level management is installed to manage it on commercial basis and if
some funds are given to it to implement restructuring programmes. Since there is little chance that
ZAFFICO will obtain funds from GRZ or from commercial banks to acquire the required
management skills and to cover other costs related to restructuring, the only hope it has is to be
privatized. Indeed ZAFFICO is in the list of parastatals to be privatized. However, it has been
included in Tranche 8 which is some 5 years down the road before the privatization takes place. By
that time, there is a risk that ZAFFICO's viability might be irredeemably compromised, making the
- - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - -   -   - - - - - -   - - - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



- I1 -
project unsustainable. GRZ should, therefore, review the privatization schedule of ZAFFICO by
bringing it forward to the Tranche 1 or 2 (1 year). Otherwise, not only the corporation and its
processing complex will be compromised, but also the forest plantations which have been successfully
established since the sixties, before ZAFFICO came into being.
8. Bank Performance
8.1   Forestry m was a logical follow-up to the two past projects (Phase I and II) which established
forest plantations. Therefore, the emphasis placed at appraisal on strengthening logging, transportation
and sawmilling, without neglecting forest management, was correct. However, the Bank's
concurrence with ZAFFICO on reducing forest maintenance costs in order to utilize the saved funds
for other components, has been short-sighted. In particular, to agree to a pulpwood management
circle, in the absence of any pulpmill or a firm plan to establish one, should be considered a poor
judgement. Bank's experience in this matter in next door Malawi, where large plantation areas are
standing idle because the proposed pulpmill has never materialized, should have been a guide.
8.2   It was envisaged at appraisal that the newly incorporated institution, ZAFFICO, would operate
on a commercial basis given the support of consultants under TA component. This was too optimistic
because: (a) the staff of ZAFFICO were civil servants of the IPD and it would take time, if at all, for
them to operate as modem corporation managers; (b) as a public corporation, ZAFFICO was still
subject to controls by GRZ, particularly in prices; and (c) die way the consultants were envisaged to
operate under the TA component was more as managers doing the job themselves rather than training
the senior staff. These points did not facilitate the strengthening of ZAFFICO's managerial
capabilities and should have been acknowledged by the appraisal mission or by the supervision
missions and dealt with.
8.3   The Bank sent 16 missions to supervise the project. The composition of the supervision
missions was adequate in that it included the specialization mix required by the project. The frequency
of the missions was also satisfactory, about 2 missions per year, although this frequency was reduced
starting from 1989. The Bank continued to field missions even when disbursement was suspended,
where reception by ZAFFICO could not be expected to be particularly warm. In general the
supervision missions were keen in resolving problems that arose and proposed suitable remedial
actions. The inability of these missions to induce improvements in ZAFFICO's management and the
omission of a thorough mid-term review can be considered as their main shortcomings. The
supervision mission's failure to take strong actions could be attributed, in part, to the suspension of
disbursement, as this must have defacto reduced their leverage.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1    Borrower's compliance with most of the conditionalities should be read as its strong
commitment to the project. This includes establishing ZAFFICO to manage the plantations and to
produce timber under the project, rather than under a ministerial department. On the other hand, the
lack of strong support to the project in funding when disbursement was suspended by the Bank should
be an indication of reduced commitment. GRZ could have advanced funds to the project and
recovered the advance when disbursement resumed. Instead, not only it did not accomplish that, but it
continued to retain SDR 1.00 million that should have been given to ZAFFICO as equity. The
Borrower also remained detached from ZAFFICO's problems when the Kafubu sawmill was burned.



- 12 -
9.2   The delay in privatizing ZAFFICO to Tranche 8 can also be regarded as an oversight by
GRZ. This decision can be attributed, perhaps, to the lack of appreciation by GRZ of the implication
of the corporation's situation on the forest plantations. It does not seem obvious to GRZ that the
forest plantations could be compromised beyond remedy if the privatization of ZAFFICO is delayed
further. Because it is only when the latter is privatized, or action on its privatization is initiated, that
the fate of the forest plantations will be decided.
10. Project Relationship
10.1  The relationship between GRZ and the Bank were initially cordial, but became tense when the
Bank suspended disbursement to Zambia. Cordial relationship resumed after the suspension was
lifted. Some disappointment was expressed by GRZ Officials when the Bank decided not to extend the
credit for the third time. But this has not made any serious impact on the relationship between the
Bank and GRZ.
11. Consulting Services and Studies
11.1  As indicated in paras. 5.21 and 5.22, about 40 man-years of long-term technical assistance and
72 man months of short-term consultancy were provided under the project. The performance of the
long-term consultants is reported to have been mixed: generally satisfactory in carrying out their
implementation tasks but less satisfactory in transferring technology and managerial capability to
counterpart staff.
11.2  It was envisaged at appraisal that the project was to carry out two studies: (i) a five-year
wood harvesting and processing plan based on inventory data of plantation; and (ii) design of a
silvicultural research programme and silviculture management plan. The first study was carried out in
1986, where consultants carried out an inventory of the plantations, although there was no follow-up.
The second study was never undertaken, consequently no proper forest management plans or
silvicultural research plans have been made. However, about 12 major and minor studies were carried
out during the implementation period (Table 6C). The recent studies concentrated on re-organizing
ZAFFICO to make it financially viable. The Privatization Study, the FINNIDA Study on the New
Sawmill and the ZAFFICO Corporate Recovery Plan are useful in depth studies on how to strengthen
ZAFFICO.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1  ZAFFICO was fully involved in the preparation and appraisal of the project. Hence, the main
objectives of the project were clearly understood by the senior and professional staff, as outlined in
the project documents. Initially, the latter have been a good guide for the implementation of the
project, and activities were properly documented. But this was not the case as implementation
progressed, because ad hoc measures were taken without being adequately documented. During the
ICR mission, it became apparent that important project information had not been systematically
recorded. For instance, separate project expenditures were not readily available and performance
records of all the sawmills were not kept systematically for the whole implementation period. Data
given for the past 9 years to the ICR mission were assembled from different divisions of the
ZAFFICO in that moment, instead of being stored centrally in the Corporation's computer. This
indicates ZAFFICO's failure in improving its management information system under the project. The
corporation was also not always prompt in having its accounts audited timely.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
(CREDIT 1437-ZA)
PART H: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Comments on Part I, the Bank's Perspective
1.1    We have perused through the draft report and have found it to be a fair reflection of the
project's vicissitudes and a balanced view of the impact of various factors that came to bear on the
project's implementation programme. The analysis of the lessons learned is, in ZAFFICO's view,
well placed.
1.2   The Report has highlighted a number of shortcomings in terms of implementation, results and
sustainability. In discussions with the Mission, various explanations and rationale were advanced by
ZAFFICO, some of which are duly reflected in the draft. However, some of these require further
elaboration here.
1.3   First, the most important and basic is the disruptions in the funding, following the Bank's
suspension of disbursements to Zambia. The suspension had nothing to do with ZAFFICO's
nonperformance, although the suspension had the most disastrous effects on the project. It is worth
noting that credit suspension came just over two years into the project cycle and disbursement
resumed only six months to closing date - to be followed up by another suspension. The project went
into funding complications just after beginning to scratch the problems it was designed to solve.
1.4   Second, the suspension forced ZAFFICO to divert funds from other project activities, notably
Afforestation, to fill the vacuum. Little wonder then that there is so little done in plantations, in
particular.
1.5   Moreover, ZAFFICO had to borrow heavily from the Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ)
and the Zambia National Commercial Bank to keep the main IDA components moving: a foreign
exchange loan of US$1.7m and two kwacha loans of K85 million were raised to finance boilers and
drying kiln and associated works. The servicing of these loans placed additional burdens on
ZAFFICO. It was hoped, however, that as and when disbursement resumed, such reimbursements
would be used to pay off the loans. (See para 1.6 below)
1.6   The net effect is that by the time the first suspension was lifted in March, 1991, ZAFFICO
had spent a total of US$9.5m on the project from its own resources. Unfortunately, although the
Bank quickly released these funds for reimbursement to ZAFFICO, the Government decided to hold
back the funds. Today, the Ministry of Finance still holds on to US$6.7 million, having released
only the equivalent of US$2.8m in August, 1992.



- 14 -
1.7   It is a measure of the strength of ZAFFICO that in spite of these complications, it has not
collapsed. In our view, any serious assessment of the project's sustainability and the 'present
financial and management problems" must be seen within this scenario.
1.8   Afforestation Programme. It is acknowledged that control burning in pine plantations is not
the best for forest management. However, in the face of the acute shortage of fire fighting machinery
and the ever presence of fire hazards, this was considered the best second solution. In retrospect, it
is quite clear that if this method was not adopted, fire loss could have been greater.
1.9   The decision to designate 32,000 hectares under pulpwood management circle was indeed
arrived at on the basis of cost considerations and the rationale was clearly brought to the Bank's
attention in our comments on the draft Phase II Implementation Completion Report. In this respect, it
may be pointed out that eucalyptus grandis and eucalyptus cloeziana are self pruning and it is only in
abnormal circumstances that the stands are pruned. There is, however, no total neglect in this regard.
1.10  The neglect of the Chati Forest Research plot is regrettable, but it must be pointed out that
they belong to the Forest Department and not ZAFFICO.
1.11  Sawmilling Programme. It is worth noting that the new Nukor Sawmill installed after the
Kafubu fire disaster, has been wholly financed by ZAFFICO's own internal resources at a total cost
of US$510,000 excluding local costs. It is regretted, however, that in spite of having subjected the
project to international competitive bidding, as demanded by the Bank, through the Zambia National
Tender Board and having cleared the tender with the visiting Supervision Mission, the Bank turned
down ZAFFICO's application for reimbursement!
1.12  Project Sustainability. While it is not disputed that ZAFFICO badly needs certain
management skill inputs, the most urgent thing is for the Government to release the US$6.7m it has
held on since March, 1991. With these funds, ZAFFICO can move ahead to implement an effective
restructuring programme. ZAFFICO does not need any official hand-outs.
2. Evaluation of Bank Performance and Project Relationship
2.1    Notwithstanding the disbursement suspensions, regrettable as they are, the Bank has, in
general, performed well and in support of the project. However, apart from the Nukor Sawmill
reimbursement (para 1.11 above) and AMSCO engagement (para 2.15 below) mention must also be
made of the failure by successive Supervisory Missions to persuade the Ministry of Finance to pass
on to ZAFFICO the accumulated funds released by the Bank (para 1.6 above).
2.2   It is important to stress that ZAFFICO's relationship with the Bank remained warm throughout
the project life. In fact, it can be claimed that it became warmer during the suspension. It is largely
because of this that both ZAFFICO and ZIMCO went along with the Bank's proposal for the
engagement of AMSCO, even though this was not subjected to competitive bidding and in
ZAFFICO/ZIMCO view, AMSCO's tract record did not ensure fair value for money. ZAFFICO felt
let down when subsequently the Bank stood aside as ZAFFICO and AMSCO disagreed on draft
Management Contract and, as a last straw, denied a third extension. In this context, a wrong
impression has been created by the draft PCR at Table 6(c) concerning the AMSCO study. The
August 1993 AMSCO study was unacceptable, as it contained no financial projections. The
subsequent revised draft did not meet the minimum targets previously set by the Board of Directors,



- 15 -
consequently, it did not receive Board approval. As ZAFFICO management was concerned, the
AMSCO one-man team was given all the facilities requested.
3. Project Documentation and Data
3.1   It was true that the improvement in systematic project information system did not develop
during the project period. Management could not overcome the inadequate computer facilities and
shortage of professional personnel after suspension of funding by the Bank. However, action has
since been taken to install a fully fledged computerization program both at centre and all operational
areas. To this extent, a dozen PCs have been purchased from own resources and the first training
workshop for staff has just been completed.
3.2   The contention in the draft Implementation Completion Report that the accounts of the
Corporation were not timely audited is not correct. It may be observed from records that external
auditors were engaged every year within 45 days of the annual closing of accounts and Annual
General Meetings held to adopt the audited accounts within the stipulated time.
4. Conclusion
4.1   In the face of the problems identified in the draft PCR and those referred to above in this
letter, and considering the highly volatile economic environment in the country since project
initiation, including changing foreign exchange regimes, high inflation rates, the assessed financial
and economic rates of return, at 18% and 14%, respectively, must be considered the project's success
point.



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
(CREDIT 1437-ZA)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans
Project Title    Purpose          j Year of       Status        Remarks
l                         t ~~~~~~~Agreement
Industrial       To establish about  1968         Completed    The project planted
Forestry         16,000 ha of pine                in 1976       about 11,500 ha of
Plantations      and eucalyptus                                 pine and 4,500 ha of
Project -        plantations                                    eucalyptus
Phase I -
Loan 512-ZA
Industrial       To establish about  1977         Completed    Established 17,000 ha
Forestry         17,500 ha of pine                in 1982       of pine and 3,500 ha
Plantations      and eucalyptus                                 of pine on top of
Project -        and expand                                    improving logging and
Phase II - Loan   logging and                                   processing of timber
1424-ZA         sawmilling



- 17 -
Table 2. Project Timetable
Item| Planned Date                                      Revised Date                 Actual Date
Appraisal               October 11-                                                 October 11-November
November 3, 1982                                            3, 1982
Negotiations            June 6, 1983                    September 19-23, 1983    September 19-23, 1983
Board Approval          September 27, 1983              October 25, 1983            January 10, 1984
December 15, 1983
January 1, 1984
Credit Signature        March 16, 1984                                              March 16, 1984
Credit Effectiveness   September 12, 1984                                            September 12, 1984
Credit Closing          September 30, 1991              September 30, 1992          September 30, 1993
September 30, 1993
Table 3.  Credit Disbursement
FISCAL YEARS
1984   1985   1986    1987    1988    1989    19901 1991     1992   11993    194
Appraisal
estimate           1 20    4.90    11.90   15.70   18.70   21.50   22.40      -        -        -
cumulative
(USS millions)
Actual
Cumulative          -      1.77    5.83    6.70    7.74    7.75    7.77    18.31    20.03    21.13   23.03-d
(USS millions)
Actul as   of       0       36      49       42      41      36      35       81       -        -
Estimates
d At applicable exchange rates of SDR to US Dollars, actual as % of estimates is considered inapplicable beyond 1991 due to variations in
exchange rate.



- 18 -
Table 4. Project Implementation                                     (2 pages)
Indicator                           Unit         Appraisal     Actal                    Remarks
I Estimates
Afforestation Progr-mme
Planting                           ha            1.500         Nil      No new planting of Pine or Eucalyptus -
Eucalyptus coppiced
Repltnting                         ha            3,800        4,775     Only pine - Poor standard - weeding &
naintenance sub-standard
Management of foresu               ha            45,000        n.a.     Silviculture & thinnings neglected
Nursery                            eedlings    5.4 million   5.6 million   Nursery stock not always satisfactory
Fire breaks                        km              35          nil      New breaks not made - No funds
Fire towers                        No.             I           nil      No funds
Logging and Transportao
Power saw                          No.            188          180      Up to 80% felling done by contnetors with axes
- poor conversion
Wheel tractor                      No.             11           16
Skidder                            No.             3            1      I
Loader                             No.             2            14        Poor maintenance of machinery
and lack of spares and funds
Trucks                             No.             10           18     i  caused switch to axe felling and
I   oxen extraction
Road grader                        No.             2            2      1
Sawi-Ding
Inprovemrent of mnills             No.             3            3       No lasting imnprovement to log handling mnade.
Establishment of new mills         No.             I            I       The new mill which was comamisioned in 1988
was completely burned in 1992 and is now being
replaced.
Workshop Improvemet
Inprovement of workshop            No.             2            2       Little improvement at Kafubu and
Dola Hill
2 Mobile workshops equipped & operating
Establishment of new  workshop     No.             I            0       The project established only the workshop
building at Kalibu. No
equipment provided.



- 19 -
Table 4. Project Implementation                                       (2 pages)
Indicator                             Unit        Appraisal      Actual                    Remarks
I            EstiimatesI
Technical Assiace
Long-term                           man/years       38           40        ) Includes 6 man year. by   FINNIDA.
Short-term                          man/            76           72        | Mainly by ILO.
months
Traning
Buc. Engineering                    Staff/year      25            1        Person did not complete
Wood Tech. & Saw Doctoring          Staff/year       16          n.a.
Accountancy Busineu Adm. &          safflyear       16            1        Person did not conplete
Marketing
Marketing, mechanical               short                         87       Various short courses
purchasing, sawmilling, logging,    course        Sum
product., etc.                       No.
Project Administration
Passenger cars                      No.              12          26
4-WD vehicles                       No.              2            9
Passenger bus                       No.              1            5
Micro-computer                      No.              I            I
Increase in Log/Timber Output
Logging                             m'/year     177,000       Av. 203,000 m' felled
121,000 m' transpored/yr over 10 yrs.
Timber (sawn)                       m'/year      52,000       Av. 30,000 m'/ yr
Poles                                m/year       4,000       5,000-00,0 rd tr nsmission, telephone & small poles.



- 20 -
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Items                                       Appraisal Estimate                Actual      Actual as %
Estimates
Local          F.E.          Total
l____________.                           .................... (US$'000) ...... ...........     (%)
A. Afforestation
Planting estab. & replanting           628           437           1,065        2,940          276
Nursery                                124            84            209          819           392
Fire prot. & silviculture mgt.         387         1,909          2,296         3,558          155
Sub-total Afforestation              1,139         2,431          3,570        7,316           205
B. Logging & Transportation          1,372         4,070          5,442        33,123          609
Improvement
C. Sawmilling Programme              2,077        11,421          13,498       44,959          333
D. Workshop Inprovement                149           566            715         1,828          256
E. Technical Assistance                280         2,935          3,215         3,032           94
F. Training                            404         1,405           1,809        3,521          195
G. Detailed Engineering                 -            450            450           -             -
H. Project Admninistration              83           253             336        2,785          829
I. Construction of Houses              -              -               -        10,056           -
Price and Physical                   4,681         8,813          13,494          -             -
Contingencies
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  10,190         32,344         42,529      106,620          251
B. Financing
Source                   IPlanned                                Actual
(US$ million)       (% of Total)    (US$ million)  I (% of Total)
ZAFFICO               10.13                  24             67.2                 63
IDA                   22.40                  53             18.00                 17
FINNIDA W             10.00                  24             21.42                 20
Total                42.53 F'                100          106.62 F               100
' Total FINNIDA expenditures have been FIM 82 million for the period 1984-88 and FIM 21 million for the period 1989-92. Since no
detail on annual cosu was available, the above costu have been converted into USS using an average exchange rate of FIM 4.97 and FIM
4.27 for the periods 1984-88 and 1989-92, respectively.
F While the costs indicated under planned refer to incremental costs, ihose under actual consist of total ZAFFICO costs and include new
components, such as the cost of housing for over USS 10 million.



- 21 -
Table 6. Project Results
A. Economic Impact
Item                          I    Appraisal Estimate    I      ICR Estimate
Economic rate of return                  25%                         14
B. Financial Impact
Item                         I    Appraisal Estimate    I       ICR Estimate
Financial rate of return                 24%                         18



- 22 -
Table 6. Project Results
C. Studies                               (2 pages)
Type of Study    |        Purpose                   Status        |Irnpact/Remarks
A. Envisaged under the project
5 year wood harvesting  Planned management of   Inventory done in 1986    Revealed manage-
and processing plan   resources                but no follow up of      ment's uncertainty
continuous inventory    of the state of the
resource
Silvicultural Research    Optimum productivity  Not done.
Programme &           through the best thinning
Silvicultural         schedule.
Management Plan
B. Additional Studies
ZAFFICO - Ox          To minimize dependence   Study completed in May   Logging by ox
logging efficiency    on mechanized logging     1989 and accepted by   pairs used
study at Kafubu                                ZAFFICO                 intensively
ZAFFICO - labour      To reveal what level of    Study completed in    Action taken to
utilization and sawmill  sawnwood production is    November 1989 and    improve efficiency
efficiency at Dola Hill  satisfactory          provided
recommendations to
improve efficiency
ZAFFICO - An          Review the current state   Study completed in May   Recommended
investigation into hand   of poor weeding due to    1990 and gave      actions have yet to
and Mechanical        inadequate labour and    disturbing state of     be adopted.
Weeding at Chichele   machinery                weeding
ZAFFICO -             To compare oxen          Study completed in June  No follow-up.
Assessment of         skidding with mechanized   1990 and revealed pros
oxenisation           skidders                 and cons for the two
effectiveness at Kafubu                        systems
ZAFFICO - An          Assess costs to fell,    Study completed in      The Corporation
investigation into    extract and deliver      March 1991 and          opted for increased
current logging       sawlogs to mill          provided a comparison    piece work system.
practices in Chichele                           of piece work to time
work
ZAFFICO - A report    Assessment of newly      Study completed in May   Recommended
on logging machine    acquired boom loaders     1991 and showed the    actions have yet to
utilization study at  and trucks to establish  faults in the logging   be adopted
Kafubu                their productivity       system and remedies
required to put right



- 23 -
Table 6. Project Results
C. Studies                               (2 pages)
Type of Study             Purpose                  Status        | Impact/Remarks
A. Envisaged under the project
ZAFFICO - Research    To determine why         Study completed in     Management have
on Eucalyptus coppice   coppice poles are of such   December 1992 and  not heeded the
crop performance      poor quality for         gave poor silviculture  warnings
transmission poles      and care of plantations
as reasons for poor
results
FINNIDA/CTS -         Recommendation for       Report completed in     Mill constructed
Feasibility Study on the  most suitable replacement  December 1992 and  and due to begin
New Sawmill at        mill for the burned mills   accepted by ZAFFICO    March 1994
Kafubu                in June 1992
ZAFFICO - Sawlog      Comparison of methods    Study completed in     Management
waste arising from use   used to fell trees and  February 1993        Planning to
of axes instead of    report on comparative                            incorporate
chainsaws             logging waste                                    methods for
reducing wastage
Nordic Consulting     Study commissioned by    Study completed in     Highlighted that
Group (NCG) -         the Zambia Privatization   April 1993. Privatization  privatization be
ZAFFICO Company       Agency (ZPA) to indicate  presently timed for   expedited to
Privatization Study   options for divestiture  Tranche 8 or about 5    prevent
of ZAFFICO              years time from now     deterioration of
resource and plant
African Management    Corporation's recovery   Study completed in      Study highlighted
Services Company      by planning sustainable    August 1993, but stalled  need for urgent
(AMSCO) - ZAFFICO   exploitation of forest     by ZAFFICO             action required to
Corporate Recovery    resource                 management.            rescue ZAFFICO
Plan                                           Arrangement in
abeyance
ZAFFICO - Capacity    Assess the performance    Study completed in     Management
assessment of small   of the portable mills    September 1993.        substituting the
mills                                          Productivity and        portable mills to
limitations of the mills   boost production.
investigated



- 24 -
Table 7. Status of Major Covenants
Agree-    Section       Original Date    Description of         Status
ment                                     Covenant
Credit    3.01(b) (i)    not specified   Govt. will pass on to  A balance of about SDR 1.0
ZAFFICO as equity the  million still to be given to
first SDR 9.6 million    ZAFFICO as equity
withdrawn under the
credit
Project    4.02(a)      End of each      Submission of audited    Complied with, but with
fiscal year     financial statements   delays
(b)        End of each      Submission of audited    Not complied with
fiscal year     report on SOE, Special  timely
Account
4.05          9/91             Debt to equity ratio to   Not complied with
be 1:4



- 25 -
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
State of Project Cycle                        Inputs                           Remarks
(Staff-weeks)
Through appraisal                              43.2
Through negotiations                            14.0
Supervision                                    133.8
B. Missions
State of Project       Month/        No. of       Days in   Specialization                  Ratings
Cyde                   Year          Persons      Field    represented!'
Avail.   Proj.     Dev.      Status
funds    Mngt.    Inpact   Y
Preparation '          02/82         3            75        E,LS,M           -        -         -          -
Appraisal              10-11/82      6            132       E,E,FO,FO,       -        -         -
Fl,FI
Supervision 1          04/84         2            16        FO,T             -        -         -          -
Supervision 2          10/84         1            10        FO               -        -         -         -
Supervision 3          02/85         3            12        E,MA,MAY'        -        -         -         -
Supervision 4          05/85         1            6         FO               -        -         -          3
Supervision 5          10/85         1            6         E                3        3         2          3
Supervision 6          03/86         4            52        FI,FO,FO,MA    3          3         2          3
Supervision 7          12/86         1            8         Fl               3        2         2          3
Supervision 8          06/87         2            16        Fl,FI            3        3         2          3
Supervision 9          11/87         2            24        Fl,FO            3        3         3          3
Supervision 10         04/88         2            12        Fl,T             3        2         2          2
Supervision 11         11/88         2            20        Fl,FO            3        2         3          3
Supervision 12         07/89         1            7         Fl               3        2         3          3
Supervision 13         07/91         1            -         Fl               2        2         2          2
Supervision 14         02-03/92      3            48        Fl,FO,MA         2        3         2          2
Supervision 15         08-09/92      1            22        FO               -        -         -          -
Supervision 16         09/93         1            10        Fl               -        -         -          -
f E = Economidt; LS   Logging/Sawmilling Specialist; M = Marketing Specialist; FO   Foresry Specialist; Fl 3 Financial Analyst;
MA - Management Specialist; T  Training Specialist.
Y I = Problem free or minor problem; 2 = moderate problem; 3 = major problems.
P Preparation carried out by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme.
F From FINNIDA.



- 26 -
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
ANNEX 1
PROJECT COST TABLES AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



Table 1. Total Project Costs by Component in K'OOO
Component       |  84/85       85/86       86/87        87/88        88/89        89/90        90/91          91/92          92/93          93/94          Total
A. Afforestation
. Plantation,        387.0      1,143.1     1,649.8      921.0        1,808.4      2,600.6      18,805.8      35,025.6       24,729.4       86,477.2       173,547.9
replanting
N Nursery            153.9       198.1       657.0       1,067.7       489.9        999.8       3,562.9       5,049.5        10,832.0        20,328.9      43,339.7
Fire               395.9       245.0      3,190.1       793.9       1,020.9     15,286.5      13,764.4      21,895.6       58,964.7       108,073.8      223,630.8
protection
Sub-total          936.8      1,586.2    5,496.9       2,782.6      3,319.2      18,886.9    36,133.1       61,970.7       94,526.1       214,879.9      440,518.4
Afforestation
S. Logging S          364.1    5,889.1       11,485.8    28,564.4    28,191.3    99,869.2    120,731.7    428,585.2           485,597.7      389,962.2    1,599,240.7
Transportation
C. Sauailling        1,066.1    4,240.9      13,337.1    26,187.3    70,407.6    33,657.4        86,265.5    1,203,241.2      544,407.5      553,589.6    2,536,400.2
Progri_
D. workshop             -         335.0      1,973.9       680.1       2,069.0      2,990.2      10,291.4      11,858.3        29,620.1       40,431.5      100,789.5        1
IqWovvemnt
E. Technical          260.1       996.7      3,581.4      4,327.6      4,923.0      5,399.9      8,899.9       13,395.4           -               -          41,784.0
Assistance
F. Training           119.9       385.9      1,362.2      3,711.6      6,053.2      7,867.7      19,829.2      19,000.5       40,348.8        61,303.7      159,982.7
Progr
6. Detailed J                       .           .            .            .                                        .              -               -              -
EngineeringW
H. Project            252.0       497.0       679.6       2,479.4      3,929.2      7,119.5      19,669.7      3,172.97       50,698.6        15,846.6      104,344.5
Adeinistration
. Houses'        218.2          -           -          32.9        494.8       127,208.2      258.0            -              -              -        128,212.1
TOTAL COSTS          3,217.2   13,930.8   37,916.9    68,765.9    119,927.3   302,999.0    302,078.5   1,741,224.2   1,245,196.8   1,276,013.5   5,111,272.1
Source: ZAFFICO.
N Ho details available.          Y  An added cowponent.
(x
Ml



Table 2. Project Investment Costs by Conponent in K'OOO
Coponent               4/8        85/86   1  86/87       a87/         88/9   1   89/90         90/m          91/92           m2J3         93/94          Total
A. Afforestation
. Reptanting          179.0      198.1       319.0       174.2       246.6        434.7        747.9        2,296.4        4,770.2        33,730.6      43,096.7
N Nursery             14.0        29.0       378.1       863.2        22.2        41.3         43.5          61.7           86.1            90.6         1,629.7
. Fire protection    388.0       223.0      3,020.7      341.4          -       11,501.6                       -              -              -          15,474.7
Sub-total               581.0     450.1.0    3,717.8    1,378.8    268.8.4    11,977.6           791.41       2,358.1        4,856.3        33,821.2      60,201.1
Afforestation
S. Loggirg &            31.0      4,392.9    4,571.3    10,306.2   1,607.85    3,613.3           449.3        62,526.3        103.3         26,939.2      114,540.6
Transportation
C. SausilIing           926.0     3,292.1    12,007.0   21,529.8   61,545.6    14,877.6         6,560.4    1,098,207.6       83,917.9           *        1,302,864.0
Progr_e
D. Workshop               -        215.2       1,733.8        -        1,319.3        -            .                             -                         3,268.3
lwoprveent
E. Technicat            260.1      996.7      3,581.4    4,327.7    4,923.0        5,399.9      8,899.9       13,395.4          -               -          41,784.1       oo
Assistance                                                                                                                                                             I
F. Training             119.9      385.9       1,082.6    2,811.0    3,573.2       3,132.1      2,809.1       1,549.4         637.2          452.7         16,553.1
Progra
G. Detaited               -           -           .           -           -                        -              -              -                             -
Engineering '
H. Project              172.0      352.0       441.7      2,074.9    3,284.7       6,260.4      18,472.4      1,586.5        47,650.5       14,624.1       94,919.2
Administration
. Houses  b/         218.2        -            -         32.9       494.8      127,208.2      258.0           -              -              -          128,212.1
TOTAL INVESTMENT       2,308.2   10,084.9   27,135.6   42,461.3   77,017.2   172,469.1    38,240.5    1,179.623.3    137,165.3              75,837.2     1,762,342.6
COSTS
Source: ZAFFICO.
N No details avaitabte.
An added component.
N >
z
fD M
x
co
-h
MI ~-



Table 3. Project Operating Costs by Component in K'OOO
Cofporent                84/    |  85/86      86/87       8 87/   |  88/89        89/90   |   90/91        91/92         92/93         93/94          Total
A. Afforestation
. Reptanting             208.0    945.0      1,330.8      746.8     1,561.8     2,165.9      18,057.9    32,729.2      19,959.1      52,746.5      130,451.0
N Hursery                140.0    169.1       278.9       204.5      467.7       958.5       3,519.4      4,987.8      10,745.9      20,238.4       41,710.2
. Fire protection         7.9       21.9      169.3      452.5      1,020.9     3,784.9      13,764.5    21,895.6      58,964.7      108,073.8     208,156.0
Sub-total Afforestation    355.9   1,136.0    1,779.0    1,403.8    3,050.4       6,909.3      35,341.8    59,612.6      89,669.7      181,058.7     380,317.2
B. Logging *               333.1   1,496.1    6,914.6    18,258.3   26,583.5    96,255.9    120,282.4   366,058.9    485,494.4         363,023.0    1,484,700.2
Transportaticn
C. Saunilling Progra_      140.2    948.8      1,330.1    4,657.5    8,862.0    18,779.8    79,705.1    105,033.6    460,489.5         553,589.7    1,233,536.3
D. workshop Improvement      -       119.8      240.2       680.1      1,289.7     2,990.2     10,291.4    11,858.3      29,602.1       40,431.5      97,521.3
E. Tecdnical Assistance                .                                  -           -           .
F. Training Progr_m          -                  279.6       900.5     2,480.0     4,735.6      17,020.0    17,451.1      39,711.6      60,850.9      143,429.3
G. Detailed Engineeringr     -         -          -           -           -                       -            -             -             -              .
H. Project                  80.0     145.0      238.0       404.5      644.4       859.1       1,197.3      1,586.5       3,048.1       1,222.5       9,425.4
Administration
. Houses                                         -         -           -
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS      909.2   3,845.7   10,781.5   26,304.7   42,910.0   130,529.9    265,838.0   561,601.0   1,108,033.5   1,200,176.2   3,348,929.7
Source: ZAFFICO.
W No details available.
0
001



T-ble 4.  Total Project Costs by Conent in USS'OOO
Cm onn nt                       J 84/U85  1  85/86  |  86/87   |87/8 |   8m89             89/90         90/91   | 919           92/93        93/94       Total
A. Afforest tion
. Plantation, replanting         216.2     421.8       226.0      103.6        220.0        201.6        648.7      567.4        143.6        191.0      2,939.9
M Nursery                         86.0       73.1       90.0      120.1         59.6         77.5        122.9       81.8         62.9         44.9        818.8
. Fire protection                221.2       90.4      437.0        89.3       124.2      1,185.0        474.8      354.7        342.4        238.7      3.557.7
Sub-total Afforestation          5Z3.4      585.3      753.0      313.0        403.8      1,464.1      1,246.4     1,003.9       548.9        474.6      7.316.4
3.  Loing &                      203.4    2,173.1    1,573.4    3,213.1      3,429.6      7,741.8      4,164.6     6,942.9      2,819.8       861.3      33,123.0
Tr.nportation
C. Sammillirg Prograie           573.2   1,402.2    1,763.3    2,879.1       8,440.9      2,523.6      2,902.2    19,391.5      3,161.3     1,222.7      44,260.0
Sawmilling Processing          22.4      162.7       63.7        66.6       124.5         85.5         73.5       100.5         -            -           699.4
D. Workehap Iqrvemnt               -        123.6      270.4        76.5       317.4         231.8       355.0       192.1        172.0        89.3       1,828.1
E. Technical Assistance          145.3      367.8      490.6      486.8        598.9        418.6        307.0       217.0          -           -        3,032.0
F.  Training Programme            67.0      142.4      186.6      417.5        736.4        609.9        684.0       307.8       234.3        135.4      3,521.3
G. Detailed Engineering            . -        -          -          -                        -            -            -                                                o
H.  Project Administration       140.8      183.4       93.1      278.9        478.0        551.9        678.5        51.4       294.4         35.0      2,785.4
HoNws '                      121.9       -           -          3.7         60.2      9,861.1          8.9                -                 -        10,055.8
TOTAL COSTS:                    1.797:    5.140.5    5.194.1   7.735.        14.589.7    23.488.3    10420.1    28.207.1           7230.7         3 214
Source: ZAFFICO.
N o details available.
Y An added component.
C
OD



Table 5.  Project Investment Costs by Companent in USS'000
Component                 84/85       85/86      86/87       87/88       88/89        89/90        90/91       91/92   |  92/93         93/94   |  Total
A. Afforestation
. RepLanting                100.0       73.1        43.7        19.6        30.0         33.7        25.8        37.2         27.7         74.5       465.3
N Nursery                     7.8       10.7        51.8        97.1         2.7          3.2         1.5         1.0         0.5           0.2       176.5
. Fire protection           216.8       82.3       413.8        38.4          -         891.6          -           -            -           -        1,642.9
Sub-ttat Afforestatimn      324.6      166.1       509.3       155.1        32.7        928.5        27.3         38.2        28.2         74.7      2,284.7
S. Lainig &                  17.3    1,621.0       626.2      1,159.3       195.6       280.1        15.5       1,012.9        0.6         59.5      4,968.0
Trw nortation
C. Smtillinr Programe    517.3        1,214.8    1,644.8      2,421.8      7,487.3     1,153.3       226.3      17,790.5      487.3         -       32,943.4
0. Vorkhpolopwovee ent        -          79.4      237.5         -          160.5         -            -           -            -           -         477.4
E. Tedwiical Assistance    145.3        367.8      490.6       486.8        598.9       418.6        307.0       217.0          -           -        3,032.0
F.  Training Progra_         67.0       142.4      148.3       316.2        434.7       242.8        96.9        25.1         3.7           1.0      1,478.1
G. Detailed                   -           -          -           -            -           -            -           -            .           .
Enginei,t
H.  Project                  96.1       129.9       60.5       233.4        399.6       485.3       637.2        25.7         276.7        32.3      2,376.7
Administration
. Houses u'                 121.9         -          -          3.7         60.2      9,861.1        8.9           -            -           -      10,055.8
TOTAL INWSTIENT COSTS      1,289.5    3,721.4    3,717.2      4,776.3      9,369.5   13,369.7       1,319.1    19,109.4       796.5       167.5    57,636.1
Source: ZAFFIWO.
N No details available.
Y An added component.
m
0n
0



Table 6.   Project Operating Costs by Coqponent in UIiOOO
C                       |t   mS    |  85/86        86/57   |     7/88       mm89         a9/9   9I/9               1     99    I  /95   1   93/94        Total
A. Afforestation
. Replanting                 116.2       348.7       182.3        84.0        190.0        167.9        622.9        530.2        115.9       116.5       2,474.6
N Nursery                      78.2       62.4       38.2         23.0         56.9        74.32        121.4        80.8         62.4         44.7        642.3
. Fire protection             4.4         8.1        23.2         50.9        124.2        293.4        474.8        354.7       342.4        238.7      1,914.8
Sub-total Afforestation       196.8      419.2       243.7        157.9       371.1        535.6       1,219.1       965.7        520.7       399.9      5,031.7
B.  Logging &                186.1      552.1        947.2      2,053.8      3,234.0      7,461.7      4,149.1      5,930.0      2,819.2      801.8      28,135.0
Transportation
C. Saumilling Progra_e        78.3       350.1       182.2        523.9      1,078.1      1,455.8      2,749.4      1,701.5      2,674.0      1,222.7   12,016.0
0.  Workshop Iqw oven& t        -         44.2        32.9        76.5         156.9       231.8        355.0        192.1        172.0        89.3       1,350.7
E.  Technical Assistance        -                                               -            -            -            -            -            -           -
F.  Training Progrmae          -           -         38.3         101.3       301.7        367.1        587.1        282.7       230.6        134.4      2,043.2   |
G. Detailed                     -          -           -            -           -            -                                                                     |  r 
EngineeringW
H. Project                    44.7        53.5       32.6         45.5         78.4         66.6        41.3         25.7         17.7         2.7         408.7
Adeinistration
. Houses                       .           .           .                        -                               -                               -          -
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS        507.9      1,419.1    1,476.9      2,958.9      5,220.2    10,118.6       9,101.0      9,097.7      6,434.2     2,650.8   48,985.3
Source: ZAFFICO.
W No details available.
0



Table 7. Sunmary of Balance Sheets for Year Ending March 31
196          15           966         1967          1Y88          19           1             1991          1992          1993
.                                                 ([000).
Fixed Assets                       72,721       79,756       94,242       141,232       165,339      166,844      450,422       541,551        990,437     2,009,139
Current Assets                      6,088        7,447       16,508        26,286        52,631       61,808      110,898       208,503        691,426     1,779,639
Current Liabilities                 6,838        11,426      15,206        11,180        21,817       29,568      170,986       343,208        429,546        759,013
Net Current Assets                  (750)       (3,979)       1,302        15,106        30,814       32,240       (60,088)    (134,705)       261,880    1,020,626
Total Net Assets                   71,971       75,777       95,544       156,338       196,153      199,084      390,334       406,846      1,252,317    3,029,765
Financed by:
. SharehoLder's Fund               66,904       67,670       71,686       72,985       128,963       142,820       65,252        85,252        235,461       368,019
. Long-term Loans                   5,067        8,107       23,858       83,353        67,190        56,264      325,082      321,594       1,015,856     2,661,746
and others
|iTotat Capitat Emtpoyed            71_971   ~7E.m            9_5.544      156_338       196_153   ~199.084        390_334       406_846      1.~252.31~7    3.2765w
Source:  ZAFFICO.
OQ z
Oq m
0
X  I



Table 8.  Sunmary of Pnrfit and L1s Accounts - Quarter Ended Mard  31
1964          1985      196           1 l97    I    19 I8  199                     19M      1    1991           1992           1993
r ~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . ..                     ...... .............  (K    ,O              . .. . ..... ........... .. ...... ...... ..............
Total Sales                         6,337         7,458        15,346        27,342        50,668        78,257       177,046       331,134        691,232       1,774,770
Costs of Goods Sold                  n.a.          n.a.        7,763         14,159        31,538        54,625       110,065       220,411        390,584       1,138,738
Gross Profit                                                   7,583         13,183        19,132        23,632        66,981        160,723       300,648        636,032
Total Expenses                                                 5,348         5,768         13,805        23,549        (52,568)      130,036       285,473        654,298
Profit/Loss SawmiLling               n.a.          n.a.       (4,320)        4,555          5,327            83         14,413        22,687         15,175         (18,266)
Profit/Loss Plantations              n.a.          n.a.       (2,085)       (4,565)         1,237         1,391            217       (4,866)          1,834          7,769
Won Operating Income                 n.a.          n.a.           266         1,309         6,888         9,703         13,703        16,191         23,107         83,036
Profit Before Tax                    n.a.          n.a.       (1,819)        1,299         10,978        11,177        28,333        34,012         40,116          72,539
Taxation                                                                        -                                                     8 500                         .1279
Profit After Tax                     403           766        (1.819)          ..1 299                       .        . 125i512                      40i116 .71260
Source: ZAFFICO.
Q WZ
D M
X
oo



- 35 -
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
ANNEX 2
OUTPUT OF WOOD PRODUCTS AND ROUNDWOOD INPUTS



- 36 -                                  ANNEX       2
Page 1 of 8
OUIPUT OF WOOD PRODUCTIS AND ROUNDWOOD INPUTS
Production of Sawn Timber
4.2   The pre-project output of all mills was 20,400m3. Annual sawmilling production was expected
to increase to 52,500m3/yr by 1986. Recovery was planned to be 40 - 45%, 35% and 37% in Kafubu,
Dola Hill and Kalibu mills, respectively. During implementation, production rose to a peak of
46,100m3 in 1989/90 and declined since (Table 1). The disastrous fire at Kafubu, effectively reduced
Zaffico's rated sawmill output capacity from 82,000m3 per year to 29,000m3 per year. At all mills,
log handling and waste disposal was supposed to have been improved by means of overhead cranes
and /or hard standing around the mill sites. Instead, wheeled loaders continue to handle logs, poles,
sawnwood and waste, turning the mills into a morass of mud in the rainy season and reducing
productivity. Sawlogs supplied to the mills have been generally below expectations in diameter size
and quality. The sawnwood sizes cut vary in thickness from 19mm - 75mm, in width from 38mm -
200mm and length from 3m - 6.2m. The most popular sales have been 50mm thickness, 125mm width
and 4.5m length. Sawn timber recovery from logs is about 35% overall for all mills.
4.3   The circular (NUKOR) mill, newly constructed at Kafubu, to replace the burned mills has a
rated capacity 20,000m3 per year. It is expected to begin production in 1994 and would build up to a
peak by 1996/97. Rehabilitation of the Kalibu mill, currently underway, and Dola Hill mill would
increase Ndola group production to 37,000m3 per year by year 2000. Rehabilitation of the mills
should include improvement of log/wood handling by cranes/hard standing to ensure smooth flows of
products at all times.
4.4   Wood supplies and mill locations are currently unbalanced. There will be a shortage of pine
sawlogs in Kafubu group for the next 5 years, necessitating an increase in eucalyptus sawing to fill
the gap and using the new circular sawmill at Kafubu. In Ndola there will be an adequate supply of
pine sawlogs for the next 10 years, provided silvicultural thinnings and fire protection are assured. It
is planned to kiln dry 60% of sawnwood production in the recently installed kilns, reducing drying
time from 4 months to two weeks.
Pole Production
4.5   The preproject output was 4,000m3. Production was to increase to 15,000m3 per year by
project year 3 and remain at that level thereafter. During implementation, however, production
fluctuated with the supply of treatment chemicals but reached a peak with 1 1,000m3 in 1991/92 (Table
1). Treated pole production is all concentrated at Kafubu and dimension of major products are as
given below.
Transmission lengths from   9 m to 16 m   and top dia.   12.5 - 17.5 cm
.Telephone                7 m to 12 m   and top dia    9 - 12.5 cm
Poles/posts              1.5m to 4.5m  and top dia    2 - 15 cm



ANNEX      2
- 37 -                                   Page 2 of 8
4.6    A steady increase of production of transmission and telephone poles is forecast from 10,000m3
in 1994/95 to 15,000m3 in year 2001 (Table 1). These poles require the top quality trees and are
generally selected by creaming off the eucalyptus crop before clearfelling. Concern is being expressed
about adequate supplies of quality poles in the next 4 years. Proper silviculture and replanting of
eucalyptus is needed now to ensure future supplies. Recovery of pole from tree is about 50% by
volume. Poles and posts can be produced to fill the capacity of the treatment plants and would require
extra capacity after 1997. Raw material is in plentiful supply.
4.7   At appraisal untreated roundwood was expected to consist of:
Mining timber        25,000m3
Eucalyptus roundwood
Pine roundwood       } 9,00Om3
Match billets
Mining timber is eucalyptus smelter poles 6m - 9m length and 45 - 56cm butt diameter. Supply has
fluctuated but has been around 12 - 15,000m3 per year. Size and soundness is required, not quality,
for these poles. They are the logs remaining after selecting transmission poles, telephone poles and
sawlogs. Eucalyptus roundwood is sold to sawmillers and plywood manufacturers on the Copperbelt
(Kitwe). Up to 6,000m3 a year has been supplied. For peeling large logs are required. Pine
roundwood is sold to furniture manufacturers and these are thinnings or residues from clearfelling.
About 4,000m'/year has been sold. However in 1992/93 some 23,400m3 of pine logs were sold to
other sawmills because of the loss of the Zaffico mills to fire. Match billets requiring short length and
large diameter logs are sold at about 4,000m3 per year.
4.8   Future production of smelter poles are likely to remain at 15,000m3 per year. The demand for
eucalyptus and pine roundwood is likely to increase towards the end of the century as more private
sawmills expand. The forest should be producing sawlogs from 3rd thinnings which will become
available if proper silviculture is carried out. According to the Forestry Department, private
sawmillers in Ndola and Kitwe produced 20,000m3 from plantation logs in 1991, and are said to have
produced 42,000m3 in 1993. The private millers plan to increase this amount pending availability of
raw material. The match producers will likely increase their production gradually from 5,000m3 per
year to 7,000m3 per year by the year 2000 (Table 2).
Sawmill Capacity
4.9   Kafubu group draw roundwood from Chati, Lamba and Ichimpe plantations, 21,591 ha, while
Kalibu and Dola Hill draw roundwood from Ndola plantations, 19,417 ha.



- 38 -                                   ANNEX        2
Page 3 of 8
Type of mill              Rated capacity 1992    Rated capacity  1994 -    Remarks
before price damage    2002
. ............ .......... '000m3 .
KAFUBU / KITE Group
Frame                        35.0                                       Destroyed in fire June
1992
Metex                        18.0                    -                  Destroyed in fire June
1992
Circular                     4.5                     4.0
Kara (5)                    (10.0)                                      Borrowed from Forest
Dept. after fire
damage
Circular (NUKOR)                                    20.0                Due to begin March
1994
KALIBU / NDOLA Group
Kalibu                      25.0                    25.0
Dola Hill                    6.5                     6.0
Other mil                                            6.0
Total                       89.0                    61.0
The sawnwood demand is expected to be about 75,000m3 in 1994/5 and rising to 85,000m3 per year
by 1999/2000. Thus capacity limitations will be felt soon in the country, unless the private sector is
involved in sawmilling on sustainable basis.
Raw Material Supply and Plantations Sustainability
4.10   Inadequate plantation maintenance and failure to implement thinning regimes together with
erratic annual plantings and poor silviculture have created imbalanced plantations with poor stem
quality and the associated risk of supply shortages and/ or interruption in future years. Wild fires
have killed large areas of the plantations and over 2,000 ha of the eucalypt working circle have been
coppiced without subsequent management being implemented.
4.11   The potential gross growth rates for pine and eucalyptus have been calculated as 20m3 per ha
per year and 30m3 per ha per year, respectively when all silvicultural prescriptions have been
followed. These prescriptions have been laid down after many years of research work and practical
plantation implementation. In a bid to save current expenditure, the silviculture has been neglected.
As a result, incremental growth of many plantations are estimated to be below 12m3 per ha per year
and 18m3 per ha per year for pine and eucalyptus respectively. The plantation area is approximately
50,000 ha of which pine is 40,000 ha and eucalyptus 10,000 ha. The rotation is 25 years for pine and
12 years for eucalyptus. The theoretical annual area and the potential annual gross yield is:
pine          40,000 ha x 20m3 or 800,000 m3 per year Annual coupe 1600 ha
eucalyptus    10,000 ha x 30m3 or 300,000 ml per year Annual coupe 833 ha
total         1,100,000m3 per year



ANNE X     2
- 39 -                                 Page 4 of 8
Because thinnings have been delayed or not done there is little production of sawlogs from 2nd or 3rd
thinnings - and more seriously the diameter increment for 25 year old clearfelling trees is
considerably reduced from expectations. Sawlog volumes from clearfelling should be some 175m3 per
ha or more at 25 years or in excess of 50% of total clearfell volume. Instead, they vary between 60
and lOOm3 per ha. As a result the sawlog volumes available for the next 5 to 10 years will be
unbalanced from the expectation.
4.12  The location of mills and the transport distance from plantation to mill will also have a
bearing on the log supply
Sawlogs
(i) At Kafubu group there will be a potential mill capacity for 24,000m3 sawnwood output or
a 69,000m3 per log input, but available pine logs from Kafubu group for 5 years 1994 - 1998
will be only about 40,000m' per year of a gross felling of 200,000m3. The remaining
10,000m3 of output will come from eucalyptus working circle. After 1998 the pine log
position will improve to give higher quality sawlog yields per ha from thinned stands and
increased areas - some 80,000 to l00,000m3 from a gross volume of 500,000m' per year
(Table 3).
(ii) At Ndola group there is a potential mill capacity for 37,000m3 per year output or
106,000m3 input of pine logs. For the next 5 years 1994 - 1998 there will be a gross
overproduction of 442,000m3 per year of which 88,000m3 are sawlogs which should be
corrected by reducing the annual cut to the normal rotation area giving 70,000rn3 per year of
sawlogs (Table 3). Areas thus carried forward and the incidence of 3rd thinnings yields will
ensure sufficient sawlogs of improved quality/size in the following 5 years 1999 - 2003.
Poles
(iii) At Kafubu group the potential yield of high quality stems for transmission and telephone
poles is probably no more than 10% of the final crop, giving concern for supplies in the next
5 years, 1994 -1998. The following 5 years will produce adequate quantities of quality poles
provided the plantations are not creamed for poles before then. What is of great concern is
that the 0 - 10 year plantations are not being properly regenerated and silviculturally managed
and future supplies of poles and logs will be in jeopardy.



Table 1.  Output of Wood Products and Roundwood Inputs (1984/85 - 1993/94)
It                                    Pre-project    Yearl I    2         3        4 1     5      6    7    18 1    9              10
I   1983/84   I  84/85    1 85/86 I 86/87 187/88 188/89 189/90 190/9119121  92/931   93/94
Existing Plantation Output
1. Production of sawn timber m3'000         10.4       Est.20.0   24.1    20.3    35.3   29.4   46.1   40.7   39.2   31.1           35.2
of which eucalyptus                      10.0       Est.(10)    (13)    (7)      (9)    (7)    (18)   (15)    (14)        -        -
2. Production of treated poles
a'000
- Transmission poles                   )Est.2.5     )Est.3.5    3.3     6.2      3.9    3.6    2.5    4.2    6.6        7.4       4.8
- Telephone poles                     )Est.1.0      )Est.1.0    1.0       -      0.4    2.4    0.5    1.6    1.6    0.6           0.8
- SmaLl poLes                          )Est.0.5     )Est.1.5    0.6     2.8      4.1    4.2    2.0    2.1       2.8    1.1        1.0
Sub total poles                             4.0         Est.6      4.9     9.0      8.4    10.2    5.0    7.9    11.0    9.1         6.6
3. Untreated roundwood m3'000
- Smelter potes                          8.5          8.5       8.4    12.0    15.2   12.6   10.4   12.9   12.7   15.0            13.4
- Eucalyptus roundwood                    -           6.9       5.1     3.2      4.8    5.8    4.3    3.3       2.8    4.2        5.0              1
- Pine roundwood                      )               0.8        -        -      2.4    3.6    3.7    4.9    4.9    23.9          7.6             4>
C
- Match bitlets                       ) 8.0           2.3        -      2.8      3.1     2.7    4.1    5.3    4.1       4.3       5.6
Sub total untreated wood                     -           18.5      13.5    18.0    25.5   24.7   22.5   26.4   24.5   47.4          31.6
Total all wood sales m3'000                  -           44.5      42.5    47.3    69.2   64.3   73.6   75.0   74.7   87.6          73.4
Roundwood logging, extract and transp.
1. Felling m3'000 (r)                        -          122.6    159.5   107.7   202.2  221.4  249.6  282.5  314.5  283.6    79.7
2. Extraction m3'000 (r)                                 92.5     121.3   104.6   151.6  164.1  231.8  225.0  299.4  203.8    71.0
3. Transportation m3'000 (r)               ) 98.0        65.7      92.1    75.6   124.8  145.5  146.4  167.3  205.1   130.6    58.8
m m
>C
0
0t



Table 2. Production of Sawnwood and Poles and Roundwood Requirements (1984/85 - 2001/02)
(m3 '000)
Item                   C p-/yr        Yr 1           2      |                                              6     |      7     |                              10        Total
1. Kaftu
New frame                 35,000      Est 9.6       ) 13.4        ) 6.7        ) 14.4        ) 11.8       ) 30.0       ) 24.9       ) 23.5      ) x            x         )158.8
Metex                     18,000                    )             )            )             )            )            )            )                          X         )
Circular                   4500)                                  )            )             )            )            )                                                 )
57,500                                                                                                               )16.3         )8.2
Kara x 5                  10,000
Nukor circutar a          20,000
Sub totat Kafubu                         9.6         13.4          6.7          14.4          11.8         30.0         24.9         23.5        16.3      8.2 Vi yr.
Ouput pine
Output euc.                                                                                                                                                                        1
2. Katibu                 25,000           3.0           9.4         12.3         17.9          14.4         12.9         11.9        10.6         9.9           6.0     108.3      4-
3. Dota Hitl               6,500       Est 1.0           1.3          1.3          3.0           3.2          3.2          3.9         5.1         4.9           3.4      30.3
Other Mills
Sub total Ndola group                      4.0          10.7         13.6         20.9          17.6         16.1         15.8        15.7        14.8           9.4     138.6
Total Sawnwood output                Est 13.6           24.1         20.3         35.3          29.4         46.1         40.7        39.2        31.1          17.6     297.4
Total Roundwood
transported                               65.7         92.1         175.6        124.8         145.4        146.4        167.3       205.1       130.6          58.8
- Fire destroyed New frame & Metex mills.
k On-loan from forest Department tilt Nukor circuLar mill is in production.
a Circular mill built and due to operate 1994.
mt31
0
OD I"



Table 2. Production of Sawnwood and Poles and Roundwood Requirmnents (1984/85 - 2001/02)    (cont'd)
(m3 '000)
Iten                               Capcity/yr          Yr 11            12             13              14              15               16              17             18
94/95          95/96           96/97          97n 8            96/99           99/OO           00/01          01/02
1. Kf
New frame                               35,000             x              x               x               x               x               x                x              x
Metex                                   18,000             x              x               x               x               x               x                x              x
Circular                                 4 500            4.0            4.0             4.0             4.0             4.0             4.0             4.0           4.0
57,500             s              -               -
Kara x 5                                10,000             5
hukor                                   20,000            7.0            15.0            20.0           20.0             20.0            20.0            20.0           20.0
Sub total Kafi.bu                                         16.0           19.0           24.0            24.0             24.0            24.0            24.0           24.0
Ouput pine                                              12              12             12              24              24               24              24             24
Output euc.                                              4              7               12              -               -               -                -              -
2. Katibu                               25,000            18.0           18.0            18.0            20              22.0            22.0            25.0           25.0
3. Dola Hill                             6,500            4.0            5.0             6.0             6.0             6.0             6.0             6.0             6.0
Other Mitls                                               6.0            6.0             6.0             6.0             6.0             6.0             6.0             6.0
Sub total Ndola group                                    28.0            29.0           30.0            32.0             34.0            34.0            37.0           37.0
Total Sawnwood output                                    44.0            48.0           54.0            56.0             58.0            58.0            61.0           61.0
Roundwood sawlogs req.Kafubu                            (46.0)          (54.0)          (69.0)         (69.0)           (69.0)          (69.0)          (69.0)         (69.0)
Ndota                           (80.0)          (83.0)         (86.0)          (91.0)           (97.0)          (97.0)         (106.0)        (106.0)
Treated poles Tx, tel Kafubu                              10.0           10.0            10.0           13.0             13.0            13.0            13.0           15.0
Roundwood req. Tx, tel poles                            (20.0)          (20.0)         (20.0)          (26.0)           (26.0)          (26.0)          (26.0)         (30.0)
Kafubu
Smelter poles                                             15.0           15.0            15.0           15.0             15.0            15.0            15.0           15.0
Small poles                                                6              8               8              10               12              12              15             15
Roundwood req. small poles                              (12.0)          (16.0)          (16.0)         (20.0)           (24.0)          (24.0)          (30.0)         (30.0)
Eucalyptus logs (plywood)                                 5.0            5.0             6.0             6.0             7.0             7.0             8.0             8.0
Sub-total Kafubu roundwood                              (98.0)         (110.0)         (126.0)         (136.0)         (141.0)         (141.0)         (148.0)         (152.0)
Match billets Ndola                                       5.0            5.0             6.0             6.0             6.0             7.0              7.0            7.0
Sub-total Ndola roundwood                               (85.0)          (88.0)          (92.0)         (97.0)          (103.0)         (104.0)         (113.0)         (113.0)
Total Roundiood Transported                              183.0          198.0           218.0           233.0           244.0           245.0           261.0          265.0
i Kara mills returned to Forest Department.
(D M
0 .
0o 



ANNEX       2
43 -                                     Page 8 of 8
. C!
>   i        6       a          8      i  g       -  "  X       R g  R C  0
  M   M  ;   8  *  g     <  "  u  ^gR 
^     M                     a           8     i  g    n         2      R g  R g
^                       00  e  M  w  >   R   <   ,    ig  Ff         .
< I 
C                            
g                   i 
|   X  R                                                              1~~~~
-i-tt                j i   l          8 Agjitt8                        X    l



- 44 -
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE m
ANNEX 3
NOTE ON FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES



- 45-                                  ANNEX       3
Page 1 of 8
NOTE ON FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES
General
1.    As appraised, the project aimed at increasing the production of sawn wood and poles and at
improving the recovery of sawn timber. During implementation a number of events such as the
suspension of credit disbursement, the destruction of the sawmill, the use of small portable saws and
the neglect of plantation management have modified the accrual of project benefits. Production of
wood products has increased but less than what has been expected at appraisal, while the expected
improvement in timber recovery has not taken place due to the lack of large size logs and to the lower
than expected performance in sawmilling.
Production
2.    Given the plantation age structure (Annex 2), ZAFFICO's management level as well as
sawmilling and pole production capabilities, the mission estimates output at full development to be as
follows:
Output of Sawn Wood and Logs
M3
Without Project   At Completion    At Full
|             ~            Development
Sawn Timber                         25,500          31,100          50,000
Untreated round logs                20,700          28,200          30,000
Treated poles                       4,450           8,000           15,000
Treated small poles/posts            625            11,000          15,000
F Refers to pre-project production levels.
The above production levels have been used in both financial and economic analyses.
Project Costs
3.    Separate and detailed unit costs were not readily available with ZAFFICO. Therefore only
two cost streams could be identified: investment and an aggregate of all other recurrent costs. Hence
for all the implementation period these two costs have been used in the analysis, while for the
remaining period unit costs have been estimated and used as following:



ANNEX       3
- 46 -                                      Page 2 of 8
Detailed Cost Estimates in December 1993 Prices
K/m3
Pine logs "                                                      7,820
Eucalyptus logs                                                  7,820
Sawmilling and Kilning LI                                       45,000
Pole treatment i'                                               17,500
Marketing and overheads d                                        5,000
--_' Based on one ha model.
v Based on prevailing costs.
f Mission estimates based on information provided by mnanufacturers.
"Mission estimnates based on information provided by ZAFFICO.
4.    Because of lack of adequate replacement schedule for the different equipment and machinery it
has been assumed that total annual investments will be replaced in year six. This would be about
right for vehicles, to long for some equipment with short operational life, such as power saws, and to
short for the heavy equipment. However, in the absence of reliable data, replacement in year six has
been assumed to average the replacement needs of equipment and machinery.
Market and Prices
5.    The bulk of ZAFFICO's products are sold domestically although some transmission and
telephone poles are being exported within the region. The exports are associated with some
development projects and are likely not to be sustainable. Presently the demand for sawn timber is
low because of the depressed economic situation in the country, particularly that of the construction
sector. However, prices of sawn timber do not reflect the depressed demand because ZAFFICO has
a monopoly in the supply of softwood sawn timber. Prices are, therefore, determined by ZAFFICO
regardless of the demand levels. The trend in the last three years has been for ZAFFICO to increase
markedly its prices to compensate for its reduced volume of sale (Table 1). This is facilitated by the
liberalization of the economy where there are no more price controls by the Government. On the
contrary, ZAFFICO appears to export its poles lower than the domestic price in order to obtain badly
need foreign exchange for its business.
6.    ZAFFICO price lists are issued periodically by type of produce and dimension of timber and
poles. In December 1993, the price of average size and quality has been as indicated in Table 1. As
can be seen from this table, price increases in the last few years has been substantial, mainly justified
as a measure to counter losses due to inflation. The main reason could, however, be the fact that the
Corporation requires substantial income to survive and to service its debts. As can be seen from the
financial Table 7 of Annex 1, ZAFFICO's indebtedness has risen sharply in the past two years.
Financial Analysis
7.    A financial analysis has been carried out for the project over an 18 year period. The analyses
are based on December 1993 prices. Investment and operating and maintenance costs for the
implementation period are based on data provided by ZAFFICO (Annex 1, Tables 1-6), while from



ANNEX      3
~ 47 -                                  Page 3 of 8
year 11 on-wards unit costs shown in para 3 have been used. Output prices obtained from ZAFFICO
(Table 1) have been used to value output of past years, while the December 1993 prices have been
used for the remaining years of the project's life.
8.    Project costs and benefits related to the period before completion have been re-instated to 1993
prices using the Consumer Price Index. Replacement of equipment and machinery has been included
in the analysis using the assumption made in para 4.
9.    Based on the above assumptions a financial rate of return (FRR) has been calculated for the
project over 18 years. The resulting FRR is 18%. This is lower than the rate calculated at appraisal
of 24% (Table 3). The main reason for the difference is the extended implementation period, higher
than anticipated costs and lower production levels. As mentioned earlier, the costs provided by
ZAFFICO are total costs instead of being incremental project costs, because separate project
expenditures were not readily available.
Economic Analysis
10.   An economic analysis has also been carried out for the project by adjusting the financial costs
and benefits of the project. The adjustments consisted in converting local costs to boarder prices
using a conversion factor of 0.8. Foreign exchange component has been assumed to be 76%,
following the estimate made at appraisal. With the exception of sawn timber, for which import parity
price has been calculated in line with the appraisal assumptions, all other output have been priced at
their financial values after they have been converted to boarder prices using the standard conversion
factor. The sawn timber import parity price has been used for the period covering 1993/94 and
onwards, while for earlier years financial prices have been applied after they have been adjusted by a
conversion factor of 0.8. The analyses are based on December 1993 prices, and all past costs and
benefits have been re-instated to 1993 prices. Assumption on replacement is as followed in financial
analysis.
11.   The adjusted economic costs and benefits have been used to compute an economic rate of
return (ERR) for the project. This has yielded an ERR of 14% which is less than what has been
estimated at appraisal i.e., 25% (Table 4). The reason are as given above in the case of the FRR
explanation.



Table 1. Prices of Average Size of Timber and Poles
K'O0OO/
Without                                                    U I T H      P R O J E C T
project      84/85       85/86        86/87       87/88       Sam8         89t90       90/91        91/92        92V93       93/94V 
Suam Timber
. Pine                              0.58        0.58         0.58         1.98        1.98        1.98        4.13        5.62         16.08        60.42        130.72
. Eucalyptus                        0.55        0.55         0.55         1.35        1.35        1.35        2.95        5.020        16.52        60.87         97.2
Untreated Roundtogs
- Pine                            0.10        0.10         0.10        0.10         0.10        0.10        0.10        0.10         0.60          3.90        4.80
- Eucalyptus smelter              0.08        0.08         0.08        0.17         0.17        0.17        0.34        0.34         1.02          4.99        9.90
- Eucalyptus veneer               0.08        0.08         0.08        0.17         0.17        0.17        0.34        0.34         1.02          4.99        14.80
Treated Poles
Transmission                    0.40        0.40         0.40        1.55         1.55        1.55        3.40        4.50         15.61        46.67        95.97
Telephone                       0.50        0.50         0.50        1.68         1.68        1.68        3.40        4.50         15.47        47.87        67.11
Smatl poles/posts               0.24        0.24         0.24        0.70         0.70        0.70        3.40        4.00         12.50        47.19        47.19
Source: ZAFFICO.
' Refers to pre-project situation.
F  Prevailing prices in December 1993.                                                                                                                                             co
Table 2.  Import Parity Price of Pine Sawnwood
Unit                   Unit Price
Price FOB mill Swaziland                                   USS.3                        140
Transport to Ndola                                         USS/m'                        35
CIF price Ndola                                              Klma                    113,750
Transport to mill                                            K/i3                      3,500
Price of sawnuood at ZAFFICO mill                            K/mI                    117,250
Pz
(D m
4>
0
0h
co w



Table 3: Financical Analysis - Page I
(K'OOO)
. .......................................................... ....................................................................................................................................................... ......... .. ......... .. ......
I             2              3             4             5              &             7             a              9            1i             II
,...... ........ ......... ........... ................................................................ ................................................................................................... ........................... ..
Il OEIKFITS
..........
Valu eof prod        tIoeVW        IS102.00      16632.00       5021.00       m61.6,    70112.00   191931.0             260762.00   6204UO.0   243595.00  543239.06   7020260.00
Value of prod  tl V                126.06         1323.00       132.60         1323.00       1332.60       162.66         1     .00 1    333.00         623.00        323.06        133.00
Incr_. bwwf Its                    -.3W4.00      .164.00        3192.0        54.60          S173.0    173M05.00   242436.00   602158.66  2417W33.00  s41472.    702034.00
CPI  Wifter                          271.10          94.49          32.44         16.77            .0           3.51           2.26          1.55           1.00          1.0            1.06
Incr_m. bswf Ito (1993)           ar74M.4o  -16006.06  1034576.468   96724.                 4142.00   605.ss    55274.66   1243344.96  241                 3.60  5414s52.66   7002034.66
IEVESIENT COIS
................
*nwssta_te                          2306.20       10064.90      2713.60        42441.30      77017.20   1T2469.10         36240.S0   117962.30    137165.30          ru783.26
Agr. epr.tIAe  Costee     W         *s0.20        .909.20           -09W.2     9909.20           *sw.20        499.26     409.20         -909.20       -909.20        -9W.20         -909.20
Agr. "mret. costeswI 1/              909.20        364s.70       10731.50      2640.70       42916.00    13os29.90   243636.00   561601.00  110603.0SO  2400WWW.06                           -
Operot. & faint. costs 2/                                                                                                                                                                   o -  40432.00
Itep& C nts                                                                                           *      2306.20      10664.90      27135.40       42461.30      77017.20.  172469.10
lotat  eats                         2306.20       13021.40      3700.90        6732.60    119016.00   304396.06    311254.20  17674SO.70  12667so.90  25SI94S.20  4215z29.90
vot.t eost  (at 193 pr.)   425753.02  1230392.09   1200536.26   113052.2                    952144.06   10436.98   709489.50   2n3946.s5   1266S70.90  25S1945.20  421S279.90
MT IU NI 9 AL JEMUITS
........................
Not bnf Its                    *- 1497.42 -1394SO .15.1 -16559.60   -14137.31   -53MUS6.00  -459                  .43  -1564905.50 -1494203.69  1130662.10  Z52426.60  2766754.10
........................................................ ................................................................................... ........ .............. ....................... ............................ ........  ... 
4161>19l  16:33
sIb op  st Ito NW  mIeitume  Iat                Om         bya*    h    AUFIWO.
* FA u,  1rstl. ud  mIMmt  O*t* haMa OR CW0  silt Cste.
tn
o



Table 3: Financial Analysis - Page 2
(K'OOO)
...  .. ......................................... ..... ...... .......... ................... .......... .................. ..... ........ .....................
12         13          14          15         16          17         16
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... .......... .............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
UOSS KKEFITS
.......... .............
Value of productlon/WI    7537060.00 8173380.00 840610.000  6515350.00 8520150.00 6676520.00 W 6O1460.00
Value of prodction/W         16326.00   '118.326.00    1 6.00   16326.00   162.00   1632.00   16326.00
incro. benefits           751673.00 8:55a.00 6367144.00  6497024.00  0S01,24.00 86S,194.00 8501si.00
CPI Deflator                    1.00        1.00        1.00        1.00       1.00        1.00       1.00
Increm. benfits (1993)   7511734.00  8155054.00  6U64.00  6497024.00  1501624.00  6656194.00  1M50134.00
IUWSTENET COSTS
................
Imnvstments                                          -         -
A". operating coets/WO       -909.20      909.20      909.20    -909.20    -909.20      .909.20    -909.20                              1
Aggr. operst. costs/WI 1/                      -           -          -           -           -          *                              0
perst. A Naint. costs 2/ 4364560.00  4822560.00  4730660.00 46480.00 46o6900.00  SS00760.0  5062600.00
*Eplacemnts                 3624O.SO  1161931.50   147250.20  102972.80   4241.30   T7717.20    70T17.20
Total cots                4421691.30  60035U2.30  4897001.00 4950563.60 4911052.10  5001861.00 5158706.00
Total costs (at 1M3 Pr.) 442191.30  60035U.30  4897001.00 4950563.60 4911052.10  50O616.00 S15706.00
MET IC3EIUTA. KIFITS
............. ...........
Net b fits                30942.70  2151471.70 3490643.00  3546460.40 3590771.90  3576326.00 391426.00
4/6/1994 16:53
c> Operating  nd mintencio costs as recorded by ZAFFICO.
g2  Future oprating en mintuiune costs basd an current unit costs.
>Z
0Q 



Table 4: Economic Analysis - Page 1
(k'OOO)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........................... ......................................................................... ............. ........................ ..................................
1            2            3            4            5            6                          a 8          9           10            11
......... .............................. ................ ............................... .......... .................. ........................................................................................................... ...........
GROSS KEEFITS
..............
Value of proJxtiornVWI          12041.60    13261.20    40121.20    62103.60    56000.00   153432.40   206712.40   656286.40  1948891.60  4792443.20  6123248.00
Value of production/0           1460.80    14660.80    14660.80    14660.80    14660.80    14660.80    1460.80    1460.80    14660.80    14660.80    14660.80
Incrm. bnwfIts                  -2619.20    -1399.60    2540.40    47442.80    41339.20   138771.60   194051.60   641625.60  1934230.8o  4rT72.40  6108587.20
CPI Deflator                      271.10         94.49        32.44        16.77          8.00         3.51         2.28         1.55         1.00          1.00         1.00
Increm-ec.benefits (1993)  -710065.1Z  -132248.20   85935.38   795615.76   330713.60   487088.32   442437.65   994519.66  1934230.80  477782.40  6108587.20
IMWSTNENT COSTS
................ ............... 
Investments                      2192.79      9580.65    257.82    40338.23    73166.34   163845.64    36328.47  1120642.13   130307.03    72045.34                          -                    U-
Ager. operating costsa/O         -863.74       -863.74      -863.74      -863.74       -863.74      -863.74      -863.74      -863.74      -863.74      -863.74       -863.74
Aggr. operet. costs/Ml 1/         86.74        3653.41     10242.42    25023.66    40764.50   124003.40   250646.10   533520.95  1052631.82  2280000.00                      -
Oerst.  mint. costs 2/                 -             -            -                         -            -            -             -            -            -  3841534.00
(tplscemnts                             -                          -                         -      2192.79      9580.65    2577S.82    40338.23    73166.34    16384S.64
Total  eon. ceet.                2192.79      12370.33    3515T.50    64496.16   113067.10   289178.10   295691.49  1679078.16  1222413.35  2424347.94  4004515.90
Total costs (at 1993 pr.)   59465.37  11688fl.48  1140509.46  101634.14   904536.80  1015015.13   674176.60  2602571.16  1222413.35  2424347.94  4004515.90
MET IUCRIE TAL KSNEFITS
........................
Not bwnfita-econ             -1304530.49 -1301120.69  -314574.09  -286018.39  -573823.20  -527926.82  -231738.-9  -16001.48   711817.44  2353434.4   2104071.29
.. .... ..... ...... .......... -...... ......... -......................... ................................................... .....................
4/6/1994  16:53
0P operating _I mtntonee             costs as recorded by UAFFICO.
t2  Future  _eating mi _intwnee costs basd on current unit costs.
X QZ
OQ z
C
(D h
Xl



Table 4: Economic Analysis - Page 2
(k'OOO)
...............................................................................................................
12          is           14          15          16          IT           1S
...............................................................................................................
'I 033  MEFiTS
..............
Value of preOuction/Vi      6S4926.00  7071012.00  735636.00  74960.00  7449620.00  757JW16.00  7724648.00
value of prowtl lvw           14440.00    14640.60    14660.J0    1460.60    14640.10    14660.00    14460.80
Inerm. bwwfits              6534621.20  7056351.20    3975.20  7431319.20  7435159.20  7560255.20  771310.20
CPI Deflator                      1.00         1.00        1.00         1.00        1.00        1.00         1.00
Incrwem-c.benef Its (1993) 6534621.20  7056351.20  743975.20  7431319.20  74S5159.20  7560255.20  7713807.20
IIWSTMENT COSTS
................
Inveetiento                          -                              .            .
Anr. operating costsa/         -863.74      -663.74     -663.74      -863.74     -863.74     -63.n4       -663.74
Agr. operat. costa/WI 1f
Operat. I mint. costa 2/ 4165332.00  4581432.00  4513127.00  4606075.00  4626025.00  4755472.00  4U8470.00
Replaeemnt.                   36323.47  112264.92   139607.69    97324.16    40336.23    7316.34    7316.34
Total seen. costs           4200796.73  5703403.13  46S21S0.95  4703035.42  446S499.49  482M4.60  4900M.60
otasl ewta (St 1993 pr.)  420079.3  S703403.16  46S2150.5  4703035.42  4665499.49  482M4.60  4900M.60
MT IKUcUITAL U9WFITU
........................
met bwfits-ccen             2333124.4   13529W8.01  2691624.25  2722.73  2769"9.7T  2732460.   2013034.60
..................................................................................
4/6/199   1653
41> operating mi mintun         costs n     recrded by ZAFFICO.
<2h futur  oeating md mintme_n coats basd an currint unit cets.
(Dt 1
00



