Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4527-ZA
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
November 22, 1983
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =      Zambian Kwacha (ZK)
US$1.00          =     ZK 1.40
ZK 1.00          =     US$0.71
SDR1.00          =     US$0.96
SRD1.00          =     ZK 1.46
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           =      3,3 feet
1 cubic meter (m3)   =      35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha)        =      2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      =     0.62 miles
1 square kilometer
(km2)               =     0.39 square miles
1 kilogram (kg)       =      2.2 lb
1 metric ton (ton)   =       1000 kg = 2,2041b
m3(r)               =      cubic meter of roundwood
m3(s)               =      cubic meter of solid wood
m3(r), ub           =      cubic meter of roundwood under bark
ABBREVIATIONS
APM                   =      Assistant Plantation Manager
CA                    =      Chief Accountant
CCF                   =      Chief Conservator of Forests
CDC                   =      Commonwealth Development Corporation
FM                    =      Finance Manager
MLP                   =      Manager of Logging and Processing
MPM                   =      Manager of Plantation Management
FA                    =      Financial Accountant
FAO/CP                =      Food and Agricultural Organization/Cooperative
Program
FD                    =      Forest Department
FINNIDA               =      Finnish Development Agency
FY                    =      Financial Year
GDP                   =      Gross Domestic Product
GRZ                   =      Government of the Republic of Zambia
ICB                   =      International Competitive Bidding
IDA                   =      International Development Association
INDECO                =      Industrial Development Corporation
IPD                   =      Industrial Plantations Division
KITE                  =      Kafubu Industrial and Timber Enterprises
MAT                   =      Mean Annual Increment
MAP                   =      Manager Administration and Personnel
MAWD                  =      Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
MD                    =      Managing Director
MLNR                  =      Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
MM                    =      Marketing Manager
LCB                   =      Local Competitive Bidding
PPF                   =      Project Preparation Facility
PTA                   =      Preferential Trade Agreement
ZAFFICO               =      Zambia Forestry and Forest Industries
Corporation
ZIMCO                 =      Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
ZSBS                  =      Zambia Steel and Building Supplies Limited
ZAFFICO'S FINANCIAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
I.  BACKGROUND  ..............................................                       1
A.   Project Background  ..................................                     1
B.   Economic Setting  ....................................                     1
C.   The Agricultural Sector  .............................                     2
II.   THE FORESTRY SUBSECTOR  ..................................                      4
A.   Resources  ...........................................                     4
B.   Institutions  ........................................                     5
C.   Production,  Processing and Marketing  ....                 ............   7
D.   Forestry Policy and Strategy  ........................    10
E.   External Assistance  .................................    10
F.   Review of Phase I and II Projects  ...................    11
III.   THE PROJECT  .............................................    14
A.  Project Rationale and Design  ........................    14
B.   The Project Area  ....................................    17
C.  General Description ................................                      18
D.   Detailed Features  ................................                       19
(a)   Afforestation Program  . .........................    19
(b)  Logging and Transportation Improvement  ....                .....   21
(c)   Sawmilling Program  ........             .....................    23
(d)  Workshop Improvement  .......              ....................    26
(e)   Technical Assistance  .......             ....................    27
(f)   Training Program  .........            ......................    28
(g)  Administration Support  ......               ...................    30
E.   Project Costs ......................................    30
F. Financing .......................................  31
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ..............           ....................    32
A.  Organization and Management ..........................   32
B.   Procurement  ............               ....................    35
C.  Disbursements  .................  .....................   36
D.   Accounts,  Audit and Reporting  ........             ...............    37
E.  Environmental Impact ........................                             37
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. B.K. Zegge, H. Wagner, R. Ranasinghe and A. Bose and Ms. D. White
(IDA) and Mr. K. Kehr (Consultant), who visited Zambia in October/November,
1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES ..........................    38
A.    Production   ..........................................  38
B.  Markets and Marketing Strategy ........... ...........    40
C.  Prices ..............................................    44
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....    .........................    45
A.    General   ....................... ......................  45
B.  Financial Analysis ............... .. .................    46
C.    Economic  Analysis   ...................................  49
VII.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........................    51
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: Table  1:  Summary of Project Costs by Time
Table  2:  Plantation Establishment and Replanting Costs
Table  3:  Nursery Costs
Table  4:  Fire Protection and Silvicultural Management Costs
Table  5:  Logging and Transportation Costs
Table  6:  Sawmilling and Processing Capital Costs
Table  7:  Sawmilling Processing Operating Costs
Table  8:  Workshop Improvement Costs
Table  9:  Technical Assistance and Training Program Costs
Table 10:  Training Costs
Table 11:  Project Administration Costs
Table 12:  Disbursement Schedule
ANNEX 2: Table  1:  IPD's Summary Income Statements
Table  2:  IPD's Summary Balance Sheets
Table  3:  Pine per Hectare Model
Table  4:  Eucalyptus per Hectare Model
Table  5a: Project Financial Rate of Return
Table  5b: Financial and Economic Rates for Pine Plantations
Table  6:  Project Economic Rate of Return
Table  7:  ZAFFICO's Income Statement Projections
Table  8:  ZAFFICO's Sources and Applications Statements
Table  9:  ZAFFICO's Balance Sheet Projections
Table 10:  Price Structure of Sawntimber, Poles and Roundwood
Table 11:  Import Price Equivalent of Standing Wood
Table 12:  Price Structure for Poles
ANNEX 3: Table  1:  National Supply and Demand for Industrial Roundwood
Table  2:  Supply and Demand Projections for Sawntimber
Table  3:  Demand Projections for Sawntimber by End-Use
Table  4:  Demand Projections for Poles and Wood Panels



- iii -
Table  5:  ZAFFICO's Forestry Plantations' Harvesting Potential
Table  6:  Sawmills in Zambia 1976
Table  7:  ZAFFICO's Production Pattern
Table  8:  Output and Capacities of Existing ZAFFICO Sawmills
Table  9:  Estimated Volume of Sawlogs with Butt Diameter of 55 cm
ANNEX 4:  Selected Documents Available in the Project File
Charts and Maps:
Chart C-1: Proposed ZAFFICO Organization
Chart C-2: Project Implementation Schedule
Chart C-3: Proposed Layout of Production Complex at KITE
Map No. IBRD 17030.






I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      In July 1982, the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ)
requested the Bank to consider financing the third phase of their long-term
industrial afforestation program which aims to increase the supply of
industrial wood to meet the increasing domestic demand for sawn timber,
roundwood, paper and other wood products, and to thereby supplement
indigenous forest resources in meeting such needs. A first phase project
for which a US$5.3 million loan (Loan No. 562-ZA) was approved in October
1968, established about 16,000 hectares of pine and eucalyptus over an
eight-year period. The second phase project was financed with a loan of
US$16.8 million (Loan No. 1424-ZA) which was approved in May 1977. The
second phase project consisted of a planting and replanting program,
plantation maintenance, expansions in logging and transport capacity,
establishment of a new sawmill, staff training and charcoal trials. A
total of about 20,000 hectares of forest plantations have been established
and replanted under the second phase. The second phase project was
completed in December, 1982. The physical implementation of both phases of
the project have generally been successful particularly within the
afforestation program where planting targets have been exceeded
significantly. However, the Project's logging and sawmilling operations
have been less successful and have suffered from weak management,
inappropriate equipment and shortage of trained and experienced staff as
well as from inadequate support services (accounting and engineering).
1.02      Until September 1982, the Industrial Plantations Division (IPD)
of the Forest Department (FD) within the Ministry of Lands and Natural
Resources (MLNR) was responsible for the implementation of both projects.
Since then IPD has been incorporated into a public corporation under the
Companies Act and it is currently operating as Zambia Forestry and Forest
Industries Corporation Limited (ZAFFICO), a company which was registered on
September 24, 1982. ZAFFICO is fully owned by the Zambia Industrial and
Mining Corporation Limited (ZIMCO), a public holding company to which most
parastatal companies in the country are associated. However, ZAFFICO will
operate as an independent legal and financial entity as provided for under
the Companies Act.
1.03      Assistance to the GRZ in the preparation of the third phase was
provided by the Food and Agricultural Organization/Cooperative Program
(FAO/CP). The Bank Group provided guidance during preparation. This
report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. B. K. Zegge, H. Wagner, A. Bose, and R. Ranasinghe and Ms. D. White
(IDA) and Mr. K. Kehr (Consultant), which visited Zambia in October/
November 1982.
B. Economic Setting
1.04      The Republic of Zambia has two major disadvantages:  its
situation as a landlocked country with long distance (1,500-2,000 Km)
communication lines to the coast, and a large internal regional imbalance
due to the contrast between a highly industrialized and agriculturally well
developed zone in the central, eastern and southern regions and extensive
under-developed rural areas in the north and west of the country.



1.05      In 1982, an estimated 6.2 million people lived in an area of
752,614 Km2. About 43% of the population lives in an urbanized zone
(Livingstone-Lusaka-Kitwe) 40 Km wide on both sides of the 'line of rail',
with a density of 35 people per Km2; the rest of the country is very thinly
populated, averaging two persons per Km2. Historical and geographical
reasons for regional imbalance and high urbanization of the country are the
construction of the railway lines early this century, from Southern Africa,
via the higher central and tsetse fly-free plateau of Zambia towards the
copper mines of Zambia and Zaire. This led to the rapid development of
copper exploitation in the 'Copperbelt' area, and to the settlement of
white farmers on the fertile soils along the railroad. Today Zambia is one
of the most urbanized African countries south of the Sahara with an urban
population which has greatly increased especially since independence in
1964. Zambia is the world's fifth largest producer of copper and the
national economy is heavily dominated by this export commodity. Nearly 95%
of the country's exports consists of refined copper and some other metals
(zinc, lead, and of fast increasing importance: cobalt) which are
responsible, with fairly large variations over the years, for about
one-third of the GDP and over half of government revenue. The slump in
copper prices, rising production costs and inflation, and the geographical
and political problems of copper export, have severely eroded the role of
the copper industry in the Zambian economy, while growth in the entire
economy stagnated during the 1970's. Views on the role and future of
agriculture have changed in Zambia as a result. While in the past
agriculture has been viewed as a sector playing a supplementary role, there
seems now to be general agreement within the Covernment that a good part of
the potential for future economic growth lies within agriculture, given its
potential, in terms of land resources, climate and water resources, for
crop and livestock production. However, this realism has not yet been
reflected in the Government's strategy for future economic development.
Thus, the challenge facing the Government right now is how to formulate
this strategy and implement it. The Bank, through its sector work program
for the next three years (1983 - 85) is helping the Government to meet this
challenge. To this end, an agricultural import substitution and export
strategy study has been recently carried out jointly by the Bank and
Government.
C. The Agricultural Sector
1.06      There has been limited structural change and diversification of
aggregate production in the Zambian economy since independence. While the
share of the copper sector has declined, the share of agriculture has
remained constant and the sector has actually stagnated since 1965.
Agriculture, providing a living to about 60% of the total population,
contributes only 15% of GDP, indicating the low levels of rural
productivity and incomes. Moreover, within the agricultural sector, the
major two components, the commercial and the traditional farmers, appear to
have grown disproportionately. While the commercial sector, consisting of
about 26,000 large and medium scale farmers, has doubled its contribution
to GDP in the period 1965-80, the share of the traditional sector,
consisting of about 600,000 households, has gradually declined. Thus, the
less than 2% annual growth rate in agricultural output recorded during
1970-80 was apparently confined to the commercial agriculture sector.



- 3 -
Until recently, research as well as extension and training, have been
oriented mainly towards production on the large, capital intensive
commercial farms that occupy the most fertile land and are well served by
transport and other infrastructure. Research and extension, therefore,
have been largely commodity-oriented, with a heavy emphasis on a few crops,
particularly hybrid maize. Consequently, little is known about traditional
crop production and the farming systems practised in less favorable, or
even marginal, agricultural areas.
1.07      Government's stated long-term objectives in the agricultural and
rural sector have consistently been stated as: (a) to achieve a more
equitable distribution of income and increase rural employment; (b) to
become self-sufficient in major foodstuffs and in some agricultural
products; (c) to diversify the economy and widen the export base by
producing and selling abroad agricultural surpluses. However, the
Government has been less specific and unclear as to the means of achieving
these objectives. As a result, some of the policies and Government actions
have not been fully consistent with each other or with the stated
development objectives.
1.08      The poor agricultural performance described in the foregoing
paragraphs has been caused by a number of interrelated factors, including
(a) inadequate planning and implementation capacity within the Ministry
responsible for agricultural development and within the institutions
charged with the management of the sector's development, which has
critically inhibited policy analyses and decision making which are
necessary for specifying alternative strategies for achieving long-term
objectives; and (b) the following other three major problems which have
collectively and independently inhibited implementation capacity within the
sector. First, marketing and pricing policies have given rise to severe
distortions in producer incentives leading to less than optimal resource
allocation in the agricultural sector. During much of the period since
Independence, a variety of government-controlled marketing agencies has
been created and vested with monopoly rights to purchase and sell specified
agricultural commodities in the country. The operational efficiency of
these institutions has been poor. During the same period, Government
pricing policy has been tilted against producers in favour of consumer
interests, resulting in implicit taxation of producers in the agricultural
sector and massive subsidies to mainly urban consumers. Second,
Government's budgetary allocations for productive purpose within
agriculture have been inadequate, reflecting in part Government's planning
shortcomings and its failure to accord agriculture its rightful
importance. Specifically, inadequate recurrent budgets have created
special problems in managing and maintaining agricultural services,
particularly research and extension. A Bank study in 1981 found that
agricultural services were underfunded by 40% and that only 20% of MAWD's
recurrent budget was spent on providing agricultural services to farmers,
while 80% of its budget was utilized to finance subsidies to parastatals
handling agricultural marketing, input delivery and credit. Inadequate
Government investments in agricultural services partly explain the
persistent stagnation in Zambian agriculture, especially in traditional
agriculture. Third, the effects of inadequate Government investments in
key agricultural services have been made worse by the weakness of
agricultural credit institutions in the country.



- 4-
1.09      In the agricultural sector, a development strategy needs to be
formulated to identify specific areas of growth potential and define key
policies and instruments needed to achieve as efficiently as possible the
stated objectives of the Government. The issues involved iLn the
formulation of such a strategy are currently being examined under an Import
Substitution and Export Development Strategy Study, which is being
undertaken jointly by the Bank and the Government.
1.10      Todate Bank Group assistance to agriculture has involved nine
projects (two for industrial forestry, two for livestock/dairy development,
two for tobacco production one for coffee production and two area-based
project for crop production. The first livestock loan was cancelled in
1973 at GRZ's request because of pricing problems and poor management. The
dairy project which aims at improving milk production by smallholder
producer was approved in 1982 and is having initial implementation problems
(especially inadequate funding). The first and second industrial forestry
projects were relatively well executed. The two commercial tobacco farming
projects were completed, but were unsuccessful in meeting their respective
objectives of training and establishing Zambian commercial tobacco farmers
and hence raising tobacco production. The projects encountered major
managerial problems and pricing policy issues. The coffee project is being
executed satisfactorily, although it has faced cost overruns and shortages
of foreign exchange and Government funds. The two area-based agricultural
development projects have just become effective and are facing inadequate
Government funds and pricing issues, which are likely to constrain the
attainment of their major objectives of increasing production. Assistance
to agriculture has also been provided through projects in other sectors.
The Fourth Education Project, for example, had a major component to
strengthen the training of extension staff and farmers; lines of credit to
the Development Bank of Zambia have financed the provision of medium and
long-term finance to commercial farmers.
II. THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR
A.  Resources
2.01      Zambia's forestry resources consist of natural or indigenous
forests and man-made plantation forests. The proposed Project would be
concerned with the latter, which principally produce industrial wood.
Zambia's climate is characterized by a warm and wet season from November to
April and a cool and dry season from May to September. Average annual
rainfall is about 800 mm in the central region and 1,300 mm in the
northwest.
Natural Forests
2.02      Most of the forest areas are in a high plateau lying between
1,000 m and 1,500 m above sea level. About 370,000 km2 or 50% of the total
land area is covered by forests which can be divided in two inain types.
First are closed forests, of which the Zambia teak forest in the Southern
and Western parts of the country is the most important. It consists of two
commercial species: Baikiaea plurijua (teak) and Pterocarpus angolensis
(mukwa). Second are open woodlands of which the "miombo" woodlands are the



most extensive, dominated by Brachystegia, Isoberlinia and Julbernardia
speciies, and containing a number of commercially valuable species such as
Afselia quenzensis, Allizia spp., Burkea africana, Ectando plerggena spp.,
Khaya niasica and Pterocarpus angolensis. Only slightly more than 7
million ha of a total of 37 million ha of indigenous forests are gazetted
and nominally under the protection of FD. About 70% of the gazetted
forests have some sort of management and concessions for felling for timber
or firewood. The average yield of commercial sawlogs in these forests
varies between 5 and 13 m3/ha (in the northwest, as high as 38m3/ha), while
about 50 m3/ha of poles and firewood is obtainable. The indigenous forests
are a declining resource. The easily accessible areas, mainly close to
cities and along the line-of-rail, have been exploited for a long time and
are now virtually depleted. Increasing transport distances and lower
yields would make it difficult to exploit the remaining forests
economically in future. The indigenous forests are slow to regenerate. On
average, it takes about 50 to 60 years to produce sufficient sawlogs with
appropriate diameters in indigenous forests, while eucalyptus would provide
similar dimensions in about 12 years and pine in 25 years.
Plantation Forests
2.03      With exploitation of indigenous forests becoming increasingly
uneconomic, the Government launched in 1962 a long-term industrial
reafforestation program, carried out by the former Industrial Plantations
Division (IPD). Since then about 36,000 ha of pine and 7,500 ha of
eucalyptus plantations have been established in the Copperbelt area. There
are four major plantation areas belonging to the former IPD, at Ndola,
Chati, Lamba and Ichimpe. The main species are Pinus kesiya, Pinus
oocarpa, Eucalyptus grandis and Eucalyptus cloeziana. The age structure of
these plantations reflects IPD's plantings in the last five years when
about 50% of total plantations were established. Their annual roundwood
production potential (sustained yield) is currently estimated at 200,000 m3
each of pine and eucalyptus sawlogs, with another 120,000 m3 in small
logs. Actual exploitation has been a small fraction of this potential, due
partly to insufficient or ineffective wood processing capacities.
B. Institutions
2.04      The Forest Department, the former Industrial Plantations Division
now Zambia Forestry and Forest Industries Corporation (ZAFFICO) and a
number of wood-based industries are the main institutions directly involved
in the forestry sub-sector. The Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
Ltd. (ZIMCO), the sole shareholder of ZAFFICO, is the apex holding company
for most of the Government's investments in state enterprises.
Forest Department
2.05      The Forest Department, which is part of the MLNR, has
responsibility for forestry policy, management, research, extension and
training. The Department is headed by the Chief Conservator of Forests,
and is comprised of two main divisions, one for field staff and the other
for specialists. Until the establishment of ZAFFICO, IPD was also a
division of the Forest Department. The head office of the Department is in
Ndola, the capital city of the Copperbelt Province.



- 6 -
2.06      The major spheres of operation of the Forest Department are: (i)
management of the gazetted forest estate, consisting of production
reserves and protection reserves (in water catchment areas and areas of
specific botanical or wildlife interest); (ii) control of production of
wood products from gazetted forests for domestic and industrial use; and
(iii) extension and publicity, including advisory services to private
woodlot owners and a network of nurseries. Insufficient staff and budget
resources prevent the FD from exercising effective control over the forest
estates.
2.07      Forestry research consists of (a) forest research, on indigenous
and exotic species; and (b) forest products research including charcoal
kiln testing and timber preservation, seasoning and structure testing.
2.08      The Zambia Forest College at Mwekera near Kitwe is under the
authority of the Forest Department, and trains Forest Rangers and
Foresters at lower and higher level courses, respectively. There are no
facilities in the country for graduate training for forestry
professionals. Short-term training on a number of technical subjects is
provided by a Forest Workers Training Center at Chati, owned by ZAFFICO.
IPD/ZAFFICO
2.09      IPD was the national agency responsible for industrial forestry
plantations development and, in this capacity, had implemented two projects
in this sub-sector supported by the Bank. On September 24, 1982, IPD was
incorporated as a public limited company under the Zambian Companies Act,
as the Zambia Forestry and Forest Industries Corporation, Ltd. (ZAFFICO),
as a wholly owned subsidiary of ZIMCO. (IPD will be referred to in
discussions of past activities in this report.) ZAFFICO's statute gives it
wide powers including land acquisition, establishment and management of
plantations, sawmilling, raising funds and manufacture of pulp and paper.
ZIMCO
2.10      ZIMCO  was established in 1970 under the Zambian Companies Act as
the holding company for most of GRZ investments in state enterprises.
After a process of acquisitions and changes, most recently in 1979, ZIMCO
now has over 100 direct or indirect subsidiary companies, themselves set up
under company law, in virtually every sector of the economy: mining,
industry, agriculture, finance, trade, hotels, transport, energy, etc. In
FY81, the aggregate turnover of the ZIMCO-affiliated companies was K2.2
billion (however, gross profits totalled only K57 million), and
consolidated balance sheet value of assets was K4.4 billion. These
companies employ over half of the industrial work force, wilh more than
125,000 employees in March 1981.
2.11      The 1979 reforms were intended to improve the business
orientation and decision-making capacity of ZIMCO companies,, and to
overcome a pattern of common problems including undercapitalization,
eroding equity, caused mainly by inappropriate pricing, operational
inefficiencies and severe weaknesses in management. For ZIMCO, the major
reforms were the appointment of a full-time directorate and management
("executive directorate") with wide powers, reconstruction of its Board,



and the abolition of ZIMCO sub-holding companies, with two exceptions (one
being the Industrial Development Corporation, Ltd., or INDECO). The
previous system of responsibility of the companies to relevant Ministries
or Government departments was abolished. The chairmen of boards of
subsidiary companies are now selected from among ZIMCO executive
directorate members. ZIMCO now has powers, increasingly exercised, to
approve budgets and corporate plans of subsidiary companies, appoint
directors and managers, set standard terms and conditions of service and
approve price changes of products.  It has recently introduced a new salary
structure and terms and conditions of service for all staff of
ZIMCO-affiliated companies, which are an improvement over those of the
past; the salaries are 15% to 25% higher than that for staff in comparable
positions in the civil service.
2.12      Other than ZAFFICO, ZIMCO-affiliated companies in the wood
processing sub-sector are the Zambezi Saw Mills Ltd., Mining Timbers Ltd.,
and the Zambia Steel and Building Supplies Ltd. (ZSBS), all INDECO
subsidiaries. The former operates two saw mills and a wood-working
factory. ZSBS is a distributor of imported and local building materials
(including sawn timber) and manufacturer of blockboards and timber doors.
Wood-based Industries
2.13      Sawmilling dominates the wood processing industry.  There are
some 15 sawmills in the country, the majority of which are operated by
quasi-government companies. There are four private sawmilling firms.
Aside from ZSBS, there is a privately-owned plywood factory in Chingola.
The Zambezi Paper Products Ltd., a private firm, operates the only paper
manufacturing factory, based on waste paper and imported pulp, in Ndola.
There is also a match factory, based on plantation pine, in Kitwe. About
50 public and private firms are estimated to be operating in the furniture
and joinery industry.
C. Production, Processing and Marketing
2.14      In recent years domestic production of wood products in Zambia
has met only part of the estimated demand, while imports have lagged due to
foreign exchange shortage. Domestic production has been inadequate both
quantitatively and qualitatively, although the total rated sawmilling
capacity in the country has been adequate in relation to estimated demand.
The problems are thus of capacity utilization and improved wood quality.
It is estimated that the current aggregate potential supply of wood from
domestic forests (under sustained management) is considerably in excess of
demand in the foreseeable future (Annex 3, Table 1).
Wood Supply and Demand
2.15      Indigenous forests in Zambia continue to be the main source of
sawn timber, poles and mining timber, in addition to fuelwood, despite
progressive depletion. At present, about 7 million m3 of fuelwood,
equivalent to the output of 135,000 ha, is cut annually from miombo
forests, much of which is converted into charcoal. Both the use of wood
and its conversion into charcoal have been inefficient, to the extent that
up to an estimated 40% of wood could be saved with more efficient stoves



- 8 -
and charcoal kilns. The Forest Department, together with the Bank,
prepared a fuelwood project for Lusaka, a major charcoal consumption
center, with eucalyptus plantations as a long-term replacement for
indigenous wood; the project also envisaged establishment of means to
better control and price exploitation of public forests. However, the
prevailing economic difficulties in Zambia led to a reassessment of the
Government's most immediate development priorities and consequent
postponment of its plans to invest Government resources in the fuelwood
project.
2.16      The estimated annual utilization of domestic wood in recent
years, based on wood products sold (excluding firewood) have been about
231,000 m3 roundwood equivalent, with the following break down (see Annex
3, Table 1): sawlogs from natural forests 120,000 m3, sawlogs from
industrial plantations 40,000 m3, wood for poles 40,000 m3, wood for panels
23,000 m3 and match billets 8,000 m3.  This was converted into
corresponding products, including e.g., 56,000 m3 and 16,000 m3 of sawnwood
from natural and industrial forests, respectively. To arrive at
consumption figures, imports have to be added to the above, consisting
mainly of: wood panels, raw materials for the local paper factory and
sawn timber, which translates into an estimated annual roundwood equivalent
of 40,000 m3 for panels and 100,000 m3 for paper; and 106,000 m3 of
sawlogs, although these figures have varied sharply due to import
restrictions. Small diameter logs from thinnings in domestic forests are
not utilized, in the absence of a pulp mill.
2.17      Non-availability of reliable consumption data makes it difficult
to estimate aggregate demand of wood and wood products. Using per capita
consumption of sawnwood in past years when there were no import controls,
in conjunction with recent consumption, the current annual demand is
estimated at 90,000 m3 of sawnwood, equivalent to 257,000 m3 (r) of saw
logs. Adding this to the consumption figures in para 2.16 as well as
imports, probably gives a rough approximation of the current annual demand,
at about 460,000 mi  (r) equivalent.  Thus, demand is presently more than
twice the actual supply from domestic sources. However, the aggregate
potential supply of industrial wood, estimated at 770,000 m3 (r) in 1981
including 250,000 m3 (r) from natural forests, is again considerably higher
than estimated demand. Aggregate projections for supply of and demand for
roundwood (Annex 3, Table 1) indicate that the supply surpluses would
decline from 264,000 m3 in 1985 to only 61,000 m3 in 2000 and supply
deficits are likely to emerge in the early 2000s. Given the long-maturity
of pine trees (25 years), this suggests that modest plantings to cover the
likely gaps should be initiated now. There are thus two types of
imbalances in the industrial forestry sub-sector: inadequate and
inefficient domestic processing capacity to meet internal demand and
overproduction of industrial forestry resources in relation to both
domestic wood processing capacity and to national demand for wood and wood
products.
Wood Processing
2.18      Zambia's wood processing industry has a limited range of products
consisting of sawn timber, plywood, blockboard and poles, and is largely
based on indigenous forests (Annex 3, Table 2). It is dominated by saw



mills. These sawmilL's !"a profile of which is summarized in Annex 3, Table
6) can be divided into the following four distinct groups:
(a) Four mills opperatIng in the teak forests of the Western
Prov-nce' t'0 pcubliic and two private, with installed
capacities of 20.000 m3 (s) and 7,000 m3 (s), respectively.
The majoir Droducts of these mills are teak and mukwa
sawnwood. Their actual production was only about 50% of the
capacity iI i981, largely due to operational inefficiencies.
(b) Five circular saw mills in the Copperbelt producing sawn
timber for the copper mines from several indigenous
species. Their total production was about 25,000 m3 of sawn
timber in 1981, as against an installed capacity of 40,000
m3.  The major products include pitprops, sawnwood, railway
sleepers, smelter and refinery poles for mines.
(c)  Several very smali mills based on indigenous forests in
.arious other parts of the country, with installed capacity
estinac2d at 17,000 m3 (s).
(d)  Mills based on   ndustrial forest plantations within the
Copperbelt area consist of ZAFFICO's five sawmills and two
small c-'rcular mills belonging to furniture companies.
Their toral capacity was estimated at 33,000 m3 of
sawn timber and purlins in 1982, but actual production was
only 24,000 m3. Another new circular mill, with a rated
capacity of 20,000 i3, i-s being installed by ZAFFICO at
Kalibu and will become operational in 1983.
2.19      ZAFFICO produces telegraph and power poles by preservative
treatment of eucalyptus roundwood, with a capacity of 15,000 m3, and
smelter poles for copper refineries.  Mining Timbers Ltd., produces mining
poles mainly from indigenous species. Other wood products include
blockboard and plywood, both of which are produced by ZSBS, mainly from
imported raw materials, as locally produced sawn timber is usually too
small in diameter and has high moisture content.  ZSBS capacities are 8,400
m3 of blockwood and 3,600 m3 of plywood, but production is at about half of
these levels, due to Lrequent lack of imported polyester glue.  A private
plywood plant, established in 1980 with a capacity of 9,000 m3, has
recently started production, using indigenous species, but with plans to
later use plantation wood. The Zambezi Paper Products Ltd., uses imported
waste paper and pulp. The firm has a plan to establish a 6,000 ton pulp
plant which could use plantation wood in future, but Government approval
has not been forthcoming to date.
Marketing and Prices
2.20      Zambia has been a net importer of all kinds of paper and paper
products, wood panels and sawn softwood.  All the production of sawn timber
and wood-based paneL industry described in the foregoing paragraphs is
geared to meet domestic consumption. The present marketing system of wood
and wood products consists of direct sales from IPD/ZAFFICO mills to
consumers, while wood products and production from non-IPD/ZAFFICO mills,



- 10 -
including imports, are mainly marketed through private small merchants,
ZSBS and Mining Timbers Limited. The industry is protected by import
duties of 30% on sawnwood and on wood panels; nevertheless imports of
sawn timber from low cost producers in neighboring countries do effectively
compete with domestic production (para 2.21).
2.21      If adjustment for quality differential is made, market prices for
domestic sawn timber are considerably higher than those of imports. A
comparison of domestic and imported pine sawn timber prices; revealed, for
instance, that Swazi or South African seasoned pine sawn timber of medium
quality was priced at K233/m3 net of tax, compared to K290/m3 for IPD pine
sawnwood (16mm x 25mm) in Lusaka. IPD was able to charge such high prices
because of inadequate supply of sawn timber relative to domestic demand.
However, due to improved efficiency and productivity during Project
implementation, the average ex-factory price for treated sawn timber from
the Project is estimated at K209 per m3 compared to the c.i.f. border price
of K233/m3 for imported Swazi timber. Thus the Project would be
competitive even under free trade conditions.
D. Forestry Policy and Strategy
2.22      The Government's major policy objectives for the forestry
sub-sector are stated as: (i) conservation of indigenous forests through
conventional measures (e.g. forest protection and controlled exploitation),
and through planting of fast growing exotic species; (ii) protection of
forest reserves in water shed or river flow areas against soil erosion and
river silting; and (iii) promotion of a viable forestry sub-sector through
appropriate research, extension, reafforestation and wood processing
programs. However, the Government has been less specific in defining the
measures to achieve these objectives. Hence the major challenge facing the
Government is to design a long-term development strategy for the forestry
sub-sector that would address key issues regarding (a) adequate supply of
fuelwood, as the major source of energy, to the rural and urban poor who
cannot afford alternative sources; (b) establishment of appropriate
industries to utilize existing and future forestry resources; (c) the role
to be played by the public sector vis-a-vis the private sector in the
future development of the forestry sub-sector; and (d) the improvement of
productivity and efficiency in the sawmilling and wood-based industries.
These issues will be addressed in a proposed Forestry Sub-sector Develop-
ment Study which has been agreed upon by the Bank and Government, and which
is expected to be carried out before the end of 1983. The proposed
Project, primarily a rehabilitation program designed to increase domestic
wood production and improve productivity and wood quality, would meet part
of the major gaps in domestic supply of wood products, as well as partially
address the issue of productivity and efficiency in the public sector.
Therefore, the project would not prejudice the outcome of the forestry
study, but is viewed only as one immediate step among the various steps
likely to be identified in the study for the resolution of the issues
indicated.
E. External Assistance
2.23      The Industrial Forestry Plantations Project Phase I (Loan No.
512-ZA) and Phase II (Loan No. 1424-ZA) were projects financed by the Bank
Group. The Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) also participated in



- 11 -
the financing of the second phase. These phases were primarily aimed to
expand industrial forestry plantations to meet the country's future
requirements of timber and wood products, although components for wood
utilization, particularly log transportation and sawmilling, were included
in the second phase. The proposed Bank loan for the third phase Project
would continue Bank Group assistance to the industrial forestry development
program.
2.24      Over the years, the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ)
has also received technical and financial assistance from the Governments
of Finland, United Kingdom and Sweden, particularly in sawmilling, forestry
research and extension. At present only Finland, through the Finnish
Development Agency (FINNIDA), maintains an active assistance program. Most
of this aid would be for ZAFFICO, to procure sawmilling equipment for the
third phase project, while a small part of it would assist the Forest
Department to strengthen its research, extension and training for the
period 1983-88. FINNIDA's assistance to ZAFFICO would be fully coordinated
with IDA's assistance.
F. Review of Phases I and II Projects
Phase I Project
2.25      The first phase project was part of GRZ's long-term industrial
plantations program primarily aimed at meeting the mining industry's demand
for roundwood and sawn timber. It provided for annual planting of 1,000
hectares each of pine (mainly P. Kesiya) and eucalyptus (mainly E. Grandis)
over the period 1969-1976. The project was managed by IPD, which operated
almost independently and on a self-accounting basis. The total plantation
target of 16,000 hectares was reached in seven years instead of eight but,
based on reassessment of wood requirements, the ratio of pine to eucalyptus
planted was 72:28 instead of 50:50 at completion of the project. These
changes were made with the Bank's agreement. However, GRZ rejected a Bank
recommendation to create a Forest Industries Board in 1970 to manage the
implementation of the industrial plantations program because it did not
share the Bank's judgement that such a Board was necessary. Total project
cost amounted to K15 million as against the appraisal estimate of K8
million, equivalent to a cost overrun of 90%, which was wholly financed by
the Government. The cost overrun was due largely to an inflation rate
which was higher than the appraisal mission's assumptions. However, actual
increases in the value of sawn timber were large enough to offset the
higher costs, and a 10% rate of return was estimated in the Bank's Audit
Report of the project. Although the project was generally successful in
achieving its physical targets, insufficient attention was given to the
training of senior Zambian staff, and consequently part of the second phase
project was designed to redress this shortcoming.
Phase II Project
2.26      The second phase project was designed to continue IPD's long-term
planting and maintenance program, expand logging and sawmilling capacity
and conduct studies designed to lead to more economical and efficient land
clearing and charcoal production.  It provided for, over a five year period
(1978-1982): (a) new plantings of 15,000 ha of pine and 2,500 ha of



- 12 -
eucalyptus; (b) replanting 2,000 ha of clearfelled areas with eucalyptus;
(c) maintenance of (a) and (b), together with all existing IPD plantations;
(d) increasing IPD's logging and transportation capacity from about 60,000
m3(r) to 120,000 m3(r) per year; (e) establishment of a sawmill with a
capacity of about 40,000 m3 of sawnwood per year (double shift); (f) staff
training and fellowships; and (g) research, experimentation and studies
designed to improve land clearing and charcoal production methods. Total
project costs were estimated at K27.5 (US$34.5) million. IPD was
responsible for project implementation, although provision was made to
convert IPD into a commercial company by December 31, 1978. However, this
did not happen until September 24, 1982.
2.27      The second phase loan is not yet fully disbursed but the project
is virtually completed. The Project's Closing Date is December 31, 1983,
after which the PCR would be prepared. On the basis of an implementation
review, this phase is judged to have been successful with respect to the
project's forest plantation establishment program, for which most of the
appraisal targets for nursery production, land preparation and planting
have been surpassed. About 20,500 ha of plantations (17,000 ha of pine and
3,500 ha of eucalyptus) are expected to be established by completion, thus
achieving 13% for pine and 40% for eucalyptus above appraisal targets
within the original cost estimates. However, the replanting program was
less successful, partly due to IPD's preferential resource allocation for
plantation establishment and partly by bottlenecks in sawmilling operations
(e.g. capacity underutilization) which led to a reduction in clearfelled
areas relative to appraisal assumptions. Similarly, IPD's performance in
forest plantation maintenance (consisting of weeding, pruning, thinning and
fire protection) was less successful and far below appraisal targets
because of project management's preoccupation with plantation
establishment, a sharp increase in labor costs in 1981 and lack of an
immediate market for first thinnings. The proposed Phase III would, among
other things, attempt to refocus management's attention on silvicultural
aspects of the project. Furthermore, for a variety of reasons including
delayed procurement of equipment and civil service regulations, performance
was below appraisal targets in (a) road construction and maintenance, (b)
fire protection roads and compartment roads, (c) staff training and (d)
research and studies.
2.28      Phase II continued IPD's logging and transportation methods,
consisting of systems for tree length (mostly for eucalyptus) and for short
logs (mostly for pine). IPD established a 110,000 m3(r) logging and
transportation capacity, but its utilization has been only about 70% due to
a variety of reasons, including inability to utilize the short-log
transport system for tree-length logs during slack periods in the
former,l/ lack of spares, inadequate maintenance, sawmilling bottlenecks
and weak management.  These problems have rendered the existing logging and
transportation system expensive and less effective. The proposed third
phase project would address these problems.
1/ For instance, in FY82 the short-log transportation capaciity had only
55% capacity utilization, while the tree length transport capacity was
130% utilized.



- 13 -
2.29      The construction and operation of the Phase II new sawmill at
Kalibu has been delayed by over four years largely due to procurement
delays. Installation of the mill was completed in the first quarter of
1983 and test runs are underway. The CIF cost of mill equipment plus
installation exceeded by about 33% the appraisal figure of US$1.2 million.
As appraised and tendered for, it is now apparent that the sawmill does not
include all the needed handling facilities, adequate electric power and
water supply, sawn timber seasoning facilities (drying kilns or yard), dry
sawn timber sorting and chipping sheds, fuel conveyor system, waste
disposal slabs and office buildings. Without these facilities, it is
inconceivable that the mill's installed capacity of 20,000 m3 of sawn
timber can be attained and that its product mix would be in line with
domestic market requirements. Phase III would provide for removing these
design shortcomings.
2.30      IPD's operations of sawmills was unsatisfactory.  Both mill
production and productivity have been low in relation to installed capacity
and potential performance. Most sawn timber produced is of low-to-medium
quality and unseasoned. Total IPD installed capacity (excluding the Kalibu
sawmill) is about 31,000 m3 of sawn timber, but only 60% of this capacity
was utilized in 1981/82. The average sawmill recovery rate was about 40%
in the same period compared to the average potential recovery rate of about
45%. The major operational problems behind this poor performance include
lack of well trained and experienced technical staff to operate and
maintain the mills, weak management at the operational level, inadequate
engineering services, obsolete and inappropriate equipment for processing,
design deficiencies in the relatively new Metex mill, poor coordination
between mills and the ineffective logging and transportation system.
IPD Financial Situation and Profitability
2.31      IPD's financial statements for the period FY78 through FY82 are
presented in Annex 2, Tables 1-2. These statements indicate that the
overall financ-al situation of IPD was not satisfactory. As of March 31,
1982 IPD's assets totalled K51.7 million, of which K45.7 million was
represented by plantations. Assets were financed almost wholly by long
term loans, a common feature of the resource structure of most parastatals,
which thus have no share capital as such and whose equity consists only of
retained earnings and grants.  It was envisaged that with the incorporation
of IPD by December 31, 1978, a proper capital structure would emerge, but
since incorporation was delayed by almost four years, IPD continued with a
financial structure unusual for a commercially-oriented entity. Meanwhile,
the interest burden on loans became very heavy, e.g., K3.2 million in FY82,
although interest on GRZ loans (which constituted most of IPD's long term
loans) has not been paid since FY80, pending its capitalization during the
formation of ZAFFICO. IPD's sales have fluctuated widely as between its
different products, mainly due to problems in harvesting and in saw
milling. Underutilization of capacity was reflected in relatively low
sales volumes, which did not reach K3 million per year until FY81, but rose
to K3.8 million in FY82. IPD's profits declined rapidly in recent years,
with losses incurred in FY80 and FY81, although it made a profit in FY82
when sales increased. Apart from relatively low production levels, other
factors contributing adversely to IPD's efficiency have been high physical
losses between logging and production, low efficiency of log conversion,



- 14 -
excessive fire damage and increasing selling expenses and bad or doubtful
debts.  A comparison between IPD's actual profitability and the appraisal
targets is made difficult by the delay in the construction of the new
sawmill since this affected both the revenue and cost assumptions contained
in the appraisal report. However, after taking this into account, IPD's
sawn timber production and sales performance significantly exceeded the
appraisal targets, particularly in FY80 and FY81, although operating
profits were far below appraisal targets and they were certainly not
comm.ensurate with the actual sales achi-eved, A similar comparison on other
financial aspects of IPD cannot be made because no financial forecasts
(apart from income statements) were prepared for IPD during appraisal.
IPD's liquidity (net working capital) situation has been deteriorating
rapidly, so that at the end of FY82, it had a net negative balance of K3.8
million, largely represented by non-payment of agreed funds by the
Government. The financial policies and covenants proposed under the third
phase Project should reverse this deteriorating financial situation and
ensure that ZAFFICO is founded on a sound and viable financial basis (paras
6.06 and 6.09).
III.  THE PROJECT
A.  Project Rationale and Design
3.01      The proposed Project would mainly produce sawn timber,
transmission poles and agricultural posts. In recent years, the supply of
sawn timber has generally been inadequate to meet domestic demand largely
because domestic production, particularly that of hardwood sawn timber, has
been constrained by various inefficiencies, while imports have been
curtailed by the serious shortage of foreign exchange. The hard wood
processing industry, which is exclusively based on natural forests,
consists of small sawmills operating with obsolete equipment, shortage of
spares and of skilled manpower, and inadequate logging and transport
capacity. The exact nature of these issues and their possible solutions
would be the subject of the proposed forestry development strategy study.
The problems relating to the softwood sawmilling industry, which is almost
exclusively in the hands of ZAFFICO, are addressed in this report.
Supply/demand forecasts (Annex 3, Table 2) indicate that the current
domestic supply deficit of about 18,000 m3 of sawn timber would increase to
about 52,000 m by year 2000, even aftEr the third phase project has been
implemented, implying that the proposed Project would only have moderating
effects on the shortage of sawn timber in the country. It is therefore
obvious that future investments in the sawmilling industry, both within
ZAFFICO or the softwood sawmilling operations and in the hardwood
processing industry, would be required to cope with domestic demand for
sawnwood. IDA support for the proposed Project vis--a-vis aliternatives
(such as improved fuelwood supply or private sawmilling) is justified by
the Project's significant contribution to improvement in domestic supply of
sawn timber which is an important input in such key sectors of the economy
as mining and construction. The inadequate supply of sawn timber to these
sectors in recent years has adversely affected growth, particularly in the
construction sector, indicating the high opportunity cost of sawn timber
within the Zambian economy. Prospects for Zambia's foreign exchange
situation are that it will continue to be tight and more increasingly



- 15 -
constrain imports, including sawn timber, than hitherto. Despite the
ongoing rapid depletion of indigenous forests for fuelwood, Zambia has not
yet reached a situation (and will probably not do so in the next ten years)
whereby overall shortages of fuelwood have started to act as a major
constraint to growth in those sectors which are dependent on it. Thus, on
a priori grounds, domestic production of sawn timber would appear to have
higher opportunity costs than investments in the production of fuelwood in
Zambia today. Furthermore, investments in fuelwood and in private
sawmilling would require hard policy decisions and improvements which might
require long time to implement. In particular, a clear Government policy
with regard to the role of private investment in the future development of
the wood processing industry would be necessary before incremental private
investments can be made. For this reason, relatively little private
investments has taken place in the country's wood processing industry in
the past.  In view of this, private sawmilling in Zambia does not
constitute an immediate and real investment option at present. This may
change after the proposed study on forestry sub-sector development strategy
has been completed and its recommendations accepted by the GRZ.
3.02      The hardwood sawmilling industry accounts for nearly 42% of
domestic demand for sawnwood, while ZAFFICO output's share of sawnwood is
about 30%, and the rest is represented by either imports or unsatisfied
demand.  In recent years, due to foreign exchange problems, only about 60%
of the sawn timber supply deficit of nearly 18,000 m3 per annum has been
met by imports. The bulk of the imported sawnwood consists of medium
quality of softwood, mostly Swazi timber, which is largely used in the
construction industry and, to a less extent, in the mining industry.  The
present and medium-term economic prospects in Zambia (para 1.05) indicate
that the forecast domestic sawn timber supply deficits (para 3.01) would
not be covered by imports for lack of foreign exchange. The Project has
therefore been designed not only to increase the supply of sawn timber but
also to improve product quality and to diversify the product mix in order
to replace imports of sawn timber in the construction and mining
industries.
3.03      At the Project level, a roundwood harvesting potential analysis
(Annex 3, Table 5) indicates that the supply of good quality sawlogs would
increase from about 70,000 m3(r) in 1982 to 547,000 m3(r) in 1999 and that
the composition and sources of supply would change dramatically during the
period 1984-99. At present, 66% of the sawlog supply is made up of pine
sawlogs and 34% of eucalyptus sawlogs. In 1999 the sawlog supply is
forecast to consist of 84% pine sawlogs and 16% eucalyptus sawlogs. While
at present about 55% of sawlogs (mainly eucalyptus) is obtained from the
Ichimpe forest plantations and the other 45% (mainly pine logs) from the
Ndola plantations, it is expected that in 1999 about 54% of the supply of
sawlogs would derive from the latter group and only 46% would come from
Ichimpe. The increasing availability of high quality sawlogs and the
changes in both pattern and sources of sawlog supply would have an impact
on both future location and technology for additional wood handling and
processing facilities. Increased size of sawlogs and the dominance of pine
sawlogs have influenced the choice of both logging and processing equipment
proposed in the Project. The Project has also been designed with the
necessary flexibility to take account of the foreseen changes in the
pattern of sawlog supply. The future dominance of the Ndola plantations in
the supply of pine sawlogs implies that the Kalibu Sawmill should primarily



-    -
be designed to process pine sawlogs to avoid long distance and costly
logging to KITE. Since, however, the Ndola plantations' output would
outstrip the demand of the Kalibu Sawmill in the nesar future, serious
consideration should be given to expanding the mil:L through installation of
frame saw lines, which would be more efficient than the existing circular
saws in the mill, by i990. The Kalibu Sawmill's production would be
centered around the processing of good quality pine sawlogs, and this would
require that the mill be provided with adequate facilities for handling
large sawlogs and for further processing of sawn timber.2/
3.04      The bulk of the wood processing industry in Zambia, in general
and within the Copperbelt area in particular, continues to be based on the
indigenous forests (hardwood), or imported wood-based materials, despite
the increasing availability of plantation softwood from ZAFFICO (para
2.15). Due to lack of facilities for furt.her processing of sawnwood,
ZAFFICO's sawmilling, in the past and at present, has been restricted to
the production of a joinery grade which is extensively used in the domestic
furniture and joinery industry. ZAFFICO should soon embark on the
production of a structural grade of sawn timber which is extensively used
in the domestic construct_on industry and in the mines.  This would
facilitate integration or linkages between the Project and other wood-based
industries in the country. The third phase Project would thus emphasize
improvement in the quality of sawnwood through the establishment of
appropriate sawmilling and timber upgrading facilities.
3.05      Since improvement of ZAFFICOs performance is also critically
dependent on the management factor, which in the past has been quite weak
in handling logging and sawmilling operations of ZAFFICO (para 3.30), an
external team of skilled and experienced specialists would be provided to
strengthen ZAFFICO's management and to set commercial and management
standards. A training program would also be provided to supplement the
technical assistance program and to improve long-term individual staff and
institutional performance.
3.06      In summary, the third phase Project has been designed: (a) to
improve the utilization of existing forestry investinents in plantations and
handling and processing facilities, with a view to increasing production
and improving the quality of ZAFFICO's wood products and product mix to
meet revealed market preferences and to reduce imports; (b) to improve and
strengthen linkages between investments in forestry resource- and
wood-based industries; and (c) to strengthen the management and improve
operational efficiency of ZAFFICO as a whole, with special reference to its
operations in logging, sawmills and supporting services. These Project
objectives are consistent with the Government's overall long-term policy
objectives of economic growth and diversification and of improving the
country's future balance of payments situation through sensible
import-substitution. Similarly, the Project objectives are in line with
the Government's objectives in the agricultural sector which include
increased output for domestic use and export, and increased rural
employment and incomes. The Project objectives are also consistent with
2/ Further processing of sawn timber consists of seasoning, grading,
square cutting of ends, cutting to length specifications, resawing,
jointing and pressure impregnation.



- 17 -
the policy dialogue the Bank has been pursuing with the Government of
Zambia which has emphasized the need to diversify the economy away from
copper dependency toward greater agricultural and manufacturing output in
the long-term.
B. The Project Area
3.07      The Project is situated in the Copperbelt area close to the
border with Zaire (Map No. IBRD 17030).   The four main plantation blocks
are grouped around Kitwe. East of Kitwe are the Ndola existing plantations
consisting of about 18,000 ha and a semicircle of plantations stretching
from southwest to link with the Lamba blocks containing 4,500 ha. West of
Kitwe are the Chati blocks consisting of nearly 11,000 ha; while another
block with 10,000 ha is in the Northwest. The expansion of the
reafforestation area by 1,500 ha under the third phase Project would be
mainly in the Lamba and Ichimpe areas and would bring the total plantation
area belonging to ZAFFICO to about 45,000 ha.
3.08      It is a practice in Zambia that forest plantations are only
established within areas gazetted as Forest Reserves which are categorized
as State Land. There is, however, the need for the project and related
plantation land to be formally transferred to and licensed under ZAFFICO.
For this purpose, it was agreed during negotiations that ZAFFICO would
obtain site licences, titles or rights in property under the Forest Act for
its plantations. Furthermore, surrounding the Project area are abundant
arable lands and there is consequently no pressure to use Forest Reserve
lands for agricultural purpose.  The plantations have been established in
generally well drained deep soils with a well balanced nutrient supply.
However, there are local differences in the suitability of the soils and
amount of rainfall for pine or eucalyptus. The Ndola area seems to have a
20% higher yield for pine than the other areas, while Chati has an
exceptionally good growth rate of eucalyptus, which may not be reached in
other areas. The land is generally flat, very gently undulating and
varying in altitude from about 1,500 m in the north to about 1,200 m in the
south. Average annual rainfall in the Project area lies between 1,200 and
1,300 mm, occuring mainly from late October to early April. Mean
temperatures are 15C in winter and 23C in summer.
3.09      ZAFFICO's main forestry operations are being carried out in the
Copperbelt area around the towns of Kitwe, Kalulushi, Ndola, and Mufulira.
The area is well served by public and forest roads and a railway line.
Living conditions in these and other urban centers have, until recently,
been significantly better than in rural areas. However, the effects of
declining copper prices and output, rapid inflation, declining formal
sector employment, and shortages of consumer goods have reduced the
standard of living of both the urban and rural population. Nevertheless,
the region still contains the greatest concentration of population,
industrial development and wealth, and represents the greatest potential
market for the Project's products. In view of the continuing high levels
of urban unemployment, it is expected that both unskilled and semi-skilled
labor for the Project would continue to be readily available from these
mining cities.



- 18 -
C. General Description
3.10      The proposed Project would be the third phase of Zambia's
long-term industrial forestry development program. It would provide for
the further development of forest plantations established under previous
phases, for establishment of a few new plantations and replantings, for the
improvement and maintenance of infrastructure and forest services within
the Project area, as well as for improvements and expansions in existing
wood handling and processing facilities to increase wood production and to
improve product quality and product mix. The Project would be carried out
by ZAFFICO over six years3/ and would consist of the following components:
(a)  An Afforestation Program consisting of silvicultural
management of about 43,500 hectares of existing plantations;
establishment of about 1,500 hectares of new pine
plantations; replanting of about 1,700 hectares of pine and
about 2,100 hectares of eucalyptus; improved fire protection
practices; construction of new access roads, logging roads,
compartment roads and maintenance of existing plantation
roads.
(b)  Improvement of Log Transport and Handling Facilities,
including provision for power saws and skidding equipment
and machinery; provision for appropriate log transport
equipment; provision for new log handling equipment at the
KITE and Kalibu sawmills.
(c)  A Sawmilling Program providing for new equipment and spare
parts to rehabilitate and improve existing obsolete and
inefficient production lines at the KITE complex and Dola
Hill sawmill and for necessary infrastructure and additional
equipment at the Kalibu sawmill.
(d)  Workshop Improvement to provide for upgrading of existing
facilities at Kafubu and Dola Hill and for establishment of
a new central workshop at Kalibu to cater for major repair
work for the whole Project.
(e)  Technical Assistance, including long-term consultancies of
about 38 man-years of specialists in management information
systems, financial and cost accountancy, traiining, fire
protection, sawmilling, logging and transportation; and
about 76 man-months of short-term consultancy services for
preparing detailed engineering designs and tender documents
for the proposed rehabilitation of handling and processing
facilities, for training, preparation of plans for
harvesting and silvicultural research.
(f)  A Training Program consisting of in-service long-term and
external training of Project staff in engineering, wood
technology, accountancy and management; and provision for
3/ The first Project year would be restricted to the implementation of the
first stage rehabilitation, detailed engineering designs and plantation
establishment.



- 19 -
on-the-job training of all semi-skilled and skilled staff,
involving about 900 project--related personnel.
(g) Administrative Support, consisting of a supply of six
passenger cars for replacement of existing vehicles used for
administrative purpose by senior Project staff; two
four-wheel drive vehicles for replacement, a bus for
transportation of staff to work and a micro-computer for
improved accountancy and management information systems
within ZAFFICO as well as office furniture.
D. Detailed Features
(a) Afforestation Program
(i) Silvicultural Management
3.11      The Project would provide for the silvicultural management of the
existing 43,500 ha over a period of five years. The management activities
of these plantations would consist of pruning, thinning, replanting
clearfelled areas, and fire protection - all of which are necessary for the
full development of these existing forestry resources.
3.12      Pruning, which would be restricted to pines only, would be
carried out to produce high quality sawlogs and peeler logs, to reduce fire
hazard and to facilitate access to pine stands. Pines would be pruned at
the average ages of 5, 8 and 11 years. More than 17,000 ha would require
first pruning, about 19,500 ha second pruning and about 15,300 ha third
pruning. In order to carry out the pruning program, 209 full time ZAFFICO
laborers would be utilized. A foreman would supervise the work of every 20
laborers and prepare the field data for records. Since no additional labor
would be envisaged for implementing the pruning program, the Project would
provide for the purchase of equipment and tools only.
3.13      Thinnings would be primarily aimed at reducing the number of
trees in a stand in order to produce high quality timber from fewer
individual trees. This would also have cost saving implications for
harvesting, transporting and processing. Since delayed thinnings would
have unfavorable effects on the eventual quality of sawlogs, it is
important that Project management assign high priority to thinning
operations and ensure that the thinning schedules are adhered to. This
implies that a great deal of thinnings to waste would be done for lack of
demand for small logs.
3.14      Thinnings of pine stands would be carried out at ages of 11, 14,
and 18 years by the logging unit. Thinning to waste would be combined with
the first pruning at the age of 5 years. The average labor force for
thinning to waste would be 42 persons every year and two foremen. Marking
trees for thinning would require from 14 man-years in 1984 to 22 man-years
in 1989. This would be done by about 20 forest rangers full time each
year. Thinning of eucalyptus stands for sawlog production would be
selective when trees reach the required commercial size. In order to deal
adequately with issues relating to commercially optimal silvicultural
practices in the future, ZAFFICO would hire a competent silviculturist, who
would assist, for pine stands, in establishing (i) a minimum thinning
schedule for implementation to assure quality log production (the Project



- 20 -
would provide for his employment); (ii) long term thinning trials in order
to optimize timing and intensity of thinning; (iii) a compilation of all
information available on yield, mean annual increment (MAI) etc., elsewhere
in Eastern Africa.
3.15      Clearfelling would be done in all pine stands of 25 years or
more, although there might be no need to cut down all stands at this age.
In eucalyptus plantations, clearfelling would be carried out at any age,
depending on the final utilization of the product. For sawlog production a
minimum age of 12 years is required. Since the end-use of the product
would determine the length of the cutting cycle, a system that allows at
least three uniform coppicing (vegetative regeneration) should be adopted
in the future. The current practice of having thinning regimes in
eucalyptus plantations would be limited to high quality sawlog production.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. Furthermore,
in order to determine harvesting priority, location and work program,
ZAFFICO would prepare a medium-term plan consisting of annual cutting
budgets, logging and transport plans and, on the basis of these plans,
determine the need for improvement of the infrastructure, especially
roads. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that such plans would
be prepared by December 31, 1984.
(ii) Plantation Establishment
3.16      In view of the uncertainty surrounding the data on wood supply
from natural forests (para 2.17) and the need to cover the supply deficits
of roundwood in the early 2000s as well as of the need to utilize the
Project's existing planting capacity (in terms of skilled workers and
capital stock) in the initial year of implementation, the Project would
therefore provide for the establishment of about 1,500 ha of' new pine
plantations. In addition, replanting 1,700 ha of pine and 2,100 ha of
eucalyptus would be done in areas which would be clearfelled for harvesting
or due to damage by fire. Replanting in clearfelled areas would consist of
1,100 ha of pine while replanting in fire damaged areas is estimated at 600
ha of pine.
3.17      The 1,500 ha of new plantations would be established, in the first
year of the Project, utilizing part of the existing land clearing
capacity. However, in the second year, all afforestation activities would
be scaled down to replanting of about 700 ha per year. The planting
program would not require the existing 9 bulldozer capacity of the land
clearing unit, instead, only 3 bulldozers would be required for the
plantation establishment program in the first year. Thus the extra
equipment (6 bulldozers) would be sold and the workforce would be
transferred to silvicultural activities (pruning and thinning) in the
second year of implementation. The Project would therefore neither provide
for capital costs nor labor costs of the plantation establishment and
replanting programs. The Project would, however, provide funding for the
costs of operating the machinery for the purpose of the reduced remaining
afforestation program. The reduced program would also mean the closure of
two of the four nurseries. The Project would require a capacity of 3
million seedlings, instead of the existing capacity of 6.5 million
seedlings, in the first year and one million seedlings per year
thereafter.  About 60% of the seedling production would be pine.  The
Project would provide for the production of seedlings under the



- 21 -
afforestation program.  About 1O tractors would be required for ploughing,
harrowinv and weeding and 2 bulldozers, 1 loader, 1 tipper and I grader
would be required for road corstruction under the afforestation program.
The existing equipment and machinery capacity of ZAFFICO is adequate for
this purpose and no new tractors, equipment and machinery for planting
would be purchased under the Project, Only the cost of operating the
equipment and rachinery in plantation establishment and redevelopment would
be provided under the Project.
(iii)  Fire Protection and Control
3.18       In recent years IPD/ZAFFICO plantations have been plagued with
many forest fires. In, the period between t976 and 1982 about 5,014 ha of
pine were damaged by fire, out of which 1,572 ha were completely
destroyed. The major reasons for the poor fire record are: (a) inadequate
controlled burning whi ch frequently got out of hand because of strong
winds, dry weather and too much burning material on the ground; (b)
inadecuate maintenance of fire breaks; (c) inadequate equipment; and (d)
inadequate organization of firefighting. Improved fire protection and
control unlder the Project would comprise the following measures:  (a)
establishment of new external firebreaks which would be established to
prevent bush fires from entering into the plantation area; the Project
would also provide for about 35 km of external firebreaks in the new
plantations; (b) maintenance of existing fire breaks totalling about 1,100
km to keep them free of vegetation through annual ploughing or grading; one
tractor with ancillary equipment would be able to plough most of the
firebreaks and no provision for new equipment would be made under the
Project; (c) construction of one large fire tower (30m high) in the new
plantation area of 1,500 ha; and (d) provision of fire fighting equipment,
(in additior, to the existing equipment consisting of three fire engines and
8 light fire tenders) to strengthen and improve the ZAFFICO's fire fighting
capacity, 7 heavy fire tenders, 12 light tenders and for spares and their
operating costs.  It was agreed during negotiations that ZAFFICO would
prepare and implement a fire protection and control program satisfatory to
IDA by September 30, 1984.
(b) Logging and Transportation Improvement
3_19       The Project would provide for improving the existing logging and
transportatior system consisting of five major operations:  felling,
extraction, loading, transportation and road construction, with a view to
inc-reasing efficiency, productivity and/or production in these operations.
Durirng the Project period the production of roundwood would be increased
from its present level of almost 110,000 m3(r) to 177,000 m3(r), in line
with the Project's envisaged wood processing capacity (para 3.28).
3.20       Felling.  The felling cycle is determined by species, age and
type of desired product. However, in both pine and eucalyptus plantations,
fell.ng for thinnings as well as for clearfelling, delimbing and bucking
would be done with power saws. Since felling techniques, workers' skills
and on-site supervision are still poor and are a primary source of low
productivity and high costs in the logging operations, the Project, under
the proposed training program (para 3.49), would provide for on-the-job
training in proper felling techniques for 80 felling workers, and in



- 22 -
proper felling planning and organization for supervisory staff. This, plus
the use of power saws, should raise average productivity from its current
low level of 5.39 m3(r) per manday to 6.67 m3(r) per manday by 1985/86.  In
order to cope with the increased requirements for roundwood by the
processing facilities, felling and extraction would increase from 650 m3(r)
per day in 1983 to about 800 m3(r) per day in 1986 and thereafter stay
constant throughout the Project period. A total of 190 power saws would be
provided under the Project. No incremental labor or staff to the present
number of 80 workers would be necessary.
3.21      Extraction.  At present the logs from thinnings are extracted
(transported from the stumping area to a roadside or a landing area) by
skidding, using agricultural-type tractors fitted with a logging "A" frame
and a 10 ton truck. At the roadside or landing area, the logs are loaded
and ':lransported to the conversion centers by logging trucks. Since landing
areas are usually not constructed, this unnecessarily increases the cost of
skidding. In order to improve skidding performance and logging, a
tree-length logging method would be used. In 1982 the average daily
extraction productivity stood at about 12.2 m3(r) per machine and 4.9 m3(r)
per man. These figures indicate the extremely low productivity for both
equipment and labor, which is largely accounted for by (a) the adoption of
the short-wood logging system for pine and (b) the unsuitability of
equipment, namely the use of inadequately equipped and powered farm
tractors with one winch and a low winding-on speed. In order to overcome
these constraints, the Project would provide for 11 additional
wheel-tractors (80 HP), mainly for skidding in thinning areas, and for 3
additional articulated wheel-skidders (120 HP) and 3 additional clambunk
skidders (80 HP), both for use in clearfelled areas. For skidding of
tree-length logs in thinnings, a double winch-type tractor with 5-ton
draw pull on each winch would be provided.
3.22      Loading.  The Project would also provide for improved log loading
at roadside landings and off-loading at log conversion sites. For this
purpose, two additional wheeled log loaders (120 HP) would be provided.
3.23      Transportation.  At present log transportation equipment is
poorly designed, and its use is inadequately organized and managed. During
the implementation of the Project all roundwood would be transported to the
conversion sites in tree-lengths to ensure maximum utilization of payload
capacity of trucks and flexibility of organizing or managing log
transportation. Multiple length logs would be loaded upon a "bed" of
tree-length logs which would make maximum use of the length of the trucks.
The Project would provide for ten additional 40-ton trucks each with
loading crane and a tandem-trailer which would be transported as piggy-back
on empty return trips. These trucks would be self-loading. The existing
fleet of 8 logging trucks with tandem-trailers would initially be used for
this purpose, while the other trucks, currently used for short-wood would
be used for sawn timber transport and for other needs as and when they are
replaced by the new transportation system. The new transportation system
would provide a total capacity of 75 m3(r) per day and this would be
sufficient to meet the envisaged mills' requirement for sawlogs.
3.24      Logging Roads.  The plantation areas are divided into
compartments averaging 10 ha, which are usually separated by all-weather
forest roads capable of carrying heavy logging trucks. However, these



- 23 -
roads would have to be upgraded to acceptable logging road standards
through grading and drainage work prior to the start of extraction
activities. The Project would therefore provide for two graders (125 HP),
since existing equipment currently used for land clearing operations is
technically unsuitable for this purpose.
3.25      Logging Operating Costs.  The Project would also provide for
incremental operating costs associated with increased logging operations.
The major operating cost items are shown in Annex 1, Table 5, and include
costs of fuel, oils, lubricants, and spares for logging equipment and
machinery. The Project would not provide for direct wages and salaries
since no increase in the present labor force or local staff strength is
envisaged under the Project.
(c) Sawmilling Program
3.26      Sawmilling operations in the Project would consist of log
conversion, wood processing into poles, posts and sawntimber and the
further processing of these products. At present ZAFFICO has a log
conversion plant at KITE and operates five saw mills.
3.27      Log Conversion.  Roundwood would be converted in sawlogs, poles,
posts and match billets at the log conversion plant at KITE and at the
mechanized log yards at Kalibu and Dola Hill. At present, logs delivered
to the Dola Hill sawmill in short-lengths are fed directly to the mill with
a log loader.  At KITE all logs and poles are handled by log loaders, which
are equipped with log forks and clamps.  KITE has also a log conversion
plant which is currently inoperable and obsolete. The Project would
therefore provide for equipping every sawmill complex under the Project
with a mechanized log conversion facility to reduce log handling costs and
to facilitate optimal utilization of transport equipment through the tree
length logging system. The Project would also provide for a log conversion
plant capable of handling 200,000 m3 tree length logs at KITE per annum; a
mechanized log yard with a 50,000 m3 tree length log capacity per annum at
Kalibu; and a mechanized log yard with an annual capacity of 9,000 m3 tree
length logs at Dola Hill.
3.28      Sawmilling.  The Project would provide for increasing ZAFFICO's
sawmilling production from about 37,000 m3(s) in 1983 to 52,000 m3(s) in
1986 (Annex 3, Table 7). At present, the maximum log size that can be
milled in the existing ZAFFICO sawmills is about 55 cm of diameter. This
is equally true for the new circular sawmill at Kalibu, which has a
break-down capacity for logs with diameters not more than 45 cm. However,
about 5,000 m3(r) of logs with butt diameter of more than 55 cm would be
supplied annually at normal felling cycle (Annex 3, Table 5). It is also
evident that the felling cycles of eucalyptus and pine would increase
significantly in the near future, due to the plantation's overproduction
in relation to the projected processing and market capacities (Annex 3,
Table 5). This would lead to larger amounts of logs with diameters of more
than 55 cm at the butt end. At the same time, the substitution by the
Project of the imported, high-quality construction timber would imply that
both the seasoning of sawnwood and the production of boards with widths of
up to 30 cm would be necessary. Other problems in ZAFFICO's sawmilling
activities include the sawn timber handling and waste disposal systems.



- 24 -
Roundwood in the foreground of the mills and sawn timber and residues
behind the mills are handled by varicus equipment such as loaders, fork
lifts, trucks, tractor-trailers and by hand. Most of this work is
inadequate from the viewpoint of optimal production flow and performance on
one hand and from the maintenance, repair and operating cost considerations
on the other hand. Electrically driven equipment like conveyors and cranes
would be considered in future layouts to be developed to replace the use of
vehicles with combustion engines (Chart C-3). At present, sawmill residue
disposal is high cost and has insignificant benefits. The annual volume of
residues would increase during the Project period from a total of about
36,500 m3/solid in 1982 to 74,500 m3/solid in 1986 and remain constant
thereafter. The total annual volume of sawdust is estimated at about
10,650 m3 solid or 7,425 t at 80% moisture content or 4,130 t bone-dry.
The Project would make provision to utilize part of the sawdust as fuel for
seasoning plant boilers.
3.29      The Project also operates two vacuum pressure treatment plants at
KITE, by using Tanalith AG and CT 106 in one and creosotte in the other
plant. Annual production averages about 6,000 m3 of treated poles for
transmission and telegraph lines and small poles for rural construction
purposes. Both plants are badly maintained and a general overhaul is
necessary. Moreover, the salt treatment plant cannot impregnate poles with
lengths of more than 12 meters, which are particularly required as
transmission poles. Because of its high PCP content, the use of creosette
would be discontinued under the Project.
3.30      Rehabilitation and Improvement Program.  In order to remove the
above constraints in the sawmilling operations of ZAFFICO, provision would
be made to carry out a three-stage rehabilitation and improvement program
for the log conversion, sawmills and further wood processing facilities.
The first stage would consist of immediate rehabilitation of the existing
mills through the purchase of urgently required spare parts in 1983/84 and
the carrying out of detailed engineering design work for the proposed wood
handling and processing facilities under stages two and three of this
program. The second stage would basically involve investments which would
aim to enable the mills to utilize fully their respective installed
capacities and would be implemented during 1984/85.  The third stage would
consist of the introduction of appropriate equipment and facilities for
improving the quality and value of ZAFFICO output and would be carried out
after 1985. The capital investments to be made in each stage are detailed
below.
3.31      The major purpose of the first stage rehabilitation program would
be to improve or maintain the production of existing mills at their
respective 1982 production levels. This stage would provide for spares in
the existing sawmills to replace the worn-out resaw of the circular sawmill
and to carry out a general overhaul of the frame sawmill, both at KITE.
The technical specifications for the spares and works to be carried under
this stage were determined during the detailed engineering design studies,
carried out before negotiations. This rehabilitation stage would be
entirely financed by Finnish aid which has been agreed upon, in principle,
by the Government of Zambia and the Finnish Development Agency (FINNIDA).



3.32      The second stage wouLd be started immediately after Credit
approval by the Association and be completed at latest by the end of 1984.
It would aim to reach the installed production capacity of the existing
five mills and maintain it until the production of the proposed new
facilities under the third stage come on stream (para 3-37).
3.33      At KITE the second stage rehabilitation program would consist of
(a) the Metex  sawmill in which the following  provisions wo-uld be made:
the mechanization of the log deck, the extension of the sorting line and
t'ae extension of the waste handling system; (b) overhaul of the two vacuum
treatment plants and the establishment of a new log conversion plant; (c)
improvements in civil works, especially upgrading of foundation work and
alterations in existing sawmill buildings; and (d) increase in the log
conversion plant capacity to 200,000 m3 roundwood/year.
3,34      At Kallbu the second stage rehabilitation program would provide
for the completion of the semi-finished infrastructure and buildings, for
expansion in water and electric power supply, and for construction of sheds
and office buildings. These works have been stopped practically by the
lack of provision in the second phase project. An additional electrical
transformer, water supply and sewerage and a waste handling system would be
included.  In addition, one pick-up, one sedan car and two 60-seater buses
would be provided. The purchase of the two buses has been provided to
replace a more expensive housing program at Kalibu. It is expected that
workers would rent houses in Kitwe, Luanshya or Ndola and would have to be
transported daIly by buses to the mill, which is only 3 km from Kitwe and
30 and 4C km from Luanshya and Ndola respectively.
3.35      At Dola Hill provision would be made for the installation of a
semi-mechanized log yard.  The log yard would be designed to handle
tree-length and multiple length logs for conversion into sawlogs, peeler
logs, and match billets. In addition, civil works for foundation and
timber work for log conversion and storage sheds would be provided.  The
capital investment under the second stage rehabilitation program would be
co-finaniced by the Bank and FINNIDA on a parallel basis, with FINNIDA
providing for equipment required for the rehabilitation of the frame mills
at KITE only.
3.36      The purpose of the third stage would be to diversify ZAFFICOs
product mix through the production of high quality sawnwcod and timber
products, in order to meet the needs of the domestic construction and
mining industries, which are largely dependent on imports for their supply
of soft sawn timber, Also processing industries such as furniture
manufacturers could be provided with seasoned sawnwood, thus enabling them
to produce improved quality furniture.  Furthermore, the capacities of old
mills which are operating with obsolete arnd inefficient equipment would
have to be replaced by a new framesaw mill of a heavy duty type capable of
handling and processing sawlogs with diameters of up to 80cm.
3e37      At KITE the proposed new frame sawmill would be installed with an
initial capacity of 16,000 m3 sawnwood per year, consisting of two
production lines in 1985/86 to replace the three old mills (see Annex 3,
Table 7),. Mechanized log deck, roller and cross conveyors, trimming
station, green and sorting chain and a waste handling system would be



- 26 -
provided for the new mill.  The location of the new mills, the existing
Metex mill and the proposed wood in relation to the processing and handling
facilities are shown in Chart C-3. Drying kilns with a capacity for
30,000 m3 sawnwood per year would be provided. The steam boiler and fuel
handling system would be designed to cater for the kilns' capacity. The
fuel would consist of residues from the KITE mills. A green timber yard
area of about 6,000 to 7,000 m3 would be provided.
3i38       At Kalibu, provision would be made for a finger-jointing and
glulam (glue-laminating) plant with a capacity of 4,000 m3 per year, and
woul'd be principally used for the production of planed sawnwood and
motuldings respectively.  Thus provision would also be made for a planer
mill for the production of mouldings.  Provision would also be made for
facilities to be established around" the new circular sawmill (a) to
perw t full attainment of the installed capacity of 20,000 m3 of sawnwood
per year through the provision of a mechanized log yard capable of
converting about 50,000 m3 roundwood p.a. and of a waste handling system
and (b) to upgrade sawn timber by providing dry-kilns with a capacity of
20,000 m3 of sawnwood per annum and by cutting and quality control.  These
facilities were not provided in the initial design of the new mill as
financed under the second IPD project. Furthermore, civil works for
foundations and buildings would also be provided under the improvement
program. Drying kilns would be served by a steam boiler and a fuel
handling system using wood residues (sawdust).
3.39       Provisional technical specifications for the proposed equipment
and facilities for wood handling and processing have been prepared;
recommendations for the final specifications are available following
detailed engineering studies (para 3.46). The capital costs of the third
phase program would be co-financed by the Bank and FINNIDA on a parallel
basis, with the latter mainly providing for machinery and equipment for the
KITE mills.
3.40       The Project would also provide for incremental and direct
operating costs associated with wood handling and processing such
as maintenance and repair of equipment, supplies of materials and spare
parts and electricity as well as for the salaries and wages of 33
incremental laborers in sawmilling and about 42 incremental laborers in
other wood processing activities during the Project period (Annex 1, Table
7).  These would be incremental inputs associated with the implementation
of the Project.
(d) Workshop Improvement
3.41         Equipment in the Project's two workshops at KI[TE and Dola Hill
is in extremely inadequate for major overhaul work and for normal sawmill
repair. Organization and management of stores and spare supplies is poor
and, quite often, hinders preventive maintenance of equiprment. Present
repair and maintenance procedures are time consuming and highly inefficient
and are adversely affecting the operation of ZAFFICO.  Maiintenance services
cover almost every aspect of the Project from maintenance of plantation
equipment, and civil works to maintenance of logging, transportation and
mill equipment. The technical competence of existing staf-f is reasonably



- 27 -
good and could be further improved through on-the-job training by
experienced and skilled supervisors and technicians with specialist
traLning in the maintenance of the diverse Project equipment and machinery
(para 3.48).
3.42      The Project would provide for the upgrading of the existing small
workshops serving the sawmills at KITE and Dola Hill through the purchase
of new and appropriate equipment as well as through the improvement of
their management and organization and through on-the-job training of
semi-skilled and skilled staff. Furthermore, the Project would provide for
establishment of a new Central Workshop at Kalibu for major maintenance and
works of the Project's mobile and stationary equipment and machinery. The
workshop would be equipped with the basic and standard machinery and
equipment. The Project would also provide for a mobile workshop unit for
servicing mobile ecitipment at site of operations and processing plants
other than Kalibu. This unit would be attached to and run as an integral
part of the Central Workshop. In addition, the Project would provide for
the establishment of a small joinery workshop with basic machinery, tools
and benches at KITE to provide services to the existing joinery and
furniture unit.
3.43      The Project would not provide for salaries and wages since no
increase in the present staff strength of 35 is envisaged under the
Project. The Project would also not provide for materials and other
consumables that would be required for the operation of the workshops since
these would be charged to the operating departments or units using the
equipment. The detailed specifications of the workshop equipment would be
determined during the detailed engineering design work.
(e) Technical Assistance
3.44      The improvement and expansion of ZAFFICO's processing facilities
and the introduction of new operations and technologies for drying,
planing, finger-jointing and glulam production would present new challenges
in which existing ZAFFICO management has practically very little experience
and training. In addition, the need for overall improvement in the
performance of ZAFFICO operations in the future, coupled with the lack of
commercial experience of the present management of ZAFFICO, would make
technical assistance imperative. The Project would therefore provide for
strengthening ZAFFICO's management through employment of experienced and
competent specialists in a variety of fields and through short-term
consultancies to carry out specific studies or assignments.
3.45      About 38 man-years of long-term consultancy would be required,
and expected to be met by international recruitment, consisting of: (i)
Processing and Engineering (18 man-years): Manager of Logging and
Processing, Assistant Managers of sawmilling and processing, and of logging
and transportation; Senior Sawdoctor, Manager of Engineering and
Construction, and Central Workshop Superintendent; (ii) Finance (5 man-
years): Finance Manager, (iii) Planning (6 man-years): Corporate Planning
Manager and Systems Analyst (iv) Management Auditor (3 years) (iv)
Marketing (3 man years): Marketing Manager; and (v) Training Specialist
(3 man years). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
recruitment of the specialists under the Technical Assistance program would
be in accordance with the Bank/IDA "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants",



- 28 -
and that all technical specialists in logging, transportation, processing,
engineering and marketing filled through international recruitment would be
through a single technical services contract already signed with a
management consulting firm. The specialists in finance, auditing,
accounting ar,d training would be recruited directly by ZAFFICO by June 30,
1984, as well as the Corporate Planning Manager whose appointment would be
effected before March 31, 1984i The terms of reference of all technical
assistance staff were agreed during negotiations.
3.46      Speciaal assign-ments for which short-term consultancy services
would be provided to ZAFFICO are: (i) preparation of detailed engineering
designs and specifications for wood processing and handling and of tender
documents currently being financed under a Project: Preparation Facility
(PPF) advance; (ii) specialists to assist ProjeCt management to design a
five-year wood harvesting and processing plan based on proper and adequate
inventory data of plantations (12 man-months); (iii) training consultants
to train ZAFFICO staff and prepare training manuals for non-equipment
related training of ZAFFICO staff (about 30 man-months); (iv) design of a
silvicultural research program and preparation of a silvicultural
management plan (12 man-months); and (v) other consultancies to cover
specific components as necessary.   Terms of reference for (ii) and (iv)
above were agreed during negotiations.
3,47      The selection of consultants for these short-term technical
assistance would be in accordance with the Bank/IDA guidelines and
assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations or in case of
para. 3.46 (i) during the processing of the advance under the PPF.
f,f  Training Program
3.48      The Project would also provide for training various ZAFFICO
staff. Since, in qualitative terms, ZAFFICO's staff strength is not
sufficient to cope with the present as well as the future workload
anticipated under Phase III, the major objective of the training program
would be to improve the job skills of the staff to enhance their
productivity. The labor productivity targets envisaged under Phase III
canrnot be achieved without ungrading the performance of most of the ZAFFICO
staff. Next to enforcing work discipline, through improved management and
supervision, and the provision of appropriate equipment and tools,
-n-service training would be essential for establishing good working
standards. The second objective of the training program under the Project
would be to reduce, over time, the shortage of personnel with professional
qualifications in engineering, finance and accountancy, and management.
The shortage of such personnel is severely felt at unit executive levels
(i.e. manager and technical assistant level) in logging, sawmilling,
workshop and accounting.
3049      In view of these objectives, the training program to be
implemented over the Project period would be designed around a training
strategy which would emphasize in-service and on-the-job training methods.
The in-service approach would require ZAFFICO to recruit persons who have
had technical or professional training and who are able to demonstrate
their technical ability. Such persons would not need to have specific



- 29 -
xperience for the jobs they would be hired for, since they would acquire
this through the Project's on-the-job training prcgram. The on-the-job
training program, which would be applicable to both newly recruited staff
and existing skilled and semi-skilled staff at technical and non-technical
levels, would consist of two stages.  The first stage would involve short
introductory courses of up to five weeks, with the actual duration being
dependent on the nature of the job. Secondly, a practical on-the--job
training stage of up to two years would immediately follow the first
stage. The latter stage would constitute an "apprenticeship" during which
trainees would work under the supervision of senior staff members or
foremen. At the end of this stage, successful trainees would acquire
skilled status.  Trainers or instructors would consist of experienced staff
who would be occasionally supplemented by instructors from suppliers of
equipmeent or consultants.  A total provision of KO.25 million (US$0.18
million) has been included for the expenses of accommodation and meals at
the Chati Workers Training Center for the on-the-job trainees.
3.50      Preparation of teaching mnanuals for equipment to be procured
under the Project would be required in the tender documents and the supply
contracts would include provisions for pre-service and on-the-job training
for fully qualified senior staff who would then act as instructors to the
on-the-job trainees. The cost of preparing teaching manuals for equipment,
and of on-the-job training for instructors would thus be included in the
cost of equipment. For the preparation of training for non-equipment
related training, separate provision would be made under the Project
(Annex 1, Table 10).  The Chati Workers Training Center, whose facilities
are considered adequate, would be used for the purpose of introductory
courses.
3.51      The second component of the training program for the Project
staff would consist of long-term and external courses, both local and
overseas, for technical and professional staff at high levels such as
accountants, internal auditors, engineers and managers.  At the completion
of their courses, the trainees would be expected to earn full professional
qualifications in their fields of specialization. The staff selected for
such courses would be expected to have acquired their basic and
intermediate qualifications and worked with ZAFFICO for a reasonable
period. These Project staff would participate in training and would pursue
courses in management, engireering, accountancy, saw doctoring and wood
technology (Annex 1, Table 10).
3e52      For the detailed planning, coordination and implementation of the
overall training program, a Training Officer, with experience and
qualifications satisfactory to the Association, would be employed by
ZAFFICO. He will be directly responsible to the Manager of Administration
and Personnel, Furthermore, a draft training program, satisfactory to IDA,
has been prepared. Its finalization is a condition of disbursement for
training expenses. In order to minimize the loss of staff trained by the
Project, each staff, trained under the long-term and external training
program, would be required to enter into a bonding contract equal to at
least the length of training. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.



- 30 -
(g) Administrative Support
3.53        The Project would provide for six passenger cars (replacements)
for senior staff transportation at the head office; two four-wheel drive
vehicles (replacements) for general and staff transportation; a bus for
transportation of staff to work; a micro- computer for imnproved accountancy
work and information management; and for purchase of office furniture for
head office. The salaries and wages of ZAFFICO's headquarters staff do not
constitute incremental expenditures and they will not be provided for under
the third phase Project.
E. Project Costs
3.54        In order to provide an overall perspective of ZAFFICO's financial
sit-ation during the implementation of the proposed Project,  two sets of
costs have been estimated: (a) costs for maintenance or operation of
existing investments in capital and human stocks (non-incremental costs)
and (b) costs associated with investments in capital and human resources
proposed under the third phase Project (incremental costs). The latter
category of costs constitutes the Project Costs, while both (a) and (b)
above make up the Corporate Program Costs. Total Corporate Program costs
are estimated at K94.5 million (US$67.5 million) of which K59.5 million
(US$42.5 million) or about 63% represents Project costs, while K35.0
million (US$25.0 million) or 37% represents non-incremental costs. The
Project costs include K45.3 million (US$32.4 million) in foreign exchange
and K14.3 million (US$10.1 million) in local costs. The Project costs do
not include local import duties because imported capital goods are not
subject to taxation and local taxes on operating expenditures are
negligible. Details and phasing of the Project costs are presented in
Annex 1, Tables 1 through 11 and are summarized below.
&ney co  ate         ard Project Costs
__t________                               Project    ost _
of which l                                       Z
Nonl -                                          2   of   Z of
Local Foreign Total Increrntal  Local Foreign TotaL  lxxal Foreign Total. Foreign bam
K'OQO                   K'(X0)             US$'000       heraige Ckat
Afforestation                              _       -          1                 -1  --i-
Pliintation Estab. and Rep]anting   879   611  1,490    -       879   612  1,490   628   437  1,065    41  3.7
Rirsery                             174   118    292    -       174   118    292   124    84    209    41  0.7
Fire Prev. & SilvicLutur'al ?igt.  3,880  2,728   6,608  3,394    541  2,673  3,214   387  1,909  2,296    83  7.9
Sub-Tctaj Afforestati0               4,933  3,457  8,390  3,394  1,594  3,403  4,997  1,139  2,43i  3,570    68  121
B. LogrtLng m-0 Trnsp. Irprovaeent.  3,9Y+  5,698  9,632  2,004  1,930  5,698  7,628  1,372  4,070  5,442    75  18.8
C. Sav.mling Prrgram                 8,059 16,282  24,341   5,445  2,907 15,989  18,8%  2,077 11,421  13,498   35  46.5
D. Workshop lIprrovement             1,054   810  1,864    863    209   792  1,001   149   566    715   79  2.5
E. Technical Assistanc                 415  4,362  4,777    276    391  4,110  4,501   280  2,935   3.215    1  11.1
F. TrainiLg Progran                    565  1,968  2,533    -      565  1,968  2,533   404  1,409   1,809   78  6.2
G. MhrkeLing                         3,876  1,050  4,926  4,926    -     -      -      -     -       -
H. Detailed FlgieeriEg                 -     630    630    -       -     630    639   -      450    450 t0 00  1.5
I. Pr(nject dmrdnstration            2,183   375  2,558  2,088    116   354    470    83   253    336   '5  1.2
Tot.al B&eeline Costs               25,020 34,632  59,652  18,995  7,713 32,943  40,657  5,510 23,531  29,035   81 100.0
Prysical Contingencies            2,247  5,265  7,512  1,388  1,028  5,096  6,124   734  3 640   4 374   83  15.0
Price Cntingerries               19,703  7,641  27,344  14,577  5,525  7,242  12,767  3,947  5,173   9 120   57  31.4
Total Project Costs                 46,970 47,538  94,503  34,960  14,267 45,28i  59,548 10,190 32,344  42,529   76 146.4
NUJE: Sum totals nay not add up wing to rniiding.
October 28, 1983



- 31 -
3.55      Project costs were estimated at prices as of September 1983.  A
physical contingency of 10% has been applied to all costs except
logging,sawmilling and workshop equipment for which a physical contingency
of 20% has been estimated to account for possible margins of error in the
absence of detailed engineering specifications. Price contingencies were
calculated on a cumulative basis: for local costs the annual rates were 25%
for 1983/84, 20% for 1984/85 and 15% thereafter, while for foreign exchange
costs the annual rates were 8% for 1983/84, 7.5% for 1984/85 and 6%
thereafter. Price contingencies total about 46% of Corporate Program and
31% of Project base costs.
3.56      Provision has been made for a Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
advance of US$450,000 to finance the preparation of detailed engineering
designs and bidding documents for the wood handling and processing
facilities proposed under the Project.
3.57      Project costs provide for a total of 38 man-years of long-term
consultancies at an estimated base cost total of US$ 2.6 million, at an
average cost of US$ 68,400 per man year.  This includes the cost of
salaries, fees, travel and subsistence. Provision is also made for 54 man-
months of short-term consultancies for wood processing plan, training and
silviculture (para 3.46) at an estimated cost of US$0.33 million or about
US$6,100 per man-month. A lump sum provision of US$0.3 million has been
made for short-term technical consultancies to be finally determined during
the preparation of the engineering designs for the implementation of
specific components including logging and processing. A further lump sum
provision of US$1.8 has been made for staff training. The staff training
needs and priorities have been identified by ZAFFICO under its training
program. The Project would also provide for the expenditure on salaries
and wages of incremental local staff of about US$0.52 million including
contingencies.
F. Financing
3.58      The financing plan for the Corporate Program and the Project
would be as follows:
Non-Incremental
Corporate Program         Project        Total    Percent of
Costs               Costs         Costs       Total
K(m)  US$(m)        K(m)  US$(m)   K(m) US$(m)
ZAFFICO          35.0   25.0         14.1   10.1      49.1  35.1    52
IDA               -       -         31.4   22.4       31.4  22.4    33
FINNIDA           -       -          14.0   10.0      14.0  10.0    15
Total          35.0   25.0        59.5   42.5       94.5  67.5   100
3.59      The non-incremental costs of the Corporate Program would be
financed entirely by ZAFFICO, as would K14.1 million of Project costs in
local currency. This financing would be from internally generated funds,
which are projected to be adequate for this purpose. GRZ would provide
funds to ZAFFICO, if and as needed, to enable it to maintain and operate
its ongoing program of investment and development. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations.



- 32 -
3.60      The Association and FINNIDA would co-finance part of the Project
costs as shown in the financing plan (para 3.58).  The proposed Association
Credit of SDR21.5 million (US$22.4 million) would finance 33% of total
Corporate Program costs or 53% of total Project costs, or 69% of Project
foreign exchange costs. The Association Credit would be made to GRZ
oni standard terms. FINNIDA would make US$10.0 (SDR9.5) million available
as a grant to GRZ, but the latter would on-lend the funds to ZAFFICO at the
same terms and conditions as those of IDA funds.   FINNIDA's financing
would be restricted to providing for sawmilling and timber seasoning
equipment and spares at KITE for the rehabilitation and improvement
programs (paras 3.31, 3.33 and 3.37). The Association Credit would be
passed on by the Government to ZAFFICO partly as a loan (SDR12.0 million)
and partly as equity capital (SDR9.5 million) to enable ZAFFICO to maintain
a satisfactory capital structure during Project implementation (para 6.10).
The loan from GRZ to ZAFFICO of SDR12.0 million would be repayable over 15
years including a three year period of grace. This loan would carry an
interest rate not less than the interest that would be charged on Bank
loans at the time of approval of the Credit plus a 10% mark-up rate.
ZAFFICO would carry the foreign exchange risk on all project funds on-lent
to it by the Government; for this purpose the repayment schedule in the
subsidiary loan agreement between GRZ and ZAFFICO would denominate both the
loan principal and interest in SDRs. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations. The execution of subsidiary loan agreement
between GRZ and ZAFFICO reflecting the above terms of fun,ding and
satisfactory to the Association would be a condition for effectiveness of
the Credit.
3.61      ZAFFICO's capital structure, as agreed with the Association
during negotiations, constitutes the underlying capital base for the
financial plan proposed in para 3.58. It has been agreed that the
aggregate outstanding Government long-term loans to ZAFFICO (K55.5 million)
and accrued interest thereon (K9.7 million) through December 31, 1982 be
coaverted into share capital with effect from April 11, 1983. Such
capitalization has given ZAFFICO a sound capital base and provided adequate
leverage for financing the implementation of the Project.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
.0l1      The Project would be implemented by ZAFFICO.  Since ZAFFICO, a
whoIly-owned subsidiary of ZIMCO, is controlled and guided in areas of
policy, management and finance by ZIMCO, the latter would have a role in
project implementation. Thus, the Project Agreement would be executed
Jointly with ZIMCO and ZAFFICO. The Managing Director (MD), who is
responsible to the Board of Directors for implementation of the Project,
would be assisted by four Divisional Managers, each responsible for
Plantation Management, Logging and Processing Operations,  Engineering and
Construction Services and Finance, and by a Corporate Secretariat and
Administration.  The Marketing Manager would be directly responsible to the
MD for the execution of ZAFFICO's marketing operations.



- 33 -
4.02      ZAFFICO's present ten-member Board of Directors is headed by the
ZIMCO Executive Director responsible for industry and commerce, and has
representatives from the Forestry Department, CDC and the private sector
(five). The Board composition, already agreed with the Association, is
appropriate in terms of representation of relevant interests including
forestry  and business experience.  ZAFFICO's Managing Director is the
former Director of IPD.
4X03      ZAFFICO employs about 1,560 people onl a permanent basis.  The
overall structure of ZAFFICO's organization, as discussed and provisionally
agreed between CRZ, ZIMCO and the Association, is shown in Chart C-1 and
the a-nticipated scheduling of implementation of various components is shown
in Chart C-24 Assurances were obtained during negotiations that ZAFFICO
wouldc be organized as proposed for the purpose of implementing the Project
and that any future changes should be agreed with the Association. The
major- changes in the management of the Project by ZAFFICO would be the
introduction of commercial/industrial management expertise, through
employment of a varlety of specialists under technical assistance to the
operations of the mills, harvesting and transport, and engineering and
accounting support services.  The major function of this team of
specialists would be to establish sourd operating procedures and high
managemnent and technical standards for the young company so that its future
operations would be based on sound commercial practice and principles.
ZAFFICO is in the process of reappointing some of former IPD staff with
satisfactory performance or recruiting new staff to fill vacancies Left
open by non-reappointment of former staff. Such reappointments and
recruitments would remain substantially unchanged, particularly in
plantation management in which the quality of the existing management and
supervisory staff is judged to be satisfactory. However, the filling of
management and technical positions in logging and processing, finance and
managemnent, engineering and construction, and corporate planning would have
to be done through international recruitment. Potentially promising
Zambians with appropriate qualifications, but perhaps without much
experience, would be appointed or recruited as deputies to each post held
by expatriate staff.  Assurances by ZAFFICO to this effect were obtained
during negotiations. 'In this way, the strategy for effective management
during the Project period would be to blend the existing plantation-
oriented management with contract management having commercial/technical
expe.:tise and experience, supplemented with intensive on-the-job training
of counterpart staff and other categories of local staff (para 3.49). The
superior corporate salary structure of the ZIMCO companies, as compared
to  the civil service salaries, should help to attract better qualified
Zambian staff to ZAFFICO than hitherto. Realistically, however, progress
towards improved management and commercial-orientation would be gradual,
since the entire indtustrial sector, let alone the parastatal sector, in the
country suffers from scarcity of well trained and experienced management
and technical personnel.
4.04      A Corporate Planning Section, headed by a Manager,  would be
established as a "staff" unit responsible directly to the MD for: (i)
corporate planning (involving strategic and medium-term planning for all
ZAFFICO's investments); (ii) establishing an integrated system for
monitoring and reviewing the implementation of the corporate plan and



- 34 -
operations of ZAFFICO (to provide basis for promplt management decisions
particularly with regard to key indicators, physiaal input-output data, and
productivlty levels, and production or process unit cost data), and (iii)
carrying out special studies or reviews at the request of the MD or Board,c
A Systems Analyst would assist the Manager in designing and -mplementing
systems analysis procedures and in selecting hard and software for
facilitating the work of both the FA and CA as we:Ll as the maintenance of
an effective management information system by the Corporate Planning
Section. The Company Secretary will be responsib:Le to the MD for all
secretarial work and legal matters as well as for administrative, trairing
and personnel matters. He will be assisted by an Assistant Manager
Administration and Personnel (MAP), who will be directly responsible for
establishing improved and effective administrative, training and personnel
management procedures. A Training Officer would be resDocnsible for
desi-ing, planning and organizing the training programn for the Projecc
staff; he would be assisted by a training asststant ald the Principal cf
the Chati Workers Training Center.
41SJ5     The Internal Auditor, who would directly report to the MD, would
be responsible for (i) formal internal financial auditing, and (ii)
performing management auditing, of ZAFFICO departments and sections.
4.06      The Manager of Plantation Management (MPM) would be responsible
for implementation of the afforestation program. He would be assisted by
the Assistant Plantation Manager (APM). The APM would have overall
operational responsibility for supervising the implementation of the
afforestation program by Senior Plantation Officers who would be in cnarge
of implementing agreed activity targets in silvicultural management,
plantation establishment, nursery work and fire protection. A Senior
Plantation Officer, under the APM, would be responsible for plantation
physical planning, surveys and inventory and plantation management plansX
Thne Manager of Logging and Processing (MLP) would be responsible for
implementing the logging and transportation program and wood sawmilling and
processing program.  In implementing the logging and transportation
program, the MLP would be assisted by an Assistant Manager, who would
supervise the implementation of agreed targets by three Senior Logging and
Transportation Officers, each responsible for operations in Ndola,
Lamba/Chati/Ichimpe and special duties (including contract logging and
staff training).  Each of these, in turn, would be assisted by logging and
transport officers and site supervisors. For the implementation of the
sawmilling and processing program, the MLP would be assisted by an
Assistant Manager who would directly supervise three Mill Superintendents5
each responsible for operating sawmills at KITE, Kalibu, and Dola Hill
The Mill Superintendents would be responsible for implementing specific
agreed production targets with the help of technicians responsible for
supervising sawmilling, log conversion, timber drying and upgrading, and
impregnation of poles and posts.
4.07      The Finance Manager (FM) would be responsible for designing and
implementing a system of improved financial planning, managemen.t and
control.  In improving and implementing sound financial management and
control systems, the FM would rely on the Financial Accountant, Cost
Accountant and Supplies and Stores Specialist, who would each supervise a



- 35 -
section. The Financial Accountant (FA) would be responsible to the FM for
designing and implementing improved financial planning and management,
financial control and reporting, while the Cost Accountant (CA) would be
responsible for designing and implementing an improved and effective cost
accounting and control system as well as instituting improved corporate
budgeting procedures and control. The Marketing Manager, reportirig to the
MD, would be responsible for preparing anid implementing a marketing
strategy that would be based on the use of ZAFFICO's own sales outlets and
private merchants. He will also be responsible for designing a product
pricing policy and for its continuous review.  The Manager of Engineering
and Construction Services would be responsible for implementing the
installation or construction and maintenance program of Project equipment,
utilities, roads and buildings. He would be assisted by Workshop
Superintendents of the Central Workshop at Kalibu and Mill Workshop at
KITE, each of whom -would be responsible for planning and supervising
preventive and curative maintenance of ZAFFICO equipment and mills. The
implementation of the construction and maintenance of roads and buildings
would be the responsibility of a Civil Engineer. An Electrical Engineer
would be responsible for all installation and maintenance of electric
equipment in the Project. An Engineer would be responsible for the
installation of equipment for wood handling and processing as well as water
supply equipment under the Project. Job descriptions of all the key posts
were agreed during negotiations.
B. Procurement
4.08      Procurement under the Project would be in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines. Specifically:
(a) orders for vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery,
equipment and tools and initial spare parts (about US$13.0
million excluding contingencies) would be packaged or bulked
as far as practicable. Orders of US$100,000 and above would
be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB)
from suppliers who maintain or agree to maintain in Zambia
adequate after sales service, training and inventory of
spare parts (for transport vehicles);
(b) orders for vehicles, tractors, trailers, machinery,
equipment and tools below US$100,000 would be procured in
accordance with local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures.
These orders would not, however, exceed US$500,000 in
aggregate; items costing less than US$30,000 would be
procured under local shopping procedures, with a minimum of
three quotations required;
(c) civil works (total cost US$3.3 million) would be undertaken
in accordance with standards and designs determined by the
detailed engineering designs, to be approved by IDA; as
these works would be small and distributed in time and space
(individual contracts would not exceed US$150,000), they
would not be suitable for ICB and LCB; and since ZAFFICO has
the capacity to implement such a program with reasonable
efficiency, construction would be mostly by force account;



- 36 -
(d) the selection and employment of consultants (US$3.2
million excluding contingencies) would be in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines. Long term consultancy services would
be packaged or made through a single technical services
contract as far as practicable.
4.09      Cop es of tender documents, to be prepared under the detailed
engineer4ing designs consultancy (financed under a PPF advance) and to be
approved by 1DA, against contracts expected to cost: in excess of US$100,000
would be submitted to IDA at the same time the invitations to bid are
issued. Bid evaluations and recommendations for award would be submitted
to the Association for approval before contracts are awarded. In the
evaluation of ICB bids for purchase of vehicles, tractors, trailers,
machinery, equipment and tools, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a
preference of 15% or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower.
Equlipment, machinery, vehicles and tools co-financed through bilateral
assistance would not be subject to ICB, unless so specified and agreed by
the bilateral donor concerned. Nevertheless, the technical specifications
of such equiipment, machinery, vehicles and tools would be determined by the
detailed eiigineering design work, as agreed during negotiations.
C. Disbursements
4,10      Funds from the Credit Account would be disbursed on the following
bas s.
(a) 100% of foreign, 100% of local costs (ex-factory) and 75% of
local costs for other items, for vehicles, equipment,
machinery, spare parts and materials US$12.9 million (SDR12.4
mdillon);
(b) 90% of total cost of consultancy services and 100% of
overseas staff training US$4.5 million (SDR4.3 million);
(c) 45% of local costs of civil works US$1.6 millLon (SDR1.5
mnillion);
(d) an, unallocated amount of US$3 million (SDR2.87 million)
representing physical contingencies of items (a) to (d), and
transferable to them as requested.
4.11      These disbursements are expected to be fully completed by March
31, 1990. All disbursements would be fully documented except for local
expenditures under (c), which would be on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures signed by the MD. However, supporting documents in respect of
Statement of Expenditures would be retained by the Project for inspection
by IDA supervision missions.
4.12      A Schedule showing the estimated pattern of credit disbursement
is at Annex 1, Table 120 This Schedule is based on the historical
disbursement profile ol the second phase project, adjusted to take into
account a faster procurement of the major equipment and machinery through
the early preparation and approval by the Association of the tender
documents and through improved management of ZAFFICO.  Regional and
country-wide disbursement profiles were thus considered inappropriate for
the Project.



- 37 -
D. Accounts, Audit and Reporting
4.13       The audited accounts of the seconad phase project, under IPD, have
been produced in time. However, an improved system for financial
management and planning, internal controls and cost accounting would be
designed and implemented during the implementation of the Project, since
the current system, though generally sound and acceptable, would require
improvement to adequately meet Project needs in future. The provisions
made in the Project for strengthening the finance and cost accountancy
sections in ZAFFICO would help in improving this situation (para 4.07).
Separate records, relating to all expenditures under the Credit, would be
kept in accordance with acceptable accounting practices, and reflecting the
complete operations and financial position of ZAFFICO.  All accounts
relating to ZAFFICO, including Statements of Expenditures would continue to
be audited annually by independent and external auditors appointed by the
Board of Directors and whose services are satisfactory to the Association.
The audited accounts together with the auditors' report would continue to
be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each financial year,
which currently runs from April 1  to March 31.  Detailed annual and
semi-annual reports covering the physical implementation of the Project,
sources and use of funds together with the corporate budgets for the
ensuing year, would be prepared and submitted to IDA. ZAFFICO's tools for
financial management would comprise of (a) adequate and appropriate
financial and cost accounting; (b) annual and five-year rolling budgets and
financial plans; (c) financial projections (including sources and use of
funds, income statements and balance sheets) and break-even analyses.  In
addition, ZAFFICO would include in its semi-annual reports, to be submitted
to the Association, the following financial indicators:  the current ratio
of operating profit to equity, ratio of receivables to sales, ratio of
inventory to output, ratio of marketing expenses to sales, and losses to
plantations on account of fires. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that these accounting, auditing and reporting procedures would
be followed.
E. Environmental Impact
4.14      The forest plantations would continue to provide protection to
minor catchment areas and the maintenance of soil cover on vulnerable sites
within the Project area. By providing plantation wood to meet the national
demand, the Project would reduce pressure on the environmentally important
indigenous forests.  The improvement in sawmilling and waste handling
designs and the use of appropriate and modern technology would result in
improved workers' safety from a health point of view.  Similarly, the
phasing out of the creosette impregnation plant would result in a complete
elimination of the risk posed by the use of PCP (6.2%), a chemical agent
normally considered hazardous to human health and the environment in
general. The Project would thus have generally positive effects on the
environment.



- 38 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Production
Plantation Yields
Pine
5.01      Mean average increment (MAI) in the pine stands within the Ndola
plantations have been estimated at 15 m3(r) u.b.4/year/ha and at 12 m3
(r)u.b./year/ha for all other areas. Thus, total production in Ndola would
be 375 m3/ha and in the other areas 300 m3/ha in the other areas over a
rotation period of 25 years.
5.02      The average commercial production of pine sawlogs and small
diamreter logs would be as follows:
Thinnings            Clearfelling
m3/ha                  m3/ha
Sawlogs                  48                      122
Small diameter logs    92                         51
Total logs           140                       173
Eucalyptus
5.03      The eucalyptus timber production would be based on clearfelling
operations, without thinning as presently practised. The MAI for
eucalyptus would be about 23 m3(r) u.b., yielding a production of 184 m3
(r) u.b./ha in an 8-year cutting cycle or 276 m3(r) u.b./ha in a 12 year
cutting cycle. Thus one ha of eucalyptus would produce the following
product mix, net of forest residues:
Sawlogs           Poles       Total Prod.
m3/ha            m3/ha         m3/ha
Clearcut 12 years              166               55             221
Clearcut 8 years                55              92              169
Roundwood Production
5.04      On the basis of IPD's inventory data of 1982, wiich was modified
downward during appraisal to reflect the variability in y:Lelds amongst the
plantations, the production potential by products of ZAFFICO's plantations
would be as summarized in Annex 3, Table 5. Accordingly, the average total
production potential of roundwood would stabilize around 628,000 m3(r) per
year, of which 300,000 m3(r) would be sawlogs and peeler 'Logs. It is also
evident that nearly 46% of the production potential of the plantations
would be in the form of forest products for which there is presently no
utilization capacity in the country, namely pulpwood and iforest residues.
On the basis of the existing capacity for sawmilling in the Copperbelt
(Annex 3, Table 7) plus the improvement envisaged under the proposed
Project, there would appear to be a significant surplus of- sawlogs from
ZAFFICO plantations, even under the assumption that all existing and future
sawmilling in the area would be based on the supply of plantation wood.
4/ u.b. = roundwood under bark.



- 39 -
Under this assumption, the combined requirements of the sawmilling and wood
panels industries in the Copperbelt area would amount to almost 200,000
m3(r) of saw logs and peeler logs in 1985, compared to a potential supply
of 238,000 m3(r) from ZAFFICO plantations. If it is further assumed that
there would be no significant expansions in the utilization capacity for
sawlogs and peeler logs, then there would be a substantial surplus of
sawlogs, rising from 38,000 m3(r) per annum during 1985-89 to 155,000 m3(r)
per annum during 1995-99. However, aggregate supply and demand estimates
for sawn timber indicate that demand would significantly exceed supply
during 1990-2000, mainly as a result of inadequate sawmilling capacity in
the country (para 5.12); investments to optimize the use of plantation
forest to meet national requirements for timber should be made as a matter
of priority. Also and more importantly, there is no need for the
continuation of the use of the relatively expensive and declining
indigenous forest resource by most of the sawmills, especially by the
majority of the mills owned and operated by the Mining Timbers Limited. In
order to utilize optimally the increasing supply of sawlogs from ZAFFICO
plantations, assurance were obtained during negotiations that ZIMCO, which
owns the Mining Timbers Limited, would carefully review and then provide to
IDA by December 31, 1985 an assessment of the possibility of basing part of
the sawmilling operations of the Mining Timbers Limited on ZAFFICO's
industrial forestry plantations. The production of poles would be more or
less balanced, showing slight deficits after 1989 in relation to the
harvesting potential of the plantations, which would be balanced by the
proposed replantings with eucalyptus (para 3.17) under Phase III.
5.05      About 200,000 m3(r) or 93,000 tons bone-dry of pulpwood would be
produced every year during 1985-1999, of which 90% would come from pine
plantations. At present, there is no pulp and paper mill which could
utilize this enormous resource. A 45,000 ton bone-dry capacity for a pulp
and paper mill has been proposed by the Government, while Zambezi Paper
Mills have proposed a mill with a capacity for about 12,000 ton bone-dry.
From a raw material point of view, both mills could easily be accommodated
by the existing ZAFFICO plantations, and there would still be a net surplus
of about 36,000 tons of pulpwood. However, the domestic demand for paper
and paper products would most certainly act as a constraint (para 5.15).
Forest residues would be produced in the range of 93,000 m3(r) or 46,000
tons bone-dry per year; this is more than enough to meet the raw material
requirements for future panel industries such as particle board or
fibreboard. A new private company, Wood Processing Industry Limited in
Ndola, has contracted for the supply a particle board plant with a daily
output capacity of 80 m3 of particle boards or about 85,000 m3(r) per
annum.
5.06      The overall picture that emerges from the data contained in
Annex 3, Table 5 and from the foregoing analysis is that the production
potential of existing ZAFFICO plantations would be more than enough to meet
the requirements of existing and future wood-based industries that would be
established to meet domestic demand in the period 1985-2000, although
supply deficits might occur thereafter. In the absence of a deliberate
policy decision to induce local existing and future wood-based industries
to use plantation wood, the surplus of plantation wood might well be above



- 40 -
200,000 m3(r) per annum by 1999.  The planned forestry sector development
strategy would carefully examine the issue of using this excess plantation
wood and, where possible, provide alternative solutions to the problem.
Mill Efficiency and Production
5.07      The average mill recovery rate, which indicates the technical
efficiency of the sawmills, currently stands at 40% for all existing
ZAFFICO mills and is judged to be considerably low in comparison to
recovery rates of about 65% in Europe under similar raw material
conditions. In 1981/82 IPD (now ZAFFICO) used only 51% of its sawmilling
capacity. However, the sawnwood production figures in Annex 3, Table 7,
are based on a minimum recovery rate of 45% and over 85% capacity
utilization. Accordingly, ZAFFICO production of sawnwood would increase
from about 23,600 m3(s) in 1982 to about 52,500 m3(s) in 1986 against a
projected domestic demand for about 110,000 m3 of sawn timber. ZAFFICO's
output would thus account for almost 50% of the domestic demand in 1986,
but its share would rapidly decline thereafter as demand rises. ZAFFICO's
pole output would more or less stagnate at about 40,000 m3(r) per annum in
1984 and thereafter and this would be significantly less than the projected
demand of 45-52,000 m3(r) per annum during 1985-90.
B. Markets and Marketing Strategy
5.08      The major potential consumers of the Project's output of
roundwood would be the existing sawmills within the Copperbelt area (para
2.15 (b) and (d)), the two plywood factories, the fibreboard plant and the
planned pulp and paper factory, particle board plant and other future
wood-based industries within the Copperbelt. Prospects fcr the use of
plantation wood by these industries would be contingent upon Government
policy decision as to whether and the degree to which these and future
industries should continue to be based on the consumption of the declining
indigenous forest resources. In order to cater for the expected growth in
domestic demand for wood products, particularly sawn timber and paper and
paper products, expansion in or establishment of these indlustries would
become inevitable in the medium and long-term.
5.09      The major consumers of ZAFFICO's output of sawn timber would be
the construction and building, joinery and furniture and mining
industries. Except for the mining industry, the others are expected to
experience moderate growth, largely because of population increase and a
substantial backlog in meeting real demand as a result of existing economic
conditions in the country. In the following paragraphs the market
prospects of each product group and ZAFFICO's marketing strategy are
discussed.
Sawn timber
5.10      The demand projections for sawn timber were performed using both
trend and end-use analyses. In the former case, since consumption of
sawn timber has been affected by recent structural constraints (lack of
spares, obsolete technology and managerial problems) and general economic
problems in the country since 1978, the average of the actual consumption



- 41 -
levels for 1970-72 and 1979-81 was taken as the base consumption figure.
Thus, the estimated demand in 1982 at 90,000 m3(s) of sawn timber reflects
both supply-constrained and normal consumption. The demand projections, in
Annex 3, Table 2, are based on the assumption that increases in domestic
demand for sawn timber would be due to population increase (about 3.2%
p.a.) and little, if any, to rising income in the medium term. The end-use
analysis results are presented in Annex 3, Table 3. This was performed to
supplement the trend analysis and to indicate future consumption patterns
of sawn timber and their implications on the Project's product mix. For
this purpose, average consumption shares of major sawn timber consuming
industries, estimated by Jaako Poyry in 1974, but which could not be
revised due to lack of more recent and reliable data, were used to
supplement the data collected during appraisal to construct the consumption
pattern for 1982. A comparison of the results of the end-use analysis
with those of the trend analysis (Annex 3, Table 2) indicates that the
results of the two methods are fairly consistent with each other in the
medium-term.
5.11      The construction and building industry as an end-user of
sawn timber includes the use of sawn timber in roof structure, internal
partitions, concrete framework, vehicle bodies, wooden cases and pallets.
Present consumption of sawn timber in the construction industry is heavily
tilted in favor of hardwoods rather than softwoods, although the ultimate
application of the various species is basically determined by the end-use
properties. Fine hardwoods (e.g., teak and mukwa) are used mostly for
furniture, joinery, panelling and other decorative purposes. At present, a
large proportion of fine hardwoods is still being used for utility
purposes, particularly in the mines, as a matter of tradition. Utility
hardwoods (e.g., brachystegia and eucalyptus) should be used for light
construction work, joinery, vehicles, etc. where natural appearance is not
so important. Softwoods (pine) are particularly suitable for general
building work (roof structures, doors, windows, door frames and ceilings)
and internal joinery. They are also used for shuttering, boxes and other
packaging purposes. The estimated pattern of sawn timber consumption in
the country during 1982-2005 is given in Annex 3, Table 3. The projections
of demand for sawn timber in Annex 3, Table 2 assume that this consumption
pattern would be maintained and that there would be no substitution for
wood by non-woodbased products in the major end-uses.
5.12      The supply/demand estimates (Annex 3, Table 2) indicate that
demand for sawn timber would exceed supply by about 22,500 m3 in 1990 and
by over 50,000 m3 in 2000, not because of insufficient supply of sawlogs,
but due to inadequate sawmilling capacity in the country, On the basis of
these projections, it should be possible for ZAFFICO to double its 1986
sawmilling capacity by 1995, since considerable expansion in the hardwood
sawmilling sub-sector (using natural forests) would be unlikely, given the
declining trend in supply of the indigenous forest resource.  Thus the
present and projected supply and demand situation reveals that the apparent
general deficit of 18,000 m3 of sawn timber in 1982 would increasingly
become worse, even after the investments envisaged under the Project have
been undertaken, and it would rise to almost 110,000 by 2005. This implies
that shortages of sawn timber in the country would become increasingly
acute unless substantial imports or expansions in the sawmilling industry
were envisaged. While the former would certainly be constrained by the



- 42 -
balance of payments situation, the latter could only take place if based on
plantation wood.  In order to eliminate the projected supply deficits,
expansions in the supply of sawn wood would have to be done at an annual
rate equivalent to the projected population increase of 3.2%.
5.13      The projections in Annex 3, Table 3 ind:Lcate that the
construction industry would continue to account for about 40% the total
domestic consumption of sawn timber, while the mines' share would decline
Frcom about one-third in 1982 to only 15% in the year 2005, largely because
the mining industry is considered to have reached its production peak and
is likely to decline in the future. The furniture and joinery industry
would increase its share from only 19% in 1982 to about 25% in 2005. The
Project's sawmilling production program would take into account these
possible shifts in consumption pattern in the future.  The emphasis on
product quality and the establishment of timber upgrading facilities should
enab-e ZAFFICO to gear its sawmilling production program toward meeting the
requirements of the relatively discriminating construction industry.
Poles
5.14      At present the major consumers of poles are the mines (ZCCM)
which normally use about 25,000 m3 of smelter and refinery poles per annum,
supplied by the Mining Timbers Limited mostly from indigenous species, the
Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation (ZESCO) and the Posts and
Telecommunication Corporation (P & TC), which rely on the industrial
forestry plantations for their supply of power transmission and telegraphic
poles respectively. Their total annual consumption was 13,000 m3(r) in
1981. Other consumers of poles include the agricultural and building
sectors which respectively require fencing and building poLes,supplied from
both the indigenous forests and industrial forestry plantations. ZCOM's
demand for smelter and refinery poles is expected to stagnate at 25,000
m3(r) between 1985 and 2005 and its share of the total consumption would
drop from about 63% in 1981 to only 27% in 2005. On the other hand the
demand for transmission poles by both ZESCO and P & TC would rise from only
13,000 m3(r) in 1981 to 33,000 m3(r) in 2005, representing a 6% annual
4ncrease (Annex 3, Table 4).  This growth rate was derived from the
expansion programs planned by the two corporations. The demand for
agricultural and building poles would substantially increase from only
3,000 m3(r) in 1981 to 34,000 m3(r) in 2005, largely as a result of rapid
increase in demand for agricultural poles in line with Government plans to
modernize agriculture and increase its output to meet domestic and export
requirements. By 2005 agriculture's share of the total poles consumption
would be 37%. Overall, there are good prospects for ZAFFICO to expand its
market share for poles from about 40% in 1981 to over 80% in 2005.
Wood Panels
5.15      The major wood panels consumed in Zambia consist of
particleboard, blockboard, fibreboard and plywood. These are used in such
industries as building, furniture, joinery and packaging. Their future
demand would therefore be dependent on population growth, etconomic
development, availability of supplies, trends in primary end-use industries
and the rate of urbanization. The average consumption of panels during
1979-80, estimated by FAO, was used as the base level for demand



- 43 -
projections. As indicated in Annex 3, Table 4, the domestic demand for
panels products is likely to have a very gradual growth, reflecting the
weak prospects for the Zambian economy in the medium and long-term. Taking
into account their close substitutability, the domestic demand for the
various panel products during 1985-2015 was estimated as shown in Annex 3,
Table 4(b). Plywood and particleboard would continue to account for over
65% of the total panel market.
Paper and Paperboards
5.16      The domestic demand for paper and paper products, according to
the latest estimates by the Birla Brothers study (1982), was about 25,000
tons in 1981 and is projected to reach 35,000 tons in year 2000. Current
domestic production is negligible and is entirely based on imported raw
materials and has been affected by shortage of foreign exchange.
Marketing Strategy
5.17      At present ZAFFICO marketing strategy is entirely based on sales
through its own sales outlets which are located in Kafubu, Kitwe, Mufulira,
Ndola, Luanshya, Lusaka and Kabwe. Since almost 75% of the domestic
consumption of sawn timber is accounted for by these major urban centers,
ZAFFICO's coverage of the domestic market is substantially high. It is in
these same areas that there are long-established private timber merchants
who normally sale hardwood or imported softwood timber.  In addition, ZSBS
has a good sales network in these areas.  In view of its increasing sales
expenses and of the existence of a combination of private and parastatal
distribution system that has so far performed reasonably well, ZAFFICO's
future marketing policy should be oriented toward establishing an effective
and low-cost distribution system through the greater use of the existing
private and parastatal distribution network in the country. ZAFFICO should
therefore concentrate on a wholesale strategy based mainly on ex-factory
sales.
5.18      Since very little of ZAFFICO's sawn timber and roundwood have
been consumed by the major and quality-oriented industries (construction
and mining) in the past, a concerted promotional effort would be required
to push its products in these markets. Although much of what is consumed
in these industries, in terms of quality and sizes, is known, it would be
necessary for ZAFFICO to formulate measures to overcome some initial
consumer resistance in these markets. For this purpose ZAFFICO would need
to draw up a marketing strategy incorporating (a) actions that need to be
taken to effect rapid substitution of imported wood products in the mining
and construction industries; (b) measures for facilitating the marketing of
its roundwood to other wood-based industries which are currently based on
indigenous species; and (c) a phased action program for utilizing the
existing distribution network provided by independent timber merchants and
ZSBS. These should constitute the priority areas for the internationally
recruited Marketing Manager. During negotiations assurances were obtained,
that such a marketing strategy would be designed to the satisfaction of the
Association and that ZAFFICO would implement it by October 1, 1984.



- 44 -
C.  Prices
.1 . I 9  The current stumpage rates charged by ZAFFICO per cubic meter are
K24.30 (US821.85) for pine sawlogs, K10.12 (US$8.70) for p:ine small logs
(match billets, etc.) and K14.27 (US$12.82) for eucalyptus sawlogs and
K7.40 (US$6.65) for eucalyptus poles. Appraisal estimates:, based on per
hectare models for pine and eucalyptus (Annex 2, Tables 3 and 4), indicate
that These stumpage rates are adequate to cover the replacement costs of
plantationis and to earn a 10% rate of return on plantation investments.
On the basis of projected costs for logging, transportation, these stumpage
rates would yield the product price structures shown in Annex 2, Table
i0(a)e These stumpage costs, and hence the product price structures based
thereon, do not take into consideration the fact that about: 46% of pine
producti3n would be wasted for lack of demand (para 5.04). Such wastage,
when taken into account, would reduce the utilizable yield of the pine
plantations. Since it is almost certain that the industries that would be
major consumers of small pine roundwood would not be established during the
period of Project implementation, ZAFFICO should adopt a pricing policy
which also specifically covers the cost of resource waste in its pine
plantations. Although the adoption of such a policy would lead to 46%
increase in stumpage rates for pine, this would translate into only 10%
lnc-rease in final product prices [Annex 2, Table 10(b)].
5,20      ZAFFICO's product prices, estimated on the basis of replacement
costs with due regard to waste in pine plantations, would be as shown in
Annex 2, Table 10(b). These prices would generally be competitive with
those of imported products; contrary to past experience which indicated
that IPD (ZAFFICO's predecessor), also operating on the basis of cost
recovery principle in determining its product prices, proved to be a high
cost producer in relation to import parity prices (para 2.21). The
implementation of the Project would help ZAFFICO to reverse! this historical
trend and make it a more efficient producer, largely because of significant
improvements in its logging and transportation operations and increase in
sawmill efficiency (para 5.07). ZAFFICO would determine its product
pricing policy in the domestic market to ensure financial viability and
promote satisfactory financial performance and prudent financial
management.  This means that the major objectives of its pricing policy
would consist of: (i) generating income adequate to meet aill financial
obligations on a timely basis; (ii) sustaining an adequate level of working
capital needed for continuous operations; (iii) earning a reasonable return
(at least 10%) on investment capital; and (iv) contributing to the renewal
and expansion of assets. For this purpose, ZAFFICO would dLetermine its
product prices on the basis of the following criteria:
(a)  replacement cost which after taking into account resource waste
in pine plantations, would be reasonably related to production
costs under conditions of efficient operation at capacity
utilization of not less than 85%;
(b)  the levels of import parity prices for imported products which
would compete with its products in the domestic market;
(c)  reasonable contribution (in form of equity contributions and
retained earnings) to future investments for expansion of
capacity.



- 45 -
During negotiations assurances were obtained that ZAFFICO would base its
product pricing policy on these criteria and that such a policy would be
reviewed annually in consultation with the Association.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. General
6.01      The principal benefits from the Project would be the annual
incremental production of about 20,000 m3(s) of sawn timber, 11,000 m3 of
poles, 1,000 m3 of match billets and small logs; and a total of 500,000 m3
of eucalyptus roundwood from replantings under the Project. The
incremental production of pine roundwood planted and replanted under the
Project amounting to 108,000 m3 were not included in the Project benefits
and costs because they would reach sawlog maturity outside the Project
period of 18 years. Instead, separate estimation of its financial and
economic justification was performed. Calculation of financial and
economic rates of return for the pine plantations demonstrate that the
program would be viable; the FRR is estimated at 11%, while its ERR is
16%. (Annex 2 Table 5(b)). The supply of sawn timber has been recently
constrained by structural problems in the sawmilling industry and imports
have been curtailed by the foreign exchange crisis in the country. In
addition, the supply and demand projections for sawn timber indicate that
there would continue to be considerable domestic supply deficits in the
near future and that these would increasingly become worse in the long-run,
if an operational investment program is not formulated and implemented in
the future. Consequently, all Project's output of sawlogs and roundwood
would be geared to import substitution. The Project's output has therefore
been valued at its import parity prices. The incremental production of
sawn timber under the Project would stem from expansion in mill capacity
and from the increase in sawmill efficiency as a result of the proposed
investments. It is expected that the overall recovery rate in ZAFFICO
mills would rise from the present average of 40% to over 45% in the second
year of project implementation. Similarly, capacity utilization would
increase from 51% in 1981/82 to over 85% in 1986 and thereafter, thus
increasing total mills' output.
6.02      Both financial and economic returns have been calculated for a
period of 18 years (which is considered to be the life span of the major
components of the sawmill equipment) on the basis of incremental invest-
ments for the Project, consisting of 2,100 ha of eucalyptus replantings as
well as the new investments in logging, transportation, log conversions and
sawmilling equipments and Project management. In a 'without project'
situation ZAFFICO would not be able to obtain adequate foreign exchange to
finance the purchase of spares needed to maintain sawmills output at
present levels. Similarly, ZAFFICO would continue to be plagued with
management problems, resulting in reduced efficiency and production. Under
such circumstances, it is estimated that ZAFFICO's sawmilling output of
about 23,600 m3 in 1982 would decline and, possibly, stabilize at 20,500 m3
in subsequent years. There is strong complementarity between the Project
and the investments in the establishment of forestry plantations carried
out under the previous phases. This is largely due to rehabilitation
nature of the Project. This is particularly true in the case of invest-
ments made in the establishment of forestry plantations, part of which
would be utilized by the Project; and in the investments in the existing
sawmills. Two approaches have been used in this analysis to deal with the
problem of complementarity: (a) the costs and benefits associated with the



- 46 -
operation and maintenance of exIsting investments in human resources,
plantations, logging and sawmills were excluded from the calculation of the
Project's economic rate of return; and (b) the costs of establishing the
existing plantations were not treated as sunk costs, instead, they were
appropriately reflected by imputed stumpage rates which were incorporated
in both the economic and financial price structures of each Project
product. Since over 75% of the Project costs and benefits are related to
sawmilling operations, the estimated overall financial rate of return for
the Project (para 6.04) is largely an indicator of the financial viability
of the Project sawmilling operations. Hence no separate rate of return of
a typical sawmill has been calculated.
B. Financial Analysis
Financial Rate of Return
6.03      The key assumptions underlying the calculation of the Project
financial rate of return presented in Annex 2, Table 5a and ZAFFICO's
financial forecasts are as follows:
(a) Market prices, (similar to those based on replacement costs,
Annex 2, Table 10b) were used for sawn timber and poles,
while imputed stumpage values were used for standing wood to
be produced under the Project.
(b) Production levels were based on increased capacity
utilization and higher mill recovery rates (para 6.01).
(c) Repayment to Government of SDR21.5 million of the external
project financing (the balance of SDR9.5 million of the
external financing would be provided by the Government as
equity) by ZAFFICO, at 12% interest, would be related to the
adequacy of the estimated cash flow and debt service
capacity.
(d) ZAFFICO's initial paid up capital is K65.3 million.
6.04      On the basis of these assumptions, the discounted financial rate
of return to the investment in the Project is estimated at 24% before taxes
over a 18 year project life. This is a satisfactory returrL that would
result from increase in efficiency and productivity of Project operations
and renumerative domestic prices for most of the Project's output,
especially sawn timber. The sensitivity of the financial return to
different possible events indicates that, at an opportunity cost of capital
of 12% per annum, about 43% overall increase in costs or almost 30%
reduction in Project output would be required to render the Project
unacceptable. Delayed implementation of the Project by two years would
reduce the financial rate of return to about 23%. These results show that
the Project can withstand severe changes in capital costs, raw material
prices, stumpage rates, domestic product prices or even a two-year
implementation delay without seriously affecting its rate of return. Since
the entire project output would be sold in the domestic market, the
Project's financial rate of return would be sensitive to thLe level of price



- 47 -
increases in relation to ZAFFICO's operating costs.  The assumption
underlying the financial projections is that domestic prices would remain
unchanged in real terms (in line with the replacement cost pricing
policy). However, it would take a 35% decline in domestic prices to
threaten the Project's profitability and, given the Project's probable
price leadership in the industry (by virtue of its relatively large market
share), such a decline in price is considered unlikely. Furthermore, the
Project as designed, incorporates a number of mechanisms aimed to ensure
ZAFFICO's sustained and satisfactory financial performance and efficient
use of the proposed investments to forestall a premature rehabilitation
program. These include: (a) provision for detailed engineering
specifications of all machinery and equipment for the Project to ensure
their appropriateness in terms of technical performance and design; (b)
provision for technical assistance to establish satisfactory technical and
commercial standards of operations and procedures; (c) provision for a
training program to improve staff and institutional performance in the
medium-term; (d) provision for adequate capitalization of ZAFFICO and for
satisfactory financial and pricing policies.
Financial Forecasts
6.05      For the purpose of financial forecasts, product prices and
ZAFFICO's costs were estimated in current terms by incorporating the
appropriate domestic inflation rates (para 3.55). The projected income
statements of ZAFFICO during the implementation of the Project are attached
as Annex 2, Table 7 and are summarized below:
Table 6.1: Summary of Projected Income Statements
(K million)
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Sales Revenue (SR)         4.5    5.9    9.9   14.4   15.9   17.5   19.2
Operating Income (OI)      0.2      -     0.4    2.0    2.4    4.1    4.5
Net Income (NI)            0.2   (0.6)  (1.1)    -        -      1.6    1.9
OI/SR %                    4        -       4      14     15      23     23
OI/Average Equity (%)      0.3      -     0.5       3      3      5       5
6.06      The profit margin on sales (before interest on long-term debt)
would improve from 4 ngwee per Kwacha of sales to over 20 ngwee during the
period of Project implementation. Earnings to equity capital (equity share
and reserves) would not be expected to improve until after 1987, largely
because of interest payment on long-term debt. In order to strengthen its
equity base, ZAFFICO would not declare dividends if its debt/equity ratio
was thereby rendered unsatisfactory (para 6.10). Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations. Similarly ZAFFICO would be exempt from
paying corporate tax during the Project period, in line with investment
allowance under the corporate tax laws. The financial projections for the
Project are based on the continuation of tax legislation.
6.07      ZAFFICO's projected statements of sources and application of
funds are presented in Annex 2, Table 8 and are summarized below:



- 48 -
Table 6.2: Summary Sources and Applications of Funds Statement
(K million)
FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87   FY88   FY89
-internal Sources          2.4     3.4      6.6      7.1    9.0    9.7
Borrowings/Equity          5.7     9.1    20.6       3.9    2,2    3.8
Total Sources             8.1    12.5    27.2    l:l.0   11.2   13.5
~ap taI Expenditure        7.4     9.4    23.8       2.9    3.7    7.0
Working Captl.Changes   (0.4)    0.4        0.5      3.4    2.4    0.7
Debt Service               1.i     2.7      3.9      4.7    5.1    5.8
Total A-plications        8.1    12.5    27.2    11.0   11.2   13.5
Debt Service Coverage
(at 55%)                 2        1.3      1.7    :1.5    1.8    1.7
Debt Se.rvice Coverage
(at 65%)                  2       1.2      1.3      1.0    1.0    0.8
608      .ZAFFICO operations would generate enough funds to meet its
operating requ4rements including interest payment on its long-term debt.
Throughout the period of implementation, ZAFFICO would have surplus net
working capital as a result of its strong cash generation from product
sales and exemption from paying corporate tax and dividends. Its debt
service coverage would be satisfactory throughout the period of Project
implementation, although this would decline to unsatisfactory levels if
ZAFFICO's capacity utilization fell below 65%.
6.09      The projected balance sheets are presented in Annex 2, Table 9
and are summarized below:
Table 6.3: Summary of Balance Sheets
(K million)
FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Net Current Assets   (3.8)   3.4    2.9    3.4    2.9    6.3    8.7    9.4
Net Fixed Assets        9.8    9.4   12.1   15.9   31.7   26.5   22.5   21.3
Plgntation in
Formation            45.7   54.0   56.4   58.9   62.2   65.6   68.5   71,5
Total                51.7   66.8   71.4   78.2   96.8   98.4   99.7  102.2
Long-term loans       49.9      -      5.2   13.1   17.7   19.3   19.0   19.6
Reserves & Equity       1.8   66.8   66.2   65.1   79.1   79.1   80.7   82.6
Total                51.7   66.8   71.4   78.2   96.8   98.4   99.7  102.2
Ratios:
Debt/Reserves & 1/
Equity              1:.03      -    1:13    1:5    1:5    1:4    1:4    1:4
Debt/Reserves &
Equity 2/            -        -    1:3      1:2    1:1    1:1   1:0.9  1:0.9
1/  Based on injection of K14.0 million as equity in 1986.
2/S Assumes that K14.0 million is passed on to ZAF'FICO as a long-term loan
in 1986,
6.10      The debt/equity ratio would improve after the capitalization of
ZAFFICO through the conversion of Government long-term loans and accrued
interest into share capital in FY84 (para 3.61). In order to determine an
appropriate financing structure and debt ratio for ZAFFICO during and



- 49 -
after Project implementation two major risks inherent in the forestry
induastry have been carefully considered: (a) the risk associated with
extremely long-term asset fixity for the bulk of the company's investments
in plantations and sawmill machinery; and (b) the risk associated with the
revenue generating capacity of ZAFFICO, given the high capacity utilization
(85%1) assumed. Low capacity utilization could be caused by a continuation
of the general economic recession in the country during the implementation
of the Project or by cyclical developments, both of which would depress
sales and hence revenue. A decline in capacity utilization to 65%, for
example, would result in losses of between KO.3 and K3.2 million on income
statements of FY84 and FY89 respectively; these would substantially erode
ZAFFICO's liquidity as its debt service coverage would continually
deteriorate from 2 in FY84 to slightly less than one in FY89. This
would not provide a satisfactory cushioning of creditors' claims. The
existence of these risks suggests that ZAFFICO must initially have a sound
equity capital base and that this must be maintained through a prudent
financial and investment policy. The initial capitalization of K65.3
million is considered adequate for this purpose. However, with increasing
investments, financed through borrowing during Project implementation,
additional equity capitalization of K14 million would be required in order
to maintain a satisfactory debt ratio of 1:4. This ratio might appear
exceptionally low, but this is only apparent rather than real. ZAFFICO's
assets in form of plantations make up over 65% of the company's total
assets; these plantations would not be realizable in case of liquidation
and would not therefore represent a real cushioning against creditors'
claims. The "real" debt ratio should therefore be based on the company's
assets net of the value of plantations; this turns out to be 1:1.6
(Annex 2, Table 9). The consequences of not increasing ZAFFICO's equity in
and after FY86 as proposed above would be higher "apparent" ratios in the
order of 1:2 which would translate into "real" ratios of 1:0.9 by the end
of Project implementation. Such higher ratios would be unsatisfactory from
a variety of points of view: (a) they would not be consistent with the
risky nature of the industry; (b) they would increase the company's
dependence on Government loans or loan guarantees since most private and
public lenders would be unwilling to provide loans at such high exposure;
and (c) they might encourage speculative investment expansions (financed
through internally generated funds) contrary to the objectives of a prudent
financial and investment policy. Assurances were, therefore, obtained
during negotiations that ZAFFICO's additional capitalization would be
carried out as proposed and that ZAFFICO should not incur any debt, if
after the incurrence of such debt the resulting ratio of debt to equity
would exceed 1:4.
Economic Analysis
6.11      The major specific assumptions used in the calculation of the
economic rate of the Project are as follows: (a) Shadow Wage Rates for
skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled labor were estimated taking into
consideration the characteristics of each segment of the labor market in
Zambia as follows: (i) the shadow wage rate for skilled labor was estimated
at 54% of the market rates to reflect the phenomenon that these workers
consume a lot of imported goods which are highly taxed because they are
generally considered as luxury items and that the market wage demanded and



50 -
obtained by ski1led workers i.s hig-her than it would be in th e absence of
this taxation policy; (ii) the shadow wage rate for semi-skilled labor,
which 's largely Zambian and has lower wage rates than for skilled Labor,
was estimated at 67% of the market rates to reflect the relative scarcity
of semi-skilled labor and the relatively small tax incidence on its market
wage since their consumption pattern has a less import component; (iii) the
shadow wage rate of unskilled labor was estimated at 85% of the market wage
rates to reflect its relatively low tax incidence and the phencraenon that
job creation iil a situation of combined open urban unemploymerit and
rural-urban  Uigration is associated with complex changes in consumption in
both the urban and rural sectors; (b) the Project inputs, which would
primnarily consist of imported equipment were valued at their appropriate
cei.f border prices while all loca'l costs of domestically produced and
traded (e.g. petroleum products, fertilizers and cement) were converted
illto domestic border prices 'by the use of a standard conversion factor of
0080 (which is the average of the specific conversion factors for fuel,
fertilizer construction materiaLs and road transport ; a conversion factor
of 0.75 was used to derive domestic torder prices for non-traded inDuts
such as uater a_d electricity; (c) fu rther adJustnents were made for the
cal-cuaticn of tne economic rate of returin by excl.uding the be-nefits and
costs of the nine af forestation program  (para 6.01); (d) since the
Project's output would be intended for import-substitution, import parity
5order pri ces of the iTdi vidual products at 1983 levels were -used (Annex 2,
Tables 11 and 12).  All border pri'ces were estimated as c.i.f. LusaKa.
6412       On the basis of the above assumptions, the interna'l economic rate
of return for the Project was estimated at 25% (Annex 25 Table 4). This
relativel-y high rate of return stems from the rehasbilitation
characteristics of the Project which would lead to optimal utilization of
currently underutilized stocks of human and capital resources. These
estimates do riot include the benefits of reducing depletion of indigenous
forests and other non-quantifiable, environmental benefits which the
Project would have nor the long-term impact on institutional development of
the tecihnical assistance and training programs which would certainly
benef it subsequent cperations or projects of ZAFFICO or other sectors in
the economy.  Ihus t.he rate of return analysis indicates that projects
whnichn help o,timal utilization of underutilized resources, phase out old
and inefficient machinery and equipment to increase operational efficiency
and improve product auality and are geared to import substitution based on
exploitation of existing domestic resources, are likely to be economically
sornd.  TLhis confirms the judgement of the Government which would probably
undertake other projects of a similar nature if this Project were not
undertaken.
Sensitivity Analysis
6a13       Assuming an opportunity cost of capital of 10% per annum, about
57% increase in costs or almost 36% reduction in Project olatput would be
required to render the Project unacceptable. Delayed impleBmen-tation of the
thifd phase Project by two Years would reduce its internal economic rate of
return to about 24%.  Thus the Project is only slightly sensitive to
changes i  levels of costs or benefits.



- 51 -
Project Risks
6.14      The major risks of the Project relate to the relatively high
capacity utilization and recovery rates of the sawmills assumed in the
calculation of both the financial and economic rates of return, given IPD's
experience in the past. The achievement of the minimum targets of 85% for
mill capacity utilization and 45% for recovery rates would be critically
dependent on the management of the logging, transportation and sawmilling
operations of ZAFFICO. The envisaged strengthening of ZAFFICO's management
in these critical operations and the staff training program provided under
the Project to improve individual staff performance, would minimize the
risk of failing to achieve the targets for capacity utilization and
recovery rates.  In any event, both the financial and economic sensitivity
analyses (paras 6.04 and 6.13) indicate that the Project would be only
slightly sensitive to reduction in sawn timber production that could be
caused by Project management's failure to meet the assumed production
targets.
6.15      Another risk for the Project would be, in view of the current
foreign exchange crisis in the country, the problem of spare parts supply
for the Project's machinery and equipment which is dependent on imports.
Protracted shortages in spare parts supply would adversely affect the
Project's production program. The Project has been however, designed, as
far as possible, to minimize the need and use of spares through improved
staff competence and performance through training (para 3.49); improved
planning and management of workshop services for preventive maintenance of
machinery and equipment (para 3.42); and improved supervision and
maintenance of sawmill equipment through the provision of specialist
technical assistance (para 3.45).
VIII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  ZAFFICO would obtain and maintain licences and titles or rights
in property under the Forest Act for its forest plantations (para
3.08);
(b)  ZAFFICO would phase out thinning regimes in its eucalyptus
plantations and adopt a three coppicing system in iuew plantations
and replantings (3.15).
(c)  ZAFFICO would prepare a medium-term plan consisting of annual
cutting budgets, logging and transport plans, and, on the basis
of these plans, determine the need for improvement of
infrastructure, especially roads, by December 31, 1984 (para
3.15);
(d)  ZAFFICO would, by September 30, 1984, design and implement an
effective fire protection and control system (para 3,18);
(e)  the recruitment of the specialists under the long-term technical
assistance program would be in accordance with the
Bank/IDA guidelines for the use of consultants (para 3.45);



- 52 -
(f) all technical posts in logging, transportation, processing,
engineering and marketing filled through international
recruitment would be through a technical services contract.
(para 3.45);
(g) the selection of short-term consultants would be in accordance
with Bank/IDA guidelines (para 3.47);
(h) ZAFFICO would fill directly the posts of Finance Manager,
Management Auditor, Systems Analyst and Training Officer by
June 30, 1984 and the post of Corporate Planning Manager by
March 31, 1984 (para 3.45).
(i) ZAFFICO would execute a bonding contract with the respective
trainees for long-term and external training courses (para 3.52);
(j) the Government would provide funds to ZAFFICO, if and as needed,
to finance non-incremental costs for the Corporate Program (para
3.59);
(k) the repayment schedule in the subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and ZAFFICO would denominate both the loan
principal and interest in SDRs (para 3.60);
(1) ZAFFICO would be organized as proposed in chart C-2 for the
purpose of implementing the Project (para 4.03);
(m) ZAFFICO would appoint Zambians with appropriate qualifications as
deputies to each post held by expatriate staff (para 4.03);
(n) Procurement under the Project would be in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines (para 4.08);
(o) the technical specifications of equipment, machinery, vehicles
and tools financed under bilateral aid would be as specified in
the detailed engineering designs (para 4.09);
(p) ZAFFICO's accounting, auditing and reporting procedures would be
as specified (para 4.13);
(r) ZIMCO, to which Mining Timber Limited is affiliated, would
review, and then provide to the Association by December 31, 1985
an assessment of the possibility of basing part of the sawmilling
operations of Mining Timbers Limited on ZAFFICO's forestry
plantations (para 5.04);
(s)  ZAFFICO would design a marketing strategy, satisfactory to IDA,
and implement it by October 1, 1984 (para 5.18);
(t) ZAFFICO would determine its product pricing policy on the basis
of criteria which include: replacement costs which take into
account forest waste in pine plantations, level of the company's



- 53 -
operational efficiency and changes in import parity prices of
similar products, and need for future investment expansion; and
that such a policy would be reviewed annually in consultation
with the Association (para 5.20);
(u)  ZAFFICO would not declare dividends unless its debt/equity ratio
was satisfactory (para. 6.06).
(v)  ZAFFICO's additional capitalization would be carried out as
specified and that the company would not incur any debt, if after
the incurrence of such debt the resulting debt/equity ratio would
exceed 1:4 (para. 6.10).
7.02      The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to IDA
between GRZ and ZAFFICO would be a condition for credit effectiveness (para
3.60).
7.03      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the Project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Credit of SDR21.5 million.



ANNEX I
Table 1
- 54 -
ZAMIBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
Project Component bg Time
(KW '000)
Base Costs                             Total
83/84   84/85    85/86    86/87   87/88   88/89        KW    (USS '000)
A. AFFORESTATION
PLANTATION ESTAB. AND REPLANTING                      984.4    117.4    117.4    90.4    90.4    90.4  1,490.3    itO64.5
NURSERY                                                41.8      42.5      89.8    39.2    39.8    39.2    292.1         208.6
FIRE PREVENTION AND SILVICULTURAL MANAGEMENT              -  1,786.0    101.8   101.8   132.9 1,092.0  3P214.6    2P296#1
Sub-Total AFFORESTATION                                1,026.2  1,945.9    309.0   231.4   263.0 1,221.5  4,996.9    3,569.2
B. LOGGING AND TRANSPORTATION IPROV.                  1,729.6  2,037.9  1,934.6   706.8   609.6   609.6  7t628.1    5,448.7
C. SAWMILLING PROGRAM                                  2,439.3  1,637.0 13,179.4   529.5   547.0   564.5 18,896.8   139497.7
D. WORKSHOP IMPROVEMENT                                       -    741.2      65,0    65.0    65.0    65.0  1001.2         715.1
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                      -  1,481.2  19343.2 1,343.2   166.7   166.7  4,501.1    3,215.1
F. TRAINING PROGRAM                                           -    608.5    592.5   544.9   437.9   349.2  2,533.1    1,809.4
G. DETAILED ENGINEERING                                  630.0         -         -       -        -        -    630.0       450.0
H. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                                     -    173.5      43.5    79.2    43.5   129.8    469.5         335.4
otal BASELINE COSTS                                     5,825.0  8,625.3 17,467.3 3,499.9 2,132.? 39106.4 40,656.8   299040.5
Physical Contingencies                                  937.9  1,195.4  3,127.5   352.4   206.9   304.2  6,124.4    4,374.5
Price Contingencies                                     380.2  1,622.3  5,567.5 1,546.0 1,364.0 2Y287.1 12,767.2    9,119.4
lotal PROJECT COSTS                                      7,143.1 11,443.0 26,162.3 5,3?8.4 3,703.8 5,697.8 59,548.3   42,534,5
Foreign Exchange                                      5,691.0  9,O71.7 20,609.3 3,884.9 2,246.8 3,778.1 45,281.8   32,344.1
:.ve-ber 10, 1983  11.17



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
PLANTATION ESTABLISHMENT AND REPLANTING COST
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs                         Totals Includinm Contingencies
Quantity                                               (KW '000)                                      (KW '000)
------------------------------------------- Unit Cost ------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------
Unit 83/84  84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total    (KW)    83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total  83/84  84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. PLANTATION ESTABLISHMENT /a
1. MACHINE OPER./LABOR lb
LAND CLEARING  /c                       HA   1,500      -     -      -     -     - 1500          441   661     -      -     -     -      -    661    785      -      -     -     -      -    785
TRACTOR (PLOUGHING/HARROWING) /d        HA   1,845   686   686   686   686   686  5,275           61   112    42    42    42    42    42    321    133    57    64    71    79    88    492
TRACTOR (WEEDING) /e                    HA   1,845   686   686   686   686   686  5.275           22    40    15    15    15    15    15    114        47    20    23    25    28    31    175
ROADS                                   KM       30     -     -      -     -     -     30      1,300    39     -      -     -      -     -     39      46     -      -     -     -      -     46
Sub-Total MACHINE OPER./LABOR /b                                                                          853    57    57    57    57    57  1,136  19012    77    87    96   107   119  1,498
2. WAGES AND LABOR /f
FOREMAN /g                             MYRS    5.7   1.9   1.9       -     -     -    9.5      1,300     7      2     2     -      -     -     12       9     4      4     -      -     -     17
CASUAL LABOR /h                        MYRS    136    83    83    48    48    48    446          702    95    58    58    34    34    34    313    118    88   103    69    79    91    548
DRIVERS /i                             MYRS   11.5      -     -      -     -     -   11.5      2,500    29      -     -     -      -     -     29      36     -      -     -      -     -     36
Sub-Total WAGES AND LABOR /f                                                                              132    61    61    34    34    34    354    163    92   108    69    79    91    601
Sub-Total PLANTATION ESTABLISHMENT  /a                                                                        984   117   117    90    90    90  1,490  1,175   169   194   165   186   210  2,099
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                              e                                            984   117   117    90    90    90  1 490  1,175   169   194   165   186   210  2 099
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                              984   117   117    90    90    90  1,490  lt175   169   194   165   186   210  2,099
= === = = = === == = == === == == === = == = = == = == = === == == = == = =,= == == = == == = =  == = == = == == =
/a  EXISTING EQUIP. TO BE USED
/b  PLANTATION PROGRAM INCLUDES 1500 NEW HA AND 345 REPLACEMENT FOR   CLEARCUTTING AND FIRE DAMAGE IN YR 0  AND 686 REPL. HA IN YRS 1-5
/c  2 OF 300 HP (@K 82.68/HR). 1 OF 200 HP (ZK 73.91/HR) BULLDOZERS (K240/HA) AT 1.7 HRS/HA AMOUNTS TO K407/HA
/d  REOUIRES .75 HRS/HA PLOUGHING1I.5HRS/HA HARROWING OR 1,25HR/HAN K25/HA  (K56.25/HA)
/e  .8 HR/HA e ZK25/HR ZK20/HA
/f  IN YRS 2-6 CAS. LAB. FOR PLANT., WEED. 686 HA 48 HY, ADDITIONAL 35MY  FOR 2ND 3RD WEED. OF 1500HA IN YRS 1,2 ONLY (ALSO SEE H)
/g L CLEARING .08 DAYS/HA, PLOUGHING AND HARROWING .30 DAYS/HA PLANTING .23 DAYS/HA WEEDING .20 DAYS/HA , TOTAL .81 DAYS/HA (TOTAL YR 0 1845 HA IS 5.7 MYRS, YRS 1-5 EXCL. L CLEAR. 686 HA IS 1.9 MYRS)
/h  L.CLEAR.35,HARROW. .8 PLANTING,12 WEEDING 6  TOTAL 19,15 D/HA (FOR 1845 HA 136 MY ALSO SEE F)
/i  .20 DAY/HA LAND CLEARINGS .80 DAY/HA PLOUGHING AND  HARROWING, I DAY/HA WEEDING (TOTAL 3000 DAYS FOR 1500 HA) 11.5 MYRS
October 26, 1983  13:45
1<



ZMIBIA
INHUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
IIURSERY 1a
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs                       Totals Including Contingencies
Duantity                                                      (KU '000)                                   (KW '000)
--     ---- -------- ---------------------------------   Unit Cost ----------------------- -------- -----------------------------------------
Unit   83/B4   84/85   85/86   86187   87/88   88189   lotal         (081    83h84  /4185 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Iotal 83/84 84/15 85/86 86/87 87188 88/89 lotal
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. WAWS. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
TRUICK/PICKLP                      NO          -        -       2       -       -        _         2    25,300      -     -    51      -     -     -    51      -     -    69      -     -      -    69
Sub-Total NURS. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                                                                                 -     -    51      -     -     -    51      -     -    69      -     -      -    69
B. OTHER COSTS /b
IRRIGATION PPIW/PIPES             SUL          -       -        -       -       -        -         -                -     3     -     -      -     -     3      -     4      -     -     -     -      4
CHEMICALS/FERTILIZER /c           SUN          -        -       -       _        _       _         -                I     I     I      I     I     1      7     1     2      2     2     2      3    12
SEEDS Id                           KS         12       12      12      12       12      12        72        64      1     1     1      1     1     1      5     1     1      1     1     2      2     8
TOOLS/e                           5181         -        -       -       -        -       -         -                -     I     -      -     I     -      I     -     1      -     -     I      -     2
SOIL AI SMAD  /t                  TONS       630      630     630     630      630     630     3,780          3     2     2     2      2     2     2    11      2     3      3     4     4      5    22
POLY BAS                         100TH         9        9       9       9       9        9        54       427      4     4     4      4     4     4    23      5     5      6     7     8      8    39
Sub-Total OTHER COSTS /b                                                                                               a    11     8      8     8     8    50      9    15    12   14    17   18    86
Total IIHESTNENT COSTS                                                                                                    8    11    58      8     8     8   101      9    15    81    14    17    18   155
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. NRSERY  OASES
FOREHII                        STF YRS        4        2       2       2       2        2        14     1,300      5     3     3      3     3     3    18      6     4      5     5     6      7    33
SKILLE  LA80R                  STF YRS        4        4       4       4        4       4        24       990      4     4     4      4     4     4    24      5     6  ,   7     8     9    11    46
CASUAL LABOR  /g               STF YRS     11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2    11.2        67.2       702      8     B     8     8      8     8    47    10    12    14    16    18    21    91
Sub-Total NMSERY WAkES                                                                                               17    14    14    14    14    14    89    21    22    26    29    34    39   171
B. MIiS. VEHICLES MAINTENANCE
TRiC  /h                        HRS         900     900      900     900     900      900     5,400         8      7     7     7     7      7     7    44      9    10    11    12    14    15    71
PICKUP /i                         KM     24,000  24,000  24,000  24,000  24,000  24,000   144,000           0      9 -9        9     9      9     9    55 4    1    12    14    15    17    19    89
UTILITIES                        sum          -       -        -                                                   I         1  1    1      1     1     4      1     1      1     1     1      1     A
Sub-Total NURS. VEHICLES NAINTENANCE                                                                                 17    17    17    17    17    17   102    20    23    26    29    32    36   167
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                    34    31    31    31    31    31   192    41    45    52    58    66    75   337
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                      42    42    90    39    40    39   292    51    61   133    72    83    93   492
/a  COSTS FPR 2 MRSERIES CAPACITY .45H EACH TOTAL .9H SEEDLINGS
/b  WANTITIES 681EN FOR 2 NMSERIES
/c  9 LITERS OF IKSECTICIIES, HERBICIDES I FUNGICIDES (27 LIT,PK12/LTIFOR EACH NURSERY AHD 225K6 PER  JURSERY e El.20/KS
/d 50K PINUS KESIA SEEDS/KG 500K EUCAL, SEEDS/KG -REQUIRED 6KG PRE AURSERY
/e  2K 300 PER NURAERY
/t  315 TONS PER MiSERY
/5  DAS FILLING 400/DAY,SEEDLIBG PACKING BOO/DAY TOTAL H/DAYS REQUIRED PER NURSERY 1446K/DAYS  AT 260 H/DAYS/YR 5.6 H/YRS,RZK 2.70/DAY ZK 702/YR
/h 450 OP. HRS. PER TRUCK PER l/URSERY
/i 12TH KM PER TRUCK i .35/AN -TOTAL ZK 4200/TRUCK
Ortober 26, 1983  13:45
'ox



ZAIBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PRJECT - PHASE III
FIRE PROTECTION AND SILVICILTURAL nANAGEnENT
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs                            Totals Including Contingencies
Iuantits                                                  (KU '0001                                        (KE  '000)
------------- --- ------------ ---- unit Cost ---------_________________________________    _________-_-_____________________-_________
LInit 83/84 84/85 85/86 8B/87 87188 88/89 Total    (WI    83/84 84185  85/86 86187 87/88 888S9  Total  83/84 54185  85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. EUIPIMENT FIRE PRMT.
SEl TRAILER                       NO       -      4     -      -     -      4      8    80,500       -    322      -      -     -    322    644       -    405       -     -      -    540    945
HOG TRAILER                        NO      -      8     -      -     -      8     16    28.750       -    230      -      -     -    230    460       -    289       -     -      -    386    675
TRUCK                             NO       -      2     -      -     -      2      4    92,000       -    184      -      -     -    184    368       -    231       -     -      -    309    540
PICKUP                            NO       -      4     -      -     -      4      8    21.850       -     87      -      -     -      87    175      -    110       -     -      -    147    257
48D9EOICLES                       No       -      5     -      -     -      5     10    21,050       -    109      -     -      -    109    218       -131           -     -      -    183    321
SPARES /a                         No       -      1     -      -     -      1      2    57.500       -     57      -      -     -      57    115      -      72      -     -      -      97    169
NOTOR CYCLES                      No       -    15      -      -    15      -     30      2.070      -     31      -      -    31       -      62     -      39      -     -    49        -     88
Sub-Total EUIPIENT FIRE PRMT.                                                                          -  1.021      -      -    31    990  2,042        -  1,284      -      -    49  1,662  2,994
8. TOUERS I FIRE BREAKS
FIRE BMEKS  lb                    K        -    35      -      -     -      -     35        620      -     22      -      -     -       -      22     -      31      -     -      -       -      31
FIRE TNERS                        No                 -               -      -      1    18.600       -      19            -      -             19     -      27                   -       -     27
Sub-Total TON:  I FIRE BREAKS                                                                           -      40     -      -      -      -      40      -     58      -      -     _       -      58
C. ROA 8A18N, EDUIP.
GRADERS                           NO       -      1     -      -                   1   135,355       -    135      -      -     -       -    135      -    170       -     -      -       -    170
Sub-Total RO3D IAINT. EWIIP                                                                             -    135      -      -             -    135       -    170      -      -     -             170
P. SILVICELTURAL AMASENENT CAP,
RESEARCH                           S1 --- 215 - - - - 215  276 - - -   276
INENTORY                         SN               --    272                                                        -      -     -       -    272      -    349       -     -      -      -     349
Sub-Total SILVICULTURAL NANAEENT CAP,                                                                   -    4B7          -         -      -    407       -    625      -            -       -    625
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                     -  1.684       -     -    31    990  2.705        -  2,137      -      -    49  1,662  3,847
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. MINT. EQUIP,. TOWERS
NAINT, EOUIP,                   SUN                                                                -      54    54    54    54        54    271             74    83    92   102    114    464
NAINT, TOiERS                   SW        -      -                                              -      11    11    11    11        11      54     -      15    17    18    20        23     93
ERADERS                         HRS       -500  500  500           500 S    2. 500          74      -     37    37    37    37        37    184      -      50    56    63    69        77    316
Sub-Total MIANT. EOUIP,. TOWERS                                                                        -    102   102   102   102    102    509          -    139   156   173   192    214    873
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                      -    102   102   102   102    102    509          -    139   156   173   192    214    873
lotal BASELINE COSTS                                                                                        -  1,786   102   102   133  1,092  3,215          -  2.275   156   173   241  1,075  4,721
/a MAINLY SPARES FMR EXISTING RADIO/TELEPHONES
/b AT RATE IF 2308/IOOOHA OF NEU PLANTATION
October 26, 1983  13:47



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
LOGGING ND TRANSPORTATION
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs                              Totals Including Continlencies
guantita                                                 (KW '000)                                          (KW '000)
----------------------------------------- Unit Cost --------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------
Unit  83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total   (KW)    83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87 87/88 88/89 Total  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT
POIIER SAW                      NO       26    30    33    33    33    33 188           805      21     24     27    27    27    27    151       26      33     39      42      45     49      235
IHEEL TRACTORS B8HP             NO        2     4      5     -     -     -    11    50,830    102    203    254        -     -      -    559    128    279    377        -       -      -      784
ART. IHEL SKIDD. 120HP          ND        -     I     I      1     -     -      3 88,320          -     8S     888  8        -     -    265        -    121    131    141        -      -      393
CLAN BUNK SKIDDERS 80HP         NO        I     1      1     -     -     -      3   179,860    180    180    180       -     -      -    540    226    247    267        -       -      -      740
LOSLOADER                       NO        -     I      I     -     -            2   140,875       -    141    141      -     -     -    282        -    193    209       -       -      -      402
40 TON TRUCKS/TRL. 250HP        NO        3     4      3     -     -     -    10   180,435    541    722    541        -     -      -  1,804    680    990    804        -       -      -   2,474
ROAD GRADERS 125HP              NO        2     -     -      -     -     -      2   135,355    271       -       -     -     -      -    271    340       -       -      -       -      -      340
Sub-Total MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT                                                                1,114  1,358  1,231   115    27    27  3,872  1,401  1,862  1,828    183          45     49   5,368
B. MACH. EWIP. SPARES                        -     -                                               111    136    123    11      3      3    387    129    171    168       17       4      4      494
Total INWEST)ENT COSTS                                                                              1,226  1,494  1,354   126    29    29  4,259  1,529  2,034  1,996    200          50     53   5,862
11. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                                                                                               c
A. INCREKENTAL WORKING CAPITAL
POIIER SAIS                  TN HRS  22.8  26.4    29    29    29    29 165.2        3,575      82     94    104   104   104   104    591       97    129    159    176    196    217         973
WHEEL TRACTOR                TH HRS  11.9  13.2  14.5 '14.5  14.5  14-5  83.2        8,179      97    108    119   119   119   119    680    115    147    182    202    224    249   1,119
ART IWHEEL SKIDD             TH HRS   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3  19.8    19,836         65     65     65    65    65    65    393       78      89    100    111    123    137        639
CLAN BUNK SKIDDERS SOHP      TN HRS   3.3   3.3   3,3   3.3   3.3   3-3  19,8    17,279         57     57     57    57    57    57    342       68      78      87     97    108    120       557
LOG LOADER 120HP             TN HRS   2.6   2.6   2.6   2-6   2.6   2.6  15.8    16,412         43     43     43    43    43    43    260       51      59     66      74      82     91      423
40 TON TRUCK 250HP           TH KM  105.6 118.8   132   132   132   132 752.4        1,248    132    148    165   165   165   165    939    156    202    252    280    311    345   1,546
ROAD GRADER 125              TH HRS   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8  10.6    15,578         27     27     27    27    27    27    165       33      37     42      47      52     57      268
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL IORKING CAPITAL                                                             504    544    580   580   580   580  3,369    598    741    888    986  1,095  1,217   5,525
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                 504    544    580   580   580   580  3,369    598    741    888    986  1,095  1,217   S,525
Total BMSELINE COSTS                                                                                 1,730  2,038  1,935   707   610   610  7,628  2,127  2,774  2,884  II86  19144  1,270  11,387
October 26. 1983 13:48
Hn 



ZAKBIA             ~~-  5   -                                                 ANNEX  1
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PRDJEC  - PNR8E III                                                               Table  6
SAUIILLI4s MD PRDCESSING CAPITAL COSTS
Detailed Cost Table
BDse Costs                              Totals Including Contiraencies
rWantoto                                                   (KW 'TOO)                                           KR '006)
S-------------------------------o-C------- Ln    ost -
(nit 83/84  a4/85 05/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total   (OR)    83/84  84105   85/06  86/87 07/88 8J8s9 Total   83/84  84/85   85/86  86/87 87/80 88/89 Total
I. IKVESTHENT COSTS
A. IMMEDIATE INVESTMENTS
1. KAFUBU/KITE
METEX - SPARES                    Sun                                                               72      -        -                          72     90       -       -      -     -      -      90
FRAME SK - OVERHAUL               SUm                                                              351                                         351    440                                         440
FRA0E SK - SPARES                 SUm                              l                                       -        -     -                    8l    102       -       -      -     -      -     102
CIRC. SA - RESAWSGHP             Sun                              31                                                                          31     39       -       -      -     -      -      39
CIRC, SM - SPARES   sm-                                                                            29 - - - - - 29 36                                                                              36
Sub-Total KAFUJU/KITE                                                                                 564      -        -     -                   564    706       -        -     -     -             706
2. DOLA
DULA HILLS SK - SPARES            SINK                                                                      -        -     -      -     -       15     19                                          19
Sub-Total NDOLA                                                                                        15      -        -      -     -     -       15      19      -        -     -      -     -       19
Sub-Total IMMEDIATE INVESTMENTS                                                                          579       -       -      -     -      -     579    725       -        -     -      -     -      725
B. REAADILITATION
1. KAFUU0/KITE METEE
nECHANIZED LOG DECKS              SR       ---                                                             47        -     -      -     -       47      -      64       -      -                   64
EXTENSION SORTING LINE            sun                                                                -     30        -     -      -     -       BO      -    109         -     -     -      -     109
EXTENSION RASTE DLING             sun       -     --                              --                       83        -     -      -     -       83      -    113        -      -     -      -     113
LOG CONVERSION PLANT              sun                                                           1,622       -        -     -      -     -   1,622  2,031        -                               2,031
hEED 2  tC. TREAT. PLANT          su5                                                               -    162         -     -      -     -      162      -    220        -      -     -      -     220
CV.WKS. (FW DNATISN, BLDG.)       sU                                                               238      -        -     -      -     -      238    313       -       -      -     -      -     313
Sub-Total KAFUBU/KITE METEX                                                                         1.860    373        -     -      -     -   2,233   ,344    506             -     -         -   2,850
2. KITWE-KALIBU Sn (RB)
WATER SUPPLY                      sun    - - - - - - -                                          --   52    -   -   -   -    52    -   71    -   -   -   -    71
POWER SWPPLY                      sunm         -             --            ----                     -      35        -     -      -     -       35      -      47       -      -     -      -      47
SHEDS                             sum -N                              -    190                                 -     -      -     -      190      -    292        -      -     -      -     2n
O    8FFICE 8UILDINGS             suN       -          -      -                              -        53        -     -      -     -       53      -      0l       -      -                   S0
ROD PAVEMENT                      sum  -         -     -           -             -    105                        -     -      -     -     105       -    162        -      -     -      -     162
60SEATER BUSES                    NO             2         -        -      -     2    81,083       -    162         -     -      -     -     162       -    220        -      -     -      -     220
PICK UP HARD TOP                   YO             I                               1    20,850        -     21        -     -      -     -       21      -      28       -      -     -      -      28
SEDANCAR                           NO       -     I     -                         1    15,058       -      15        -     -      -     -       15      -     20        -      -                   20
---      ----   -_ - --  -- -  -- -    - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - ---  --- --  ---- --   - - - - _ - - - ---     - -  -- -
Sub-Total KITWE-KALIBU SN IB)                                                                           -    633        -     -      -     -      633       -    923        -     -     -               a3
BENI KECH. LOS YARD               SM        --    261                                                               -      -     -      -     261       -    354        -      -     -      -     354
CWDRKS (FOIND.D KMS)              su0                                                               -      34       -      -     -      -      34       -      52       -      -                   52
Sut-Total 4DOL0                                                                                         -    294        -     -      -     -      294      -    406        -      -     -      -     406
Sub-Total REHABILITATION                                                                               1,860  1,300        -      -     -      -   3,161  2,344  1,835         -     -      -     -   4,179
C. IYPRIENT PRO8R0M
1. KAFUBU/KITE
NEW FRAME Sl6000  3/YR            su                                                                -       - 4,286        -      -     - 4,286         -       - 6,271        -     -      - 6,271
R.TINMR   YD                      S HA. ED,  sum                                        -              -           168     -      -     -      168      -             246      -                  246
DRYlNG KILNS I BOILER, TC.        SUN                                       -                                      950                        950                 1,390                         1,390
TRYLULO    UPSRAD. EOUIP.         sum       ---                                                             -      130     -      -     -      130      -         -   190      -     -      -     l90
FIGER JOINTIYNGPLRNT              508--                                                                    -   1,243      -      -     -   1,243       -       -   1,819      -     -      -   1,819
SALT CINM S  PLANT                sUm                                                                -      -      440     -      -     -      440      -       -     644      -     -      -     644
CV.WS (FOUNDATION 1 8LD8)         s         -                        -      --                              -   1,344      -      -     -   1,344       -       -   2,359      -     -      -   2,359
mpR. EXIST,HRTER USP.             mmn                                       -                                      52      -                    52      -              76            -             76
ImRf   EXIS.PER 8UWP.             Sn35                                                                                                         35                      51                          51
IMPR. EXIST.ROADb PVE.            sum                                                               -       -     338                   -     338       -      -      593     -      -     -      593
PPR. EXIST,RAVE1 PAVE.            su4-                                                                            264      -     -      -     264       -      -      463     -                   463
Sut-Total KAFUBMITE                                                                                    -       -   9,249      -      -     -   9,24S       -       -  14,101      -     -      -  14,101
2. KITUE K0LIBU Sh 18W)
NECK. LD8  Ys--                                                                                            -     811      -     -      - e1l           -      - 1,106         -     -      -   1,106
DRY KILNS ETC. 2000D N3/YR        su0 0a-                                                - -           -           -      -                   866      1- -          ,268         -         -   1,260
WASTE HWN, SYSTEO                 s         -                        -      --                              -       53     -     -      -      53       -      -       78      -     -      -      78
DL EN UPs. PKG./CRDME             sumn      --                                                              -      130     -      -     -      130      -       -     190      -     -      -     190
CENTRRL    KHP sWn W                              --                                                        - 1,031        -      -     -   1031        -       -   1,508         -         -   1,508
CV.WGRKS (FOUND,IBLDG)            SIun!-                                                                    -      527     -      -     -      527      -       -     S26      -     -      -     926
Sub-Total KITYE KALIBU sn (10)                                                                          -       -   3,419     -      -     -   3,419       -       -   5,156      -     -      -   5.156
Sub-Total IMPROVEMENT PORAMn                                                                               -       -  12,667      -     -     -  12,667        -      -  19,257      -     -      -  19,257
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                    2,439  1,300  12,667       -     -      -  16,407  3,069  1,835  19,257       -      -     -  24,161
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                       2,439  1,300  12,667       -     -      -  16,407  3,069  1,835  19,257       -      -     -  24,161
ctober-------- 26- 13  13 4 9               _-_ ====                =      === =          == ====
October 26, 1983  13:,49



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
SAUMILLING AND PROCESSING OPERATING COSTS
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs                         Totals Including Continsencies
0uantitY                                               (KW '000)                                      (KW '000)
------------------ --    ---- ---------------  Unit  Cost  -------------------------  ------------------------------------------
Unit 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total   (KU)    83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total  83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total
I. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCR, WORKING CAPITAL
LABOR SAWMILLING (INCR.)    ZK        -     5    28    28    28    28   117        1,258     -      6    35    35    35    35    147        -     9    57    65    75    86    292
LABOR OTH. u  PROC,(INCR)   ZK        -     -    42    42    42    42   168        1,316     -      -    55    55    55    55    221        -     -    89   102   118   136    445
MAINTENANCE COST INCR        ZK       -     3      3     3     3      3    15                -   148   204   204   204   204    964         -   182   270   287   305   323  1,367
SUPPLY(TOOLS CHEM)INCR       ZK       -     3     3      3     3      3    15                -    82   109   127   144   162    625        -   101   145   179   215   256    896
ELECTRICITY (INCR)           ZK       -     3      3     3     3      3    15                -   100   108   108   108   108    532         -   124   143   152   161   171    750          c
Sub-Total INCR. WORKING CAPITAL                                                                 -   337   512   530   547   565  2,490         -   416   703   786   874   972  3.750
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                               -   337   512   530   547   565 2-490         -   416   703   786   874   972  3,750
Total  RASELINE COSTS                                                                                -   337   512   530   547   565  2,490        -   416   703   786   874   972  3,750
October 26, 1983  13:51
(D I >



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
UORKSHOP IMPROVEMENT
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs                         Totals Including Contingencies
Quantity                                               (KW '000)                                       (KW '000)
----------------------------------------- Unit Cost ------------------------------------------ ----------------
Unit 83/84 84/B5 85/86 86/B7 87/88 88/89 Total   (KW)    83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total  83/84 84/85  85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. VEHICLES AND ECUIPMENT
4 WD VEHICLES                       -     2     -      -     -      -     2    21,850      -    44      -     -      -     -      44      -     60      -     -      -     -      60
WORKSHOP ECUIPENT         SUN       -     -     -      -     -      -     -                -    57      -      -     -      -     57      -     79      -     -      -     -      79
CENTRAL WORKSHOP          SUN       -     -     -      -     -      -     -                -   460      -     -      -     -    460       -    631      -     -      -     -    631
HOBILE WORKSHOP           SU"       -     -     -      -     -      -     -                -   115      -      -     -     -    115       -    158      -     -      -     -    158
Sub-Total VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                                                              -   676      -      -     -      -    676      -    927         -         -     -    927
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                            -   676     -      -     -      -    676      -    927      -      -     -      -    927
II, RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCR. WORKING CAPITAL              -    20    20    20    20    20   100        3,250     -    65    65    65    65    65    325         -     89    99   110   123   136    557
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                             -    65    65    65    65    65    325        -     89    99   110   123   136    557
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                               -   741    65    65    65    65  1,001        -  1,016    99   110   123   136  1,484    |
October 269 1983  13:51



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE 1i1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Detailed Cost Table
Bzse Costs                              Totals Issludins i tontir fitos
guantits                                                   (KW '000)                                           (KA  '000)
- - wlit Cost                ---------------- _____-                                                -    -
Soit   83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total   (KU)    83/84 84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88 88/89 Total  83/84 84/05  85/86  86/87  87/88 88/89 Total
1 IWNESTHENT COSTS
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. CORPORATE PLANNING
CORPORATE PLN, MANAGER               STF YRS       -      I      I     I                   3    928000      -      92      92      92      -     -    276       -    116    125    135        -      -    375
FINANCIAL ANALYST                    STF YRS       -             1     1           _      3    82,800       -     83      83      83      -     -    248       -    104    113    121        -      -    338
TRAINING SPECIALIST                  STF YRS       -      I      I     I      -     -      3    82,800      -      83      83      83      -     -    248       -    104    113    121               -    338
Sub-Total CORPORATE PLANNING                                                                                    -    258    258    250        -      -    773      -    324    351    377        -      -  1,051
2, FINANCE AND OTHER
DIRECTOR FINANCE                     STF YRS       -      1      1     1      1     1      5   110,400       -    110    110    110   110   110    552          -    139    150    161   173   185    809
SYSTEHS ANALYST                      STf YRS       -      I      I     I      -     -      3    82,800      -      83      83      83      -     -    248       -    104    113    121        -      -    338
rARKETING ANAOER                     STF YRS       -      I      I     I      -     -      3    92,000      -      92      92      92      -     -    276       -    116    125    135        -      -    375
Sub-Total FINANCE AND OTHER                                                                                     -    285    205    285   110   110  1,076          -    358    388    417   173   185  1,522
3, ENOINEERING PROCESS. AND CONST,
DIRECTOR E_NEERN _   E_ ST.          STE  RS       -
DIRECTOR EN61NEERIN8 I CONST,        STF YRS       -      I      I     I            -      3   110,400            It      Ito    Ito11     -     -    331       -     139    ISO    161       -      -    450
DIRECTOR LOG, AND PROCESSING         STF YRS       -      I      I     I                   3   110,400       -    110    110    118        -     -    331       -    139    150    161        -      -    450
CENTRAL WORKSHOP NANA8ER             STF YRS       -      I      I     I                   3    92,000       -     92      92      92      -     -    276       -    116    125    135        -      -    375
SR  SAN DOCTOR                       STF YRS       -      I      I     I      -     -      3    02,800      -      83      83      B3      -     -    248       -    104    113    121        -      -    338      m
NANAGER SANIL, AND PROC.             STF YRS       -             1     1      -        -   3    92,000       -     9       92      92      -     -    276       -    116    125    135        -      -    375
NAA8ER LO, AND TRANSP                STF YRS       -      I      1     1      -     -      3    92,080      -      92      92       2      -     -    276       -    116    125    135        -      -    375
Sub-Total ENGINEERING PROCESS. AND CONST.                                                                       -    580    580    580        -      -  1,739      -    728    789    848         -     -  2,365
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                     -  1,122  1,122  1,122   110   110  3,588           -  1,411  1,528  1,641   173   105  4,938
0, SHORT TERN CDHSULTANTS
HARVESTING /a                            INITHS       -    12       -     -      -      -    12      5.750      -     69       -       -      -      -     69             87       -       -      -     -      87
TRAINING SPECIALIST                      nnTHS         -     -           -      -       -      --    106    106    106                        -      -    317      -    133    144    155         -     -    432
SIL9ICULTURAL SPECIALIST                 NNTHS              12                         -     12      5,750      -     69       -       -      -      -     69      -      87       -       -     -      -      07
OTHER CONSULtANCIES  /b                   NTHS            -                   -                                 -    115    115    115    56    56    458          -    145    157    160    88    95    652
Sub-Total SHDRT TERN CONSILTANTS                                                                                   -    359    221    221    56    56    913           -    451    301    323    88    P5  1,257
Total IH9ESTNEHT COSTS                                                                                                -  1,481  1,343  1,343   107   167  4,501           -  1-862  1,820  1,964   261   280  6,195
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                   -  1,481  1,343  1,343   167   167  4,501           -  1,862  1,820  1,964   261   280  6,195
/a  DESIGN OF 0O1  NAR9ESTING AND PRUNING PLANT
lb  NAINLY TO C8ERCONSLTANCIES FOR INPLETIN6 SPECIFIC CONPOHENTS INCLUDING L086IN6.PROCESSIN2
October 28, 1983  14:10 0



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
TRAINING
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs                         Totals Including Contingencies
Ouantity                                               (KU '000)                                     (KW '000)
----------------------------------------- Unit Cost ------------------------------------------ ------
Unit 83/84 B4/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total   (KW)    83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total  83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LONG TM AND EXT. TRAINING /a
BSC ENG. (KECH)                STF YRS      -     2     4      4     4      3    17    14,000      -    28    56    56    56    42    238        -    35    74    79    84    66    337
BSC ENG. (ELEC)                STF YRS      -     -      1     1     1      1     4    147000      -     -    14    14    14    14        56     -     -    19    20    21    22        81
BSC ENG. (CIVIL)               STF YRS      -     -      I     1      1     1     4    14,000      -     -    14    14    14    14        56     -      -    19    20    21    22       81
WOOD TECHNOLOGIST              STF YRS      -     -      2     2     2      2     8    144000      -     -    28    28    28    28    112        -      -    37    39    42    44    162
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANCY          STF YRS      -     2      2     2      2     -     8    11,667      -    23    23    23    23       -      93     -    29    31    33    35        -    127
BUSINESS ADM                   STF YFS      -     1      1     2     2      -     6    14,000      -    14    14    28    28       -      84     -    17    19    39    42        -    1i7
SAW DOCTORING                  STF YRS      -     2      2     2      2     -     8    11,667      -    23    23    23    23       -      93     -    29    31    33    35        -    127
SHT, MARKETING COURSE              NO       -     I      1     -     -      -     2    11,667      -    12    12      -      -     -      23     -    14    15      -      -      -     30
OTHER TRAINING  /b                 SUm      -     -                     -                              308   308   308   201   201  1,327        -   387   419   451   315   338  1,911
Sub-Total LONG TM AND EXT. TRAINING  /a                                                               -   409   493   495   388   299  2,083        -   511   663   713   594   493  2.974
B. ON THE JOB TRAINING
CHATI TRG CENTER  /c                        -     -      -     -     -      -     -                -    50    50    50    50    50    250        -    76    89   102   117   135    518
TRAINING MANUALS ETC                        -     -      -     -      -     -     -                -   150    50      -      -     -    200      -   227    89       -     -      -    316
Sub-Total ON THE JOB TRAINING                                                                         -   200   100    50    50    50    450         -   303   177   102   117   135    834
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                    -   609   593   545   438   349  2,533        -   814   841   815   711   628  3,808   52
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                       -   609   593   545   438   349  2,533        -   814   841   815   711   628  3,808
/a UNiT COST IS THE ANNUAL COST PER STUDENT PER YEAR
/b TO BE DETERMINED
/c  ACCOMMODATION AND MEALS FOR PLANTATION, FINANCE ADN., SAWMILL LOGGING AND WORKSHOP STAFF
----- ----- -- ---- -- -- -------------- -------- ----- - -- -- -- ---- -- - - ------_------_  -- ---- ----- ----   ---- -------- -- - - ----- - -- -- ---- --_ - - -- - -- --     -_--- ---- -- -- ------- -- -- -- - -- -- -- --_ -_ -__ -__ -__
October 28, 1983  14:01



ZAtiBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
PROJECT ADM1INSTRATION
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs                        Totals Including Contingencies
Guantity                                              (KW '0001                                    (KW '000)
--------------------------------------- Unit Cost --------------------------------------- -----------------------------------------
Unit 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total   (KW)    83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. VEHICLE AND EQUIPHENT
PASSENGER CARS  /a                      -     6     -     -      -     6    12    14,375      -    86      -     -      -    86   172      -   108      -     -      -   145   253
4 WD VEHICLES                           -     2     -      -     -     -      2    21,850     -    44      -     -      -     -    44      -    55      -     -     -      -    55
PASSENGER BUS                           -     -     -      1     -     -      1    269450     -      -     -    26      -     -    26      -     -      -    39     -      -    39
MICRO COMPUTER                          -     -     -      1     -     -      1     9,200     -      -     -     9      -     -     9      -     -      -    13     -      -    13
OFFICE FURNITURE                        -     I     1     1      1     1     5      3,450     -      3     3     3      3     3    17      -     4      5     5     5      6    25
Sub-Total VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT                                                                   -   133     3    39      3    90   269      -   168      5    57     5   151   386
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                               -   133     3    39      3    90   269      -   168      5    57     5   151   386
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL WORKING CAPITAL
4-UD VEHICLES                 ZK      -      2     2     2      2     2    10      47875     -    10    10    10    10    10    49        -    13    15    17    18    20    84
PASSENGER BUS                 ZK      -      1     1      1     1     1     5      5,417     -      5     5     5      5     5    27      -     7      8     9    10    11    46
PASSENGER CARS                7K      -      5     5     5      5     5    25      49333     -    22    22    22    22    22   108        -    30    33    37    41    45   186
OFFICE EQUIPMENT              ZK       -     1     1      1     1     1     5      3,250     -      3     3     3     3      3    16      -     4     5      6     6      7    28
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL WORKING CAPITAL                                                           -    40    40    40    40    40   200        -    55    61    68    76    84   344   
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                     40    40    40    40    40   200            55    61    68    76    84   344        rD
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                 -   173    44    79    44   130   470        -   222    66.  125    81   235   729
/a  ONE CAR TO BE ALLOCATED FOR MARKETING AND MARKET RESEARCH WORK
October 28, 1983 14:01
DETAILED COST TABLE 32 PROCESSED.



- 65 -                           ANNEX  I
Table 12
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT PHASE III
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Bank FY/Qtr
Ending                         In Quarter                        Cumulative
1983/84  June                     1,200                               1,200
1984/85  September                   900                              2,100
December                   900                              3,000
March                      900                              3,900
June                     1,000                              4,900
1985/86  September                1,000                               5,900
December                 2,000                              7,900
March                    2,000                              9,900
June                     2,000                             11,900
1986/87  September                 1,000                             12,900
December                 1,000                             13,900
March                    1,000                             14,900
June                       800                             15,700
1987/88  September                   800                             16,500
December                   800                             17,300
March                      700                             18,000
June                       700                             18,700
1988/89  September                   700                             19,400
December                   700                             20,100
March                      700                             20,800
June                       700                             21,500
1989/90  September                   900                             22,400
The schedule has taken into consideration the bulky sawmilling eauipment
against which quick and heavy disbursements would need to be made. The
schedule also relies on Phase II experience in disbursements in addition
to the country and regional sector disbursement profiles.



ANNEX 2
- 66 -                            Table 1
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT-PHASE III
IPD's Summary Income Statements
FY77         FY78          FY79          FY80  /      FY81  /
------------------------in K'000------------------------
Sales Revenue   2/          2,337.6        2,464.2        2,276.0       3,495.8      3,861.3
Profit on Sales -3/            466.2         305.7           211.6         38.1         706.7
Operating Profit -             411.6         255.5           (84.0)      (500.1)        172.3
Ratios:
Profit on Sales/Sales (%)    19.9             12.4             9.3          1.8          18.3
Operating profit/Sales (%)   17.6             10.4            (3.7)       (14.3)          4.5
1/   Financial year before FY80 was January 1 to December 31, but in FY80 and after
became April 1 to March 31
2/   This is profit before loss due to fire damage and disease
3/   This is profit net of loss due to fire damage and disease



- 67 -                           ANNEX 2
Table 2
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT-PHASE III
IPD's Summary of Balance Sheets
K 000
FY77          FY78           FY79          FY80         FY81
Current Assets           5,156.5       7,486.9       5,591.1        4,957.2      5,010.1
Fixed Assets             3,254.7       4,644.2       8,093.3        9,595.9      9,821.9
Plantation in
formation             20,811.2       24,672.0      29,319.0       37,282.0    45,687.0
Total              29,232.4      36,803.1      432003.4        51.835.1    6g.519.0
Current Liabilities    1,104.5         3,354.0       3,004.7        6,047.6      8,825.8
Long-term Loans         27,255.0      32,255.7      38,822.7       43,923.7    49,922.7
Reserves and Quasi-
Equity                   872.9       1,194.1       1,176.0        1,864.8      1,770.5
Total              29 232.4      36 803.1      43X0O3.4        512836.1    60X591.0
Ratios:
Current Ratio               4.67          2.23          1.86           0.82         0.57
Long-term Debt/Reserves
and Quasi-Equity(Grants) 97:3            96:4          97:3           96:4         97:3



- 68 -              ANNEX 2
Table 3
ZAMBIA
Industrial Forestry Project - Phase III
Pine per Hectare Model
(K/ha)
Period                      Costs                     Output                 Value
(m3)
1                          744
2-3                          64
4                           49
5                           94
6-7                          49
8                           74
9-10                         49
11                          309                        45                   1,035
12-13                         49
14                          294                        60                   1,380
15-17                         49
18                          294                        50                   1,150
19-24                         49                         _
25                           49                       183                   4,209
1,332
Total NPV at 10%          1,339                                            1,332
Price K23.32/m3
February 17, 1983



ANNEX 2
- 69 -                            Table 4
ZAMBIA
Industrial Forestry Project - Phase III
(a) Eucalyptus per Hectare Model (12 year cycle)
(K/ha)
Period                    Cost                  Output(m3)            Value
1                        705
2                        148
3-5                      127
6-11                      57
12                        57                    221               3023
13                        80
14-23                     57
25                        57                     221              3023
25                        80
26-35                     57
36                        57                    221               3023
Total NPV at 10%   1369
Price    K 13.68/mr3
(b)  Eucalyptus per Hectare Model (8  ear cycle)
Period            Cost                Output (m3)             Value
1                705
2                148
3-5              127
6-7               57
8                 57                     169                1690
9                 80
10-11             57
16                57                     169                1690
17                80
18-23             57
24                57                     169                1690
Total NPV at 10%   1335
Price K 10.00/m 3



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5a
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT -- PHASE III
Project Financial Rate of Return
(K '000)
1~
Project          Sawn                          Replanted
Year           Cost           Timber            Poles         Eucalyptus    Total Revenue
1            6,763           2,152           2,203                             4,355
2            9,821           3,227           2,424                             5,651
3           20,601           5,379           2,424               --            7,802
4            3,852           5,379           2,424               --            7,802
5            2,340           5,379           2,424               --            7,802
6            3,411           5,379           2,424               --            7,802
7            3,010           5,379           2,424               --            7,802
8            1,773           5,379           2,424               --            7,802
9            2,954           5,379           2,424               --            7,802
10            3,285           5,379           2,424               --            7,802
11            3,093           5,379           2,424               --            7,802
12            3,866           5,379           2,424              4,143         11,946
13            1,803           5,379           2,424              4,143         11,946
14            1,628           5,379           2,424              4,143         11,946
15            1,670           5,379           2,424              4,143         11,946
16            1,854           5,379           2,424              4,143         11,946
17           4,433            5,379           2,424              4,143         11,946
18            3,385           5,379           2,424              4,143         11,946
Internal Rate of Return: 24%
1/ Includes physical contingencies.  Years 7 through 18 are maintenance and capital
replacement costs.
October 26, 1983



- 71 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5b
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
Financial and Economic Rates for Pine Plantations
Financial      Financial          Economic        Economic
Period        Costs         Benefits 11        Costs   3/    Benefits 2/
1            744                              595
2-3             64                               51
4             49                               39
5             94                               75
6-7             49                               39
8             74                               59
9-10            49                               39
11            309            665               247            1,002
12-13            49             _                 39
14            294            886               235            1,336
15-17            49             _                 39
18            294          1,923               235            2,900
19-24            49             -                 39
25             49          7,038                39           10,612
FRR= 11                 ERR = 16
1|  Based on price of K14.77 (m3 for small logs and K38.46 (m3 for sawlogs
(Annex 2, Table 10b)
2/ Based on price of K22.27 for small logs and K57.99/m3 for saw logs
(Annex 2, Table 11)
3/ As SCF of 0.80 was used to convert domestic costs into economic border
prices.



ANNEX 2
ZAMBIA                                                                                       Tab1e  6
Industrial Forestry Project- Phase III
ProjecL Economic Rare of Return
(K '000)
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8  Year 9  Year 10  Year 11  Year 12  Year 13  Year 14  Year 15   Year 16  Year 17  Year 18
1)  Sawnwood                        1840     3140    4 331.    4331    4331    4331    4331    4331    4331    4331               4331       4331      4331       4331       4331        4331      4331       4331
2)  Poles                              -     1138      1251     1251     1251      1251     1252      1251     1251     1251       1251      1251       1251       1251      1251        1251       1251      1251
3)  Roundwood/(IocalypLus)         ___ _______ _______ _______ ________ ____ 4421                                                                       4421      4421       4421        4421      4421       4421
Economic Benefits                   1840     4278      5582     5582     5582     5582      5582     5582      5582     5582       5582    10.003    10,003    10,003    10,003        10,003    10,003    10.003
Increm,ental Economic Costs         3919     6325    13920    2470       1874     1849      1495     1495      1495     1495       1495      1495       1495      1495       1495        1495      1495       1495
Incremental Net Benefits          -2019   -2041    -8338        3112     3108     3133    4081       4087     4081      4087      4081       8508      8508       8508       8508        8508      8508       8508
IERR - 29%
Assumptionis:
Sawrnwood prices/u3          -      216.53 (Annex 2, Table 10)
Pole, price/Oe               -      113.81 (AnneK 2, Table 12)
Roundwood price/rn3          -       51.99 (Annex 2, Table   1
May 18, 1983



ANNEX 2
Table 7
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT -- PHASE III
ZAFFICO Income Statement Projection
(K million)
83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89
Operating Reveue (OR)                    5.9      9.9    14.4    15.9    17.5    19.2
Operating Costs
Production Selling
Admin. & General Exp.                4.1       7.2     8.6       '.7     9.5    10.5
Depreciation                          1.8     2.3      3.8      3.8      3.9      4.2
Operating Income (OI)               --        0.4      2.0      2.4      4.1      4.5
Interest                             0.6      1.5      2.0      2.4      2.5      2.6
Net Income (NI)                     (0.6)   (1.1)   --         --        1.6      1.9
Op. Income/Op. Rev.  /              --        4       14       15       23       23
Net Income/Op. Rev. %               (9)    (10)       --       --        4       10
1/ All projections have been made on current terms.
2/ To allow for down time during the rehabilitation period it is estimated that only 85%
of the production capacity will be realized.
3/ All long term loans advanced to IPD upto 31 December 1982 along with accrued interest
have been converted to equity. The amounts transferred to ZAFFICO hy GRZ are treated
as long term loans.
4/ Direct Costs are based on Logging Sawmilling and Engineering costs.
5/ Plantations in formation include direct and operating costs, a share of overhead
expenses net of clearfelling costs.
October 28, 1983



- 74 -
ANNEX 2
Table 8
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT --- PHASE III
ZAFFICO Sources and Application of Funds Statement
(K million)
Sources of Funds
Internally Generated                    83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89
Net Income                              (0.6)   (1.1)             --         1.6     1.9
Add
Interest                             0.6      1.5      2.,0     2.4      2.5      2.6
Depreciation                          1.8     2.3      3.8      3.8      3.9      4.2
Plantation Cost Amortized            0.6      0.7      0.8      0.9      1.0      1.0
Total Internally Generated         2.4      3.4      6.6      7.1      9.0      9.7
Deduct
Debt Service                          1.1     2.7      3.9      4.7      5.1      5.8
Net Internally Generated              1.3     0.7      2.7      2.4      3.9      3.9
Borrowings
GRZ Loan                             5.7      9.1      6.6      3.9      2.2      3.8
Equity                                    --    --        14.0    --       --       --
Total Sources                      7.0      9.8    23.3       6.3      6.1      7.7
Application of Funds
Project Assets                           7.4      9.4    23.8      2.9      3.7      7.0
Incr. (Decr.) Working Capital           (0.4)    0.4    (0.5)      3.4      2.4      0.7
Total Application                  7.0      9.8    23.3       6.3      6.1      7.7
Debt Service Coverage                    2        1.3      1.7      1.5     1.8      1.7
October 26, 1983



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
Table 9
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT -- PHASE III
ZAFFICO Projected Balance Sheets
(K million)
83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89
Fixed Assets                            12.1    15.9    31.7    26.5    22.5    21.3
Plantation                              56.4    58.9    62.2    65.6    68.5    71.5
Net Current Assets                       2.9      3.4      2.9      6.3      8.7     9.4
Total                             71.4    78.2    96.8    98.4    99.7   102.2
Share Capital                           65.3    65.3    79.31/  79.3    79.3    79.3
Long-term Loan                           5.2    13.1    17.7T/  19.3    19.0    19.6
Reserves                                 0.9    (0.2)   (0.2)   (0.2)        1.4     3.3
Total                             71.4    78.2    96.8    98.4    99.7   102.2
Ratios:
Debt Equity 2/                     1:13      1:5      1:5      1:4      1:4      1:4
Debt Equity 3/                     1:2.9    1:1.5   1:1.9   1:1.7   1:1.6   1:1.6
Debt Equity 4/                     1:13      1:5      1:2      1:2      1:2      1:2
Debt Equity 5/                     1:2.9    1:1.5   1:1.1   1:1         1:0.9   1:0.9
1/ K14.0 million transferred to equity capital
2/ Ratio assumes assets include plantations in formation.
3/ Ratio with assets net of the value of plantations on the
assumption that trees would be difficult to realize in case of liquidation.
Includes an equity injection in 1985/86 of K14.0 million.
4/ Assumes no increase in equity in 1985/86 and assets same as in 2/.
5/ Assets net of the value of plantations same as in 3/ but without equity
injection in 1985/86 of K14.0 million.
October 28, 1983



-76 -                            ANNEX  2
Table 10
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT-PHASE III
ZAFFICO's Product Price Structure in 1986
(K/mJ in 1983 prices)
1/
(a) Based on Current Pricing Policy -
Stumpage     Logging &        Conversion/    Ex-Factory  c.i.f.
Product                 Equivalent      Transport      Processing         Price    Price -
Sawntimber (pine)                  54.00         33.25           106.70         193.95      233.00
Sawntimber (eucalyptus)            31.71         33.25           106.70         171.66         -
Poles (Salt-treated)                 7.40         33.25           84.00         124.65      133.81
Pine Roundwood (delivered)          10.12         33.25           10.00          53.37       58.00
(b)  Based on Suggested Pricing Policy -/
Sawntimber (pine)                  78.84         33.25           106.70         218.29      233.00
Sawntimber (eucalyptus)            31.71         33.25           106.70         171.66         -
Poles (Salt-treated)                7.40          33.25           84.00         124.65      113.81
Pine Roundwood (delivered)         14.77          33.25           10.00          58.02       58.00
t/ Based on current pricing policy which doe not take into resource waste in
plantation
2/ Based on recommended pricing policy which takes into account a 46% resource
-   waste in pine plantations.
3/ Net of a 30% customs duty.



- 77 -                            ANNEX  2
Table 11
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
Import Parity Price of Standing Sawlogs (1983)
(K/mr)
Border
Economic -
Price c.i.f. Livingstone                             216.53 -
Transport and distribution costs -/                   13.81
Price c.i.f. Lusaka                                  230.34
Logging and processing costs -/                       85.36
Price of sawnwood after conversion                   144.93
Roundwood to sawnwood ratio                            2.05
Price of standing roundwood before conversion         57.99
1/   Based on 1982 landed cost at Livingstone for Swazi sawntimber
2/   Lusaka is assumed the center of consumption for sawntimber and
would be transported by rail, but does not include trade margins
3/   Estimated costs for sawmilling under the Project
4/   An SCF of 0.80 was used to convert domestic costs into economic
border prices.
May 25, 1983



- 78 -                             ANNEX  2
Table 12
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
Price Structure for Poles (1983) 1/
(K/m3)
Border 2/
Economic -
Stumpage                                          6.21
Logging and transportation                       26.59
Processing and conversion                        67.20
Transportation and distribution                  13.81
Trading margin
113.81
1/ These are eucalyptus poles and the major consumption center
is assujed to be Lusaka
2/ An SCF of 0.80 was used to convert financial prices into
economic border prices
May 25, 1983



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT-PHASE III
NATIONAL APPARENT SUPPLY AND DEMAND FOR INDUSTRIAL WOOD
[000m3(r)j
Apparent Demand                                           Potential Suvply
Pulp
and       Wood                 Total                          Total    Surplus/
Year           Sawnwood      Paper      Panels    Poles    Demand   Potential Supply   Supply    Deficit
ZAFFICO   Other_/
(Actual)-            257         100         63       40'       460        520        250       770        310
1985              300         117         80       4i        541        555       250        805        264
1990              357         137         92       52        643        649       250        899        256
1995              414         160        110       61        745        680       250        930        185
2000              426         187        129       74        817        628       250        878         61
2005              577         219        154       92      1,042        780       250      1,030        (12)
1/ Based on estimated average consumption for 1981.
2/ Includes indigenous forest sources which have been assumed constant.
o z



-80-                      Annex 3
Table 2
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III -/
Supply and Demand Projections for Sawntimber
[000 m3 (s)
Imports/
Supply                          Unsatisfied
Year            Domestic Demand2/ IPD   Other   Total Supply            Demand
Actual 3/             90.0          16.0  56.0          72.0             18.0
1985                 105.0          52.5  55.0         107.5             (2.5)
1990                 125.0          52.5  50.0         102.5             22.5
1995                 145.0          52.5  45.0          97.5             47.5
2000                 149.0          52.5  45.0          97.5             51.5
2005                 202.0          52.5  40.0          92.5            109.5
1/  nasea on Trend-analysis
2/  Assumptions: (a) per capita consumption remains constant at 0.015 m3 (s).
(b) population growth rate of 3.2 p.a.
3/ Based on average consumption for 1970-72 and 1979-81.
February 17,1983



ANNEX 3
Table 3
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
Demand Projections for Sawntimber by End-Use 1/
[000 m3 (s) ]
End-use               Actual  2/1985    1990    1995    2000    2005
Construction & Building 3/ 32.0         37      44       50       58       68
Mines  4/                    25.0       25       25      25       25       25
Furniture & Joinery 5/       16.0       19       24      29       34       41
Other 6/                     11.0       13       17      20       23       28
Total Use                84.0       94     110      124      140     162
1/ Based on end-use analysis
2/ Average consumption for 1974 and 1979-81 industry sales by
IPD and ZSBS.
3/ Assumed growth rate is 3.2% (equal to population growth rate).
4/ Assumed growth rate is 0.0%.
5/ Assumed growth rate is 3.7% (population growth rate 3.2% plus
0.5% per capita income).
6'/ Assumed growth rate is 3.7% (population 3.2% plus 0.5% per
capita income).
February 17, 1983



- 82 -               ANNEX 3
Table 4
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
Projected Demand for Poles and Wood Panels
(a) Poles (000 m3(r) u.b.)
Smelter and       Transmission    Agricultural         Total
Year           Refinery Poles           Poles        & Other Poles    Demand
1981 (actual)          24                 13               3              40
1985                   25                 15               5              45
1990                   25                 19               8              52
1995                   25                 23              13              61
2000                   25                 28               21             74
2005                   25                 33              34              92
(b) Wood Panels [000 m3(s) ]
Year           Particleboard Blackboard  Fibreboard  Plywood  Total Demand
1979-80 (actual)   5.6            3.5          2.6          6.0        15.7
1985                7.2           3.5          2.8         6.4         19.9
1990                8.5           3.5          3.4          7.8        24.3
1995                10.4          3.5          4.1          9.4        27.4
2000                12.2          3.5          5.0         11.5        32.2
2005                14.8          3.5          6.1         14.0        38.4
February 18, 1983



- 83 -                       ANNEX 3
-83-                        Table 5
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRTAL FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT - PHASE III
ZAFFICO'S Forestry Plantations' Harvesting Potential I/
('000 m3 roundwood per year)
Products          Period    Harvesting       Project            Excess
Potential       Requirenents
Saw logs 2/       1985-89   238              137                101
Poles                        48               40                  8
PulpvaDd  3/                188               --                188
FOrest residues 4/           81              -                   81
Total (%)                   555 (100)        177 (32)           378  (68)
Saw logs          1990-94   308              181                127
Poles                        37               44              -   7
Pulpwool                    208              -                  208
Forest residues              96              -                   96
Total (%)                   649 (100)        225 (35)           424 (65)
Saw logs          1995-99   355              238                117
Poles                        32              48               -  16
Pulpwocd                    192              -                  192
Forest residues             101              -                  101
-iotal (%)                  680 (100)        286 (42)           394 (58)
Saw logs          1985-99   300              185                115
Ploles                       39              44                -  5
PulpExxod                   196              -                  196
Forest resiaui-s             93              -                   93
Total                       628 (100)        229 (36)           399 (64)
1/     Areas to be planted after 1982 are not considered
7/     Diameter over 20 cm, includespeeler logs with dianeter over 28 cm
3]     Diameter between 7 and 19 cm
4]     Diameter of 6 cm and less



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE II
Sawmills in Zambi4 - 1976
Name and Location of Pill         Ownership       Species         Estimated              Estimated        Products             Comments
Savn          Sapacity            Production 1976
m  per year            m3 per yer
1.  Kafubu Industrial Timber          State         Eucalyptus   12,000 (2 shifts)   10,000                   Sawnwood    Approaching full
Enterprise (KITE), Chati          IPD (FD)      and Pine      5,000                   5,000               T'urlins     c-aacity
2.  Dola Hill Sawmill, Ndola          State          Pine          6,500  (1 shift)       2,000               Sawnwood    .-ecently started supply.
IPD (FD)                                                                             ,rotlems
Fining Timbers Ltd.:              Parastatal
3.    Mill at Funda                   (RUCOM-        Indigenous   10,000                  5,000 (1 shift)   Pitprops,   '.nnSement problems and
4.    Mill at Kipupu                  INDECO)        Indigenous    8,750                  6,750 (1 shift)   sleepers,   :-tdated equipment.                      0
5.    Mill at Luanshyn                               Indigenous    6,500                  5,000 (1 shift)   and,           hiew mill planned.
6.    Mill at Chisa;-ea                              Indigenous   10,000                  6,000 (1 shift)   sawnwood
Zsmbesi Sawmills Ltd.:            Parastatal
7.    Mill at Mulobesi                 (RUCOM-       Indigenous   10,000                  2,500               sawnwood    out of order throughout
8.    Mill at Sesheke                 INDECO         Indigenous   10.0r"                  2,500               sawnwood    _vst of 1976.
9.  Mkusi Sawmills, Sesheke           Private       Indigenous    7,000 (2 mobile         7,000               sawnwood    Efficient full capacity
sawmills)
10.  Makumbi Sawmill, E. Province   Private          Indigenous    5,000                   2,000               sawnwood    .-art of year only.
MAnagement problems
11.  Furneoz Sawmill, Ndola            Private       Indigenous    4,000                   3,000               sawnwood    7ot licensed.
-.riable supplies                    < 
Source: Chief Conservator of Forests, Forest Department, Republic of Zanbia.                                                                                     F- 
February 22, 1977



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT-PHASE III
ZAFFICO'S PRODUCTION PATTERN, 1983 - 1989
Year 0        Year 1       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year 5        Year 6
1982/83      19$3/84      1984/85      1985/86       1986/87      1987/88       1988/89
Sawnwood (m )
K.I.T.E.:  Metex Mill                8,892         11,000       13,000       13,000        13,000       13,000        13,000
Frame Mill               5,466         8,000         8,000        8,000          -            -             -
Cir. Mill                4,610         5,000         5,000        5,000          -            -             -
Mobile Mill              1,418          1,500        1,500        1,500          -            -             -
WB Frame Mill             -             -             -           4,000       16,000        16,000        16,000
Subtotal K.I.T.E.                   20,386        25,500        27,500       31,500       29,000        29,000       29,000
Dola Hill Mill (Ndola)               3,196          3,500        3,500        3,500         3,500        3,500         3,500
Kalibu Mill (Kitwe)                   - _8.000                  12,000       20,000        20,000       20,000        20,000
Total Sawnwood                      23,582        37,000        43,000       55,000       52,500        5T5TU0    7525U0
3
Roundwood (m ub)
K.I.T.E.: Sawmilling -51,000                       64,000       61,000       70,000        64,000       64,000        64,000
Mining Timber           25,000        25,000        25,000       25,000       25,000        25,000       25,000       1
Poles         2/         4,000        14,000        15,000       15,000       15,000        15,000       15,000       c
Subtotal K.I.T.E. Group -           80,000       103,000       101,000      110,000      104,000       104,000      104,000
Dola Hill: Sawmilling 3 /           10,000         10,000       10,000       10,000        10,000       10,000        10,000
Match Billets &
small log    4           8,000         8,000         9,000        9,000        9,000         9,000        9,000
Kalibu Mill: Sawmilling -          _.-             22,000       32,000       54,000        54,000       54,000        54,000
Subtotal Ndola Group                18,000        40,000        51,000       73,000       73,000        73,000       73,000
TotaL Roundwood                     98,000        143,000      151,000      183,000       177,000      177,000       177,000
3>
1/   Recovery = 40% in year 0, = 45% from year 1 onward
2/   K.I.T.E. groups = Lamba, Chati, and Ichimpe
3/   Recovery = 35%
4/   Recovery = 37%
April 7 198i



Z A M B I A
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT - PHASE III
Output and Capacities of Existing ZAFFICO Mills
(m3 SawnwOod)
Output                              Capacities   1/
K.I.T.E./Kafubu          1980        1981        1982  2/      IPD Rating    Recommended Rating
Metex Sawmill             4,090       5,974       8,892         20,000            13,000
Frame Sawmill             4,785       3,838       5,466          8,000             8,000
Circular Sawmill          2,884       2,600       4,610          4,000             5,000
Mobile Sawmill              586         862       1,418           1,000            1,500
Ndola 1
Dola Hlill Sawmill        2,860       2,588       3,196          3,500             3,500
15,205      15,862      23,582         36,500            31,000
1/  On a single shift basis and 260 working days per year
2/  Output April to September 1982 (see Annex 2, Table 3 - IPD Sawnwood
Production Volume and Recovery Rates), projected on 12 months.
December 30, 1982



INDUSTRIAT, FORESTRY PLANTATION PROJECT - PHASE III
Estimated Volume of Sawlogs  with Butt Diameter of 55 cm and over
(Normal Felling Cycle)
Eucalyptus Average Volume 0.21 m3   Pine Average Volume 0.41 m3                  Total
No. of Logs       Volume in3         No. of Logs         Volume m3    No. of Logs   Volume m
1983           13,340             2,80Q0              3,520               1,443          16,860         4,243
1984           12,760             2,680                 880                 360          13,640         3,040
1985           13,195             2,770               3,960               1,624          17,155         4,394
1986            8,265             1,735               5,720               2,345          13,985         4,080
1987            1,740               365              12,320               5,050          14,060         5,415
oc
Source:  IPD Planning
Pc z
(D X4
I' w



- 88 -
ANNEX 4
ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PHASE III
Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
A. Report Relating to the Project
Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Programme,
Rome: "Zambia: Industrial Forestry Project, Phase III", a set of
working papers constituting the preparation document, April 1982.
B. Selected Working Papers
(1)  Working Paper 1:  Silvicultural Management of Plantations
(2)  Working Paper 2:  Logging, Transportation and Log Conversion
(3)  Working Paper 3:  Sawmilling Operations



Cl.vrr C-I
ZAMBLA
TNDUSTRAL FRoESTRY Pr oJEcT - PHASE A1l
PsoposOd OrgoflOtIo br WARPCO
Sectal~ ~ ~~~~~~na.~,                   a~ac         "n
[ ~ ~ 1 _        ass'
atcncn~~ ~ ~ ~        ~ I  atns                                                                     I
.Oast..t.~~Ctcn]  ___p                                                                                                                                  all
L   _   1   cw;   I  t  lannH  t~~~~~~~a< +iu g {SI X 1 r;= = I                                                                                  55aan
s s a  1             lal lc         _                                                                                                                    1<eSS sasSSS& Saafl



ZAMBIA
INDUSTRIAL FORESTRY PROJECT - PILASE III
Implementation Schedule
(Calendar Year)
1983         1984       1985         1986        1987         1988
1     2     1     2     1      2     1     2     1      2     1     2
Negotiations                        0
Board Presentation                     0
Effectiveness                            o
Detailed Engineering Design xxxxxx
Sawmilling & Processing
Immediate Investment           xxxxxxxxxx
Rehabilitation                    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Improvement Program                           I      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Civil Works                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx                                                      o
Vehicle and Equipment                                  I
Procurement                        -----X-  --xxxxxX---                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
.                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   I   I   !   I   I   I   I   I   I
Technical Assistance                 xx--XXXXXxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
I    I     t     I     I      I     I     !     I      I
Training                             xxxxxxxXXXXX xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Plantation Estab.                      xx-xxxxxx
Replanting                            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
I    I     I     I     I      I     I     I     I
Nurseries                            xxxx- xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xx
I     I     I     I     I      I     i     I     I      I



I   I   w  -'u''  "''v-"-'n'       ,-3'  1                               1     1            _    _                  I                      l     '~~~~/'N "N
Lil 711,$          -                          f  w '''   - F41- 0                                    j/     
LJL]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
e j X \/ d'o |* t o | D~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                Fl
~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~0  II~~.g 
>           5~~~~~~~~~~W                                      Proposed Lyoyuk of sowm illing and sownwood
_________               _        __                                  [ l                                   t  i  t 1 1_!__i_tu4u /  T_
_~~~~~~~~~~~~ _._ -                                                                                                                                                 - --- ~-~__=__Anx2 






I B R D 17030
TANZANIA    IToCrngvo/                                                       TvMvfrr    \o        TMuf ,ZMI                                                           MARCH 
LAME~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZMI
Z AIREv   ytu  X       ll 0                 9     >                    '         '5/                   i  )         X             INDUSTRIAL  FORESTRY  PROJECT, PHASE Ill
ANGOLA  I T--tk '   1g/06u-   0                \                                  yX                  /      /               \                                  PROJECT PLANTATION AREAS
ANGiOLA                      )                                                                                                                                            Pn  ,OlO,0l
/4 - l                                                                                                                                  '\ \i\ A ; -.  \"/ \ /- /\ < ' Eucalyps"s PlansutiL EyPa
ZAEA_),\r   _Land Available for Future Plantations
-   '=   t   MSADWn  <  g  \  Sawmils |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sumil
ZA M BIA>Mbaossh,                                                              ipe-9  Eucalypts  Platations                                                                            naton
Paved Roads
-- ---  t   &     I 'st   / t   >     /    z\   C)Other Roads
/, I'  /.  F!bo1et   ,    ; :,   >  /   :  (   X  0 F V_;   T a          ;                     Buvlt -up Areas
I    7                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
'-F ilode--~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 4                                                                                                                                    O
|i-    |       0     x  t   0   d S  -  A   f                            Kal  h                                                                                                          .. .....
A~~                                                               ~        ~~~                                        ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tC\i    /  -  /  'SUyo,tt 
0  5  10  11   25       30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
- -x_--  - - - -K)LOMET, --R                                  -       N      \
\/I X S           /\ iii}M,1                                     1                             I LES
'S i                  (      ) -'  /                                       5              5 > /   <  0  15           20sT                 l v n



