OFFICIAL
OFFICIALN     CREDIT NUMBER 1437 ZA
DOCL-#UM1AElNiTS
Project Agreement
(Industrial Forestry Project - Phase III)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ZAMBIA FORESTRY AND FOREST
INDUSTRIES CORPORATION LIMITED
and
ZAMBIA INDUSTRIAL AND MINING
CORPORATION LIMITED
Dated                              ,1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1437 ZA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 "'         , 1984, among the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association), ZAMBIA FORESTRY AND FOREST INDUSTRIAL CORPORATION
LIMITED (hereinafter called the Corporation) and ZAMBIA INDUS-
TRIAL AND MINING CORPORATION LIMITED.
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Zambia (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-on million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 21,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Corporation and its parent company, Zambia Industrial and Mining
Corporation Limited (hereinafter sometimes referred to as ZIMCO),
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
(B)   WHEREAS by a subsidiary financing agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Corporation, the pro-
ceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to the Corporation on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Corporation and ZIMCO, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations herein-
after set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Corporation shall carry out the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and forestry practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Corporation in its
management and operation during the carrying out of the Project,
in the training program included in the Project and in preparing
engineering designs and tender documents for the handling and
processing facilities included in the Projectl the Corporation
shall employ management and industrial forestry consultants and
experts as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with
qualifications and experience, and under terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Association, such consultants and
experts to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section. 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Corporation undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available
to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by the Corporation to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) The Corporation shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. (a) The Corporation shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifica-
tions, reports, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the AssociAtion shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Corporation: (i) shall maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to visit the
facilities, work and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost ard, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, tLa expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Corporation of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Corporation and the Association, the Corporation shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the   Corporation  and  the   Association  of   their  respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
(e) The    Corporation   shall   enable  the   Association's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of the Corporation and
any relevant records and documents.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. The Corporation shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Financing Agreement. Except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Corporation shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect       of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Corporation shall, at the request
of the Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of the Project, th- performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) The Corporation shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, or the performance by the Corporation of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Financing Agreement.
Section 2.08. In order to determine the needs of infra-
structure in the plantations benefitting from the Project, the
Corporation shall prepare by December 31, 1984 a five-year plan,
including proposed budgets, for cutting, logging and transport.
Section 2.09. The Corporation shall ensure that all equip-
ment, machinery, vehicles and tools procured under the Project
meet the specifications therefor determined by the detailed
engineering carried out in preparation for the Project.
Section 2.10. Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
Limited shall take such steps as shall be necessary on its part
to enable the Borrower to carry out the objectives of Section
3.01 (b) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.11. The Corporation shall require all candidates
for training under Part E of the Project to bind themselves
legally to remain in the service of the Corporation for a period
of time following the completion of their training at least equal
to the period of such training.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Corporation
Section 3.01. (a) The Corporation shall carry on its
operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound


﻿-5-
administrative, financial, technical and forestry practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted
by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) above, the Corporation shall
ensure the employment of qualified and experienced deputies to
each of the positions listed in Part A of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Corporation shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and forestry practices.
Section 3.03. The Corporation shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with aperopriate practice.
Section 3.04. The Corporation shall put into effect by
October 1, 1984, a marketing strategy designed (a) to displace
imported wood products in the mining and construction industries,
(b) to increase its sales of roundwood to other wood-base
industries, and (c) to introduce a program of action based on
wholesale ex-factory sales to be distributed by the existing
network of timber merchants.
Section 3.05. The Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
Limited shall furnish to the Association by December 31, 1985, an
assessment of the feasibility of basing a part of the sawmilling
operations of Mining Timbers Ltd. on the plantations of the
Corporation.
Section 3.06. The Corporation shall phase out its thinning
regimes in its eucalyptus plantations and adopt a three coppicing
system in new plantations and replantings.
Section 3.07. The Corporation shall obtain, maintain and
renew as and when necessary all site licenses, leases and titles
to or rights in property necessary or useful in its operations
and for the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of its
purposes.
Section 3.08. The Corporation shall, by September 30, 1984,
design and put into operation an efficient fire control and
protection system.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Corporation shall maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
(b) The Corporation shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Corporation shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consisteotly applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year: (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it and withdrawn from the Association Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 7 -
Section 4.03. The Corporation shall continue to base its
pricing policy on replacement-cost conventions but shall modify
such policy to take into account where appropriate:
(i) replacement costs which, after taking into account
resource waste in pine plantations, would be
reasonably related to production costs under
conditions of efficient operation at capacity
utilization of not less than 85%;
(ii) the levels of import parity prices for imported
products which compete with its products in the
domestic market; and
(iii) a reasonable contribution (in the form of equity
contributions and retained earnings) to future
investments for expansion of capacity;
and the Association and the Corporation shall exchange views
annually on the application of such pricing policy.
Section 4.04. The Corporation shall not declare any dividend
if such declaration would result in noncompliance with Section
4.05 of this Agreement.
Section 4.05. The Corporation and Zambia Industrial and
Mining Corporation Limited shall ensure, by appropriate capital
increases and by limiting the incurring of debt by the Corpora-
tion that, prior to completion of the Project, the debt of the
Corporation not exceed one quarter cf its equity. For the pur-
poses of this Section:
(a) "Debt" means any debt incurred by the Corporation
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is ori-
ginally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
or for the modification of its terms of payment on the date, and
to the extent the amount of such debt has become outstanding
pursuant to such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into, but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.


﻿-8-
(c) "Equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up
capital, retained earnings and reserves of the Corporation not
allocated to cover specific liabilities.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
parties thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
its terms, and the Association shall promptly notify the
Corporation and Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited
thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such reque.. The addresses so specified are:
For.the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-9-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
89650 (wUT) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Corporation:
Zambia Foresty and Forest Industries
Corporation Limited
P.O. Box 71566
Ndola, Zambia
Cable Address:                     Telex:
ZA 30000
Ndola
For ZIMCO:
Zambia Industrial and Mining
Corporation Limited
P.O. Box 30090
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable Address:                     Telex:
ZIMCO                            ZA 40790
Lusaka
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Corporation or of the Zambia Indus-
trial and Mining Corporation Limited, or by the Corporation on
behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement,
may be taken or executed by the Managing Director of the Corpora-
tion or the Director General of ZIMCO, as the case may be, or
such other person or persons as they shall designate in writing,
and the Corporation and ZIMCO shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Reg onal Vice President
Eastern Africa
ZAMBIA FORESTRY AND FOREST INDUSTRIES
CORPORATION LIMITED
By     IqPTLU"            "   _; k         aq'
Authorized Representative
ZAMBIA INDUSTRIAL AND MINING
CORPORATION LIMITED
ByAuhoie                           yen       t
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of para-
graph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Corporation shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods in question. The Corporation shall provide the neces-
sary information to update such notice annually so long as any
goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of inviting bids for vehicles, tractors,
trailors, machinery, equipment, tools and spare parts, such items
shall be grouped as far as practicable into economical bidding
packages.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port-of-entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland


﻿- 12 -
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Zambia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.    All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which would be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Zambia if
the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Corporation and the Association that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added in
Zambia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B Is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered


﻿- 13 -
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods described in Part A, paragraph 3 of this Schedule
which cannot be grouped in packages of a value of at least
$100,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of locally
applicable competitive bidding procedures; such goods of a value
of less than $30,000 equivalent may be purchased on the basis of
the lowest of at least three competing quotations. The aggregate
value of goods procured under this paragraph shall not, without
the prior approval of the Association, exceed the equivalent of
$500,000.
2.   Civil works will be carried out by the Corporation or under
negotiated contracts.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
1.   With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Corporation shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Association shall reason-
ably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents
shall require the Association's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 14 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Cor-
poration shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Corporation and state the reasons for such determina-
tion.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 1, the Corporation shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two con-
formed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
pr3mptly inform the Corporation and state the reasons for such
determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15*% of the original price, the Corporation shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions   of  this   Agreement,  shall  promptly   inform  the
Corporation and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Consultants and Experts
Part A:
Personnel to be furnished to the Corporation by a single
firm under a contract between the Corporation and such firm (see
Part II of the Guidelines referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement):
1.   Logging and Processing
1 Manager, Logging and Processing
1 Assistant Manager, Sawmilling and Processing
1 Assistant Manager, Logging and Transportation
1 Senior Sawdoctor
2.   Marketing
1 Marketing Manager
3.   Engineering and Construction
1 Manager, Engineering and Construction
1 Central Workshop Superintendent
Part B:
Personnel to be recruited individually by the Corporation by
the dates indicated (see Part V of such Guidelines):
Position                           Date
1.   Finance and Audit
1 Finance Manager                  June 30, 1984
1 Management Auditor               June 30, 1984
2.   Corporate Planning
1 Corporate Planning Manager       March 31, 1984
1 Systems Analyst                  June 30, 1984
3.   Training
1 Training Officer                 June 30, 1984


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of   il   (
1984.
FOR SECRETARY


