CREDIT NWJMBER 1437 ZA
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Industrial Yorestry Project - Phase III)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              ,1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1437 ZA
DEVELOPHENT CREDIT AGREEMENt
AGREEMENT, dated     1)t00.     /e;     , 1984, between the
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project, described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to receive from the Government of
Finland a grant (hereinafter called the Finland Grant) in an
amount of 57,000,000 Finnmarks to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the Finland Grant Agreement) between the
Borrower and the Government of Finland;
(C) the Project will be carried out by the Zambia Forestry
and Forest Industries Corporation Limited with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to such Corporation the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to make the Credit available to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and
in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Associa-
tion, such Corporation and, as the sole shareholder of the
Corporation,   the  Zambia  Industrial   and  Mining  Corporation
Limited;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Corporation" means the Zambia Forestry and Forest
Industries Corporation Limited, a Private Company established and
operating under the Companies Act of the Borrower and pursuant to
its Memorandum and Articles of Association dated September 24,
1982.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith among the Association, the Corporation and the Zambia
Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited as sole shareholder of
the Corporation, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and
all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Corporation
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
(d)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated January 12, 1983, and
September 21, 1983 between the Borrower, the Bank and the
Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to twenty-one million five hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower
and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Associa-
tion shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable


﻿-3-
cost of goods and services required for the Project, described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount require d to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1991
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of this Agreement to the respec-
tive dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.0 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Sectiona
Section 2.06, The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1994, and ending
August 15, 2033, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on August 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. The Corporation is designated as representa-
tive of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action re-
quired or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Corporation and the
Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation Limited to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of such parties therein set forth, shall take or
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities,   services   and   other   resources,  necessary   or
appropriate to enable them to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to the Corporation under a subsidiary financing
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Corporation, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association, which shall include provisions for:
(i) the passing on to the Corporation as a contribu-
tion to its capital of an amount equivalent to the


﻿k -
first SDR 9.6 million withdrawn from the Credit
Account;
(ii)  the relending to the Corporation of the equivalent
of all other proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account for a term of fifteen years
including three years of grace and at a rate of
interest on the outstanding balance of 11.08% per
annum; and
(iii) such other matters as shall be satisfactory to
the Association, including the assumption by the
Corporation of the exchange risk on the amount so
relent.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall ensure that there be made
available to the Corporation during the carrying out of the
Project such funds as shall be required by the Corporation
adequately to maintain and operate its ongoing program of
investment and development.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Corporation or the Zambia Industrial and Mining
Corporation Limited shall have failed to perform any of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Corporation will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement;


﻿(c) the Memorandum or Articles of Association of the
Corporation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the Corporation to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Corporation or for the suspension of its operations;
and
(e) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower or the Corporation
to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or loan
made to the Borrower or the Corporation for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower or the Corporation to perform
any of their respective obligations under
such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower or the Corporation from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the respective obligations of the
Borrower and the Corporation under this
Agreement and the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event described in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after


﻿-7-
notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the
Association;
(b) any event described in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section
4.01 shall occur; and
(c) the event described in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
4.01 shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e) (ii) of
such Section.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Corporation; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the first disbursement of
funds under the Finland Grant Agreement, other than the effec-
tiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Corporation and Zambia Industrial and Mining
Corporation Limited and is legally binding upon them in
accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Corporation and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Corporation in accor-
dance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date         e    /4/          , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                             ZA 42221
Lusaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
89650 (WUT) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By       'I
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
AL '           Eastern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works under         1,440,000         45% of local
contracts or on                            expenditures
force account
(2) Vehicles, equip-         12,440,000         100% of foreign
ment, spare parts,                         expenditures,
materials                                   100% of local
expenditures
for ex-factory
price and 75%
of local expen-
ditures for
other items pur-
chased locally
(3) Consultants' and          3,080,000         90%
expertso services
(4) Employee train-           1,240,000         100%
ing outside of
Zambia
(5) Refunding of                430,000         Amount due under
Project Prepara-                           Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance                               of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated               2,870,000
TOTAL              21,500,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   If the amount allocated to Category (5) above is in excess
of the amount required, the balance will be reallocated to
Category (6).
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expendittres" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or *on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then appl-.able
to  such   Category  as  required   to  be  consistent   with  the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement;
or
(b) training under Category (4) above until the Association
shall have been satisfied with the Corporation's training
program.
6.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then


﻿- 12 -
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a six-year third phase of the Borrower's
program for the industrial development of its forestry sector and
includes further development of forest plantations established
under previous phases, for establishment of a few new plantations
and   replantings,  for   the  improvement   and  maintenance   of
infrastructure and forest services within the Project area, as
well as for improvements and expansions in existing wood handling
and processing facilities to increase wood production and to
improve product quality and product mix. The Project consists of
the following:
Part A:
An Afforestation Program consisting in silvicultural manage-
ment of about 43,500 hectares of existing plantations, establish-
ment of about 1,500 hectares of new pine plantations, replanting
of about 1,700 hectares of pine and about 2,100 hectares of
eucalyptus, improvement of fire protection practices, construc-
tion of new accesv roads and compartment roads and maintenance of
existing plantation roadG, all around Ndola and Kitwe, near the
border with Zaire.
Part B:
Improvement of Log Transport and Handling Facilities
through the procurement and use of power saws and skidding equip-
ment and machinery, log transport equipment, and new log handling
equipment at the KITE and Kalibu sawmills, and the improvement of
logging roads.
Part C:
A Sawmilling Program, including the procurement and use of
new equipment and spare parts to rehabilitate, improve or replace
existing obsolete and inefficient production lines at the KITE
complex and Dola Hill sawmill, and additional equipment for the
Kalibu sawmill.
Part D:
Workshop Improvements at the facilities at the KITE complex
and the establishment of a new central workshop at Kalibu for


﻿- 14 -
major repair work and of a mobile workshop unit for servicing
equipment at the site of operations.
Part E:
A Training Program consisting in in-service long-term and
external training of employees of the Corporation in engineering,
wood technology, accountancy and management, and on-the-job
training of all semi-skilled and skilled personnel.
Part F:
Administrative Support, including strengthening of the
Corporation's operational capabilities through the procurement of
six passenger cars for replacement of existing vehicles used for
administrative purpose by senior staff, four four-wheel drive
vehicles for replacement, a micro-computer for improved accoun-
tancy and management information systems, and office furniture.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1990.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of    Ln,;
1984.
FOR SECRETARY


