Documeint of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25260
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-31640; IDA-31641; TF-25528; TF-27754)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$14 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
ALBANIA
FOR A
COMMUNITY WORKS PROJECT
December 30, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 1998)
Currency Unit = Lek
US$ I = Lek 150
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF            Albanian Development Fund
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
ECU            European Currency Unit
EU             European Union
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IDA            International Development Association
IDB            Islamic Development Bank
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF            International Monetary Fund
IS             International Shopping
LACI           Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCDP           Local Communities Development Program
MIS            Management Information System
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NDRDP          Northeastern Districts Rural Development Project
NGO            Non-Govenmmental Organization
NS             National Shopping
PHRD           Policy & Human Resources Development Fund (Japan)
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
PY             Project Year
QCBS           Quality and Cost Based Selection
RPAPP          Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project
RDP            Rural Development Project
SDR            Special Drawing Right
TA             Technical Assistance
VAT            Vallue Added Tax
Vice President:  Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director:   Christiaan N. Poortman, ECCU4
Sector Director:  Laura Tuck, ECSSD
Task Team Leader    Mark Woodward, ECSSD



ALBANIA
COMMUNITY WORKS PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               11
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  14
9. Partner Comments                                                                 17
10. Additional Information                                                          18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               27
Annex 7b. Co-Financier Contribution                                                 28
Annex 7c. Borrower's Contribution                                                   29






Project ID: P051309 P066335                              Project Name: ALBANIA COMMUNITY WORKS
Team Leader: Mark C. Woodward                            TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: January 2, 2003
1. Project Data
Namne: ALBANIA COMMUNITY WORKS                      L/CITFNu,nber: IDA-31640;
IDA-31641; TF-25528;
TF-27754
Counny/Department: ALBANIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Other social services (21%); Water supply (20%);
Irrigation & drainage (20%); Roads & highways
(20%); Central govemment administration (19%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   11/12/1997                             Effective: 07/14/1999        11/02/1999
Appraisal:  02/13/1998                               MTR: 03/05/2001           03/05/2001
Approval:  01/19/1999                             Closing: 03/31/2003          03/31/2003
Borrower/ImplementingAgencv:  GOVT. OF ALBANIA/ALBANIA DEVELOPMENT FUND
Other Partners:  Government of Italy
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                         Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Christiaan J. Poortinan                  Arntraud Hartmauin
Sector Manager:      Alexandre Marc                           Joseph Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:  Mark C. Woodward                         Kathryn Ann Funk
ICR Primary Author:  Patrizia Poggi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Perfornance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: HS                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context: The preparation of the Community Works Project took place in the immediate aftermath of the
crisis that hit Albania in 1997, during which an angry population, furious about the collapse of pyramid
schemes, demolished or damaged much public infrastructure. Economic activities were severely disrupted
and GDP declined by 7 percent in one year. The crisis of 1997 was probably the lowest point reached by
Albania after the collapse of communism in terms of civil unrest. However, infrastructure works previously
carried out by the Albanian Development Fund (ADF - the implementing agency) were by and large spared
from the civil unrest of 1997. In some cases, local governments hired guards to protect infrastructure
subprojects - an element that demonstrates a high level of ownership for these subprojects.
In 1997 ADF had already accumulated five years of experience working with local governments through
three Bank financed projects - the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (Cr. 2461-ALB), the Rural
Development Project (Cr. 2680-ALB), and the Urban Works Pilot Project (Cr. 2770-ALB). The
Community Works Project (CWP) was prepared, however, during a radical reorganization of ADF (the
departure of the rural credit and urban credit departments - to be supported by the Microcredit Project - as
well as of the veterinary department). The CWP was developed as a follow-on project, attempting to
improve ADF operations to address one of its relative weaknesses - the participation of villages. The CWP
became effective in April 1999, with a financing of US$17.4 million. During 1999, the Kosovo crisis
prompted the Bank to provide a Supplemental Credit of US$5 million to alleviate the impact of the large
influx of Kosovar refugees to Albania (see Para 3.2, Revised Objective).
According to the PAD, the Project's development objectives were:
(a)    to alleviate small infrastructure bottlenecks by rehabilitating small, sustainable, social and
economic infrastructure according to the development priorities of local govermments and communities; and
(b)    to build the capacity of local communities and local governments to promote local economic
development.
These two objectives, while quite general, were very much appropriate for the developmental stage of
Albania of that time, as described in the Post-Crisis Recovery Program of July 1997 and the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1998. The best available estimates suggest that up to 30 percent of the rural
population and 15 percent of the urban population were living in relative poverty. Most public
infrastructure was in critical condition, after years of lack of new investments and maintenance. Therefore,
alleviating infrastructure bottlenecks in local communities was expected to release pressure on local
governments, as well as provide short-term employment.
The decision to implement the Project country-wide was also consistent with the post-crisis need for
national unity over geographical division. The choice of the implementing partner was also sound, given
that ADF had proven to have acquired substantial technical and procurement competency to deal with local
governments. Governance and institution building was in fact one of the three strategic priorities of the
1998 CAS. ADF was well positioned to play a major role in institution building, giving its capacity to
negotiate and coordinate with the Government of Albania (GoA) and donors at the national level, and to
genuinely devolve to local governments local level decisions.
3.2 Revised Objective:
As mentioned above, the Kosovo crisis in 1999 caused a high number of Albanian Kosovars to seek refuge
in Albania. The objectives of the CWP were not revised, however a US$5 million Supplemental Credit
-2 -



was approved by the Board to help the Government of Albania face the crisis. The Supplemental Credit
therefore added a new objective to the CWP - providing emergency infrastructure support to prevent the
collapse of infrastructure service and contributing to supplement the revenue of populations directly
affected by the influx of refugees.
The Supplemental Credit subprojects were therefore geographically limited to 10 priority districts, to allow
focused intervention in highly refugee impacted areas. The novelty introduced by the Supplemental Credit
was represented by the Social Services Delivery Component (see Para 3.4 below, Revised Components),
which envisaged the implementation of about twelve social sub-projects, targeting in particular children and
youth, women, and the elderly.
The new objective was appropriate in the context of the 1998-99 events. Thousands of Kosovo Albanians
fled within a few months into northeast Albania - the poorest region of Albania, straining the already weak
local infrastructure and resources. Targeting the most vulnerable groups was also appropriate, as most of
the refugees were women, children, and the elderly. The vast majority of refugees returned to Kosovo in a
relatively quick and unexpected fashion shortly after the end of the hostilities. However, they left behind
impoverished communities that benefited from the additional support of the Supplemental Credit
subprojects.
3.3 Originial Components:
The project envisaged at the beginning three components:
(a)    Infrastructure Works - US$15.3 million (88% of total costs), of which IDA credit US$7.3 million.
It was estimated that the Project would finance approximately 258 local infrastructure subprojects - about
228 in rural areas and 30 in urban areas. The maximum subproject size would be US$70,000 in rural
areas, and US$150,000 in urban areas.
(b)    Local Government and Community Capacity Building - US$0.2 million (1% of total costs), of
which IDA credit US$0.2 million. Under this component, the Project would finance training to strengthen
local capacity and complement the infrastructure improvements financed by ADF.
(c)    Project Implementation Support - US$1.8 million (11% of total costs), of which IDA credit
US$1.5 million. The component would support the Project's implementation by ADF through provision of
ADF operation costs (vehicles and equipment, staff salaries, and related operating costs), technical
assistance and staff training, and monitoring and evaluation.
These components are deemed adequate to achieve the Projects' objectives. Infrastructure subprojects,
based on the priorities of communities, included rehabilitation of roads, water supply schemes, markets,
and buildings (e.g., health centers, schools, day care facilities). In addition, ADF was qualified to build up
the capacity of local govemments through study tours and formal training, but also through learning by
doing, thanks to the experience accumulated in previous projects. At the PAD stage, an additional US$2.4
million of co-financing was expected from the Italian Government, and US$3.4 of co-financing from other
donors to be defined. The Italian co-financing was received after considerable delay and - due to the
devaluation of the Italian lira - it only amounted to about US$1.8 million. In addition, while parallel
financing was mobilized for ADF-related activities, no other co-financing was provided specifically for the
CWP. Other donor-financed activities used nonetheless the CWP manual.
These 10 districts are: Durres, Kavaje, Shkoder, Kurbin, Lezhe, KYuje, Elbasan, Fier, Vlore, Peqin.
- 3-



3.4 Revised Components:
As indicated above, in 1999 a Supplemental Credit of US$5 million was added to the CWP to face the
Kosovo crisis. The Supplemental Credit was envisaged to fund additional Infrastructure Works (US$3.1
million), as well as to add a new component, the Social Services Delivery Component (US$940,000 of
technical services and US$550,000 of goods).
The Social Services Delivery Component activities were decided according to the results of a Rapid Needs
Assessment. The results of the RNA were duly taken into account.
3.5 Quality at Entrv:
The Quality at Entry of the CWP was formally assessed by a QAE panel in 1999. The overall assessment
of quality was rated highly satisfactory. What follows is a comparison of the 1999 assessment with the
current, ICR assessment. The present document relies also on some recent independent reports, such as the
"Institutional and Managerial Review,"' "An Evaluation of the Infrastructure Component, Community
Works Project,"' a "Beneficiary Assessment,"' a "Beneficiary Workshop,"5 the "Procurement Post
Review Supervision Mission Report," and the "Consolidated Audit."
Consistency with the objectives of the CAS: The QAE panel rated highly satisfactory the consistency of
the Project with the objectives of the CAS.' The CAS discussed by the Board of Directors on July 30,
1998, built on the Post-Crisis Recovery Program through supporting the Government's agenda of restoring
sustained private sector growth, and emphasized the need to strengthen govemance and institutions by
engaging the population in the development process. The Community Works Project has consistently
addressed private sector growth and poverty alleviation by directly boosting employment in the short term.
Over the medium term, the Project has enabled local economic development and improved quality of life,
by strengthening local institutions and alleviating infrastructure bottlenecks. Similarly to the 1999 QAE
assessment, consistency with the objectives of the CAS is now rated highly satisfactory.
Government priorities: Consistency with the Govemment strategy was rated by the QAE panel as
satisfactory. The Govemment, elected to power in June 1997, had a three-fold strategy: (a) to reestablish
macroeconomic stability, (b) poverty alleviation (Albania was - and remains - one of the poorest countries
in Europe, with per capita income reaching just over US$800 in 1996), (c) provision of small-scale
infrastructure (the 1998-2001 Public Investment Program calls for a development and community works
program that aims to improve local infrastructure and specifically recognizes that in many areas ADF has
been the only available source of financing for rural and urban infrastructure improvement). The CWP was
fully in line with the last two Governnent priorities, and its consistency is rated here satisfactory.
7.
Transtec Consulting, September 2002.
3.
Paul Dean, June 2002.
4.
May 2002.
5.
Held in Tirana on May 25th, 2002.
6.
Naushad Khan, June 17th , 2002.
7.
Deloitte & Touche, June 30th, 2002.
Preparation of the CAS was interrupted by the large-scale civil disturbance that erupted in Albania in 1997, triggered by the
collapse of pyramid schemes. With the support and agreement of intemational donors, the Bank took the leadership in
preparing a Post-Crisis Recovery Program in July 1997 Directionsfor Recovery and Growth-An Initial Assessment. The CAS
was issued in 1998.
-4 -



Bank's safeguard policies: The QAE panel rated as satisfactory the compliance with the applicable
safeguard policies. The environmental assessment assigned the Projects a category "B" rating, although
adverse environmental impact was unlikely given the nature and small size of subprojects financed under
the Project. Environmental screening procedures are described in the ADF's Operational Guidelines, which
were a condition of Credit Effectiveness. The QAE assessment can be ex-post confirmed, and there have
not been significant environmental concems during the course of implementation.
Quality of design: The QAE panel rated highly satisfactory the appropriateness of the Project approach. A
more disaggregated, ex-post assessment suggests a slightly less positive rating. The Works component was
generally well designed and clearly benefited from the experience accumulated with the previous projects
implemented by ADF. Nonetheless, the addition of the social inspectors was not as well prepared as would
have been desirable. Clearer terms of reference and better integration within the structure of ADF would
have probably resulted in enhanced efficacy of the social inspectors' contribution. Also the capacity
building component was rather poorly designed. ADF staff was initially at a loss with the meager
description of this component as contained in Annex 2 of the PAD. The relative success of this component,
as demonstrated by the beneficiary assessment and the final Institutional and Managerial Review, was due
more to constructive thinking of both ADF and Bank staff over the life of the project than to the quality of
the initial design. The overall Project, however, was clearly a cornerstone of both the CAS and the
Govermment strategy and the quality of design is nonetheless rated satisfactory.
Reasonableness of assumptions about externalfactors: The main assumptions identified in the PAD as
risks (i.e., political interference will be minimal in targeting communities, subprojects will correspond to
priority needs, subprojects will be maintained) were - by and large - correct There has indeed been political
interference, but ADF seems to have handled it reasonably well by adopting the criteria of working in all
communes and by establishing transparent procedures. Accelerating implementation, though, can be
partially explained as a consequence of political interference (on the negative consequences of accelerating
implementation, see Para 5.3). Maintenance, also, proved to be an issue (see Para 6 below, Sustainability).
The quality at entry is rated overall satisfactory. The relative downgrading from the QAE rating (from
highly satisfactory to satisfactory) is primarily due to the re-assessment of the quality of project design.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievemen7t of objective:
As described above, the Project's two main development objectives were: (a) to alleviate small
infrastructure bottlenecks by rehabilitating small, sustainable, social, and economic infrastructure
according to the development priorities of local governments and communities; and (b) to build the capacity
of local communities and local governments to promote local economic development.
The first objective can be considered achieved. As can be seen from Fig. 1, over 200 infrastructure
sub-projects were carried out, through which about 25% of the Albanian population has benefited and a
majority has enjoyed substantial economic and social benefits as a result. The Project carried out less
sub-projects than originally envisaged (about 220 instead of 280), primarily because virtually all
sub-projects reached the maximum ceiling in terms of cost, and also due to the fact that US$3.4 million of
co-financing did not materialize. Sub-projects were generally in line with community demand and the
quality of design and construction was generally good and improved substantially from the earlier Urban
Works and Rural Development Projects. The Beneficiary Assessment demonstrated that beneficiaries
to
See "An Evaluation of the infrastructure Component, The Albanian Development Fund - Community Works Project", by Paul Dean, June 2002.
- 5-



satisfaction with the Project is very high (over 90%). This is an indication that the outcome of the Project,
besides numerical considerations, has been very positive. The impact of the Project on people's lives, in
their own perceptions, has been very significant.
However, a couple of considerations shall be made that detract from the full achievement of the first
objective. First, ADF has privileged certain types of sub-projects (namely, roads and water supply) against
others, such as schools and markets. The bottom-up identification process in the communes and
municipalities, as mentioned, is formally well implemented. The emphasis on roads, therefore, could simply
be the consequence of the rule "one commune - one sub-project" - that is, given the poor access and road
conditions of most communes, and that the decision is taken at the commune level, the first priority of most
communes is improving roads. Additionally, roads are the sub-projects that benefit the largest number of
beneficiaries. However, there is also a well-established "brand image" of ADF as an institution that
constructs mostly roads, rather than other social and economic infrastructure. This perception has been
partially revised with the introduction of the Social Services Delivery Component of the Supplemental
Credit; however, ADF still needs to consolidate its credibility to deliver sustainable social sub-projects
(further details can be found in Para 6., Sustainability).
Projects
Type                                                      Quantity
Nr.               Unity               Volume
Rural    Urban    Total              Rural      Urban       Total
Road                     93       35       128      km        310        28.6      338.6
Water supply             40        5       45       km        174        11.3      185.3
Sewer                    6         8       14       km        12.5       8.2        20.7
School & sporting field  6        5        1        m2        3175       6495      9670
Bridge                    I        -        I       ml         8          -          8
Footbridge                4        i        5       ml        194        80         274
Market                    -       4         4       m2         -        4420       4420
Social Building           -       4         4       m2         -         1741      1741l
H. Center                2         -        2       m2        311         -         311
Kindergarten              -        3        3       m2         -         1072       1072
Flood protection          I        -        I       ml        500         -         500
Others                             l        l
Total                 [153        66   |219      |   -    l          [
Fig. 1
The second consideration refers to the capacity of ADF to deal with local communities. As mentioned,
ADF enjoys good relations and cooperation with the majority of local govemments, while its capacity to
reach out to local communities has been limited. Community participation should have been more
significant during all phases of the sub-project cycle, from identification to procurement to supervision. A
partial explanation for the lack of involvement of local communities is the staffing composition of ADF.
ADF staff is largely dominated by engineers with no specific training in basic social development skills and
little experience with community participation. The situation has partly been addressed with the
introduction of the social experts, who are responsible for organizing meetings at the district and commune
- 6 -



or municipality levels in order to explain the subprojects and procedures to be followed in order to request a
subproject from ADF. The social experts are also responsible for raising awareness of ADF in villages and
organizing meetings at the local level, to prioritize and pre-select potential sub projecis, to establish user
committees, to develop the operation and maintenance plans, and to supervise the maintenance
arrangements agreed to by the communities. The real impact of the social experts has been, in most
instances, inferior to expectations. Another possible explanation for the lack of involvement of local
communities is the politicization of the project, that has caused the acceleration of investments. However,
as stated above, the first development objective should be considered achieved.
The achievement of the second development objective (to build the capacity of local communities and local
governments to promote local economic development) is less clear-cut. This objective relied in particular on
the Local Government and Community Capacity Building component. The main activities carried out in
this component were the regional planning experience led in four Qarks," as well as some training. A
distinction should be made between local govemments and local communities. The achievement with
respect to local governments (particularly the four Qarks included in the regional planning exercise) is
satisfactory, both in terms of formal training and "on the job" capacity building.
The achievement with respect to local communities has been less significant, but has picked up over the last
year as the social experts have improved their performance. In addition, the achievement of this objective
should be evaluated within the broader context of the general development phase of Albania. The
Decentralization Law is rather new in Albania, and, consequently, awareness of the responsibilities that
local governments will bear under the new law remains limited, albeit growing. The empowerment process
of local govemments is on-going and far from being totally accomplished. The Project therefore can also be
said to have satisfactorily achieved the second development objective inasmuch it has contributed to the
general discussion and growing awareness related to the decentralization process.
The overall rating of the outcome of the project is satisfactory.
II
The parliament of Albania passed a new law on Functioning and Organization for Local Governments on July 31, 2000.
According to the new law, "A region [Qark] is an administrative-territorial entity that is comprised of several communes and
municipalities that have geographical, traditional, economic and social ties and joint interests. The boundaries of each region
should comply with the boundaries of communes and municipalities under its jurisdiction. The center of the region is located
in one of the municipalities under its jurisdiction. The territory, name and center of each region is set forth in a law."
12.
Similar considerations can be found in the Transtec report, ibid.
-7-



4.2 Outpits by components:
Component                       Target (Indicator}              Achievement (Output)
1. Infrastructure Works
The financing and implementation of      (a)  number and types of     *     219 infrastructure subprojects
about 280 infrastructure subprojects,         subproject financed,          carried out in 33 distncts (roads
based on the priorities of communities   (b)  number of subprojects         58% of total subprojects, water
targeted according to a transparent          that are operational and       supply 21%, sewer 8%);
methodology-enabling ADF to carry             maintained one and two  *     Analysis of maintenance needs
out an infrastructure works program           years after rehabilitation;   camed out for all ADF activities;
country-wide (36 districts).             (c)  number of               *     25% of total population reached;
beneficiaries/users of  *     over 90% of beneficiaries
improved infrastructure       satisfied.
and their satisfaction
levelF
2. Local Government and Community
Capacity Building                        (d)  increased effectiveness  *    Regional development planning
of local governments,         exercise carried out in four
Training and technical assistance to local    increased capacity of         Qarks;
govemments and communities                    communities.            *     Local communities NA.
3. Project Implementation Support
Opertional costs, training, and technical  (e)  Training and TA for   *     Training and TA was provided;
assistance for the ADF. Monitoring and        ADF staff-              *     MIS was fully working only at
evaluation would be supported by an      (f)  MIS functioning.              the end of the project.
improved management information
system and by beneficiary assessments.
4. Supplemental Credit
Social Services Delivery subprojects, to  (g) number and types of     *     11 subprojects carried out in 10
support vulnerable groups such as             subproject financed.          districts.
children, youth, women, elderly, etc.
Infrastructure Works (included under
point I above).
Fig. 2
By and large, the outcome of all components was satisfactory. However, a number of observations can be
made in reference to each single component. What follows is a more qualitative evaluation of the output by
component.
Infrastructure Works.
(a)       Subproject Quality. As already noticed, roads and water supply sub-projects together constitute
the vast majority (80%) of the works carried out under the CWP. Broadly speaking, the quality of
infrastructure works is good and has significantly improved compared to the previous projects carried out
by ADF, as demonstrated by an independent evaluation of the Infrastructure component carried out in July
2002. The same applies to project design and the management of sub-project files. However, in many
instances it is possible that the sub-projects' benefits are not being optimized. In some cases, this is due to
- 8-



over-design (i.e., a short asphalt road instead of a longer gravel road). In other cases the financial ceilings
imposed by the project do not allow the maximization of the expected benefits (actually the Operational
Manual does allow ADF to request higher ceilings on an exceptional basis, but in the few cases where ADF
made such requests, ADF did not provide the supporting documentation requested by the Bank). These two
factors combined create at times the imnpression that ADF has been more committed to implementing
subprojects than to optimizing their benefits. A more detailed analysis follows in Para. 8, Lessons Learned.
(b)    Subproject Unit Costs. The average subproject cost per capita is reported to be US$ 21. Operating
costs (estimated at 11% at appraisal) have dropped from 9 percent in 1997 to 6.5 percent in 2001. ADF
prides itself with on the relatively low cost of its operations. This feeling is generally shared by all local
stakeholders. However, ADF has never produced typical unit costs for the most frequent of its subprojects.
This was partly due to the incomplete functioning of the MIS throughout most of the project's life.
However, the independent Institutional and Managerial Review, carried out in July 2002, shows some basic
calculations that compare very favorably the average unit costs of ADF works with similar works carried
out by the Ministry of Public Works. With the MIS finally up and running, ADF should be able to develop
a full set of unit costs for future projects.
(c)    Subproject Maintenance. Maintenance is generally difficult in Albania, and therefore it has also
been a challenge for the CWP. According to the Operations Manual, a User Committee shall be established
for each subproject and be in charge of its maintenance, using a maintenance fund of 2% of the total cost.
A maintenance plan should be in place prior to the subproject funding decision, and ADF should
periodically advise the UCs. In reality, the UCs have been generally established but their effectiveness has
been rather limited, as the maintenance fund has rarely been set up. However, this situation is not specific
to ADF since maintenance issues are still a country-wide concern affecting all sectors in Albania. On the
positive side, ADF undertook some significant efforts since 2001, such as carrying out an evaluation of the
present degradation of past subprojects, as well as defining annual needs estimates for the past completed
subprojects. Please refer to the Sustainability section for more details.
Local Government and Community Capacity Building:
ADF action to support and strengthen local governments has been quite effective, but mainly informal
("learning by doing"), on issues such as procurement, bottom-up selection of sub-projects, sub-project
design, etc. The most tangible output of this component, however, was the Regional Development Planning
exercise carried out in four Qarks (Berat, Fier, Korce, and Lezhe). The outcome of the planning exercise
has been very positive, with very favorable comments being expressed by all stakeholders. The exercise has
also had a significant demonstration effect, since under EC funding ADF will continue to work with two of
these Qarks, Berat and Korce, to support the elaboration of full Qark development programs. The Regional
Development Planning exercise, although not entirely satisfactory, had the merit of starting discussions and
training related to the decentralization process in Albania at the regional level, which has barely started.
The Beneficiary Assessment gave a positive evaluation to this component.
Project Implementation Support:
(a)    Staff. ADF staff has generally shown a high level of commitment to the project, and is relatively
stable and capable. However, ADF staff was traditionally composed of engineers only and the addition of
the social experts and the Social Services Delivery Component was a bit problematic at first. In general,
ADF would have benefited from hiring staff, if not with community development skills, at least with good
"people" skills who could have learned community participation techniques. The Social Services Delivery
component was initially treated as peripheral, which probably slowed implementation and initially had an
impact on the quality of associated works. The works subcomponent was also treated in parallel, although
the main difference was that no beneficiary contribution was required. However, aside from that, ADF staff
has proven to be able to deliver an important number of subprojects every year. The Institutional and
Managerial Review and the Procurement Review have highlighted minor glitches that can be improved
-9-



relatively easily.
(b)    MIS. The management information system (MIS) was an on-going problem since project startup.
An international consultant with previous experience in creating MISs for social funds was hired to design
the system, but the results were disappointing. The subsequent intervention of a local expert improved the
situation. However, a working MIS has only been functioning since late 2001- early 2002. Nonetheless, the
MIS has already been fed with all data from the most recent years (i.e., since 1999), while records of older
projects are being slowly introduced. The MIS is now an excellent system that follows very closely the
different steps of sub-projects as per the Operations Manual. However, ADF is only now starting to put the
MIS data to use and could further exploit the system, for instance to produce unit costs (see above),
financial forecasts, technical and operational forecasts, management tools (dashboards), etc.
Social Services Delivery.
As described above, the Social Services Delivery component was added through the Supplemental Credit to
help the Government of Albania face the Kosovo crisis. Most of the twelve subprojects have focused on
young people, one on the elderly. The youth subprojects include out-of-school sports and training in
computing, languages and other cultural activities. The social services part of these subprojects meet
important community needs and are generally well supported by their municipalities. Sustainability seems
in most cases ensured through a mix of municipal financing and nominal user charges. However, the
quality of associated works design, especially for the first social subprojects, has been quite poor. The
overall impression for these subprojects is that planning and supervision of works has been somewhat
weak. This impression, however, should be balanced against the overall very positive results of the
Beneficiary Assessment, that have shown high appreciation for these projects. The appropriateness and the
need for social services has therefore overcome the shortcomings of some subprojects' design faults in
beneficiaries' perceptions. ADF should nonetheless strive to improve the quality of the design of works
associated with social services subprojects' design in future projects, up to the standard of its other
subprojects.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NPV and ERR were not calculated at appraisal.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The main contribution of the Project towards institutional building has been mostly informal ("learning by
doing"). This training action has been mainly effective in procurement, and to a certain extent in project
selection through a bottom-up approach at the commune/municipality level. Training has been less effective
in infrastructure design and in works supervision, and also in infrastructure operation and maintenance.
Most communes still don't have the necessary technical staff and adequate resources to carry out local
infrastructure works and are therefore keen to continue working with ADF, pressing the case for their
communities to be priority areas. There is widespread willingness to collect the contribution required for
new subprojects. The Ministry of Local Government considers that ADF should strengthen its supervision
and training role at the village and commune level.
The impact at the level of local villages, on the contrary, has been rather limited. The limited integration of
the five social experts, as well as the lack of social development training for ADF staff, greatly affected the
capacity of ADF to reach out to local communities and associations at first. Later, however, the
perfomnance of the social experts improved, and, in general, ADF has made considerable progress in
developing an understanding of the importance of community-based approaches, strengthening the role of
- 10 -



the social experts, putting a strong emphasis on O&M and sustainability, understanding the need for M&E,
and developing capacity to carry out social projects and to work with NGOs. This has translated into
improved sustainability of sub-projects.
The Project's impact on ADF itself has been considerable. ADF is a multi-donor executing agency,
receiving funds from the EC, IFAD, IDB, KfW, etc. in addition to the World Bank. E,ach donor-financed
project is run independently, in terns of work program, geographical coverage and financial management.
ADF, however, is trying to harmonize and rationalize these different projects to the extent possible. For
instance, only two sets of operational procedures are used: the CWP manual and the EC/Phare procedure.
The Institutional and Managerial Review has shown that ADF uses the CWP manual to the extent possible
for all projects, including bottom-up identification modalities for PHARE projects. In the follow-on project,
it is expected that some Technical Assistance will still be needed, but not on a continuous basis.
The overall Institutional Development Impact is rated substantial.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencl':
The main external factor affecting the implementation of the Project was, as seen, the Kosovo crisis. The
large influx of Kosovars in 1999 strained Albania's meager resources. To help the Government of Albania
face this crisis, a US$5 million Supplemental Credit to the CWP was agreed by the Board. The
Supplemental Credit added a new activity to the Project, the Social Services Delivery Component.
Consequently, ADF had to embark into a new line of activities - social services -- different from the
traditional focus on public works. The achievements of this component are described above.
Another partly exogenous factor affecting the Project was the significant delay in receiving the Italian
co-financing. The Italian Government provided ITL 4 billion (now approximately US$ 1.8 million) as
co-financing for the CWP, to be administered by the World Bank. These funds were received by the World
Bank only in mid September 2001. However, the Italian co-financing was later blocked for another few
months by a delay by the Finance Ministry in countersigning the required Grant Agreement. The Italian
co-financing became effective in January 2002.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
As described above, the Grant Agreement for the Italian co-financing encountered some delays in receiving
the appropriate signature and was finally signed by the Albanian authorities on January 14, 2002.
Disbursement and implementation have subsequently proceeded very rapidly.
Another factor subject to government control was the Value Added Taxes payment. The counterpart funds
provided for VAT payments have been at times insufficient to cover VAT payments and occasionally the
VAT account has been empty. However, the Government of Albania has finally covered all arrears under
this Project.
The main factor affecting the Project was however the decision of the Prime Minister to accelerate
disbursement in light of the upcoming elections. As a consequence, the original credit was fully disbursed a
year sooner than envisaged.
5.3 Factors generallv subject to in2plemnenting agency control:
Accelerating disbursement has raised a number of concerns, such as issues of cash flow problems, and
probably weakened ADF's ability to adequately control implementation quality. This may well have
contributed to the initially poor quality of works associated with social services subprojects. This could



also have negatively affected competition among bidders, who were probably overcommitted at times. By
accelerating disbursements ADF is now out of sync with its donors' project cycles. Virtually all new donor
funding, including the new World Bank project, is expected to be effective only in the middle of next year,
and, consequently ADF could be forced to temporarily lay out some staff. On the positive side, ADF has
demonstrated its ability to carry out an important number of subprojects per year, in the range of US$
15-20 million annually - albeit compromising at times quality and participation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original project cost was US$ 17.4 million. The total increased due to the US$ 5 million Supplemental
Credit. The depreciation of the SDRIUS$ exchange rate over the life of the project caused a loss of about
US$ 600,000. The Italian co-financing totaled US$1.8 million (as opposed to the expected US$2.4 million,
mainly due to the depreciation of the Italian currency). Other co-financing in the amount of US$3.4 million
expected in the PAD from other donors was not provided (KfW and the Islamic Development Bank
provided parallel financing, but no direct co-financing). Government funding to the CWP totaled US$2.5
million. There were only minor reallocations among categories, and the actual total costs of the project
were very close to those estimated at appraisal. The Government of Albania was at times slow to reimburse
VAT, causing some cash flow difficulties. Also the accelerated disbursement strategy implemented by
ADF contributed to severe cash flow difficulties.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The viability of the public infrastructure works has improved over the life of the project as a result of better
design, better quality of construction material, and overall improved ADF management and supervision
skills. Local govermnents and communities have been sensitized about the importance of maintenance, and
the on-going decentralization process will in time provide financial resources at the local level to duly
maintain the assets that the Project provided. ADF carried out in 2001 an evaluation of the degradation of
all past subprojects, and is currently estimating annual maintenance needs. Generally speaking, ADF has
lately shown a much deeper understanding of the importance of maintenance, for instance enforcing the
provision of not implementing other projects in communes where there has not been adequate maintenance
of former projects. Sustainability of the public infrastructure works is therefore rated as likely.
The social services subprojects, after a slow start, appear to have been quite successful in the last phases of
the Project. Most subprojects have focused on youth, one on the elderly. The design and the quality of the
works of some subprojects have not always been totally satisfactory, but the latest subprojects have shown
signs of improvement. ADF's social experts have also been increasingly integrated within ADF. In most
communes there is a significant level of collaboration between the municipality, the implementing NGO and
users' associations. Projects are generally well attended and sustainability is secured through a mix of
municipal support and user charges, and is therefore rated as likely.
The local government and community capacity building has mainly consisted of the regional development
planning exercise carried out in four Qarks. The EC will continue to support the full development of two
Qarks' regional plans. Local governments are also being empowered by the decentralization process.
Sustainability is rated as likely.
The overall sustainability is rated as likely, particularly since the Bank is supporting a follow-on project,
designed on the basis of the lessons leamed from this Project.
- 12 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
ADF is likely to continue to function through funding from different donors, including the World Bank. A
follow-on project is currently being discussed with the Govemnment of Albania, which will also take into
account the recommendations of the Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy.
The CWP has produced an increased level of stakeholder participation, and future operations should
further elaborate participation mechanisms. The now fully functioning MIS will allow for better monitoring
and evaluation of future operations. Discussions with the other major donors (notably the EC) are currently
being held to harmonize procedures, particularly with respect to procurement and auditing. This should
allow for a better and consistent overview of all ADF activities in the future.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Project was identified, appraised and negotiated in a short time. Bank's performance is rated
satisfactory.
7.2 Sutpervision:
The Bank Team has insisted on high quality supervision efforts and on building a strong rapport with ADF.
Emphasis has been on working constructively to address areas of concern. Many specialists have been
brought in to support supervision and implementation (such as the consolidated audit and the Institutional
and Managerial Review). A significant number of assessments and studies have been carried out to monitor
progress and indicate areas that needed particular attention. Bank supervision is rated satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance can be considered satisfactory. The CWP has benefited from the presence
of highly motivated and qualified staff. The change in management during project implementation did not
affect regular operations. The new management immediately established a solid and trusting relationship
with borrower and the implementing agency.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Both ADF team and the Government of Albania participated very actively in the preparation of the CWP
and their performance is rated satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The direct role of the govermment during implementation was limited to counterpart funding and value
added tax refunds. Albeit with some delays, particularly for tax refunds, the government complied with
both requirements. Some political interference has been reported from time to time, but to a lesser extent
than during previous projects. The Government has also used ADF to implement subprojects with Albanian
funds, and has provided funds to local governments to support CWP subprojects. The Government is very
keen on launching the follow-on project. Performance is rated as satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
ADF has fostered an effective partnership among donors, local governments, and the private sector for the
provision of small-scale urban and rural infrastructure. ADF has earned a generally solid and positive
reputation among the government of Albania and the donors. As can be seen from the stakeholders
- 13 -



assessment, ADF has also established a strong reputation with local governments. Overall, ADF
performance is rated satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borr ower performance:
Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The CWP can be considered a successful project. The main reasons for its success have been:
*   Strong country ownership, both at the government and the implementing agency level. The
government considers CWP and similar projects as the only way to provide urgently needed small
infrastructure works in both rural and urban areas of the country.
*   The professional and personal commitment of both Bank and ADF staff. Most ADF staff have
accumulated many years of experience with previous projects, and show a keen attitude interest in
avoiding past mistakes and improving ADF performance. ADF staff takes pride in the
achievements of their institution and shows a solid "esprit de group". On the Bank side, the change
of task management during the project cycle has been quite smooth, and an excellent collaboration
was promptly established between the new Bank management and ADF.
*   Similarly, the donor commnunity at large has come to appreciate ADF's role and is keen to continue
supporting its activities in future operations.
Despite a clearly successful picture, some difficulties have been highlighted and should be addressed in
follow-on projects.
Infrastructure works:
Rural roads, water supply and sewerage sub-projects have created noticeable benefits. However, in many
cases, sub-projects cannot serve the whole community due to over-design (e.g., an asphalt road that does
not reach the target community) or because this would result in exceeding the permitted financial lirnits
(e.g., the repair of the main water supply pipe but not of the secondary pipes and consequently no
additional water brought into the houses of beneficiaries).
Both issues could be resolved by carrying out a cost-benefit analysis for each sub-project and by formally
requesting to exceed the ceiling. Alternatively, the financial limits of the sub-projects could be revised.
There is the possibility though that this would simply move the issue to a higher ceiling. Another possibility
would be to leave financial limits as they currently are, but sub-projects could be smaller in scope. The EU
- the other major ADF donor - has already increased the financial limits of the sub-projects of the
follow-on project. A "division of labor" between donors could be envisaged, leaving to EU-funded
sub-projects larger infrastructure works while channeling IDA funds into smaller sub-projects. Another
possibility would be to put more effort into seeking complementary financing, for instance from
beneficiaries, the Qarks or the Government of Albania, so that the benefits of the IDA investment could be
fully realized. Finally, the possibility to broaden and diversify the range of eligible infrastructure works
should be considered. All of these possibilities should be carefully evaluated in the follow-on project.
- 14 -



Local government and community capacity building:
ADF has proven to be better able to deal with local governments rather than local communities. Although
significant progress in this respect has been made over the last two years - as the social experts have
improved their performance - there is still a disconnect between the ADF Charter" and reality on the
ground. While ADF should be encouraged to continue working with local communities, the Institutional
and Managerial Review suggests revising ADF's Charter to clarify that ADF is an executing agency
primarily at the service of communal and municipal authorities. This would also be more in tune with the
on-going decentralization process. Given the current empowerment process of local governments, it would
not be advisable to focus exclusively on community involvement, removing local governments from the
process. On the contrary, ADF could help facilitate the dialogue between local communities and local
government, fostering community participation. This was already supposed to happen under CWP;
additional progress should be made under the follow-on project.
A much stronger poverty targeting, both geographically and by typology of infrastructure, should be sought
in the follow-on project. The current criteria "one commune, one project" could no longer be justified in
light of the GPRS process and a better poverty impact analysis of individual sub-projects should be carried
out.
Social services delivery:
The experience of ADF with Social Services Delivery has been mixed and generally there is room for
improvement. Physical works were initially rather poor. Although they have improved lately, they still
show shortcomings as detected during recent supervision missions. Social services though have encountered
in most cases a very positive response from beneficiaries. This shows that there is a widespread need for
this kind of services - the question rather being whether ADF is well placed to provide them.
The recent "Institutional and Managerial Review" suggests that ADF should probably drop the Social
Services and concentrate first on excellence in infrastructure projects. ADF could even become an
implementing agent or subcontractor agent for the infrastructure component of other projects, including
social programs. However, the CWP has demonstrated that the sustainability of social subprojects depends
on a careful assessment of community needs and involvement, and that when the scope of such projects is
in line with community needs, sustainability is likely. Moreover, the Social Services Component has helped
ADF in reaching out to local communities. These considerations should therefore be pondered before
eliminating the Social Service Delivery component from the follow-on project.
Governance:
There is broad consensus about the need to reform the AD)F's Board - less so on howt to go about it. The
ADF Board is currently dominated by the presence of national Ministries (nine) and there is an overall
perception that political pressure is at times very strong, and rumors of corrupt practices are also frequent.
Indeed ADF staff itself has complained about political pressure and collusion among bidders.
Nonetheless, the Bank team as well as the numerous audiits have never found substantiated evidence of
corrupt practices on the part of ADF staff (as opposed to among bidders).
13.
art. 4: "ADF is an executing agency at the service of communities and local associations."
- 15 -



In any event, ADF should be better protected from political pressures, and there is a need to bring the
Board closer to the local level. In fact, while a ministerial level Board ensures high visibility, it also
represents an unnecessary burden. The current Board is not in line with the on-going decentralization
process and room needs to be made for representatives of communes/municipalities and the twelve Qarks,
as well as for local communities. One possible option for the follow-on project would be to create a second,
more "technical" Board or committee. Such technical body could ensure that the Operational Manual and
relative norms are adequately followed, while reflecting national norms and standards. The "political"
Board, whose composition should be changed as discussed, should also expand its current responsibilities,
for instance making sure that ADF follows some important Government programs such as the GPRS,
decentralization and anticorruption. An in-depth discussion with the other ADF donors and with the
Government of Albania on the reform of the Board is currently taking place in view of the follow-on
project.
Donor coordination:
As seen, ADF is a multi-donor implementing agency and one of its biggest challenges is to coordinate all
the different donors' activities. Conflicting procedures (particularly with respect to contracting and
procurement) have caused confusion among ADF staff, bidders and beneficiaries. Additionally, ADF has
been burdened by a large number of audits, which have been highly disruptive of regular operations. Since
2001 this situation has partly improved, as it was agreed to carry out one consolidated financial audit of
ADF each year. As Albania moves from emergency to development, donor coordination is increasingly
crucial. Efforts to strengthen donor coordination, particularly between the Bank and the EU, are already
under way and should continue in the follow-on project. Ideally these should include both procurement and
contracting issues.
Project management:
Both the Institutional and Managerial Review and the Consolidated Audit have highlighted some
managerial and organizational glitches, but also improvement from the earlier stages of the Project. For
instance, the long standing issue of the non-functioning MIS was finatly resolved in late 2001- early 2002,
when a working system was finally established. Also, an Intemal Audit Department has been recently
established under the dependency of the Executive Director. This Unit is currently operating as a
monitoring unit (checking files, trouble shooting problematic subprojects, etc.). It would be advisable that
this Unit would gradually become a technical and financial audit unit, staffed with at least a trained auditor.
Such a Unit should then report to the (revised) Board.
Issues that still need to be tackled include:
*   Updating the Terms of Reference and Job description of ADF staff, particularly of the Social
Inspectors;
*   Devising a training program for ADF and local govemment staff;
*   Formalizing the yearly staff evaluation process and revising the salary structure;
*   Producing unit costs for the most frequent types of infrastructure projects, as well as clear
overhead and operating costs;
*   Upgrading the accounting software system.
- 16 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borroiwer/implementing agency:
This ICR was prepared with substantial assistance of the ADF, which provided data and worked closely
with IDA's ICR mission. Representatives of the borrower and the implementing agency participated in the
ICR stakeholders workshop held in Tirana on May 25th, 2002. The Borrower's Report on the project
(April 2002), prepared by ADF, is attached in Annex 7.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Representatives of the EU and of the Italian Government have expressed their overall satisfaction with the
achievements of the Project and with donor coordination under the Project. A representative of the Italian
Government participated in the final supervision of the Supplemental Credit sub-projects as well as in the
stakeholder workshop. The Project's evaluation by the Italian Government is attached in Annex 7.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 17 -



i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l
1.rj
..   . .  . ..I..                                          .



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
ih-ii   dica~~~~~t r1a4tirx, =L @p-.       xitd_asPR,;
:xDIf   ,k:t6M IC-.    -     !&  ;     ~      !   i~            -j.-        A aI1Laesit-EstImai,it2---:,
No. of subprojects in operation and %
satisfatorily maintained one year after
rehabirtation:                        950
IDA                                    150.                                  52
Others                                 60                                    1 0
Totals                                210                                    62
No. of beneficlanes/users of improved  -
infrasatructure:                                                             807,062
IDA                                   1,052,000                              133,138
Others                                                                       940,200
Totals
Output Indicators:
.,St-                ,.,j> - ..                                                 v   .:.-..- '-  , .. ;. -  - !. .- 
Indicatpulflatrlx                                          -          - i  : ;- 1 2 5ProJectdInlast   R-  ActuaUlLatest Esdimate
No. subprojects completed:
IDA                                   160                                    174
Others                                 130                                   31
Totals                                290                                    174
Amount of local financing raised      $1.4 million                           $1.47 million
Training expenditures                 $151,000                               $111,800
Training cost per participant         $25
End of project
-19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
*11- .  ~           -                        pp-sl      7At sIJts      Pe~etg of
Project CpstBy0pmpi. ie giit-<$ 1i,illionr n     ti? i'.6 ua   t  -ge o
1. Infrastructure Works                              18.47          15.10          81.75
2. Local Government & Community Building              0.22           0.11             50
3. Implementation Support                            2.10            1.56          74.29
4. Supplemental Credit/Social Service                 0.97           0.65             67
Total Baseline Cost                                 21.76           17.42
Price Contingencies                                 0.63                    ___o________lli
Total Project Costs             22.39           17.42 
Total Financing Required              22.39          17.42
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
; - ; ndit'u ; .          .....    ... . ProcUieifi-eit'Method.' . . - .  -
zEDiriltureCategory     -;-ICB                    -                          Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00         0.00         18.50         0.00         18.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (18.50)        (0.00)      (18.50)
2. Goods                      0.12         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.12
(0.12)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.12)
3. Services                   0.57         0.00          2.50         0.00         3.07
(0.57)       (0.00)        (2.50)        (0.00)       (3.07)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.63         0.00         0.63
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.63)        (0.00)       (0.63)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      0.69          0.00         21.63         0.00        22.32
(0.69)       (0.00)       (21.63)        (0.00)      (22.32)
-20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActualJLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.-        :    s   _,           .    ~               L         1
.E*piFdiWture Citeg                           N~~ IB .j 
~~ ~~~~~:NCBW            o't*.                    ~    To~Cs
1. Works                        0.00          0.00          15.10         0.00         15.10
(0.00)        (0.00)        (15.10)       (0.00)       (15.10)
2. Goods                        0.12          0.00          0.04          0.00         0.16
(0.12)        (0.00)        (0.04)        (0.00)        (0.16)
3. Services                     0.57          0.00          0.80          0.00          1.37
(0.57)        (0.00)        (0.80)        (0.00)        (1.37)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        0.69          0.00          15.94         0.00         16.63
(0.69)        (0.00)        (15.94)       (0.00)       (16.63)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
vJ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
s - ;                  1   e   ~  * - -; <1 , -^Wrei  o -      s-iii
Cbm* .ponent  ;a |E tmaw.3.                                                   , "        '
Infrastructure Works    11.00      1.10     6.88      10.50     2.50      2. 16   95.5   227.3  31.4
Local Government &       0.22     0.00      0.00      0.11      0.00      0.00    50.0   0.0    0.0
Community Capacity
Building
Implementation Support   1.93     0.00      0.38      1.45      0.08      0.03    75.1   0.0    7.9
Social Service           0.97     0.00      0.00      0.65      0.00      0.00    67.0    0.0   0.0
Supplemental Credit
-21-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic and financial rates of return to the project were not calculated. Unit costs for the small-scale
infrastructure works were calculated by ADF and by the Institutional and Managerial Review, and they
compare favorably with those of similar works carried out by other agencies. Operating costs have also
declined from previous projects (from 9% in 1997 to 6.5% in 2001).
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty        Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count          Specialty                   Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
04/20/1998                2   TTL (1); MICROCREDIT
SPECIALIST (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/13/1993                4   TTL (I); MICROCREDIT
SPECIALIST (1);
COOPE.RATIVE BANK
SPECIALIST (1); PROJECT
OFFICER (1)
11/05/1998                2   TTI (1), MICROCREDIT
SPECIALIST (1)
Supervision
08/29/1999                 1  CIVIL ENGINEER (1)               S           S
11/05/1999                5   NEW TTL (I);                    S            S
PARTICIPATION (1);
PREVIOUS TTL (I); RES.
MISSION SUPPORT (1);
SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT (I)
03/31/1999                 7  TTL (1); PARTICIPATION (1);      S           S
PROJECT OFFICER (1); FIELD
OFFICE SUPPORT (1); SOCIAL
FUNDS (1); PROCUREMENT
(1); ENGINEER (1)
06/18/2000                 2  TTL (1); PROJECT OFFICER         S           S
(1)
10/24/2000                3   TTL (1); SOCIAL SCIENTIST       S            S
(1); PROJECT OFFICER (1)
11/20/2001                2   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S            S
PROJECT OFFICER (1)
03/24/2002                 3  SOC. DEV. OP. SPEC. (1);         S           S
TASK MANAGER (I);
PROJECT OFFICER (1)
05/31/2002                 5  TASK MANAGER (1); SOC.           S           S
DEV. OP. SP. (1); SR.
PROCUREMENT SP. (1); OP.
OFFICER (I); CIVIL
ENGINEER (1)
ICR
11/05/2002                1    OPERATIONS                      S           S
SPEClILIST (1)
-23 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  I                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                        182.6 15
Appraisal/Negotiation
Supervision                                                       443.448
ICR
Total                                                             626.063
-24-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H (D SU O M   O N   * NA
Z Sector Policies                     O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
LI Physical                           OH    OSUOM     ON    ONA
LI Financial                          OH    OSUOM     ON    *NA
O Institutional Development           O H O SU O M 0 N      0 NA
OI Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N         O NA
Social
M Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM O N       O NA
O Gender                        OH OSUOM ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)        O H   OSUOM     O N   O NA
LI Private sector development         0 H 0 SU 0 M 0 N      0 NA
LI Public sector management           0 H O SU O M 0 N      0 NA
G Other (Please specify)              0 H C) SU 0 M 0 N     0 NA
-25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
L Lending                                          OHS*S        OU     OHU
[ Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU     O HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
O Preparation                                      OHS OS       OU     O HU
I Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
OI Implementation agency performance               OHS OS       0 u    O HU
OI Overall                                         OHS OS       O U    O HU
-26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Institutional and Managerial Review, Transtec Consulting, September 2002
An Evaluation of the Infrastructure Component, Community Works Project, Paul Dean, June 2002
Beneficiary Assessment, Community Works Project, May 2002
Beneficiary Workshop, Community Works Project, May 2002
Procurement Post Review Supervision Mission Report, Naushad Khan, June 2002
Consolidated Audit Report, Deloitte & Touche, June 2002
Back-to-Office Report, Implementation Completion Report and Supervision Mission, Community Works
Project, July 2002
-27 -



Annex 7 b
Co-Financier Contribution
The Italian co-financing to the CWP has been of 1,8 million USD equivalent (4 billion Liras in 2001). The
grant has been partly allocated to the provision of support in sub-projects design (4%) and in financing of
operating costs (5%), but mainly to the implementation of civil works (91%). 24 sub-projects were carried
out in 14 districts of the country, principally roads and water supply.
According to WB evaluation the sub-projects identification has been in line with communities demand and
the quality of design and construction is satisfactory. It seems that the quality of infrastructure works has
significantly improved when compared to the previous projects implemented by ADF. As stated by WB,
the overall outcome of the project is satisfactory; this is mainly referred to the achievement of the first
objective. Considering all the project components, WB rates the overall sustainability of the initiative as
likely. Sustainability is also helped through the commitment of several donors, including Italy, for a second
phase of the project.
The relations with the implementing agency, ADF, and with WB have been of plain collaboration and
transparency. The Italian Cooperation has been constantly updated about the progress undertaken by the
project, receiving the periodic Aide-Memoires and the Mid-term review documents and participating to
periodic meeting with ADF and WB representatives.
- 28 -



Annex 7 c
Borrower's Contribution
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
ALBANIAN DEVELOP'MENT FUND
Evaluation Report
Community Works Project (CWP)
Borrower's Contribution
_                  I~~~~~~
April 1, 2002
-29 -



CONTENT                                                             Page
1. Introduction
1.1. Necessity of this report                                                                                        2
1.2. Report intentions                                                                                               2
1.3. Context of the Project's beginning                                                                              2
2. Project description
2.1 Project objectives                                                                                               2
2.2. Project components                                                                                              3
2.3. Main project indicators                                                                                         3
3. Physical realizations
3.1. Physical realizations carried out                                                                               3
3.2. Engagement by type of subproject                                                                                3
Annex I
4. Works quality is always improving                                                                                 4
5. Maintenance, measures for the improvement                                                                         4
6. Intervention areas and distribution of the investments                                                            5
Annex 2,3
7. Investments: by districts, number of subprojects and average cost                                                 5
Annex 4
8. Benefits                                                                                                          5
9. Cost/unit
9.1. Increasing cost                                                                                                 6
Annex 5
10. Development of Local Government Capacides                                                                        6
11. Social programs                                                                                                  7
12. Financing of the Project                                                                                         8
13. Financing of the Investments
13.1. Ratio allocated/disbursed to investments until March 2002, basing in agreement with donors and possible        9
forecast
14. Conclusion of the Project, according the phases                                                                  9
14.1. Advantages and Comments                                                                                        10
14.2. Disadvantages & comments                                                                                      I1
15. Adf Perspective And Its PossIbilities                                                                            13
- 30 -



Evaluation Report
Community Works Project (CWP)
Borrower's Contribution
(April 2002)
1. Introduction
1.1. Necessity of this report
This report in the form of "Borrower's Contribution" is included to Implementation Completion Report
(ICR), prepared by World Bank at the end of Project.
Borrower's report is one of the Project final evaluation elements together with:
* Institutional review and ADF management,
* Beneficiaries assessment, and
* Seminar that presents beneficiaries assessment with the aim of discussing results in the help of new
Project prospective.
1.2. Report intentions
*  Evaluation of Project objectives; aim, implementation and operational experience;
*  Evaluation of activities performed by ADF itself during project progress and implementation, paying
attention to the experience gained, which will be useful for the future, and
* Evaluation of activities performed by financier, World Bank and other co-financiers during project
progress and implementation including efficiency of relations between them, paying also attention to
gained experience.
1.3. Context of the Project's beginning
In 1998, World Bank and Government of Albania began negotiations for the implementation of new
development project later on called "Community Works Project". Project implementation was based on
following main arguments and was addressed to Albanian Development Fund:
1. Difficult economic situation after crises of 1997. To respond to this situation World Bank prepared its
Program for post crises recovery.
2. Preparation of Public Investments Program by Albanian Government for infrastructure intervention
and its interest to make it operational.
3. ADF is known as an efficient institution of development in small local infrastructure rehabilitation.
International institutions have evaluated ADF as successful, independent from Government.
4. Necessity of previous Projects continuance, financed by World Bank and considered as successful.
Result: Community Works Program with a financing of US$ 17.4 million has become effective on April
1999. During 1999, World Bank increases its financing with also US$ 5 million to face difficult situation
created in Albania as a result of Kosovo crisis.
2. Project description
2.1 Project objectives
Objectives defined at the very beginning of Community Works Project are as follows:
1. To alleviate infrastructure problems by rehabilitating small social economic infrastructure according to
priorities of local government and communities development.
2. To build local governments and communities capacities and to promote local economic development.
- 31 -



2.2. Project Main Components
To support above-mentioned objectives, project has to finance the following components:
a) Small rural and urban infrastructure works at about 211 subprojects distributed at almost all country
districts. 181 of these subprojects belong to Community Works Project and 30 others belong to
Supplementary Credit.
b) Establishment of local government and their communities through organizing local and national
seminars and carrying out specific activities helpful for capacity building of government and local
communities.
2.3. Main project indicators
a) Number and type of financed projects
b) Number of beneficiaries and their satisfaction level
c) Number of projects completed and maintained one or two years after their completion
d) Increase of effectiveness of local government and communities
3. Physical realizations
3.1. Physical realizations carried out from CWP
At the end of March 2002, ADF started works in 219 infrastructure subprojects to implement Community
Works Project. Amount committed was about 2,75 milliard lek or US$ 19,2 million USD (exchange rate;
1 USD =143 lek). Roads and water supplies respectively 58% and 21% dominate total of 219 subprojects.
Compared with mid-term evaluation period, it is noticed that percentage taken by roads is increased from
55%to58%.
Engaged
Type                                   Quantity
Nr.
Unity                Volume
Rural    urban    Total             Rural     urban      total
-       Road    93       35      128      km       310        28.6      338.6
Water supply            40       5       45      km        174       11.3      185.3
Sewer                   6        8       14      km        12.5       8.2       20.7
School&sporting field   6        5       11       m2       3175      6495       9670
Bridge                  I        -        I       ml        8          -         8
Footbridge              4        1       5       ml        194        80        274
Market                  -       4        4       m2         -        4420      4420
Social Buiding          -        4       4       m2         -        1741       1741
H. Center               2        -        2       m2       311         -        311
Kindergarten            -        3       3        m2        -        1072       1072
Flood protection        I                 I       ml       500         -        500
Others                           I        I
ITotal                I      I ]        219   1 _ _  _   1 _ _ _ _1I
Number of beneficiaries ofthese realizations, is about 922.600 persons. Average cost/inhabitant is 2.981 lek or about US$ 21.
3.2. Engagement by type of subproject,
Is presented in detail in Annex 1.
4. Works quality is always improving
This issue is continuously dwelled on to the projects realized by Fund and improvements are noticed step
-32-



by step. Compared with prior completed projects, works quality is considerably improved. This is based on
continual improvement of procedures followed up by Fund and concretely in:
a) identification bottom-up; great interest is shown to complete the selection priority with high quality;
b) high quality of designs and a better supervision by local government. It was based on a better payment
of designing and supervision process. This will make possible to offer more skillfil and experienced
c) increase of technical and professional level of contractors
d) better following up of works and having few cases of redone processes
e) better quality of constructing materials
f) increase of technical responsibility of contractors as a result of a greater competition among them.
g) a greater competition between contractors.
Although as said above, actually, it is noticed that ADF specialists do not know well new technologies
implemented in infrastructure construction processes, which have an important role to the works quality.
This situation needs to a continual training concerning these one, for the ADF's specialists.
5. Maintenance, measures for the improvement
ADF considers maintenance as very important and its motto is "to build is good but to maintain is better".
As a result of communist regime for 45 years and the psychology of abandoning of everything collective we
faced a negative experience to collective ownership. Meanwhile, local governments have not yet developed
capacities necessary to increase incomes with which they will assure resources needed for maintenance.
Given these reasons, ADF considers maintenance as very important to subproject sustainability.
Creation of maintenance funds and user committees have been declared since the beginning, but their
functioning remains still a serious problem. Local governments are not much responsible to maintenance.
Local governments with few funds from local budget have very often charged their specialized structures to
subproject maintenance. But this does not make a final solution for maintenance problems because of the
lack of funds and not clearly addressed to subproject maintenance. Anyhow, considering that maintenance
problem is closely connected with real Albanian society mentality, it should be solved in a broader
framework that is national framework.
Here we have in mind implementation and implementation impacts of the local government autonomy and
decentralization law, which will make possible the increase of responsibility, capacities and sources of their
incomes in the function of well administration of local properties.
Organization of Fund structures is new aspect and important for maintenance improvement.
During 2001, it was realized for the first time the study for the evaluation of physical situation of all ADF
subprojects accomplished at the moment of study. The interview was carried out in field by social and
technical inspectors, having a important role in training of the local government concerning the estimation
of the budget to maintenance funds. This study has achieved:
*  To analyze the real situation of about 800 infrastructure subprojects rehabilitated in years by ADF.
*  To define that level of investment degradation during 8 years was about 7% of the total investment,
* To define that real needs for rehabilitation of degraded subprojects is about US$ 3 million.
* To sensitize local governments that fund necessary for maintenance should be assured and administered
by them themselves.
* To define a new role of ADF to local governments which means: ADF will follow-up the realization of
its investment maintenance at local governments and will finance only if maintenance is made by local
govenmuents
This information was sent to Central Government, Ministry of Local Government and local government
- 33 -



units where these investments has been carried out.
6. Intervention areas and distribution of the investments
Project activities are extended to 33 country districts in about 140 communes and 40 municipalities.
Strategy of subprojects delivery- one subproject to each local government unit considering the following of
ADF criteria- has been in conformity with subprojects delivery foreseen at the beginning of project. Thus,
real ratio of subprojects delivery between rural and urban areas is respectively 70 and 30%, and the ratio
foreseen by the project has been 72% and 28%.
All information is exposed in Annex 2 and Annex 3.
Cost per beneflciary is increasing from one project to the other, as follows:
Urban Works Project during 1994-1999; 7.2 USD/beneficiary
Rural Development Project 1995-1999; 14,2 US$/beneficiary
Community Works Project, Mid-Term review 1999-2002; 20 US$/beneficiary
Community Works Project, March 2002; 21US$/beneficiary
7. Investments: by districts, number of subprojects and average cost
This information is shown in table of the Annex 4.
8. Benefits
To notice the efficiency of funds used for investment, it was used a simple analytical method.
In general the project has given its quick and evident results in project area.
There are in total 33 districts that have benefited by project or 92% of country districts, which indicates a
large and important extension. Total beneficiary population is about 922.600 or about 25.6% of all country
population.
Immediate and direct benefits  Benefits in a lonzer period
1. Infrastructure  * total work days created: 982.000  * establishing of local
works             * or 2000 work days, every day  governments in
during all two years period; 2000-  - project evaluation,
2. Local          2001                          - tender procedures,
government        * direct beneficiary: 922.600  - managing and maintenance,
establishment     * 33 beneficiary districts    and
- their preparation to play their
future role in local development
* 219 subprojects under       * improving of conditions for a
implementation intending to   free and quick transfer of people
roads, water supply, sewerage,  and goods, improving of
schools etc..                 standard of living and
development of economic
activities
* working out of works methods  * social infrastructure
and program in infrastructure  improvement
* elaboration of the methods for  * increasing local capacity
regional development program   during the decentralization and
autonomy process
* assistance to private sector
-34 -



9. Costlunit
9.1. Increasing cost
Judging on the progress of cost per unit, is based not only to the cost of Community Works Project but also
to the previous ones such as Rural Development Project (1995-1999) and Urban Works Project
(1994-1999).
It is clear that this increase to all types of implemented subprojects, as also indicated to the table below, is
as a result of additional requests for subproject completion. These additional requests have made subproject
more functional. Increase of asphalt road numbers, which link urban areas with their suburb, is very
important to this aspect.
Anyway, we argue the considerable changes to cost/unit with the following;
a) complex works in present investment, particularly in urban areas,
b) improving of used materials and increasing of the requirements towards them
c) use of new technologies and improvement of works quality.
These factors are in favor of the sustainability of subprojects, and reduction of the expensive to the
maintenance.
We should notice that costs/unit of ADF subprojects are distinguished for lower levels compared with costs
applied by other similar institutions operating in Albania.
Cost/unit under subprojects types is exposed in Annex 5.
10. Development of Local Government Capacities
The component of local government capacity increase is developed close by infrastructure component. It
was realized through collaboration and joint activities with local governments and local communities. This
component is developed in two directions;
1. Realization of the training to the local government representatives, among the workshops.
2. Realization of the Regional Development Study
1. Based on this component and in collaboration with Ministry of Local Government, it was prepared and
accomplished a collaborating and training program for 12 Qarks. The Program was carried out as in the
beginning of the Project and during the development of this one. So, there were orgaiized workshops two
time, in all Qarks of the country. ADF specialists made known and explained basic operational and
financial procedures of ADF investing activity in relation with Local Governments as its main partners.
Investments' maintenance and sustainability issues were carefully addressed in these training. Regarding to
these workshops are spent about 21.000 USD, or 20 USD per beneficiaries.
Results of this collaboration between ADF and local government units are clearly seen to;
First - Preparation of periodical reports for investment progress to prefectures considering local
government suggestions for the identification of priority subprojects, and in some cases there were made
respective corrections.
Secondly - Participation of prefectures' representatives as observers in the process of works tendering
which increases procedures' transparency.
Third - Highest level of collaboration with users committee, which are now conscious of their role and
responsibility to conmmunity and investment made.
2. Regional Development Study. Study to plan regional development and its follow-up is a new activity for
ADF, and it is being carried out under the real needs to integrate regional developments with national ones.
At the same time, this study was carried out as a prospective of ADF activities on the framework of new
- 35 -



policies of local government towards autonomy and decentralization of government.
Main objectives of this activity are as follows:
- Training of local capacities to prepare a real Regional Development Program.
- Coordination of regional development plans with policies of national development.
-  Knowledge of the legal and institutional framework, having to improve in order to ensure the whole
carrying out of the Regional Development Program.
During its first phase, this program was realized in four pilot regions: Fier, Lezha, Korca, and Berat
serving as the first experience for further extension of it in two regions. It is prepared the methodology and
main Manual of this activity. It is gathered all necessary data and it is created a useful experience in this
direction. It is an investment of about US$ 90.000 and the study was carried out with the assistance of
Cooperation and Development Institute financed by World Bank. It is foreseen European Community will
finance its second phase.
A whole report is prepared by the consultant in the end of the study.
11. Social programs
Were realized for the first time, alongside infrastructure investments and their aim was:
* To support with investments and social programs for the vulnerable groups as: children and youth,
women, elder people etc, 10 districts in Albania
* The fulfillment of the gaps that exist at the social services of the public administration or of the NGOs
* To realize a better collaboration between the local authorities and NGOs and to sensitize the authorities
about the social problems
The objective of this component during the period 2001-2002, was the execution of 10-12 social projects at
local communities, preliminary selected. The fulfillment of this objective is at the final phase, and is
achieved upon completion of all relevant procedures, following the necessary phases.
The Services implemented are mainly for the children and youth, for the elder people in Durres and the
cleaning of Shengjin beach.
The achievements until the end of March 2002 are:
* 4 successfully closed projects, creating definitely an valid experience about the respective procedures
for the social component.
* Other 7 projects are during implementation
*   II Contract-Programs are signed with the municipalities and 8 contracts with the implementing NGOs
Main indicators are as follows:
-  There are nearly 70 services offered to the community and 12000 is the number of the direct
beneficiaries
-  Investments of these projects considering the three components: services, goods and rehabilitation, are
about 839.400 USD.
-  Are done interventions in 10 districts, in different areas of Albania.
The most successful projects are "Cleaning of rehabilitation of green areas in Shengjin beach"", with an
investment of 36000 USD were the number of beneficiaries is approximately 10.000 inhabitants, "Day
center for the elder people" in Durres, where the number of the beneficiaries is 100-120 elder people daily
- 36-



and "Center for information, training and cultural activities" in Shkoder with 950 young people as direct
beneficiaries.
Conclusion:
-    Short-term impact is very positive, this one expressed from the beneficiaries and local authorities
opinion.
-   Collaboration between NGOs, communities and local authorities has been satisfactory and this
guarantees the sustainability of the projects. According to the sustainability, in February 2002 was
organized a seminar for the sustainability of the social projects with the implementing NGOs. The
results of this seminar are estimated pleasing.
12. Financing of the Project
Investments, number of subprojects and average cost by donors
Financuesit          Investimet e angazhuara      Numuri I    Kosto Mesatare e Nenprojekteve
/Donors               Engaged investmnents     nenprojekteve
Number of   Average Cost of
subprojects  Subprojects (Lek)  _
(Lek)        In % of the                      LEK               USD
final total                                   (lusd-143 lek)
Ida 31640                1.768.887.007      64.5          144           12.283.937         85.902
Ida 31641                480.474.812        17.5           32           15.014.837         104.999
IdatWorld Bank           2.249361.819      82%            176           12.780.464         89.374
Albanian Government      231.875.551       8.4%            21           11.041.692         77.215
Italian Government       235.520.288       8.5%            18           13.084.460         91.500
French Financing          33.822.274       1.2%            4            8.455.568          59.130
Total                    2.750.579.932     100%           219           12.559.725         87.830
Based on data base, total of IDA-s 31640 subprojects is 145. Urban footbridge in Berat was rehabilitated througb two different
contracts, so the same subproject was considered as two different projects.
13. Financing of the investments
13.1. Ratio allocated/disbursed to investments until March 2002, basing in agreement with donors
and possible forecast
million USD)
Ida 31640     Ida 31641       Albanian       Italian Government  French Financing
l____________                 Government
Alokuar/ allocated         6,3            4,05       -    1,1              1,7               0,24
Disbursuar/disbursed        7,54           3,3            2,6*              0,34              0,24
Alokuar / Disbursuar        120%           82%            236%              20%               1000/o
allocated / disbursed                                    I              I                   I                 I
' There are expended about US$ 1,6 milUon for the payments of different Installments for the subprojects with IDA financing,
and about other one milUon for subprojects Implemented with GOA flnancing.
- 37 -



14. Conclusion of the Project, according the phases
Advantages                 Disadvantages
Phases                    . . . . . .
1. Before carrying out
of works
1.1. Subprojects      -  Bottom-up national identification  -  yet, beneficiaries
identification           of 4000 subprojects under local    have not a good
communities needs, simple and     information on
reliable information also for the  project (regarding
future,                           financier, cost,
-  it is used a new strategy regarding  implementing agency
investment distribution according  etc.)
to that planned: "one subproject to  -  beneficiary
every local government unit"      contribution is under
-  a large beneficiary participation to  foreseen levels of
project development,              5%,
-  high level of priority         -   in some cases there
-  increase of local government       are faced political
capacities                    I   interventions
-  transparent procedures
1.2 their technical   -  qualitative studies and in continual -  some contradictory
study                     improving,                        cases, between
-  proper standards,                  available budget and
-  well evaluated and controlled cost,  required quality of
with small and reasonable         projects,
differences,                   -  having not duly
-  increase of capacity in designing  information on new
offices,                          technologies used in
-  qualified technical assistance    infrastructure
construction sector
1.3. tender and signing -  proper procedures            -   Higher rhythms than
of contracts          -  effective tenders                  foreseen;
-   increase of quality
risks
2. Phase during works
2.1. performing of    -  physical realizations; 219     -   completion of
works                     subprojects from 211 planned,     contract in time
-  competitive cost,              -   partial control of
-  following of bill of quantities at  works,
acceptable levels,             -  in some cases not
-  continual increasing quality       documented controls,
-  financial lacks in
certain periods
3. Phase after works
3.1. Subproject       -  establishing of local government in -  maintenance fund, its
maintenance/             continuity of ADF activity,        functioning,
sustainability        -  carrying out of studies based on  -  functioning of users
measures taken for investment     committees,
sustainability.                -  physical maintenance
I   of subprojects,
-38 -



14.1. Advantages and Comments
Judging on a more general viewpoint, we should like to underline that one of main imnportant advantages of
ADF activity is the experience gained during 9 years in addressing numerous problems of small social
economic infrastructure and results relating with them.
Anyway, advantages/disadvantages mentioned above need to be commented according to development level
of its activity:
* At subproject identification level; it was made for the first time the identification of priorities
throughout country. This activity has carried out:
a) Identification of about 4000 small social economic infrastructure subprojects in all country
b) Identification of each priority subproject of this infrastructure for each Albanian village
c) Increase of collaboration with Ministry of Local Government with other institutions engaged in
small social economic infrastructure investment
d) Identification of priorities in investments for about 10 years period.
Under these conditions, when ADF manage to realize in investment USD 15-20 million in a year and until
now there are realized identified investments of 2 years, we have in front of us a number of investments
identified for more than 10 years.
*  Subprojects technical studies, advantages are noticed in;
a)  increasing quality of subprojects technical studies. In this aspect, an indisputable importance had
also the increase of payment for project preparation from 1 to 2%.
b)  specification and application of standards adjusted under types of subprojects under Albanian
context
c)  good estimation of works cost for both quantity and unit prices.
d)  qualified technical assistance, which has a good information on Albanian environment and is very
effective to its activity.
*  At tenders level; there are prepared, executed and followed:
a) simple procedures
b) quick procedures
c) adjusted procedures
d) reliable procedures
These procedures are acceptable to local govemrnents and have resulted to a real competition having also
competitive prices.
* Level of works completed; the most important advantage consist in;
a) Capacity to start and really implement infrastructure works. Year 2000 was considered as the most
intensive year in ADF activity. During this year there were prepared and contracted about 280
infrastructure subprojects. ADF capacity is based on maximum possible capacity, which is about
250-300 subprojects; prepared and contracted.
b) following of bill of quantities at an acceptable and reasonable level
c) increase of control on works quality, coordination of this control with local government structures,
supervision and users committee as beneficiary representatives having an increasing works quality.
* Level of investment sustainability; the most important advantage is in the fact that:
a) during project implementation, ADF began to clearly play the informative, advisory role to local
governments. This role will be strengthened also in the future in implementation of new World
Bank, European Community and other financiers possible programs.
- 39 -



b) There were carried out specific studies; " Studies on maintenance" as previously described. It was
provided a very useful information for local governments relating with measures taken for planning
and increasing of performed investments sustainability
c) actually, ADF has a clear position regarding local governments and their responsibility for
investment maintenance.
14.2. Disadvantages & comments
Analysis of project activity makes known that disadvantages are related with:
1.     Insufficient information on Project and ADF
2.     Higher rhythms than planned
3.     level of works quality, partial control
4.     maintenance
5.     Non- functioning of MIS
6.     lack of local governments capacities
1.     Insufficient information of beneficiaries on Project and ADF
Beneficiary local communities have not a good information on Project and ADF. This is especially noticed
to some elements of Projects as ; Subproject value, financier, executive, deadlines, etc.. . Consequently,
their interest and participation to the project is smaller.
This is also noticed to the considerations of beneficiaries for ADF. They consider it as a government
organization, and this has a special influence to the level of beneficiary and local goverrments' contribution
compared with cases when they work with an independent or autonomous organization.
2.     Higher rhythms than planned
Regarding performing of investment, now it is known that Project duration is about 2 years from 4 planned.
So we have to do with unforeseen investment rhythms. This fact has its negative aspects as follows:
* very quick expenses of financial resources and difficulties in certain periods for subprojects payments;
year 2000 was an overloaded year, while 2001 and 2002 are facing previous year consequences.,
* in the any moments, difficulties in works follow-up and following of technical parameters as a result of
lack of a such experience.
But from the other side, there is also a positive indicator; ADF capacities are relatively great and ready to
face important financing of US$ 15-20 million /vear.
3.     Level of works quality; partial control
Works quality has been always in progress, but we will have more improvements through a more careful
supervision of works. Continual supervision of works should be made by local government supervisor and
not only by ADF specialist. Relating with this problem we should pay attention to:
a) Following of works plan; implementation of foreseen elements,
b) Quality of materials and works in conformity with technical specifications
c) Supervision should be effective and strict as until now,
d) Introducing of new techniques and technologies in carrying out different processes and making them
known to ADF specialists.
e) Detailed explanation of subprojects technical specifications
f) Paying the same attention to both works performance deadlines and works quality,
4. Maintenance
Maintenance is a real challenge for ADF activity. ADF has paid special attention to maintenance;
-40 -



- ADF has insisted to the effective creation of maintenance fund as an element, which will help to the
solution of maintenance problem for social infrastructure of local units that are in a poor economic
situation.
-   ADF has regularly addressed maintenance problems by discussing and explaining them to communities
and local governments before signing the contract. Relating with some profitable subprojects,
communes and municipalities may entrust managing and maintenance to a private entrepreneur by
defining obligations and rent tariffs
- It has trained local officials on maintenance problems by explaining in details types of necessary
interventions under type of project.
Results of the interview made with local government representatives will be part of this report, and will
reflect the opinion of these representatives on maintenance.
5. Non-functioning of MIS
It is a lack in framework of project activities. Consequences are noticed to the inability to manage quick
and precisely numerous ADF technical, social economic and financial information's, and to the lack of
information and actions coordination and exchange between different ADF levels.
6. Lack of local governments' capacities
It is noticed in two important aspects:
a) lack of financial resources bearing also difficulties in realizing the contribution and especially in
generating specific financial resources for the maintenance of investment after its completion.
b) Lack of human capacities and structures for well administration of resources and local properties from
general viewpoint.
Functioning of local governments' autonomy and decentralization process will be the most efficient
mechanism to this situation.
15. ADF PERSPECTIVE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES
ADF perspective for a mid and long term period is expressed through role it should play with its
partners; local communities.
ADF, for about 9 years, has financed small local infrastructure selected by communes
/municipalities according to their priorities.
So, ADF has carried out three functions at the same time:
- Technical function of project implementation
-   Investment financier function for local governments.
- Training function and supporting the local government to the decentralization and the local
autonomy.
It is clear that role of financier has made ADF effective and original by establishing direct
financing relations between local government and financiers for local investments needs.
-41 -



Market economy with its mechanisms will enable Local government to be financially
independent. So very soon, at the time they will have a greater financial independence than now
regarding investment planning and their maintenance, local infrastructure will be fully under their
dependence.
For this reason, ADF may be a preferential institution of financing to local communities with its
resources coming from foreign financiers, Govemment and loc4l Government and later from
financial market. So, ADF from an institution established to reduce poverty in rural and urban
areas will become an institution which first objective will be social economic development of
country.
Experience gained, concrete achievements in all areas and trust relation system it has developed
with local communities are indicators for a good perspective of ADF.
-42 -



Additional Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
A Beneficiary Assessment was carried out in the months of April and May 2002 over a sample of 42
subprojects (about 20 percent of the total). Interviews and focus groups were held with (ifferent
stakeholders (local authorities; direct beneficiaries; contractors; designers; etc.) to assess their level of
satisfaction with the project Roads represented 50 percent of the surveyed subprojects (out of 58 percent of total
CWP subprojects); water supply systems 16.6 percent of the sample (20.5 percent of total); sewerage 7.2 percent of
the sample (16.6 percent of total); schools 9.5 percent of the sample (9.5 percent of the total); social services 7.2
percent of the sample (4.2 percent of the total); others 9.5 percent of the sample (5.5 percent of the total)..
Generally speaking, the satisfaction level of beneficiaries was very high. Ninety four percent of elected
officials and 91 percent of the beneficiaries confirmed that selected subprojects were a priority for their
communities. The quality of works was deemed very good by 32 percent of the interviewees, good by 55
percent, acceptable by 9 percent and bad by only 3 percent. Seventy six percent of beneficiaries said they
were informed about the project. However, maintenance was reported to be problematic, with 42 percent
of beneficiaries saying that there was no maintenance at all. The main reasons for lack of maintenance
were lack of funds (37 percent), lack of institutions (30 percent), and "not necessary" (10 percent).
The assessment of the Capacity Building component was less satisfactory, but still positive. The concept
of regions (Qarks) is new in Albania, and the main achievement of this component was to familiarize a
number of beneficiaries with this concept. During the first phase, a methodology to create regional plans
was developed by the local consultant in four Qarks and, therefore, it should now be possible to apply this
methodology to the remaining Qarks. However, due to the novelty of this experience, the concrete results
of the first phase are difficult to evaluate at present.
In the sample of three Social Services subprojects, beneficiaries were children and youth in two cases and
the elderly in one. The main results of this component were to address a pressing need for social
infrastructure and to establish links and collaboration among NGOs, local communities, and local
authorities. The main problem is considered to be sustainability, especially in those cases where local
authorities are not willing or not in a position to assume financial responsibilities.
-43 -



