Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3164 ALB
Project Agreement
(Community Works Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ALBANIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
Dated February 1, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3164 ALB
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 1, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and ALBANIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND (ADF).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Albania (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million 
five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,500,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
ADF agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
ADF, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to ADF on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS ADF, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ADF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and technical practices, and 
shall provide, or  cause  \0cto be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and ADF shall otherwise agree, ADF shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, ADF shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between ADF and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
ADF on said plan.
Section 2.04. ADF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. ADF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ADF shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) ADF shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
ADF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ADF of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ADF
Section 3.01. ADF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental and technical practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ADF shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound technical and financial practices.
Page  3
Section 3.03. ADF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. ADF shall employ an executive director and staff with skills, 
qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ADF shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
ADF shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (i) above  for such year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by \0csaid auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof, 
and concerning such auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ADF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify ADF of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
Page  4
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For ADF:
Albanian Development Fund
Rruga Durresit
Instituti i Tokave
Tirana, Albania
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ADF, or by ADF 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Executive Director of ADF or such other person or persons as the 
Executive Director of ADF shall designate in writing, and ADF shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Hartmann
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
ALBANIAN DEVELOPMENT FUND
By /s/ P. Majko
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section 
I.
Page  5
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,027,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract awarded under Part B.2 and B.3 of this Schedule 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the following procedures shall 
apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultant by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
Page  6
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
3.
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services 
for project management, finance, and local government component assistance shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and 
cost-based selection of consultants.
Part B:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Consultants’ services for beneficiary assessments; training for local 
governments and communities in environmental issues, formation of user committees, and 
subproject maintenance; and training abroad in engineering techniques, estimated to 
cost less than $244,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultants’ Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for Project account audits estimated to cost less than $49,000 
equivalent in the aggregate shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for engineering design and supervision of civil works and for 
management information system assistance estimated to cost less than $295,000 
equivalent in the aggregate shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 and 5.3 of the 
Consultants’ Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any request for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to  \0cthe Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
Page  7
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
1.
Under Part A of the Project, ADF shall:
(a)
make available to the Beneficiaries grants referred to in the Regulations 
and Operational Guidelines under agreements to be entered into between ADF and each 
Beneficiary, under the terms and conditions referred to in the Regulations and 
Operational Guidelines and which shall have been approved by the Association; and
(b)
exercise its rights under such agreements in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Association and ADF and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Project, and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of such agreements, or any 
provisions thereof.
2.
ADF shall:
(a)
coordinate and monitor the overall execution of the Project and supervise 
the carrying out by the Beneficiaries of their obligations pursuant to their 
respective agreements in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association;
(b)
not later than November 30 of each year, prepare and furnish to the 
Association for review and comment, work plans and budgets for activities under each 
Part of the Project for the next calendar year, which would include, among other 
things, specific proposals for the use of Borrower's contribution; and
(c)
by April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31 of each year, prepare and 
furnish to the Association for review a report, of such scope and detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress of and the execution of the 
Project.
3.
ADF shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 31, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of \0cthe monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
