Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3164-1 ALB
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Community Works Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  July 19, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3164-1 ALB
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
Page  2
AGREEMENT, dated July 19, 1999 between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development Credit 
Agreement (Community Works Project) dated February 1, 1999 (the Development Credit Agreement), 
for the purpose of providing support during the execution of the Community Works Project, as described 
in Recital (A) of the Development Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further additional assistance in the 
support of the Project by increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit Agreement 
by an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,700,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to provide such 
additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01.  Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by deleting the 
“and” at the end of Subsection (f), substituting “; and” for “.” at the end of Subsection (g) and adding a 
new Subsection (h) as follows:
“(k) “Amending Agreement” means the agreement amending the Development Credit Agreement 
(Community Works Project) between the Borrower and the Association, dated February 1, 
1999”.
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to ten million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,200,000) (the 
Credit), which includes: (a) an original amount in various currencies equivalent to six million 
five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,500,000) (the Initial Financing); and (b) 
an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to  three million seven hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,700,000) (the Additional Financing).”
Section 1.03. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) (i) of the Development Credit 
Agreement reading as follows:
“; provided however that the commitment charge on the Additional Financing shall accrue from a 
date sixty (60) days after the date of this Amending Agreement.”
Page  3
Section 1.04. Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement is hereby revised as indicated in 
the Annex to the Agreement.
Section 1.05.  A sentence is added at the end of the description of Part B of Schedule 2 of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
  “Provision of services for social and community support”.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to 
the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of this 
Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary 
governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of this Amending 
Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the 
Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this 
Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, 
the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03.  This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by 
Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04.  If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and effect by a date 
ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all 
obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the 
purposes of this Section.  If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this 
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending 
Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Tirana, 
Albania, as of the day and year first above written.
   ALBANIA
   By /s/ Pandeli Majoko
Page  4
Authorized 
Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
   By /s/ J. D. Wolfensohn
Authorized 
Representative
ANNEX TO  
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures 
for items so to be financed in each Category:
Category
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
SDR Equivalent
)
       % of
 Expenditures
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works under Part 
A of the
Project
6,840,000
90%
(2)
Consultants’ services, 
studies and training 
under Parts B and C of 
the Project
   920,000
100%
(3)
Technical social 
services under Part B of 
the Project
           700,000
100%
(4)
Goods under Parts and 
C of the Project
          450,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% 
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 
85% of local 
expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally
Page  5
(5)
Incremental 
operating costs
          620,000
100%
(6)
Unallocated
670,000
TOTAL
10,200,000
========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” mean expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that 
of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means operation and maintenance costs which 
would not have been incurred absent the Project and includes, inter alia, costs with respect to: (i) 
maintenance and operation of equipment procured or used under the Project; (ii) salaries paid to ADF 
staff, other than civil servants’ salaries, hired for purposes of the Project; and (iii) consumable office 
supplied.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect 
of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) expenditures under 
Category (1) for Part A of the Project, unless such expenditures have been made in accordance with the 
procedures and on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
and (c) expenditures under Category (3) for Part B of the Project, unless such expenditures have been 
made in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (i) works not exceeding $150,000 
equivalent; (ii) goods not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (iii) consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent for individuals consultants not exceeding $30,000 equivalent; and (iv) technical social 
services, studies, training and incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
