Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13172
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
FOURTH POWER PROJECT (LOAN 2455-TUN)
JUNE 17, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Maghreb Department
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oMcial duties. Its contents may not othervise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY
Currency Unit                           -    Tunisian Dinar  (TD)
Tunisian Millimes (1,000)               -    TD 1.000
US $ 1.01 (1993)                        -    TD 1.000
US $ 1.00 (1993)                        -    TD 0.990
US $ 1.49 (1984)                        -    TD 1.000
US $ 1.00 (1984)                        -    TD 0.670
MEASURES
1 kilowatt (kW)                         -    1,000 watts
1 Megawatt (MW)                         -    1,000 kilowatts
1 Megavolt-ampere                       -    1,000 kilovolt-amperes
1 kilowatt-hour                         -    1,000 watt-hours
1 Gigawatt-hour                         -    1 million kilowatt-hours
1 kilovolt                              -    1,000 volts
1 kcal. (kilo-calorie)                  -    3.97 BTU (British Thermal Unit)
A~BBREVIATONS
ICB     -     International Competitive Bidding
HV      -     High Voltage level (225, 150 and 90 kilovolts)
LCB     -     Local Competitive Bidding
LRMC    -     Long Run Marginal Cost
LV      -     Low Voltage level (380, 220 and 110 volts)
MV      -    Medium Voltage level (30, 15 and 10 kilovolts)
STEG    -     Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricite et du Gaz
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 17, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject: Project Completion Report on Tunisia
Fourth Power Project (Loan 2455-TUN)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Tunisia - Fourth Power
Project (Loan-2455-TUN)", prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Region.
Part II is provided by the Borrower.
The project's main objectives were: (i) to improve operational
efficiency by reducing system losses in the urban network; (ii) extend electricity
service in rural and urban areas; (iii) bring energy prices (electricity, gas and
petroleum) in line with economic costs; and (iv) enhance the staff capability of
the power utility (STEG) through a comprehensive training program.
Project scope was substantially reduced and implementation delayed
when the Government of Tunisia reduced STEG's overall investment program in line
with an austerity program instituted the year following Board approval. However,
due to substantial cost savings, the original targets eventually came close to
being met.   The training program was not carried out because the Government
decided STEG should not borrow from international institutions to send staff for
training abroad.
During the period of project implementation, the Government failed to
implement its commitment to allow electricity tariffs and petroleum prices to
increase to economic levels. Subsequent to project implementation, prices were
increased. Sector policy objectives were therefore achieved, but with substantial
delays.
Accordingly, the outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory, its
sustainability as likely and its institutional impact as negligible.
The Project Completion Report is thorough and informative, but the
economic analysis, which follows that in the SAR, has a number of methodological
errors.
No audit is planned at this time.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH POWER PROJECT - LOAN 2455-TUN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  . . . . . . . . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PART I.  MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS   ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     ..  1
1.  Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
2.   Background   .1.......           ..    ..    ..   ..   ..   ..       ...   ..       . .
Bank lending to STEG   .1....  .             .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .   . .
Access to electricity services   .1...  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Organization   .......  .               ..  ..  .    ..  ..  ..  .     ..  ..      .   2
3.   Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Objectives     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    2
Description ............                     ....      ....      .....             .   2
4.  Project Preparation,  Appraisal and Effectiveness   . . . . . . . .  2
5.   Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Economic framework   ............                      .....        ....           .   3
Changes in project scope   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Changes in project cost and financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Actual project cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Facilities constructed under the project   . . . . . . . . . . .  5
6.   Project Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
7.   Disbursements  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
8.   Procurement  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   6
9.   Operating Performance  ....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
10.   Training Program   ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd.)
11. Financial Performance ...................                      . 7
Financial  framework.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 7
STEG   finances.     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
Auditing.. .................. 8
Performance Contract  ....................  8
12. Economic Evaluation .9
13. Compliance with Loan Conditions               .9
14. Performance of STEG, the Government and the Bank . . . . . . . . . 9
15. Project Sustainability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
16.   Conclusions.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
17.  Lessons  Learned.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
PART II.  COMMENTS OF THE EXECUTING AGENCY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
PART III. STATISTICAL TABLES                                              14
Table  1:  Related Bank loans                                        14
Table  2:  Project Timetable                                         15
Table  3:  Project Costs                                             16
Table 4:  Project Implementation                                     17
Table  5:  Cumulative Loan Disbursements                             18
Table  6: Major Performance Indicators                               19
Table  7: Main Financial Indicators                                  20
Table  8: Assumptions for Economic Evaluation                        21
Table  9:  Economic Rate of Return                                   22
Table 10:  Status of Covenants                                       23
Table 11:  Use of Bank Resources                                     28
Table 12:  Bank Field Missions                                       29



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SOCIETE TUNISIENE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ - STEG
FOURTH POWER PROJECT - LOAN 2455 - TUN
PREFACE
This fourth Power Project (Loan 2455-TUN) was approved on June 27, 1984.
The Borrower was Societe Tunisiene de l'Electricite et du Gaz (STEG), the
public sector corporation which is solely responsible for electricity
generation, transmission and distribution as well as for gas transmission and
commercialization. The Guarantor of the loan was the Government of Tunisia.
The loan supported STEG's distribution and rural electrification
programs, which included the installation of equipment and execution of works
necessary to expand and upgrade STEG's urban and rural networks. In addition,
it continued to support the efforts started in previous loans in rationalizing
energy prices. The original scope of the project was modified with the
agreement of the Bank. The volume of works completed under the project was
larger than anticipated, while the unit costs were lower than expected. The
actual total cost remained in line with the original estimate. The loan was
closed on December 31, 1990, two years later than originally scheduled. US$
21.5 million of the original loan amount of US$ 38.7 million were disbursed,
the balance was cancelled on August 1986 because of the Government decision to
scaled-down public expenditures during 1985 and 1986.
The Industry and Energy Operations Division, Country Department I, of
the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office prepared Parts I and III of
this PCR as well as the Preface and the Evaluation Summary. A draft of this
report (Parts I and III) was sent to the Borrower, and its comments were
incorporated as Part II of the PCR.
The preparation of Parts I and III is based on: (i) project reports
prepared by STEG; (ii) loan documents, supervision reports and correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; and (iii) interviews and discussions with
Bank and Borrower staff.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SOCIETE TUNISIENE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ - STEG
FOURTH POWER PROJECT - LOAN 2455 - TUN
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.          In 1982, about 55% of Tunisia's population lived in urban areas
and their access to electricity service was about 94%. However, only 60% of
the country's total population had access to electricity, mainly due to the
low level of rural electrification. Access of rural areas to electricity was
only 37% for rural agglomerations and 16% for the dispersed rural population.
Part of the National Economic and Social Development Plan for 1982-86 was to
expand electricity services to the population in urban and rural
agglomerations and to encourage the establishment of agro-industries and
small-scale industries in rural areas in order to improve their living
conditions and stem the tide of migration from rural to urban areas. To assist
the Government in addressing the aforementioned needs, the Bank loan supported
STEG's 1985-1987 time-slice distribution and rural electrification programs by
financing the foreign cost of its investments in rural and urban distribution.
Obi ectives
2.          The objectives of the Fourth Power Project were to: (i) assist
STEG in extending electricity service to new urban and rural consumers at
least cost; (ii) reduce system losses in the urban networks and improve system
operational efficiency; (iii) enhance STEG's staff capacity through a
comprehensive training program; and (iv) align both, electricity tariff levels
with LRMC costs, and petroleum prices with those at the international market.
To achieve these objectives, the project provided three components: (a) Rural
Electrification to assist in the electrification of rural areas through the
connection of about 35,000 new domestic consumers, the addition of 1500 water
pumping stations and the connection of 50 small industrial/commercial
customers; (b) Rehabilitation of STEG's urban networks to revamp distribution
systems in some 60 cities and to improve the quality of service to about
130,000 of its existing customers; and (c) Technical Assistance to fund the
purchase of modern maintenance equipment and tools and to support STEG's staff
training program. On electricity and petroleum prices, the Guarantee and Loan
agreements included adequate contractual clauses reflecting the Government's
commitments.
,Implementation ExRerience and Results
3.         Because of the Government's need to curtail public expenditures
during 1985 and 1986, both the scope of the project and its cost estimate were
revised and reduced in agreement with the Bank. Actual expenditures under the



- iii -
revised project amounted to US$ 56.4 million, slightly higher than the revised
cost estimate of US$ 54.9 million (at the time of appraisal the original cost
was estimated at US$ 83 million), however the project unit costs were lower
than anticipated. As a result, the amount of works completed under the project
was substantially larger than the revised physical targets. The reduced
project unit costs and the larger amount of facilities constructed under the
project were derived mainly from the beneficial impact of the international
competitive bidding (ICB) process undertaken by STEG and from the selective
(economic optimization) process utilized in the selection of the villages
which benefited from the program. The Goverrunent instructed STEG to cancel the
proposed training program (consisting mainly of specialized training
activities abroad) agreed under the project because of its opposition to fund
overseas staff training with multi-lateral funding while STEG's training
center at Khledia was operational.
4.        Implementation of one of the main project objectives, which was to
address critical energy pricing policies and to gradually eliminate subsidies
by both increasing periodically domestic selling prices of petroleum products
and adjusting electricity tariffs, was postponed by the Government during the
period of project execution. Prevailing electricity rates were not sufficient
to cover the full financial costs of STEG's power activities. As a result,
STEG's revenues were below expectation and the covenants with the Bank on
agreed rate of return as well as on debt-service coverage were not met during
the period 1985-1989, despite the efforts made by STEG's management to revamp
operational efficiency and reduce operational expenses. This situation was
reverted starting 1990, when the GOT implemented periodic tariff adjustments
and STEG financial performance has improved since then (para. 6).
5.        The time required to modify the project and legal documents due to
the reduction of the project scope, the non-compliance by STEG with a
financial covenant (rate-of-return) under the previous loan (Third Power
project), and some procurement problems during project implementation (public
bid-opening) affected the timely implementation of the project. The loan
became effective 16 months after signing date and the project implementation
was two years behind schedule. In August 1986, the Borrower requested
cancellation of US$ 17 million due to the project scope down-scaling and an
additional US$ 177,600 was further cancelled due to misprocurement. The loan
was closed on December 31, 1990, and only US$ 21.5 million of the original
loan amount of US$ 38.7 million were disbursed, the last disbursement
occurring on January 31, 1991.
Project Sustainability
6.        STEG has become a well organized institution and it has sound
project implementation capabilities in the areas of power generation,
transmission and distribution. Its planning and construction methodologies are
based on accepted standards and practices and the technical and economic
viability of its projects are in line with least cost principles. Concerning
the optimization of its urban and rural distribution operations (loss
reduction and load management), STEG now routinely revamps and reinforces its
distribution networks, since the benefits derived from the project
(substantial reduction of distribution losses and enhanced efficiency) have



- iv -
conclusively proven to be cost-effective. Furthermore, despite the lack of
adequate tariff increases during 1985-1989 and the initial delays incurred in
project implementation, the physical targets accomplished by STEG under the
project were remarkable. STEG's financial performance since 1990 has been
quite satisfactory. In fact, its actual financial performance indicators are
above the levels of those agreed and covenanted under the existing Gas
Development project- loan 3418-TUN, as the GOT's record in maintaining
electricity prices in line with LRMC during the last years has been
satisfactory.
Lessons Learned
7.         The lessons to be learned from the problems encountered during the
implementation of the project are the following: (i) the Bank should not rush
to approve new operations until compliance with commitments under previous
loans are not fully respected. In this particular case, the non-compliance by
the Government/ STEG with financial covenants (tariffs, rate of return) under
the Third Power project (at the time under implementation), delayed loan
effectiveness. This date was postponed by 13 months, which adversely affected
the timely implementation and completion of the project; (ii) the Bank should
be more forceful on enforcing the Government commitments in critical areas
such as timely increases of tariffs. In this respect, the Bank could have used
the appropriate remedies provided in the legal agreements with the Government
and STEG; (iii) the original project design should have provided for a
separation of the electricity and gas accounts in order to separately monitor
the financial aspects of STEG's in its power and gas operations. This probably
would have helped to focus attention much earlier on the financial problems of
the electricity side; and (iv) as part of the appraisal process and before
establishing and agreeing on institutional objectives (in particular pricing
policies), the Bank should make a comprehensive risk analysis and assessment
of the Government's commitments to the project and its conditionalities.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SOCIETE TUNISIENE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ - STEG
FOURTH POWER PROJECT - LOAN 2455 - TUN
PART I: MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS
1. Prolect Identity
Name                Fourth Power Project
Loan Number         2455 - TUN
Borrower         : STEG
Amount              US$ 38.7
Disbursed           US$ 21.5
Cancelled           US$ 17.2
Date of Approval:  June 27, 1984
RVP Unit         : MNlIE
Country          : Tunisia
Sector           : Electric Power
2. Background
2.01 Bank lending to STEG. Since 1971, the Bank has supported the
Government's efforts to expand domestic energy production and exploit energy
resources efficiently through a series of loans to STEG totalling US$ 174.2
million (Table 1). Four loans were made to help expand the power sub-sector.
These loans financed thermal generation, transmission and distribution
systems' expansion, and a rural electrification program: (i) the First Power
project in 1972 for US$ 12 million (loan 815-TUN); (ii) the Second Power
project in 1976 for US$ 14.5 million (loan 1355-TUN); (iii) the Third Power
project in 1981 for US$ 41.5 million, of which US$ 5.4 were cancelled (loan
2003-TUN); and (iv) the Fourth Power project. In the gas sub-sector, two Bank
loans supported the construction of two main gas pipelines: (a) El Borma -
Gabes in 1971 for US$ 7.5 million (loan 724-TUN); and (b) Gas Development
(Gabes - M'saken) in 1991 for US$ 60 million (loan 3418-TUN).
2.02 Access to electricity services. At the end of 1982, about 55% of
Tunisia's population lived in urban areas and their access to public
electricity services was about 94%. However, only 60% of the country's total
population had access to electricity, because the low level of rural
electrification. Access of rural areas to electricity was only 37% for rural
agglomerations and 16% of the dispersed rural populations. Despite this
relatively low level of electrification, STEG, since its incorporation in 1962
has rapidly expanded its services through- out the country and during the
period 1962-1982, its installed generating capacity had expanded six-fold from
116 MW to 900 MW, electricity generation increased ten- fold, from 288 GWh to
3,125 GWh. At the same time STEG's customer base nearly quadrupled, from
200,000 to 758,000. This impressive expansion was not free of drawbacks, since
the quality of power supply was poor and the level of system losses was high.



2.03 By 1985, the country's level of electrification was further increased
because of the Government's main policy objective to curb rural migration to
urban centers and to improve employment opportunities and standard of living,
all in the rural areas. As a result, the level of overall electrification in
1985 reached 65 %, while access of urban population to electricity services
reached 98 % and 50 Z in rural areas. Simultaneously, STEG continued to
implement its program aimed at revamping distribution network operating
efficiency, while successfully reducing system losses from 18% to 14%.
2.04  Organization.  STEG is a public enterprise incorporated in 1962, which
undertook the operation of seven private utilities upon their nationalization
and integrated them into a consolidated national power system. STEG is
responsible for the production, transmission and distribution of electricity
through-out the country. It is also responsible for the collection, transport
and commercialization of gas. The above tasks are being accomplished through
the implementation of comprehensive and systematic managerial, planning and
operating practices.
3. Project Obiectives and Description
3.01 Objectives. The project was a continuation of Bank assistance under the
Third Power Project (loan 2003-TUN). It aimed at: (i) expanding STEG's
electricity services to urban and rural populations at least cost during the
period 1985-1987; (ii) reducing system losses in the urban networks; (iii)
improving planning and operating efficiency of the national integrated system;
and (iv) enhancing STEG's staff capability through a comprehensive training
program. In addition, the project continued to support the efforts started in
previous loans in rationalizing energy prices which included the alignment of
both, electricity tariff levels with LRMC costs, and domestic petroleum prices
with international prices.
3.02 Description. The project consisted originally of three main components:
(i) the Rural Electrification which would affect 15 Governorates by extending
electricity services to rural areas by connecting about 35,000 new domestic
consumers, about 1500 water pumping schemes and about 50 small industrial/
commercial customers, through the supply, installation and construction of
about 1,400 km. of medium voltage (MV) distribution lines, 1,600 km. of low
voltage (LV) lines and distribution transformers with an aggregate capacity of
25 MVA.; (ii) the Urban Distribution Network Rehabilitation, which included
the rehabilitation of STEG's urban network in some 60 cities benefiting about
130,000 existing customers, through the supply, installation and construction
of about 1,100 km. of medium voltage (MV) distribution lines, 1,000 km. of low
voltage (LV) lines and 400 distribution transformers with an aggregate
capacity of 40 MVA.; and (iii) Technical Assistance, which included the
purchase of modern maintenance equipment and tools, as well as a comprehensive
training program for STEG's staff.
4. Proiect Preparation. ARRraisal and Effectiveness
4.01 Given the pressing and urgent needs to rehabilitate STEG's distribution
facilities and to expand its services to rural areas, the project preparation
started in early 1983 (Table 2) following the same methodology of the Third



-3-
Power project for assessing rural electrification demand and determining the
system expansion requirements. STEG's 1985-1987 investment program for
distribution and rural electrification was determined based on optimization
studies regarding medium (MV) and low (LV) voltage network requirements and on
the data collected through the survey of about 2,000 villages. As a result, a
program address to extend electricity services to about 650 villages and to
rehabilitate the distribution systems in 60 cities, was formulated and
endorsed by the Bank. Appropriate arrangements were made by STEG by which its
district offices would carry- out the engineering work and by which both STEG
and local contractors would install and construct the facilities defined
within the system expansion and rehabilitation program.
4.02 The project was appraised during June 1983 and negotiations were held
in March 1984. In view of the issues which emerged during the implementation
of the previous loan (Third Power project) and of those raised during the
preparation/ appraisal of the project, agreement was reached during
negotiations on the following main subjects:
(a) Tariff increases and other financial measures: the Government/ STEG
will undertake appropriate actions to earn an annual rate of
return of not less than 5% in 1985 and 1986, 7% in 1987, and 8%
thereafter. Furthermore, commitment was undertaken by STEG to maintain
a debt coverage ratio of at least 1.5;
(b) Petroleum prices: the Government will raise domestic petroleum
prices so to attain international price levels by 12/31/86;
(c) Audit Reports: STEG will timely (not later than 6 months after
the end of each fiscal year) submit such reports; and
(d) Rural Electrification program: STEG will submit its annual
program and financial plan for Bank review.
4.03 The loan was signed on August 28, 1984. Despite the absence of
conditions for loan effectiveness, the loan was declared effective on October
31, 1985 or 16 months after its approval (and four postponements of the date
of effectiveness) because of the lack of compliance with financial covenants
(tariffs, rate of return) under the Third Power project, which at that time
was under implementation.
5.  Project Implementation
5.01 Economic framework. During the mid-1980's, the slowdown of the Tunisian
economy resulted in an austerity program designed to curb public investment in
the electric power sector as well as other sectors. This program was
implemented mostly during 1985 and 1986. The austerity measures adversely
affected the implementation of STEG's original investment program, as the
program was trimmed and accordingly adjusted to reflect the Government's
budget cuts. This led to the reduction of the scope of the Fourth Power
project and to delays in project implementation.



- 4 -
5.02 Changes in project scope. As a result of the reductions imposed by the
Government upon STEG's overall investment program, the original scope of the
project was revised accordingly. The modified project scope was endorsed by
the Bank on August 8, 1986 and the loan agreement was accordingly amended. The
revised project included the following components:
(i) the Rural Electrification which would extend electricity services to
rural areas by connecting about 28,400 new domestic consumers, about
1100 water pumping stations and about 50 small industrial/
commercial customers, through the supply, installation and
construction of about 680 km. of medium voltage (MV) distribution
lines, 1,440 km. of low voltage (LV) lines and about 650
distribution transformers; and
(ii) the Urban Distribution Network Rehabilitation, which would
rehabilitate STEG's urban network in some 60 cities through the
supply, installation and construction of about 540 km. of medium
voltage (MV) distribution lines, about 400 km. of low voltage (LV)
lines and 260 distribution transformers.
5.03 Changes in project cost and financing. In line with the reductions of
the public investments in 1985 and 1986, STEG's total investment program for
these years was reduced from US$ 360 million to US$ 320 million (about 11%).
As important power generating/ transmission schemes were under construction,
STEG decided to apply these reductions mostly on the investments for
distribution expansion/ rehabilitation. Its distribution investment budget was
reduced by more than 50%, from US$ 114 million to US$ 48 million for the
period 1985-1987. Furthermore, the 16 Governorates participants in the
project's rural electrification component, which were to fund about 60% of the
program costs with their own resources, had as well their budgets trimmed. The
original investment required to implement the project of US$ 83 million
equivalent was downsized to US$ 54.9 million. The financing arrangements were
accordingly modified and the Borrower, because of the lower amount of foreign
exchange needed to finance the project, requested in August, 1986 the
cancellation of US$17 million of the proceeds of the Bank loan.
5.04 Actual project cost. The original project cost at appraisal was
estimated at US$ 83 million, while the revised estimate (August 1986) amounted
to US$ 54.9 million. The actual expenditures for completing the project were
US$ 56.4 million (Table 3). The above costs are not comparable because they
reflect different scope (quantities) of works. Although the actual cost of the
facilities commissioned under the project is slightly higher than the revised
cost estimate (about 3% higher), the amount of works completed was
considerably larger than the amount of works included in the revised scope of
the project. This was the result of the efficient implementation of the
project by STEG through: (i) the international competitive bidding (ICB)
process undertaken by STEG, which resulted in lower prices for the equipment
.and materials purchased for the different components; and (ii) the detailed
analytical methodology used in the selection (economic optimization) of the
villages, pumping schemes and industrial loads which benefited from the rural
electrification program as well as the technical/ economic considerations used
in the implementation of the distribution network rehabilitation plan. As a



-5-
result, most of the project components' unit prices were lower than
anticipated. The actual average unit cost for constructing the urban and rural
distribution lines was 16,550 US$/ km. as compared to the original estimate of
22,450 US$/ km., while the actual average unit cost for consumer connection
was US$ 542 as compared to the original estimate of US$ 830.
5.05 Facilities constructed under the project. Under the Urban Distribution
Network Rehabilitation component, the construction of the MV and LV
distribution lines as well as the installation of the distribution
transformers were completed virtually in accordance with the revised
implementation schedule. The targets achieved under this component
substantially exceeded the expectations made under the revised scope of the
project. The facilities commissioned were: (i) 782 km of MV distribution lines
instead of the 540 km. expected under the revised scope; (ii) 569 km. of LV
distribution lines instead of 400 km. anticipated under the revised scope; and
(iii) 350 distribution transformers instead of the 260. Furthermore, since the
completion of this component, overall STEG system losses have declined from
15.1% of gross generation in 1985 to about 13.3 X in 1989. It is estimated
that the annual savings achieved through the reduction of system losses
amounts to about 70 GWh./year or about US$ 3.5 million, not taking account the
benefits derived from the improved quality of service which was provided as
well.
5.06 Under the Rural Electrification component, the facilities were also
commissioned in accordance to the revised timetable. About 49,880 new
residential consumers were provided with electricity services in rural areas
instead of the 28,400 proposed under the revised scope. About 1,400 pumping
schemes were connected to STEG's rural distribution grid instead of 1,100
projected under the revised scope. The facilities commissioned were: (i) 932
km of MV distribution lines instead of the 680 km. expected under the revised
scope; (ii) 1,436 km. of LV distribution lines instead of 1,440 km.
anticipated under the revised scope; and (iii) 330 distribution transformers
instead of the 650. Furthermore, the rural distribution facilities
commissioned under this component will permit the connection of an additional
7,300 new consumers, when these consumers decide to obtain service by paying
the corresponding connection charges.
6. Project Implementation Schedule
6.01 The project was completed during October 1990, about 22 months later
than the original date of December 1988 and about 10 months later than the
revised date of December 1989 (Table 4). Because of the time required to
modify the project and legal documents due to the reduction of the scope of
the project and the non-compliance by the Government and STEG with financial
covenants (tariffs, rate-of-return) under the previous loan - the Third Power
project (which at that time was under implementation) - the loan became
effective only on October 31, 1986 (16 months after signing). Once the above
problems were fully solved, execution of the project went quite smoothly.
Actual construction and commissioning period of the different works was about
5 years (from late 1985 through late 1990), similar to the period expected at
appraisal. Because of the above delays, the original closing date of December
31, 1988 had to be postponed twice: the first to December 31, 1989 as a result



of the amendments incorporated to the legal agreements because the changes in
project scope; and the second to December 31, 1990 to allow STEG to complete
the works and permit full payments to its suppliers.
7. Disbursements
7.01 The original disbursement schedule anticipated to fully disburse the
proceeds of the loan by December 31, 1988. Due to the delays incurred in the
early stages and to the down-scaling of the Project as detailed in the above
paragraphs, the Bank disbursed only a total of US$21.5 million of the original
loan amount of US$ 38.7 million by the closing date of December 31, 1990. In
August 1986, the Borrower requested cancellation of US$ 17 million due to the
reduction of the project scope, and an additional US$ 177,600 was further
cancelled due to misprocurement. The loan was closed on December 31, 1990, the
last disbursement occurring January 31, 1991 (Table 5).
8. Procurement
8.01   During project implementation, the new Government of Tunisia
implemented some transitional measures which temporarily affected some of the
administrative procedures applicable to the state- owned enterprises,
including STEG. The most important issue which arose during project
implementation, was a major violation to the Bank guidelines regarding bid
opening procedures, by which the new Government's procedures insisted that
bids be opened without presence of bidders or their representatives (non-
public meetings), in contrast to public bid-opening sessions which the Bank
requires. As a result, the Bank cancelled on June 10, 1988 US $ 177,600 from
the loan proceeds for the above reason as the procedure followed by STEG in
this particular bid was considered misprocurement. Other procurement problems,
which were in general minor deviations from Bank guidelines, were resolved
over time through a constructive dialogue between the Bank and STEG.
9. Operating Performance
9.01 The power facilities commissioned under the project are operating
satisfactorily and they have contributed to further deliver STEG's electricity
services to its consumers, to reduce the level of power system losses and
outages, and to increase the quality of the power supply. As illustrated in
Table 6, actual electricity sales during the period 1985-1989 increased at an
average annual rate of 7 Z, from 3,084 GWh. in 1985 to 3,987 GWh. in 1989.
This average annual rate is about 30 X lower than originally anticipated, when
sales were expected to increase at an average annual rate of about 10 Z, from
3,250 GWh. in 1985 to 4,740 GWh. in 1989. This was mainly due to the austerity
program implemented by the Government, which resulted in an overall slowdown
of the Tunisian economy. Despite the reduction of STEG's investment program,
the shortfall on sales, combined with the lack of tariff increases, had a
negative impact on STEG's finances, as its revenues during the above period
were lower than the ones expected at appraisal, and therefore, contributed to
its poor financial performance.
9.02 In general STEG's performance has been satisfactory on the operational
and administrative aspects which were under its direct control as illustrated



in the following performance indicators: 465 MWh. sold/employee in 1989 vs.
394 in 1985, and 150 customers/employee in 1989 vs. 129 in 1985. Furthermore,
the unit cost of power supply to consumers (including generation, transmission
and distribution), decreased from 62.1 mills US$/ kWh. in 1985 to 52.7 mills
US$/ kWh. in 1989 (in constant prices of 1985), while the specific fuel
consumption decreased from 3,090 kcal./ kWh. in 1985 to 2,730 kcal./ kWh. in
1989 and the system utilization factor increased from 61.3 % in 1985 to 66.4 X
in 1989.
10. Staff Training Program
10.1 STEG did not carry- out its staff training program as agreed with the
Bank under the project and the corresponding funds provided under the loan
were virtually not utilized. This was due to the Government's perception that
STEG should not borrow from international institutions with the purpose of
sending its staff for training abroad. The Government insisted on this policy,
particularly after a training facility at Khledia was made available (which in
fact does not provide the advanced and sophisticated training available in
institutions overseas). The only training which took place during the period,
was the one associated to the supply of large/ complex equipment (generators,
turbines, boilers). STEG staff was sent to the factories under bilateral
funding. In relation to the cancellation of the training program, the Bank
should have been more persuasive with local authorities on the subject and
should have convinced them that the training required by STEG's staff was not
available locally.
11. Financial Performance
11.1 Financial Framework. The project was designed partly to address
important sectoral issues regarding energy pricing policies. In this context,
the Government agreed with the Bank to gradually eliminate subsidies by both
increasing periodically domestic selling prices of petroleum products so to
attain international market levels by 1987 and to adjust electricity tariffs
to permit STEG to earn adequate returns on its investments and operations.
Nevertheless, the regulatory structure of the sub- sector and STEG's financial
performance have depended to a large extent on the Government policy rather
than on STEG's management decisions and actions. During implementation of the
project, the Government unwillingness to adjust electricity tariffs was
particularly evident. As a result, the performance of STEG in the financial
area was less than satisfactory despite efforts made by its management to
revamp operational efficiency and reduce expenses. In summary, both low levels
of electricity tariffs and the devaluation of the dinar, which affected STEG's
ability to service its obligations in foreign currency, have had a detrimental
impact on its financial operations.
11.2 STEG Finances. Tables 6 and 7 illustrate some details of STEG's actual
financial results for the period 1985-1988 and of those anticipated at
appraisal time. Aggregate electricity sales for the above period were 13,632
GWh., or 11 X lower than the level of sales expected at appraisal of 15,250
GWh. STEG's actual operating revenues and expenses were lower than the ones
estimated at appraisal. Actual revenues were 7.6 X lower in 1985, 25.7 X in
1986, 30.8% in 1987 and 30.9% in 1988; while expenses were 0.5 X lower in



1985, 17 X in 1986, 15.3 % in 1987 and 16.2 % in 1988. Furthermore, actual
average revenues per kWh. sold decreased from 63 mills US$/kWh. in 1985 to 56
US$/kWh. in 1988 as compared with the anticipated increase from 69 mills
US$/kWh. in 1985 to 83 mills US$/kWh. in 1988. In fact, during the above
period, STEG's electricity tariffs were adjusted only once, in 1987 by a
nominal 5.4% increase.
11.3 As a result of the above, expected STEG's rates of return on revalued
fixed assets amounting to 5 % in 1985 and 1986, 7 X in 1987 and 8 Z thereafter
were only 3.4 Z in 1985, 3.6 % in 1986, 3.5 Z in 1987 and 3.4 Z in 1988.
Furthermore, STEG's debt-service coverage ratio expected to be at least 1.5
during the above period amounted only to 1.3 in 1985, 1.2 in 1986, 1.1 in 1987
and 1.1 in 1988. STEG's less than satisfactory performance was not always due
to higher fuel costs; in fact during the overall period of project
implementation, average fuel costs for electricity generation actually
declined from 43 mills US$/kWh in 1985 to 37 mills US$/kWh in 1989 (this was
mainly due to the replacement of the fuel base used for power generation,
where fuel oil was replaced by cheaper gas imported from Algeria). The main
reasons for STEG inadequate financial results were low electricity rates which
were not sufficient to cover the full financial costs of the power activities
and to a lesser extent, the devaluation of the local currency which adversely
affected STEG's capacity to timely comply with the payments of its foreign
exchange debt.
11.4 As a result of the poor financial performance of STEG's electricity
operations, its losses were partially financed by the substantial surpluses
generated by its gas operations. The gas operations net income was
consistently positive, its return on assets reached 20 X in 1990 and its self-
financing was above 100 X (670 X in 1990). This was mainly due to: low levels
of investements, increases in natural gas and LPG sales and prices, and free
gas associated with crude production at El Borma oil field. The gas operations
net income during the period 1986-90 was TD 90 million (about US$ 130
million), which may be considered as the amount of subsidy to the electricity
operations.
11.5 Auditing. During the period of project implementation, STEG retained
independent external auditors in accordance with the provisions included in
the loan agreement. While the Bank found STEG's selection of the auditors
appropriate and the quality of their reports satisfactory, there were
considerable delays (6 months to 1 year) in issuing the audit reports through
1987. Thereafter, STEG was able to reduce these delays and during the last
years, audit reports have been issued before June 30, of each year.
11.6 Performance Contract. The operational and financial targets to be
attained by STEG during the implementation of the project were formalized with
the Government through an Action Plan, which was duly covenanted in the
guarantee and loan agreements signed with the Bank. As mentioned in previous
paragraphs, the financial objectives set under the above Plan were not met by
the Government. However, the operational goals (except for the volumes of
power generated and electricity sold which were beyond the control of both the
Government and STEG) were substantially met.



-9-
12. Economic Evaluation
12.1 The SAR calculated an economic rate of return for the rural
electrification component of the project. The economic re- evaluation carried-
out under this PCR was made virtually on the same basis. The main aspects
which differentiate the actual data (number of consumers, incremental
electricity sales, investment costs) and assumptions (cost of supply, fuel
savings) from those utilized at appraisal time are discussed and summarized
below and in Table 8.
12.2 The implementation of the rural electrification component made possible
the connection of about 49,880 residential consumers and of about 1400 pumping
schemes. In addition, the facilities constructed under the project provide for
the connection of an additional 7,300 consumers which are expected to be
gradually integrated into STEG's system by 1993. These potential consumers
were not included in the economic evaluation. The appraisal estimates included
the connection of about 35,000 residential consumers and about 1,500 pumping
schemes. A number of other assumptions made at appraisal, such as investment
costs, fuel savings, tariffs and cost of electricity supply among others, were
different from actual values. These changes are included in Table 8, which
details the main assumptions utilized during appraisal and those which are the
result of implementing the program (actual data).
12.3 The internal economic rate of return of the net benefits achieved
through the implementation of the rural electrification component is estimated
at 13.2 Z, compared with 12.7 X, which was estimated at appraisal. Details of
the calculation of the economic rate of return are included in Table 9.
13. Compliance with Loan Conditions
13.1 STEG did not fully comply with a number of main project covenants, in
particular with those concerning specific targets for financial performance
(rate of return, debt coverage), but also with covenants relating to the
timely submission of documents related to the implementation of the Project.
Table 10 includes the details on the status of compliance with major project
covenants.
14. Performance of STEG. the Government and the Bank
14.1 STEG is a well- established public utility which has implemented
adequate managerial, planning and operational procedures. Its professional
staff, in particular at the middle and high levels, is well educated and with
substantial experience on matters related to the power sector. STEG, within
its autonomy, implemented the physical components of the project quite
efficiently and in accordance to high technical standards. The project was
completed in a period of five years (end of 1985 through 1990) and the amount
of facilities commissioned under the project exceeded the amounts expected at
the time of appraisal (at lower unit costs). The failure of STEG to meet the
financial covenants and to carry- out its staff training program agreed with
the Bank under the contractual agreements, was beyond its control. STEG did
not comply from time to time with some covenants which were well within its
*



- 10 -
control. These included the timely submission of progress reports, financial
forecasts, performance indicators.
14.2 The Government performance under the project, in particular regarding
its commitments with the Bank on energy pricing policies which were: to
gradually eliminate subsidies by both increasing periodically domestic selling
prices of petroleum products so to attain international market levels by 1987
and to adjust electricity tariffs to permit STEG to earn adequate returns on
its investments and operations, was quite disappointing. The lack of action on
the part of the Government to adjust electricity tariffs had a detrimental
impact on STEG's financial operations. The Government delayed rate adjustments
in several occasions (tariffs were adjusted only once in 1987) and it
established the practice of financing power operation losses through the
substantial surpluses generated by STEG's gas operations .
14.3 The Bank's preparation of the project and its monitoring (engineering
and construction aspects of the Project) was satisfactory. The resources
allocated for these purposes were adequate as 140 staff- weeks were utilized
during the entire project cycle (Table 11) and 10 field missions were carried-
out during this period (Table 12). Nevertheless, during the stages of project
design and preparation, the Bank should have been more forceful with respect
to: (i) the failure by the Government to timely increase tariffs. Given the
seriousness of this issue, the Bank should have used the remedies provided in
the legal agreements with the Government and STEG; and (ii) STEG's practice of
producing consolidated financial statements for its electricity and gas
operations, which frequently led to conceal the real financial position of its
electricity operations. The Bank should have urged the utility (as a pre-
condition of project appraisal or loan approval) to separate its electricity
operations' accounting/ financial systems from those of its gas operations.
This would have helped to focus attention much earlier on the financial
problems of the electricity side. Under the ongoing Gas Development project
(loan 3418-TUN), STEG agreed with the Bank to establish separate accounting
systems for its two operations. An assessment will be made by the Bank by mid
1993, when the 1992 financial statements and audit report are submitted.
Furthermore, compliance with financial covenants (rate of return, debt
coverage) which were pending under the Third Power Project should have been
made condition for further processing the Fourth Project (condition for
project appraisal or loan approval).
15. Project Sustainability
15.1 STEG has become a well organized institution and it has sound project
implementation capabilities in the areas of power generation, transmission and
distribution. Its planning and construction methodologies are based on
accepted standards and practices and the technical and economic viability of
its projects are in line with least cost principles. Concerning the
optimization of its urban and rural distribution operations (loss reduction
and load management), STEG now routinely revamps and reinforces its
distribution networks, since the benefits derived from the project
(substantial reduction of distribution losses and enhanced efficiency) have
conclusively proven to be cost-effective. Furthermore, despite the lack of
adequate tariff increases during 1985-1989 and the initial delays incurred in



- 11 -
project implementation, the physical targets accomplished by STEG under the
project were remarkable. STEG's financial performance since 1990 has been
quite satisfactory. In fact, its actual financial performance indicators are
above the levels of those agreed and covenanted under the existing Gas
Development project- loan 3418-TUN, as the GOT's record in maintaining
electricity prices in line with LRMC during the last years has been
satisfactory.
16. Conclusions
16.1   The Bank financed project met its objectives of providing electricity
services to the less favored population in the rural areas and of revamping
the efficiency of STEG's power distribution operations at least cost. The
volume of facilities commissioned under the project were larger than
anticipated. Furthermore, the project unit costs were lower than expected at
appraisal. However, the commitment of the Government regarding energy prices,
in particular electricity, and of supporting STEG's training program was
disappointing. The financial performance of STEG was less than satisfactory,
however its ability to implement the project despite delays and financial set-
backs, was quite adequate. In summary, the project has been successfully in
meeting its social and economic objectives as well as in completing the
facilities constructed. Regarding the institutional objectives, the project
failed to meet expectations as STEG finances were inadequate and the training
program, part of the project, was not implemented.
17. Lessons Learned
17.1 There are some specific lessons to be learned from the particular
problems encountered during the implementation of the project: (i) the Bank
should not rush to approve new operations until compliance with commitments
under other existing loans are not fully respected. In this particular case,
the non-compliance by the Government/ STEG with financial covenants (tariff
increases, rate of return) under the Third Power project (at the time under
implementation), delayed loan effectiveness. This date was postponed by 13
months, which adversely affected the timely implementation and completion of
the project; (ii) the Bank should be more forceful on enforcing the Government
commitments in critical areas such as timely increase of tariffs. In this
respect, the Bank should have used the remedies provided in the legal
agreements with the Government and STEG; and (iii) the original project design
should have provided for a separation of the electricity and gas accounts in
order to separately monitor the financial aspects of STEG's in its power and
gas operations. This probably would have helped to focus attention much
earlier on the financial problems of the electricity side.
17.2 There is one lesson, similar to one encountered during the
implementation of the Third Power project (detailed in the corresponding PCR
dated June 30, 1987), to which not enough importance was given during the
preparation of the present project. As part of the appraisal process and
before establishing and agreeing on institutional objectives (in particular
pricing policies), the Bank should make a comprehensive risk analysis and
assessment of the Government's commitments to the project and its
conditionalities.



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
SOCIETE TUNISIENE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ - STEG
FOURTH POWER PROJECT - LOAN 2455 - TUN
PART II: COMMENTS OF THE EXECUTING AGENCY
1. General
1.1 The Government of Tunisia did not submit its comments on its role and on
the execution of the project. STEG's management shares the views of the Bank
regarding the social and economic benefits, the power system efficiency
improvements and the reduced cost/ larger targets, all achieved through the
implementation of the project. Some specific comments made by STEG's
directorates of Finances and Purchases/ Supply are detailed below.
2. Comments of STEG's directorate of Finances
2.1 Currency of Contracts: STEG's projections for withdrawals of the proceeds
of the Bank loan were imprecise because the arbitrary selection of the
currency of payment to suppliers (tunisian dinar, US dollar or the currency of
the country of origin of the supplier), specially when the conversion rate
between the currency of the supplier's invoice and the currency of debit to
the loan account was not timely communicated by the Bank.
2.2 Delays in payments to supplier: During project execution STEG verified
that payments made by the Bank to STEG's suppliers as well as reimbursements
for advanced expenses made by STEG under the project were quite delayed. As a
result, suppliers indicated their preference to be paid by STEG and not by the
Bank. STEG suggests that the Bank should streamline some disbursement
procedures by:
- the Bank should timely supply to the borrower all details of payment/
withdrawals transactions (date, amounts, name of intermediary commercial
bank);
- the Bank should instruct the intermediary commercial bank to timely
inform the borrower the date and value of the payments; and
- Payments by the Bank should be made strictly in accordance to the
contractual dates included in legal instruments between the borrower and
supplier.
2.3 Confirmation of Letters of Credit: STEG indicates that the confirmations
of the letters of credit were made based on provisional amounts and in general
in currencies other than the ones of the contracts between the borrower and
suppliers. This practice originated delays for concluding most of the
transaction in the measure that the provisional values in general were
different from the final values due to the variation of currency exchange
rates. STEG suggests that the Bank confirms the letters of credit in the
currency of the contract.



- 13 -
3. Comments of STEG's directorate of Purchases/ Supplv
3.1 The comments submitted by the above directorate are related to
procurement matters, mostly on aspects where STEG diverged from the
guidance/instructions provided by Bank staff (STEG's interpretation) who
supervised the project:
- Bank staff requested STEG to reject suppliers' proposals which did not
include a bid bond;
- Bank staff requested STEG to pay suppliers exclusively through letters
of credit;
- Bank staff declined to accept inclusion of charges related to port
handling and storage (equivalent to 2% CIF price) in evaluation of
proposals;
- Bank staff requested STEG to let suppliers freely choose ocean
freighters while tunisian legislation requires usage of local freighters;
- Bank staff declined to accept STEG's proposal to reevaluate suppliers
proposals before contract awards in cases where large exchange rate
variations occurred between bid opening date and contract award date.
(Note of the author: regarding the above subjects, Bank guidelines for
procurement make the following provisions: (i) bid bond and payments through
letters of credit are recommended by the Bank, but they are not mandatory;
(ii) charges for port handling and storage may be included in bid evaluation
provided they are specifically and fairly quantified. The bidder should be
informed of this through the bidding documents; (iii) ocean freight
restrictions are not permitted; and (iv) the borrower has the choice to select
date of currency conversion for evaluation of proposals: either a date not
earlier than 30 days prior to bid opening date or the date of decision to
award the contract, all before expiration of the period of bid validity. This
should be specified in the bidding documents).



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tunisia: Fourth Power Project
Loan 2455-TUN
Part III: Statistical Tables
Table I
Related Bank Loans
Amt.
US$
No     Mill.  Year   Name/Description                          Status
724     7.5   1971   Financing of El Borma - Gabes            Disbursed
gas pipeline.
815    12.0   1972   Financing of two 20-MW combustion
turbine, transmission and distribu-
tion system expansion and consulting
services for future plant and insti-
tutional development.                   Disbursed
1355   14.5   1977   Financing of seven 21-MW combustion
turbines.                               Disbursed
2003   41.5   1981   Power III.  Financing of first three
years of STEG's 1982-86 investment
program.                                Disbursed
2455   38.7   1984   Power IV.  Financing Of STEG's 1985-   Disbursed
1987 investment program for distribu-
tion and rural electrification pro-
grams.
3418   60.0   1991   Gas Development Project                  Undisbursed
Financing of M'Saken - Gabes gas
pipeline.
Source: Staff Appraisal and Supervision Reports



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tunisia: Fourth Power Proiect
Loan 2455-TUN
Table 2
Project Timetable
Project Phase         Original  Plan                -:  - a:
Identification        1982                 1982
Preparation        :01-06/83  -01-063 
:Apprai1al            06/83               :06 83::
Negotiations          03/84               0/4         -:
Board Approval   -  06/84    0:/84
Loan:Signature-   08/84           .;08 84
Loan Effectiveness- 09/84 -l85i
C    0.l           0 6/ 8:                     :                              :
Cornp1 tioh           J6/8810/9
.                                            -      .    -   --   .-   i    .   - ..........................  :.- -: ...... :---  .,......... . . . . , - - . .-.::.--.::   ..i . ...::
-     L,'.'Os  "g   12/88             '12/9
Source: World Bank Management Information System



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLETTON REPOR
Tunisia: Fourth Power Project
Loan 2455-TUN
Table 3
Proiect Costs
(USS million)
Appraisal Estimates       Revised Costs               Actual Costs
Local   Foreign   Total  Local   Foreign   Total  Local   Foreign   Total
Items            Cot   Costs       C=    Costs    Costs       Cs              Costs    Cm
A. Rural Elec.    12.8    8.4      21.2   13.0    6.2         19.2   16.8    7.9       24.7
B. Urban Rehab.  14.4    9.5       23.9   11.6    5.6         17.2    153     7.0      223
C. Other Equip.   3.1    11.1      14.2    2.2      6.0       8.2    2.6      6.7       93
303    29.0       593    26.8    17.8       44.6   34.7    21.6       56.3
Physical Contin.    5.4   3.6       9.0    3.6      2.0       5.6      -       -         -
Price Contin.     8.6     6.0      14.6    2.8      1.8       4.6      -       -         -
443     38.6      82.9   33.2    21.6        54.8   34.7    21.6      563
Front-end Fee     -       0.1       0.1      -      0.1        0.1     -      0.1       0.1
TOTAL           443    38.7       83.0   33.2    21.7        54.9   34.7    21.7      56.4



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tunisia: Fourth Power Proiect
Loan 2455-TUN
Table 4
Proiect Implementation
I~~~~~~Pcm~    -.a                      , L4~
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ............. w
1<                                        ~~~~~~W.
So~urce: Staff Appraisa
equip ment a'n'd tosCmpeinb                  Gmpi         y
Setembe  1987       u14-19
Erection. of  onracmp 198ed19
Source:  Staff Appraisal and Supervision Reports



- 18 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tunisia: Fourth Power Prolect
Loan 2455-TUN
Table 5
Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(USS million)
Fiscal      Origin l     R-se ..         C. ual
Year         .P.l.an.:     Pl..                    Ori i  Ia
. -  .  - ;t.. . . .    .. . P  
0.60         NA            NA          NA
1987 60 7                  NA            0.226       2.9
.....  iLIIIiI.....L.....2.A.....                         0.
|0-00-ttjl08tjif-lj18. 60   NA            2.09  |    11.2    l
t:Xiggg98-t-0-t-j-1  1.60  11 N    1    11.62    11  36.8    !
|0-t:0-  1089  00||   A   ll NA  ll  19.18    ||  60. 7
[TEiii3- tiiiiII-||INA           NA          20.63        65.3
| NA ll NA ll ~~~21.52    ii68.1
NOTE: Last disbursement was made on January 31, 1991
Source: World Bank Loan Disbursement Reports



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETTON REPORT
Tunisia: Fourth Power Project
Loan 2455-TUN
Table 6
Major Performance Tndicators
1985           1286L       _198         -288          1989
Generation (GWh.)              3,571          3,750         4,016        4,278        4,485
Sales (GWb.)                   3,084          3,262         3,544        3,742        3,987
Installed Capacity (MW.)       1,329          1,329         1,329        1,329        1,329
Demand (MW.) a/                  665            670          710          768          771
Losses (%)                      15.1           13.8          12.8         13.1         13.3
System Factor (%) b/            61.3           63.9         64.6          63.6         66.4
Specific Consumption (kcal/kWh) 3,090         2,800         2.780        2,710        2,730
Customers ('000)               1,012          1,085         1,145        1,207        1,282
Employees                      7,833          7,858         7,959        8,189        8,575
Energy sold (MWh)/ Employee    394              415          445          457          465
Customer/Employee                129            138          144          147          150
NOTES:
a/ Non- coincidental demand
Net Generation
b/ System factor =
Demand x 8,760



- 20 -
Tunisia: Fourth Power Project
Loan 2455-U
Table
Actual Main Financial Indicators
(D.T. Thousand)
1985         1986         1987         1988
Operating Revenues                          193,430      203,174       231,715      268,365
Operating Expenses                          186,060      202,356       249,981      278,974
Net Profit/ Loss                             11,798        6,688       -12,538      -10,609
Rate of Return                                  3.4          3.6          3.5          3.4
Debt Coverage Ratio                             13           1.2           1.1          1.1
Debt/Equity Ratio                               1.4          2.1          0.9          1.0
Days Receivables                                 70           68           52           44
Average Revenue/ kWh. (mills DT)               48.3         48.7          50.3         50.7
Average Supply cost/ kWh. (mills DT)           47.2         48.8          56.9         58.0
Exchange Rate (DT per USS)                     0.76         0.84          0.78         0.90
Inflation (%)                                   5.8          7.6           7.2          8.9
Original Main Financial Indicators
Operating Revenues                          209,386      273,480       335,036      388,593
Operating Expenses                          187,085      243,794       295,370      332,879
Net Profit/ Loss                              5,004        6,373        11,202       19,060
Rate of Return (%)                                5            5            7            8
Debt Coverage Ratio                             1.8          1.6           1.7          1.8
Debt/Equity Ratio                                59           58           57           53
Days Receivables                                 90           90           85           85
Average Revenue/ kWh. (mills DT)               52.2         61.6          69.6         74.5



- 21 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tunisia: Fourth Power Proiect
Loan 2455-TUN
Table8
Economic Analysis: ARn,raisal Assumptions and Actual Data
1. The SAR calculated an economic rate of return for the rural electrification component of the project. The
economic re- evaluation carried- out under this PCR was made virtually on the same basis. The main aspects which
differentiate the actual data (number of consumers, incremental electricity sales, investment costs) and assumptions
(cost of supply, fuel savings) from those utilized at appraisal time are included below.
2. The implementation of the rural electrification component made possible the connection of about 49,880
residential consumers and of about 1400 pumping schemes. Furthermore, the facilities constructed under the project
provide for the connection of an additional 7,300 consumers. The appraisal estimates included the connection of
about 35,000 residential consumers and about 1,500 pumping schemes. A number of other assumptions made at
appraisal, such as costs, fuel and other savings, tariffs and cost of electricity supply among others, are different from
actual values. A comparison of the main assumptions utilized during appraisal and actual data is included below-
A&praisal                Acual
Year of Reference                               1984                  1991
Domestic Consumers                            35,000                 49,880
Pumping Schemes                                1,500                  1,400
Residential Consumption (kWh./year)              175                   400
Pumping Consumption (kWh./year)                5,000                  4,000
Connection Charge Residential (USS)             370                    200
Connection Charge Pumping (USS)                  582                  1,260
Average Tariff (mill USS/kWh.)                    68                    61
Average Supply Cost (mill USS/kWh.)               67                     62
Capital Costs (USS million)                     29.6                   19.8
O & M Costs ( % of Capital)                       2                      2
3. Fuel savings were calculated based on the alternative energy (kerosene for lighting and diesel oil for engines)
displaced after the connection of the rural consumers to the power grid (lst. year: 14,150 domestic + 448 pumps;
2nd. year: 9,550 domestic + 317 pumps; and 3rd. year: 29,180 domestic + 635 pumps). Furthermore, the amount of
energy displaced was assumed to be equivalent to 351,000 kcaL/year (130 kwh./year) for each domestic consumer,
and 10,800,000 kcal./year (4,000 kwh./year) for each pumping scheme. This energy was valued at 20 USS per barrel
of oil (0.0342 US$/kwh.).
4. Other costumers' savings related to avoided capital replacement and maintenance costs derived from their
connection to the power grid were calculated as follows: (i) for 40 % of the domestic consumers, an amount
equivalent to 100 US$/year was assumed for costs associated to the operation of television sets and radios (battery
purchase, charging and replacement) which they would have incurred otherwise; and (ii) for the pumping schemes, an
amount equivalent to USS 2,000 was assumed as the capital cost of a 10 H.P. diesel engine (with a useful life of 10
years) associated to the operation of the water pump and 100 USS/year as the corresponding maintenance costs
associated to its operation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tunisia: Fourth Power Project
Table 9
Economic AnaLysis; Rate of Return
YEARS                 CAPITAL AND OTHER COSTS                                        GROSS BENEFITS                                             NET
---------   ---------------------------------------------              ---------------------------------------------------------                BENEFITS
CAPITAL      OPER. &     COST OF       TOTAL               SALES      CONNECTION       FUEL       OTHER        TOTAL             ---------
COSTS     MAINTEN.       POWER        COSTS             REVENUES      CHARGES       SAVINGS     SAVINGS    BENEFITS
1        1976.00         0.00         0.00      1976.00                0.00                                                0.00           -1976.00
2        9182.60        177.84      804.14    10164.58               453.83     3394.48         124.20     1550.30      5522.80           -4641.78
3        9025.40       316.16      1235.70    10577.26               853.92      2309.42        272.93     2511.00      5947.27           -4629.99
4        5702.00       395.20      2495.68      8592.88             1750.14     6036.10         413.29     4190.60    12390.13             3797.25
5                      395.20      2495.68      2890.8              1750.14         0.00       413.29      2135.20      4298.63            1407.75
6                      395.20      2495.68      2890.88             1750.14         0.00        413.29     2135.20      4298.63             1407.75
7                      395.20      2495.68      2890.88             1750.14         0.00       413.29      2135.20      4298.63            1407.75
8                      395.20      2495.68      2890.88             1750.14         0.00        413.29     2135.20      4298.63             1407.75
9                      395.20      2495.68      2890.88             1750.14         0.00        413.29     2135.20      4298.63             1407.75
10                      395.20      2495.68      2890.88             1750.14         0.00       413.29      2135.20      4298.63            1407.75
11                      395.20      2495.68      2890.88             1750.14         0.00       413.29      2135.20      4298.63            1407.75
12                      395.20      2495.68      2890.U8             1750.14         0.00        413.29     3455.70      5619.13            2728.25
13                      395.20      2495.68      2890.88             1750.14         0.00        413.29     3055.70      5219.13            2328.25
14                      395.20      2495.68      2890.88             1750.14         0.00        413.29     4190.60      6354.03            3463.15
15                      395.20      2495.68      2890.88             1750.14         0.00        413.29     2135.20      4298.63             1407.75
16                      395.20      2495.68      2890.88             1750.14         0.00        413.29     2135.20      4298.63             1407.75
17                      395.20      2495.68      2890.88             1750.14         0.00       413.29      2135.20      4298.63             1407.75
17                      395.20      2495.68      2890.88             1750.14         0.00       413.29      2135.20      4298.63             1407.75
19                      395.20      2495.68      2890.88             1750.14         0.00       413.29      2135.20      4298.63             1407.75
20 through 30               395.20      2495.68     2890.88             1750.14         0.00        413.29      2135.20     4298.63             1407.75
Internal Rate of Return:    13.2



- 23 -
lPROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tunisia: Fourth Power Project
Loan 2455-TUN
Table 10
Status of Covenants in the Loan Agreement
Section            Covenant Description                      Compliance Status
3.01 and Sched 2    Commitment to the objectives of the project   COMPLIANCE.
3.02              Use of all goods and services exclusively for    COMPLIANCE.
the project and insurance of imported goods.
3.03 (a)           Prompt submission to the Bank of         PARTIAL COMPLIANCE.
specifications, reports contract documents,  Some documents received
work, procurement schedules, etc.         late.
3.03 (b)          Maintenance of adequate records and       COMPLIANCE.
procedures to monitor Project's progress.
3.03 (b)          Allowance of Bank access to facilities and  COMPLLANCE.
construction site for examination.
3.03 (b)           Submission of quarterly progress reports  PARTIAL COMPLLANCE.
including all such information the Bank shall   No quarter progress reports
l________________  reasonably request.                       submitted after June 30, 1987.
3.03 (c)          Reporting of Borrower on project          PARTIAL COMPLIANCE.
performance six months after completion.  Draft report submitted but
Bank requested revisions.
Fimal report not received.
3.04              Provisions relating to land acquisition.  COMPLIANCE.
3.05              Borrower to furnish Bank, no later than 11.30  PARTIAL COMPLIANCE.
of each year, the list of villages for    No staff training program.
electrification during the following calendar
year with financing plan and outline of a
training program.



- 24 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tunisia: Fourth Power Project
Loan 2455-TUN
Table 10
Status of Covenants in the Loan Agreement
(continued)
Section          Covenant Description                          Status
4.01-4.04        General management and operations practice.    COMPLIANCE.
4.05 (a)         Borrower monitoring of operations on the basis    COMPLIANCE.
of a system acceptable to the Bank.
4.05 (b)         Borrower to furnish Bank, by 3/31 of each year a   NON-COMPLIANCE.
report showing results of operations in terms of
indicators acceptable to the Bank.
5.01             Borrower maintenance of records in accordance    PARTLkL
with appropriate accounting practices.        COMPLLANCE.
Incomplete separation of
acounts for gas and
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   electricity.
5.02 (a)         Auditing of accounts, each fiscal year, by     COMPLIANCE.
i______________  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
5.02 (b)         Submission of audit reports to the Bank six   PARTIAL
months after the end of each year.            COMPLLANCE. Late
submission.
5.03             General provisions concerning liens on assets.  COMPLLANCE.
5.04             Borrower to take action, including adjustment of   NON-COMPLIANCE.
electricity rates to generate revenues from power
operations sufficient to earn an annual rate of
return on the net value of the Borrower's fixed
assets in the service of power operations of (1)
not less than 5% annually in FYs 1985 and 1986;
(ii) not less than 7% annually in FY 87 and (iii)
not less than 8% in the following fiscal years.



- 25 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tunisia: Fourth Power Project
Loan 2455-TUN
Table 10
Status or Covenants in the Loan Agreement
(continued)
Section             Covenant Description                      Status
5.04                Minimum rate of return not to be less than  NOT APPLICABLE.
6% annually for any fiscai year if the average
price of fuel products purchased by the
Borrower during any fiscal year shall have
increased by at least 20%.
5.04 (C)            Submission by 10/31 of each year, of a    PARTIAL
forecast of operating revenues, operating  COMPLIANCE. Budgets
expenses and rate of return for the current  submitted but no rate of
fiscal year and the next fiscal year.     return estimate according
to the Bank definition.
5.05                Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a  NON-COMPLIANCE.
reasonable forecast of the Borrower's
projected net revenues for each fiscal year of
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be
at least 1.5 times the projected debt service
requirement, in such year, on all debt of the
Borrower.
5.06                Receivables for power operations shall not  COMPIANCE.
exceed the equivalent of the Borrower's
average 90-day sales of electricity.
5.07                Preparation by the Borrower, of a financial    COMPLIANCE.
action plan acceptable to the Bank.
5.07                Borrower review of the plan, by 6/30/86, or    COMPLLANCE.
some later date agreed with the Bank, with  Contract program sets
the Guarantor and the Bank.               out objectives and
projections.



- 26 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tunisia: Fourth Power ProJect
Loan 2455-TUN
Table 10
Status of Covenants in the Loan A2reement
(continued)
[Section            |_Covenant Description                         | Status
5.08                Borrower to take all action to increase its    NON-COMPLIANCE
electricity rates to fully reflect all prices in fuel
products purchased by the Borrower, no later
than two months after price increases.



- 27 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tunisia: Fourth Power Plect
Loan 24SS TUN
Ta,ble 10
Status of Covenants In the La   urne
(continued)
Section             Covenant Description                       Status
3.02                Take all actions necessary to comply with  NON-COMPLIANCE
section 5.04 (c) of the loan agreement (tariff
increases to comply with rate of return
covenant).
3.03                Progressively increase domestic consumer   PART1AL
prices of petroleum prices so as to at least be   COMPLIANCE.
equal, by December 31, 1986, to international  Increases were
prices.                                   implemented late.
3.05                Take all actions necessary to comply with  NON-COMPLIANCE
section 5.07 of the loan agreement (STEG' s
financial action plan).



- 28 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tunisia: Fourth Power Project
Loan 2455-TUN
Table 11
Use of Bank Resources
Allocation of Staff Time by Stage of Project Cycle
(In Staffweeks)
Fis~aJ   Thoug
198           .               -                   - S;6
1984 
1986         -                                    11.6                 11.6
198871.                                                                2
1989                                              ZS351
1990         -                                     44                   4.1
199i2        -                --
T-QW    _5 4.             24.2                                   fl'



- 29 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tunisia: Fourth Power Project
Loan 2455-TUN
Table 12
Major Project Missions
_  Mission    | No. of   | Days in       _             Project
Dates     j Persons      Field       j Staffng      |_Rafing
IDENT       [NS         INS           TNS          INS             NS
| APPR       | 5/83      |NS           |NS          |NS            INS
SPVN1         9/84        3            113     |    EGR,EC,FA  JNS
SPVN 2      | 3/85      12            [10            EGR,EC,FA    2
SPVN 3        9/85        1             6            FA           |3
SPVN 4        2/86        2             13           EGR,EC,FA    2
SPVN 5        2/87        3             8            EGR,EC,FA   1
SPVN 6        2/88      [3            112          [EGR,FA,LEG INS
SPVN 7        11/88      | 1          | 4 _          EGR           NS
SPVN 8        11/89     |_5             12         [EGR,EC,FA  J NS
SPVN 9      |03/90        1            NS          |EGR           |    _NS
CODES:
APP =Appraisal; EC= Economist; EGR=Engineer; FA=Financial Analyst; IDEN= Identification; LEG= Lawyer;
NS= Not Specified.



