Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
L  /,-2 yY.)- 
Repor P No  -3845U
.
REPORT AND  ECOMEATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
InTERNAIONAL BANK FOR EONAND DEVELOPM
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOWAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$38 7 MIION
TO THE
SOCIEE TUNISIEE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ
(STEG)
WITEI THE GUARATEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
FOURTH1 POWER PROJECT
June 4, 1984
_This dcmmt h, a restied dlsobudou ad way be used by recipleut only in the perfonone of
thedr effe. duis Ds eateauts may not odherw  be discsud without Woed Dk authoriatlos.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (TD)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate which
is used in the Staff Appraisal Report approximates the current rate. It is;
I US $ = TDO.67
1 D - US $1.49
STEG's Fiscal Year
January 1 - Derember 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ERR    -  Economic Rate of Return
ETAP   -  Tunisian Petroleum Company
GDP    -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP    -  Gross National Product
LRNC   -  Long-run marginal cost
ODA    - Official development assistance
SNIDP  -  National Petroleum Distribution Company
STEG   -  Tunisian Electricity and Gas Company
STITR   -  Tunisian Refinery Company
toe    -  tons of oil equivalent
USAID  -  United States Agency for International
Development
UTB    -  Union Tunisienne de Banques



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricite
et du Caz (STEG)
Guarantor:            Republic of Tunisia
Amount:               US$38.7 million equivalent, including capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:                Seventeen years including four years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:  The project, a continuation of the Third Power project
(Loan 2003-TUN), would support STEG's three-year
investment program (1985 through 1987) for: (i) rural
electrification; (ii) rehabilitation of the urban
network; and (iii) provision of equipment, vehicles,
tools, and training. The rural electrification
component would extend electricity service to about
35,000 new domestic customers, 1,500 pumping stations
and 50 commercial and small industrial consumers- The
urban rehabilitation component would improve the quality
of service to more than 130,000 existing customers by
rehabilitating the distribution systems of
about 60 cities and towns. The third component would
provide the construction, erection and testing
equipment, vehicles, tools and training (about 70
persons for a total of about 120 staff-months) which
would assist STEG in implementing the project and
mproving its technical capabilities. The project
involves the supply, construction and erection of about
2500 km of medium-voltage lines, 2600 km of low-voltage
lines; and 65 MVA of distribution transformer capacity.
Project Benefits
and Risks:            The project would extend electricity service to the
*                                    beneficiaries at least-cost by implementing the
long-term program for rural electrification, reducing
system losses, improving sales of electricity and
*                                    operating efficiency of the system, and continuing the
Bank's efforts in assisting STEG to expand its training
program. In addition, the proposed project would follow
up on the efforts started by previous Bank loans
(1864-TUN and 2003-TUN) in rationalizing fuel and
electricity pricing. The project presents no special
risks.
This document has a rcstncted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official dutics- Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withoul World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Proiect Cogt:            Local           Foreign            Total
$ million
Rural Electrification
Equipment and Materials             3.9              8.4               12.3
Installation and Erection          5.7                -                 5.7
Engineering and Construction
Supervision                    3.2                -                 3.2
Subtotal       12.8               8.4              21.2
Urban Rehabilitation
Equipment and Materials             4.5              9.5               14.0
Installation and Erection          6.4                -                6.4
Engineering and Construction
,upervision                    3.5                                  3.5
Subtotal       14.4               9.5              23.9
Equipment, Tools, Training
Equipment and Tools                 3.1             10.7               13.8
Training                                             0.4                0.4
Subtotal        3.1              11.1              14.2
Base Cost      30.3              29.0              59.3
Physical Contirngencies             5.4              3.6                9.0
Price Contingencies                 8.6              6.0               14.6
Total Project Cost              44.3 /1           38.6              82.9
Front-end Fee                      -                 0.1                0.1
Total Financing Required        44.3              38.7              83.0
/1 Includes about $6.5 million in customs duties and taxes
.



- 111 -
Financing Plan:                   Local           Foreign            Total
$ million
IBRD                                                38_7              38.7
STEG Internal Cash Generation   24.0                 -                24.0
Customers' Contributions          1.7                                  1.7
Government                       18.6                -                18.6
Total                      44.3               38.7              83.0
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY  1985    1986    1987       1988    1989
:$ million
Annual                              0.6     7.0       11.0    13.0     7.1
Cumulative                          0.6     7.6       18.6    31.6    38.7
Rate of Return:  about 12 percent (on STEG's overall investment program)
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4817-TUN of June 4, 1984
.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIUN OF TBE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
SOCIETE TUNISIENNE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ (STEG)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A FOURTH POWER PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan for
the equivalent of US$38.7 million to Societ6 Tunisienne de l'Electricite et du Gaz
(STEG) with the guarantee of the Republic of Tunisia to help finance a Fourth Power
project.  The loan, which includes a capitalized front-end fee of 0.25 percent on
the Bank loan, would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.       A special economic report entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86)" (No. 4137-TUN), in two volumes, was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 16, 1983 and June 29, 1983. This part and the country
data sheets, attached in Annex i, reflect the report's findings. They also reflect
preliminary results for 1983. An economic mission to review the performance of the
first two years of Plan implementation visited Tunisia in April 1984; revised
projections for Annex I are being prepared.
3.       Much of Tunisia is arid or semi-arid.  Only three percent of arable land
is irrigated, and areas where rainfed agriculture is possible are subject to severe
year-to-year fluctuation in rainfall. Tunisia's most important raw materials are
phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas. While the known exploitable reserves of
oil and gas are approaching depletion, and the phosphate deposits are of relatively
low quality, there have recently been promising indications of new hydrocarbon
reserves, although it is too early to assess their exact potential. The country
also has considerable tourism potential, and efforts have been made during the last
decade to develop it rapidly.
4.       Since independence in 1956. Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to family
welfare, education, and technical and vocational training. As a result, the infant
mortality rate declined from 150 in the early 1960s to 90 at the end of the 1970s,
the adult literacy rate increased from under 15 percent to about 62 percent, and
average caloric supply per capita increased from about 80 to 115 percent of minimum
standard requirements. An active family planning policy pursued by the Government
led to a decrease in fertility and birth rates. However, since at the same time
mortality rates also decreased, the annual natural demographic growth rate
decreased only slightly from 2.6 percent in the 1960s to 2.4 percent in the 1970s.
Moreover, after 1976, the net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply reduced by
restrictive measures taken in the EEC countries and Libya.
1/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report No.
P-3809-TUN of May 7, 1984, for a Second Transport Project.



- 2 -
5.       Agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every three Tunisians in the
labor force. To accelerate job creation, more than half of the total investments
of the Fifth Plan (1976-81) was allocated to directly productive sectors, but the
direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum, phosphate mining and
processing, and tourism) are small. These sectors, however, make a vital
contribution to GDP, public savings, and exports. They provided 52 percent of the
country's foreign exchange earnings in 1983, while manufacturing activities, except
phosphate-based chemicals, provided 19 percent.
6.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the Fifth Plan the growth
performance differed from the impressive growth achieved from 1971 to 1976: output
in agriculture and in food industries has grown on average below the demographic
rate since 1976, partially as a result of bad weather conditions; textile
production and tourism development grew at a slower pace mainly because of
difficulties in European markets. By contrast, manufacturing industry other than
textiles, as well as energy, phosphate processing, construction, and construction
materials expanded at a fast pace.
7.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, particularly in
investments, the balance of payments situation remained favorable from 1976 to
1981. Imports in current prices grew at a slower pace than exports, and the terms
of trade improved significantly due to sharply bigher post-1974 export prices for
crude oil. As a result, the resource gap remained relatively small, and domestic
savings financed on average over 76 percent of investment, which increased from an
average of 23 percent of GDP for 1972-76 to 30 percent for 1977-81. The current
account deficit was easily financed; grant aid and private investments (mainly for
oil exploration) provided about 30 percent, while the remainder was mainly covered
by long-term foreign borrowing. Thus, during the 1970s total foreign debt
increased little relative to GDP, and the debt service ratio dropped from 15
percent in 1971 to 10 percent in 1979.
8.       The public sector has played a major role in mobilizing and redistributing
domestic resources. Central Government revenues were equivalent to about one-third
of GDP on average for the Fifth Plan period, one of the highest shares among
middle-income countries. Over 30 percent of these revenues was saved, and public
savings financed close to two-thirds of total Government capital expenditures.
This comfortable public finance situation permitted a rapid increase in payments to
private consumers and public enterprises. Such transfers, including those for
social security, accounted for 19 percent of total current budget outlays and over
7 percent of GDP in 1981.
9.       The main objectives of the Fifth Development Plan were achieved, except
for the employment target, and open and hidden unemployment remains a serious
problem for the Tunisian economy at present. The actual GDP growth fell short by
1.2 percentage points of the planned rate of 7.3 percent p.a., mainly because of
poor performance in agriculture, while the investment objective of 30 percent of
GDP was fully met. Completion of some large projects in the public sector (steel,
expansion of the oil refinery) was, however, delayed, but private sector
investments, both foreign and national, exceeded Plan targets. Although job
creation objectives were achieved in all non-agricultural sectors except
construction, these sectors could only absorb 90 percent of new job seekers at a
time when migration to Libya and Europe slowed down. The overall unemployment
rate, estimated at about 12 percent of the labor force in 1980, has therefore not
declined.



10.      In 1982 and 1983, the current economic situation suffered a series of
setbacks. GDP in constant prices stagnated in 1982. Three factors accounted for
this poor performance: adverse weather conditions which depressed agricultural
output and consequently, agro-industrial output; recession in Europe which reduced
exports, particularly chemicals and tourism; and exceptional technical problems in
key intermediate industries. GDP is estimated to have increased by 4.5 percent in
1983 reflecting a stronger performance in the industrial sector. The slowdown in
outrut, coupled with a large increase in minimum wages and some price
liberalization led to an unusually high inflation (13.7 percent) in 1982. In 1983,
inflationary pressures were slowed down by an administered reduction in producer
prices and sales prices of industrial products and also by an intensification of
price controls. The consumer price index in December 1983 was about 6 percent
above the December 1982 level.  During 1982-83, the current account deficit of the
balance of payments experienced a sharp deterioration reflecting: the fall in
petroleum export receipts and the reduction in exports of agricultural products;
the increase in imports of food products and consumer goods; and the slowdown in
tourism due to the unfavorable international economic environment. The
deterioration in the trade balance led to a steady drain in the level of foreign
reserves in the first half of 1983 and recourse to commercial credit. This trend
was reversed in the second half of the year as petroleum exports picked up. Gross
reserves at the end of 1983 were equivalent to 1.3 months of imports.
II.      Medium-term Prospects.  The main objectives of the Sixth Development Plan
(1982-86) are employment generation, export promotion, and more rapid growth in the
three least developed regions of the country (North-West, Center-West, and South).
Sectoral priority is to be given to agriculture, engineering industries, and
tourism.
12.      The outlook for investment and growth will partly depend upon future
developments in the oil and natural gas sector. Oil and gas exploration programs
under way have been encouraging. Based on known reserves, and with the possible
exploitation of smaller fields that recently became profitable, it is generally
expected that domestic oil and gas production could be stabilized at about its
present annual level of 5-6 million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the
decade. Barring large new oil or gas discoveries, and given the rise in domestic
demand for energy, Tunisia will have to face the consequences of a decline in
energy revenues. To meet this challenge, the Government has introduced policy
changes in the Sixth Plan to reduce the associated economic and social strains, and
avoid major balance-of-payments problems.
13.      The GDP growth objective of the Sixth Plan of 6.0 percent per annum will
be difficult to achieve in view of the poor performance in 1982 and 1983. Growth
of traditional exports (tourism, textiles, and phosphate-based chemicals) will be
insufficient to compensate for the projected decline in oil export revenues.
Production diversification and export promotion, in particular for engineering
products, will also take time to bear fruit. The Government's strategy, therefore,
rightly aims at containing domestic demand in order to control import growth.
Terms of trade are unlikely to improve. This would not only affect the external
account but also result in slower growth of domestic savings, particularly public
savings.
14.      Consequently, the Sixth Plan projected a decline in the fixed investment
rate from 30 percent of GDP in 1977-81. A major objective was also to correct
recent capital intensive biases in projects by appropriate sectoral allocation of
investments. These two objectives will be difficult to achieve; investment



- 4 -
remained at 30 percent of GDP in 1983 and job creation fell short of the projected
level. Therefore, more resources will have to be allocated to small and medium
manufacturing enterprises in the underdeveloped regions, in order to ease the
unemployment problem and reduce income disparities between rural and urban areas.
Since June 1981, a new set of policy measures has targeted the incentive system
toward this objective. The Investment Code was modified to establish industrial
zones and offer direct subsidies for job creation in new projects in underdeveloped
regions, and a Promotion Fund for Handicrafts and Household Workshops was created.
In order to promote a more efficient technical and financial management of the
public and private modern sectors, the Plan assigns a major role in project
promotion and supervision to an expanded network of new development banks (two
opened in 1981 and four in 1982); they are joint ventures with foreign investors
and should prevent the pressure on the budget to finance too large a share of
public investments.
15.      Increasing budgetary constraints require a reassessment of the present
policies of subsidies for energy, basic foodstuffs, transportation, and public
sector enterprises. In addition, interest rate policy and a better-adjusted fiscal
system should be used to restrain final consumption and stimulate savings. As
first encouraging steps in 1981 and 1982, sizeable price increases in energy and
agricultural products were implemented, and the whole interest rate structure was
revised upward, rates on saving accounts and term deposits and industrial lending
rates being increased by 1.5 to 2 points. Earlier this year when the 1984 budget
was presented, the Government announced its decision to increase bread prices
sharply and remove the subsidy on bread, cereals and cereal products, a subsidy
which represents about 2 percent of GNP. The price increases triggered social
unrest and the Government had to abrogate its decision and revise the initially
presented budget. There were sizeable increases of the legal minimum wage in 1982
and 1983, mainly to improve the low-wage earners' living conditions, but the
Government recognizes that overall wage and salary policies should keep labor cost
increases (including social costs chargeable to enterprises) in line with
productivity increases, particularly since Tunisia wants to stimulate tourism, and
improve its international competitiveness for exports of manufactured goods.
16.      Social Issues.  Since independence, the country has come a long way
towards meeting the basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty.
About 16 percent of GDP is now devoted to social programs. However, unemployment
among the young and regional pockets of poverty still present serious social
problems.
17.      Recently published data show that the continued attention of the
Government to poverty oriented social programs resulted in a reduction of the ratio
of people under a minimum standard income from 17 percent of the total population
in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. During this period, the overall number of this
group declined in urban areas but remained the same in some rural zones in the
center of the country, as a consequence of poor agricultural performance. Income
differentials between the coast (East) and the interior (West) widened, in part
because the system of price controls and subsidies as well as budgetary
expenditures had a weak redistributive impact. The Government is focusing on the
zones of poverty, with a view to eradicating them before the end of this century.
Reducing the demographic growth rate is considered an important factor in this
endeavor.
18.      Education expenditures rank first among budgetary outlays.  The
comprehensive education system provides free access to all students, and the gross
enrollment rate has reached 100 percent for primary education, and 30 percent for



- 5 -
secondary education. The performance of the system could, however, be improved by
expanding vocational training programs, iumproving their relevance and
responsiveness to labor demand, and to the special needs of the poor and rural
groups.
19.      Public health services are second among social expenditures, and their
overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the vital statistics
(para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in the availability of
hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel; health services have concentrated
largely on curative medicine, and the medical reEerral system is not functioning
properly. As a result, the rural poor are often excluded. Closely linked to
nutritional deficiencies, infant mortality remains high relative to other
middle-income countries.
20.      In the Sixth Plan, investment in education, health, housing and water
supply focuses more on deprived areas, provided at lower costs (health, shelter),
and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (training). In education, two
reforms are under discussion: the first one would provide a nine-year schooling
period for all children, and the second would create polytechnical high schools
combining basic and technical education. In health, the Sixth Plan allocates more
resources to preventive medicine and nutrition education. Finally, as regards
housing, public subsidized programs are directed to the neediest population
groups. The housing demand from households above the minimum standard income can
be satisfied by the private sector.
21.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  During the second half of the
1970s, the growth of foreign borrowing was modest and a growing share of foreign
funds was provided by public sourcc- at relatively soft terms. Foreign loan
commitments averaged about $700 million per annum, 62 percent of wnich in the form
of official assistance (ODA). About 65 percent of ODA commitments came from
bilateral sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Canada, and
some oil-surplus countries. About 24 percent of total ODA was committed by the
Bank Group, and some 11 percent by other multilateral sources. Borrowing terms
were favorable, averaging 5.8 percent interest and 18.5 years maturity, including a
grace period of 5 years. At the end of 1983, debt outstanding and disbursed was
estimated at about $3.7 billion, or 45 percent of GNP; debt service was 17 percent
of export revenues in 1983.
22.      The current account deficit reached $740 million in 1983, and is projected
to grow to about $1.0 billion in 1986. New loan commitments from abroad are
projected at $1.2 billion per year on average (at 1983 dollar exchange rates) with
ODA providing half of the total. The external debt-service ratio is not expected
to increase significantly in the medium term.
23.      Prospects depend on a timely implementation of policy changes to curb
domestic demand, promote exports, and improve public sector savings. It should be
noted, however, that the Sixth Plan recommended a low growth scenario in order to
preserve the country's relatively high financial stability and creditworthiness.
This objective remains even more crucial if the country is to succeed in mobilizing
the large inflows of direct foreign capital assumed in the Plan. Foreign
investments were small during most of the 1970s but have gained momentum during the
last three years in line with increased activities in the oil sector, and new
incentives offered to foreign investors in manufacturing. The newly created
development banks (para. 14) are expected to play a significant role in this
context.



24.      In conclusion, the balance-of-payments outlook in the medium term will
depend on developments in the hydrocarbon sector and on the policy changes to be
initiated during the next few years. Considering its long record of prudent
balance-of-payments and external debt management, there are good grounds to assume
that the Government will apply the necessary policy changes and Tunisia will
continue to be creditworthy for future Bank lending. The Bank's close dialogue
with the Government on several policy aspects at the macro and micro levels will be
pursued in connection with the implementation of these policy changes.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
25.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia sixty-two loans and ten IDA
credits amounting respectively to $1,293.2 million and $75.2 million (net of
cancellations) of which forty loans and credits have been fully disbursed. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
of March 31, 1984. Project implementation is generally satisfactory. As of
December 31, 1983, overall disbursements amounted to 54 percent of appraisal
estimates, which is in line with experience in other countries in the region.
Disbursement performance for irrigation, industrial finance and port projects has
generally been above the country average, while longer than average disbursement
delays have been experienced for agricultural credit, education, highway. urban and
fisheries projects, due to project specific problems that are being addressed
through supervision missions and sector discussions. In a number of sectors,
important institutional improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies
have been created or strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related
sectors or subsectors.
26.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to: (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular emphasis on
rural areas, and on operations targeted to low-income population groups; (c)
promote export-oriented policies, technological changes and improvements in labor
productivity; and (d) provide selective support for the development of basic
infrastructure and for institution building in key public services. An important
feature of this strategy is to support the Tunisian authorities in the timely and
well-coordinated preparation of projects through missions and advice by Bank staff,
the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program, the use of the Bank's Project
Preparation Facility, and technical assistance projects. The Bank is also
supporting the Government in its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic
resources, and to secure cofinancing for the projects it assists. The latter is
particularly important for projects in the industrial sector where foreign
financing agencies rely often on the Bank's project appraisal and supervision
capabilities, and in view of the extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
27.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for long-term
investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for urban and social
development including water supply, sewerage, education, health, urban development
and the Tunis planning and public transport project has accounted for 34 percent of
Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia since 1971. Lending for transport, power and
tourism infrastructure has accounted for 27 percent. Agriculture and fisheries
have received 22 percent, and industrial and hotel financing, mostly through the
Economic Development Bank of Tunisia (BDET), 17 percent of total commitments. In
addition, the Bank has made two loans for technical assistance, the first aimed at
improving the Government's capability for project identification and preparation in
the agriculture, industry and energy sectors, and the second designed to
rationalize and develop the mining industry.



-7 -.
28.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its efforts in key
sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social development.
It will also assist projects which address the needs of the least developed regions
of the country, develop research capabilities, increase productivity, and help
reduce the gap between income groups and between urban and rural areas. Particular
attention will be paid to employment creation, institution building and
agricultural development. In addition to the proposed Fourth Power project,
proposed future lending would include projects for agricultural development in
northwestern Tunisia, rural health, urban and regional development, irrigation,
industry and energy.
29.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program. It will
be centered on the analysis of economic issues and policies related to the
necessary adaptation process from a petroleum exporting to a petroleum importing
country. This analysis, which was included in the special economic report entitled
"Tunisia - Review of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)" (No. 4137-TUN), dated
March 16, 1983 and June 29, 1983, is being pursued through a special study on
industrial employment creation. A review of the mid-term performance under the
Sixth Plan took place in April 1984.   Further economic and sector work will
include a financial sector study, an industrial policy review, studies of
educational finance and administration and housing finance, and a review of the
transport sector.
30.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 30 percent of total public
commitments to Tunisia during 1979-1982. Their share in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1982 (including loans from private
sources) was about 12 percent, and their share in debt service during 1982 was
11 percent. The share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external
debt is expected to be about 11 percent and their share in the debt service to
increase to about 13 percent through 1986.
31.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest in
tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel
development), in Industries Chimiques du Fluor (ICF), which produces aluminum
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated
tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia totalled $8.5
million, as of March 31, 1984. Currently, IFC is considering a project to
rehabilitate and modernize the fluorspar mine supplying ICF, the creation of a
leasing company which would be Tunisia's first, and a fertilizer project which
would produce phosphoric acid for export.
*                                   PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
32.      Energy Resources.  Oil and gas are Tunisia's main energy resources.
In addition, the country has a modest hydropower potential, some lignite
deposits and geothermal resources as well as the possibility for using
renewable energy, notably solar and wind energy.
33.      Oil and Gas.   Proven reserves of oil are estimated at 70 million
tons and those of gas at 66 million tons of oil equivalent (toe). El Borma,
in the south-western desert area bordering Algeria, and Ashtart, offshore in
the Gulf of Gabes, are the major oil fields contributing about 85 percent to
total oil production. Both fields are depleting rapidly and will cease



production in the 1990s. Gas is produced at El Borma as associated gas, and
from a small reservoir at Cap Bon. In addition. starting in 1984, Tunisia is
receiving natural gas as royalty (in kind or cash) for the transit through its
territory of the Algeria-Italy intercontinental pipeline, and purchases, under
a three-year contract, additional gas from Algeria. Major untapped gas
reserves exist offshore in the gulf of Gabes (Miskar and Jugurtha) and onshore
at El Franig near the Chott El Djerid. The US oil company AMOCO is finalizing
the appraisal of El Franig, and a decision on whether or not to develop this
field is expected in the near 'uture.  Given the depletion of its oil
resources, natural gas is expected to play an increasingly important role in
meeting Tunisia's medium-term energy requirements.
34.      Other Resources.   Tunisia's small hydropower potential amounting to
65 MW has already been exploited. It includes the recently commissioned Sidi
Salem plant, part of a multi-purpose project in which the Bank is
participating. Poor-quality lignite deposits exist in two locations and are
presently under study. Underground hot water resources exist at several
locations. The extent of this geothermal potential is being investigated in
the context of the Bank-assisted Technical Assistance project (Ln. 2197-TUN).
Several experimental schemes are pianned or are underway to determine the
viability of exploiting Tunisia's renewable energy resources. Two
demonstration projects are testing the potential of utilizing solar energy for
lighting, water pumping for irrigation and water heating in rural areas.
Although these systems operate satisfactorily, the cost per KWh generated for
most applications exceeds by far that of energy produced by conventional
generating plants. The economics of solar water heaters, however, have
already been established. By 1986, about 10,000 locally manufactured units
could be installed, provided a public information and education campaign is
undertaken, possibly accompanied by a credit scheme to encourage purchasers.
The Tunisian Electricity and Gas Company (STEG) is working on this project. A
number of projects to demonstrate the viability of utilizing wind energy are
under implementation including a scheme to collect data on wind and solar
regimes in different parts of the country which is financed under the
Bank-assisted Tecnnical Assistance project.  Experiwental projects to test the
use of wind ene-gy for generating electricity are planned at Cap Serrat and on
the island of Kerkennah, partly with bilateral assistance (USAID).
35.      Energy Demand and SupplY. Since 1976. commercial energy consumption
has increased by about 8 percent per year and reached about 3 million toe in
1982. In 1982, oil and gas contributed 96 percent of commercial energy
consumption, the remainder being supplied by hydropower and imported coal.
The growth in energy demand exceeded that of the economy as a whole (GDP grew
at about 5 percent per year during the same period) and was to a large extent
due to the rapid growth of energy-intensive industries, such as building
materials and phosphate processing.  During the same period, oil and gas
production increased by about 2 percent per year, from about 4.8 million toe
to 5.5 million toe. While energy consumption is expected to continue to grow
at about the same rate as during the past six years, oil and gas production
combined is likely to remain at the present level until the early 1990s by
which time Tunisia is expected to become a net importer of energy.
36.      Energy Pricing and Conservation.  Until 1980, the Government followed
a deliberate policy of minimizing the cost of energy products to the major
users as a means of controlling inflation, and promoting industrial
development and the use of local energy resources. While this policy of low



energy prices probably bad some effect in meeting these objectives, it also
encouraged the creation of energy-intensive industries and discouraged energy
conservation. To ensure an economic allocation of resources and in line with
agreements reached with the Bank in the context of two loans to the energy
sector (Second Natural Gas Pipeline project - Ln 1864-TUN. and Third Power
project - Ln 2003-TTUN) the Government adopted, in 1980, international prices
as benchmarks for setting internal prices. The objective of reaching parity
with international prices for all petroleum products by December 31, 1986 was
slightly modified under the proposed project to reflect the fact that domestic
prices for some petroleum products already exceed international levels
(Guarantee Agreement, Sections 3.03 and 4.01). As a result of substantial
successive price increases since the adoption of this policy, retail prices of
gasoline now exceed international prices by a wide margin, those of liquid
petroleum gas and diesel oil have nearly reached parity, while heavy fuel oil
and kerosene prices are now about two-thirds of international levels. In
addition to the introduction of appropriate pricing, the Government is taking
measures to encourage energy conservation among major users- With assistance
from USAID, it has recently completed an energy modeling, conservation and
data collection study. Independent studies on six major energy consuming
areas (industry, agriculture, transportation, households, trade and
institutional users) are underway. In addition, energy audits of major
industries have been initiated (partly financed under the Bank-assisted
Technical Assistancc project) with a view toward introducing energy saving
measures in these industries.
Sector Organization
37.      Tunisia's energy sector is managed by the Ministry of National
Economy through five directorates under the leadership of a Director General,
and a number of state-owned enterprises. In the oil subsector, the Tunisian
Company for Petroleum Activities (ETAP) coordinates petroleum exploration and
production which is undertaken by foreign companies and in partnership with
such companies. The Tunisian Refinery Company (STIR) operates the oil
refinery, and the National Petroleum Distribution Company (SNDP) shares the
local market of refined petroleum products with several foreign private
firms. The Tunisian Electricity and Gas Company (STEG) is responsible for the
generation and distribution of power as well as for the distribution of
manufactured and natural gas.
The Electricity Subsector
38.      Demand and Suppl .  Demand for electricity in Tunisia during the past
twenty years increased on the average by about 12 percent per year with growth
*         rates of about 17 percent per year in the late 1970s.  STEG is supplying about
90 percent of this demand, the remainder being met through autogeneration by
several industries that sell any surplus to STEG. Following the general
slowdown of economic activity, the increase in the demand for electricity
declined sharply in 1982, but recovered to about 12 percent in 1983, and is
expected to decline gradually to about 9 percent per year by the end of the
decade. STEG's power generating facilities are largely interconnected and
comprise four steam plants (548 MW installed capacity), five hydro plants (65
MW) and nine combustion turbine plants (489 MW). Some small diesel plants (4
MW) serve isolated areas. A major investment in STEG's generating capacity is
underway through the construction of a 4x160 MW steam power stat~Dn at Rades,
wnich is being implemented in two phases for commissioning in 1985 and 1989.



- 10 -
39.      The main 225-kV transmission system is about 2,400 km long, with
medium and low voltage distribution lines of about 13.800 km and about 16,600
km length, respectively. In 1982, medium and high voltage consumers accounted
for about 72 percent (2,014 GWh) of STEG's total sales and about 820,000 low
voltage consumers (mostly domestic consumers in urban areas) for the balance.
STEG's 1983/88 investment program in the distribution system. estimated at
$290 million equivalent, comprises: a) rural electrification aimed at
increasing the level of access to electricity in rural conglomerations from 37
percent in 1982 to 67 percent in 1988, b) rehabilitation and extension of
urban systems aimed at improving the reliability of service and reducing                O
system losses from 14.2 percent to 13.2, and c) extension of medium and high
voltage systems to new industries and urban consumers. STEG's total 1983-88
investment program which is estimated at about $930 million exceeds that of
the previous six years (1977-82) by about 35 percent in real terms, mostly due
to the 'lumpy' character of the investment in generation facilities. The Bank
has reviewed this program, considers its size and contents reasonable, and
expects resources to be available to finance it.
4G-      Electricity Tariffs.   The Government authorizes tariffs, acting on
proposals by STEG. While STEG's tariff proposals are based on the principle
of covering long-run marginal cost (LRMC), in addition to seeking to meet the
company's financial requirements, the Government also takes socio-economic
considerations into account in deciding on average tariffs as well as tariffs
to certain groups of consumers. STEG benefits from relatively low fuel prices
(it receives associated gas from El Borma at a nominal price and still pays
prices below the international level for purchases of fuel oil) and receives
contributions from the Government for rural electrification (para. 46). In
addition, in line with the Government's policy of promoting the
industrialization of the country, large industrial consumers are
cross-subsidized through particularly favorable tariff levels. As a result,
while STEG's average tariff is close to LRMC (92 percent), tariffs to
high-voltage consumers are only about 74 percent of  MC.  The level of
electricity tariffs has been the subject of a continuing dialogue between the
Government. STEG and the Bank in the context of previous Bank operations in
the energy sector. In the process, the price of fuel oil to STEG increased
from about 25 percent of international levels in 1976 to about 67 percent at
present, in spite of greatly increased international prices and a weakening of
the dinar vis-a-vis the dollar by about 60 percent over the past 2 years
(para. 36). In addition, to avoid delays in Government approval of tariff
increases requested by STEG following increases in fuel oil prices, the
Government and STEG agreed with the Bank in the context of the Third Power
project (Ln. 2003-TUN) that such increases be passed on to electricity
consumers within two months of their effectiveness. This agreement was
confirmed for the proposed project (Loan Agreement, Section 5.08 and Guarantee
Agreement, Section 3.06). Furthermore, during negotiations an understanding
was reached with STEG and the Government that the structure of electricity
tariffs, as amended by future rate increases, would increasingly reflect the
economic cost of supplv at different voltage levels. By November 30, 1984,
STEG and the Bank would agree on a methodology for calculating LRMC, and
determine the terms of reference for a study which would (i) compare
electricity tariffs for different consumers with their LRMC; and (ii) analyze
the impact of bringing tariffs in line with LRMC. The study, including
conclusions and recommendations, would be furnished to the Bank by April 30,
1985 for review and comment. STEG, the Government and the Bank would agree,
by September 30. 1985 on an action plan to implement the recommendations of
the study. which the Government and STEG would subsequently follow.



- 11 -
Bank Role in the Sector
41.      Since 1971, the Bank has supported the development of Tunisia's
energy resources through six operations with STEG. The first project helped
finance a gas pipeline from El Borma to Gabes through a loan of $7.5 million
(Ln 724-TE-N of February 25, 1971).  A second loan of $12 million (Ln 815-TOIN
of April 20, 1972) assisted in the installation of 2x20 MW combustion
turbines and the expansion of the transmission and distribution system. A
$14.5 million loan (Ln 1355-TUN of January 12, 1977) financed the installation
of additional 7x21 MW combustion turbines. STEG completed these first three
projects successfully. The Project Performance Audit Reports on the first two
projects (PPAR nos. 1078 and 2521) noted the catalytic effects of these
projects in many areas, including STEG's improved financial performance and
technical capability, and their contribution to making STEG a well-organized
and efficient utility. The third project, -n addition to achieving its
physical and institution-building objectives, also contributed significantly
to introducing a more ratio ial energy pricing policy, a subject that was
pursued further through the Second Gas Pipeline project ($37 million loan, Ln
1864-TUN of October 22, 1980 as amended or July 15. 1981) and the Third Power
project ($41.5 million loan, Ln 2003-TUN of July 15, 1981). Loan 1864-TUN
assists in financing the construction of a gas pipeline distribution system to
convey royalty gas from the Algeria-Italy intercontinental pipeline to the
major consumption centers in Tunisia. The implementation of the project is
progressing satisfactorily, and the construction of the major trunk lines is
substantially completed. Tunisia started to receive natural gas through this
system in late 1983. Loan 2003-TUN helps finance the first three years of
STEG's five-year (1982-86) distribution program. The physical implementation
of the project is ahead of schedule, but disbursements are lagging behind due
to the need to revise the procurement documents for the supply of equipment
and materials in accordance with Bank guidelines. Finally, the Bank has made
available to Tunisia $1.8 million for energy-related studies as part of the
Technical Assistance project ($4.5 million loan, Ln 2197-TUN of October 29,
1982). The energy component of that project provides funds for studies on
petroleum products distribution, renewable and geothermal energy, energy
conservation, and information systems improvement with a view to preparing
investible project in some of these areas. Because of institutional issues,
which are now being overcome, start-up on some of these energy-related studies
has been slow.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
.
42.      During 1979-1980, while preparing for the country's Sixth Development
Plan (1982-86), STEG compiled information relating to the electrification of
about 2000 villages in all parts of the country. Applying a methodology which
had been developed by Tecsult International Limited (Canadian consultants) in
the context of an earlier rural electrification study for Tunisia, STEG used
this information to prepare a least-cost program for the development of the
rural distribution system. The program which is being updated annually was
reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. To ensure the overall economic
viability of the propesed project, an average cost limit per connection of
TD700 ($1045) at end-1983 prices for each Governorate was established. To
develop the urban rehabilitation component of the project, STEG performed
measurements on a representative sample of lines per district, and estimated
the quantities of material and the associated costs for rehabilitating the
system. The proposed project was appraised by the Bank in June/July 1983.



- 12 -
The Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Tunisia - Fourth Power Project" (No. 4817
of June 4, 1984) is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D. C. from March 19 to 23, 1984. The Tunisian Delegation was led
by fr. Berrejeb of the Ministry of Planning and included Messrs. Ramza and
Masmoudi of the Tunisian Electricity and Gas Company. The main features of
the loan and project are listed in the Loan and Project Sumnary and in Annex
IIl. A map showing the project locations is attached.
43.      The Borrower.  The Tunisian Electricity and Gas Company (STEG) was
created in 1962, to take over the operations of seven private utility
companies upon their nationalization. Since then, it has developed into an
efficient, mature, and well-operated public utility. It not only serves a
rapidly-growing number of customers in Tunisia, but also increacingly extends
technical assistance to electricity companies in Arab and francophone African
countries. Most of the tasks which initially required outside assistance,
such as the preparation of studies for rural electrification and the power
generation program, evaluation of bids, updating of tariff studies,
standardization of distribution equipment, are now performed by STEG's own
staff. STEG is also involved in several experimental schemes in the field of
solar and wind energy.
44.      As of end-1982, STEG had a total staff of about 6,700 of which 17
percent were professional, 60 percent skilled technical and administrative and
the remainder unskilled staff. STEG recruits most of its professional
technical staff among graduates of the National Polytechnical School.  A
company-owned training center offers basic training and updating courses to
middle-and lower-level personnel. The Bank assisted STEG in meeting its
training requirements. Loans 815-TU-N and 1431-TUN financed training in
accounting, inventory control, billing and data processing. Loan 2003-TUN is
providing finance for equipment and tools used in the training center as well
as for staff training abroad. The proposed project would continue this
assistance. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that STEG would
furnish to the Bank, for approval by November 30 of each year during project
implementation, an outline of its training program for the following calendar
year (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05 (b)).
45.      STEG's operations are managed from the head office in Tunis which
provides technical support, supervision and coordination to the staff in 27
operational districts. Each district operates and maintains the system in its
jurisdiction, performs surveys and prepares the detailed engineering of new
distribution projects, supervises contractors, conducts meter readings and
distributes electricity bills. While STEG's present organization is adequate
for meeting its tasks, a further strengthening of its decentralized structure
is required. The company is taking satisfactory steps in this direction.
46.      STEG's Financial Performance.  STEG relies heavily on internally-
generated funds and external borrowing to finance its investment program.
During 1977 through 1982, self-financing (including customers' contributions)
and borrowing (from both concessionary and commercial foreign sources)
contributed each about 40 percent of the company's capital expenditures which
totalled about $600 million during this period. The Government financed about
12 percent of the investment program, either through support of the rural
electrification program or capital increases. This is a very satisfactory
position by comparison with other countries in the region. Existing covenants
under Loan 2003-TUN established a debt service coverage by net revenues of at



- 13 -
least 1.5 times and accounts receivable equivalent to no more than 90 days of
sales. STEG has, since 1981, met its debt service covenant, and is expected
to meet it over the next few years. At the same time, accounts receivable
decreased substantially over the past few years and are now close to a level
acceptable under the existing agreement with the Bank.
47.      Loan 2003-TUN also established that STEG achieve a rate of return on
revalued net assets -^ at least 8 percent. except in years when petroleum
product prices increase by at least 20 percent, in which a minimum rate of
return of 6 percent would be acceptable. However, the reduction in the growth
of electricity sales in 1982 (para. 38), as well as the absence of any
increases in electricity tariffs in 1983, decreased the rate of return on net
assets in 1983 to about 6 percent, which, since petroleum product prices did
not increase in that year, is below the minimum level agreed with the Bank.
In 1984, a tariff increase of about 10 percent effective June 1, 1984, will
allow a rate of return of about 5 percent. Civen the economic and social
considerations affecting the timing of electricity rate increases, it is
recommended that the Bank accept the lower rates of return for 1983 and 1984.
To ensure STEG's financial viability, assurances were obtained during
negotiations on the implementation of a financial action plan (Loan Agreement,
Sector 5.07 (a) and Guarantee Agreement, Section 3_05 (a)). In this context,
the Government and STEG confirmed the following measures to deal with STEG's
cash-flow problems in 1984: (i) increasing STEG's equity capital by a
Government contribution of TD3 million to finance investments in electricity
operations; (ii) rescheduling TD4.1 million of STEG's debt service payments
due to the Government; (iii) postponing TD3 million of planned investments to
later years; (iv) limiting increases in STEG's salary bill to TDZ million (or
8 percent above the 1983 salary bill); and (v) additional long-term borrowing
from local development banks of about TD8 million.
48.      Assurances were also obtained on a realistic schedule for complying
with the previous rate of return covenant, by setting a minimum rate of returr
of 5 percent each in 1985 and 1986, 7 percent in 1987 and 8 percent thereafter
(Loan Agreement, Section 5.04 (a) . The provisions under the existing (Third
Power Project) Loan Agreement were modified accordingly (Loan Agreement,
Section 8.01). The Government confirmed to the Bank that it would consider
introducing, by July 1985, measures to comply with the agreed return on assets
for that year. By June 30, 1986, STEG would review with the Government and
the Bank its financial projections for 1987-91 to determine whether or not the
financial obiectives, including the minimum rate of return, remain appropriate
(Loan Agreement, Section 5.07 (b) and Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.05 (b)).
Furthermore, assurances were obtained from STEG during negotiations that it
would submit by October 31 of each year to the Government and the Bank a
forecast showing the expected rate of return for the current and the following
years and the assumptions on which the computations are based, together with a
statement of any action which STEG intends to take to achieve its financial
objectives (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04 (c)). Assurances were received from
the Government that it would, based on STEG's forecasts, furnish to the Bank
by December 31 of each year, starting in 1985. a program of actions, including
tariff adjustments, which it will take to help STEG achieve its financial
objectives, and subsequently implement such actions (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.02). As regards STEG's receivables management, the Tunisian
delegation informed the Bank during negotiations that STEG intended to
finalize agreements with all municipalities on a rescheduling of their
electricity arrears debts by the end of 1984. To facilitate the payment by



- 14 -
municipalities of their future electricity bills, a proposal is presently
being considered by Government to extend the coverage of a municipal surtax
levied on electricity sales and collected by STEG on behalf of the
municipalities together with electricity bills, in order to apply it also to
medium and high-voltage consumers. To encourage a tighter receivables
management, assurances were obtained from STEG during negotiations that the
ceiling for receivables would be maintained at 90 days of the average sales of
electricity over the previous twelve months. The definition of accounts
receivable was clarified by explicitly defining "receivables" as all billed
receivables (whether or not payment is overdue) and by including arrears which
were rescheduled by agreement (Loan Agreement, Section 5.06).
49.      Proiect Obiectives.  The proposed project aims at extending
electricity service in rural areas and improving the quality of service to
urban customers. It will connect to the national grid about 35,000 new
domestic customers, 1,500 pumping stations and 50 commercial and small
industrial consumers in about 700 villages and improve the quality of
electricity service to about 130,000 existing customers in about 60 cities.
In addition, the project will help improve STEG's operational efficiency by
reducing system losses, strengthen its technical competence by providing
tools, equipment and training and assist in rationalizing energy pricing.
50.      Project Description.  The proposed project, a continuation of the
Third Power project (Ln 2003-TUN), would support STEG's 1985-87 investment
program for the development of rural and urban distribution systems. It
comprises the following components:
(i}  Rural Electrification.  About 1,400 km of medium-voltage lines and
1,600 km of low-voltage lines would be erected and transformers of
about 25-LMVA capacity wuuld be installed.
(ii) Urban Rehabilitation. About 1,100 km of medium-voltage lines and
1,000 km of low voltage lines would be erected and 400 transformers
of about 40-MVA caFacity would be installed.
(iii) Equipment, Tools and Training. Construction, erection and testing
equipment, vehicles, and tools as well as training (about 70 persons
for a total of about 120 staff-months) would be provided to
facilitate the implementation of the project and improve STEG's
technical capabilities.
51.      Project Cost and Financing Plan.   The total cost of the project is
estimated at $82.9 million of which $38.6 million in foreign exchange. These
costs include about $6.5 million of taxes and customs duties. The base-cost
estimates are expressed in end-1983 prices. Due to the dispersion of the
project works, the project costs contain 20 percent of physical contingencies
on the base cost of the rural and urban components of the project. No
physical contingencies have been included for purchases of project equipment,
tools and training. Price contingencies have been calculated at 9 percent for
1984 and 8 percent per year for 1985 through 1988 for local costs, and 7.5
percent for 1984, 7 percent for 1985 and 6 percent each for 1986 through 1988
for foreign costs. Training abroad is estimated at about $3500 per
staff-month. The proposed Bank loan to STEG of $38.7 million would finance
the foreign exchange cost of the project and the front-end fee of $96,509.
STEG would cover the interest rate and the foreign exchange risks on the



- 15 -
loan. The local costs would be covered through STEG's internal cash
generation ($24.0 million), customers'contributions ($1.7 million) and the
Government's contribution of 60 percent to the investment cost of the rural
electrification component ($18.6 million).
52.      Project Implementation.  The project will be implemented over four
and or.e-half years (1984 through mid-1988). STEG would be responsible for
project implementation. Basic designs for the distribution facilities,
technical specifications for equipment and materials, and basic bidding
documents are already available from previous works financed under the Third
Power project. STEG's district offices have started detailed engineering
design work including topographic surveys. Preparation of detailed
engineering design and tender documents for the procurement of goods and works
that would be implemented in 1985 would take place through 1984 and continue
thereafter for the subsequent implementation years. Assurances were obtained
from STEG at negotiations that it would submit to the Bank for approval by
November 30 of each year, a list of villages for which electricity service
would be provided during the following year, together with the related
financing plans (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05 (a)).
53.      Procurement and Disbursement.  Contracts for the supply of goods
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines at an estimated total value of $49.5 million
and shall be grouped to the extent possible. Since local manufacturers are
expected to bid for about 40 percent of the distribution equipment and
materials, they would benefit from a preference margin in bid comparisons of
up to 15 percent of the c.i.f. price cf imported goods or the customs duty,
whichever is less. Limited international tendering according to Bank
guidelines would be allowed for small quantities of goods, not exceeding
$200,000 per contract and $700,000 in the aggregate. Bidding documents for
all contracts exceeding $500,000 would be subject to Bank approval before
tendering. Meters and poles estimated to cost $4.3 million and not financed
by the Bank would be purchased locally through directly-negotiated contracts.
Contracts for installation, erection and civil works estimated to total $18.0
million and not financed by the Bank would be awarded on the basis of STEG's
local competitive bidding procedures, through direct negotiations with
contractors, or whenever work on live lines for urban rehabilitation is
involved (estimated to cost $4.5 million) by STEG's own staff. Due to the
geographical dispersion of project works, individual installation, erection
and civil works contracts would be small (up to $100,000) and are unlikely to
attract foreign companies.  The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against
(i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures of directly imported goods and 80
percent of local expenditures of locally manufactured or purchased goods; (ii)
100 percent of foreign expenditures for overseas training; and (iii) the
front-end fee on the Bank loan. The Closing Date of the loan would be
December 31, 1988, six months after the estimated completion date of the
project.



- 16 -
Summary of Proposed Procurement Plans /L
(US$ million)
Procurement Method              Total
Proiect Component                 ICB      LIT       LCB     Other       Cost
Electrical plant materials        33.2     0.4        -       4.3         37.9
(25.2)   (0.3)      -         -        (25.5)
Installation and erection          -         -      12.6      5.4  /2    18.0
Engineering, construction          -         -        -      10.0  /3    10.0
supervision
Equipment, tools                  16.3     0.3        -       0.4         16.9
and training                   (12.5)   (0.2)       -      (0.4)       (13.1)
49.5     0.7      12.6     20.1         82.9
(37.7)   (0.5)      -       (0.4)      (38.6)
11 Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank,
frond-end fee excluded.
/2 Force account, and negotiated contracts.
13 Force account.
54.      Auditing and Monitoring.  Under Loan 2003-TUN, STEG's financial
statements are to be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and submitted within five months after the end of each fiscal year.   While
STEG has used acceptable procedures to select auditors, the preparation of
financial accounts and submission of audit reports has frequently been
delayed, mainly due to delays in obtaining data from decentralized reporting
units and bottlenecks with STEG's computer system. Although these
difficulties are now being resolved, a slightly longer period for submission
of audited accounts, of six months after the end of each fiscal year, was
agreed upon during negotiations and the existing (Third Power Project) Loan
Agreement was modified accordingly (Loan Agreement, Sections 5.02 (b) and
8.02).
55.      STEG improved its management information system recently through the
acquisition of new computer equipment. This replaced and expanded the
previous system which had been in use since 1974 and had become largely
inadequate and outdated. In addition, STEG recently started a program to
improve its operating efficiency and its data collection and evaluation
methods, and to reduce system losses. This program was discussed during
negotiations and an understanding was reached on further progress. Progress
would be monitored by a system of indicators relating to productivity and
efficiency of the company's operations, and against an agreed timetable for
the introduction of improved data collection and evaluation methods. These
would help the company refine its electricity demand forecasts and investment
planning capability.



- 17 -
56.      Environmental Aspects.  The project would have no adverse environ-
mental impact. Possible adverse aesthetic effects would be kept to a minimum
by suitable routing of overhead lines.
57.      Benefits and Risks.  The project would help STEG meet the
Government's objectives of extending electricity service in rural areas and
improving the quality of service in urban areas. As principal alternatives in
achieving this objective in rural areas, STEG has considered providing service
through isolated generating stations or through connecting consumers to the
main grid.  The latter proved to be the least-cost solution.  Benefits
associated with the rural component include those reflected by incremental
revenues from the sale of electricity and connection and meter charges, and
the net fuel savings to consumers.  For the urban rehabilitation component, in
addition to quantifiable benefits, such as incremental sales attributable to
the expansion of the system, unquantifiable benefits are the increased
reliability of supply, and a reduction in system losses. In view of the
importance of unquantifiable benefits for the urban component, and the major
share of the urban component in the project, no economic rate of return (ERR)
was estimated for the project. However, the ERR on STEG's overall investment
program of which this project is an essential part, is estimated at 12 percent
and thus above the opportunity cost of capital in Tunisia, estimated at 10
percent. The project presents no special risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.      The draft Loan Agreement between Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricite
et du Gaz (STEG) and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Republic of Tunisia and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III. Through Sections 8.01, 8.02
and 8.03 of the Loan Agreement, the requirements of Sections 5.04, 5.02(b) and
5.08 of the Loan Agreement supersede the provisions of Sections 5.05, 5.02(ii)
and 5.04, respectively, of the Loan Agreement between the Bank and STEG of
July 15, 1981 (Loan 2003-TUN, Third Power project).  Through Sections 4.01 and
4.02 of the Guarantee Agreement, the requirements of Sections 3.03 and 3.06 of
the Guarantee Agreement supersede the provisions of Sections 3.04 and 3.02(b),
respectively, of the Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the Government
of Tunisia of July 15, 1981 (Loan 2003-TUN, Third Power project).
59.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 4, 1984
tWashington, D. C.



- 18 -
ANNEX I
TuLl a                                              Page 1 of 6
1|sun                  - macia umicas sar mr
53153A                               uiFthiMS63  (W9IQM&u AVl3ACB) la
u96                       (MS  60W? LSrELAZ) lb   -
lb         lb        KIDIE tiCADE            Name TNCam
t9udltk    1970- ESTYISfl-    S. AfttCA & AID CAST   LAT. AttICA & C*tt
TOTAL                              IG3.6       163.6       1U.6.
a.-cuz   ua,                        69.6        70.3        72.3
a 0cta   Con)                      210.0       370.0   * 20t                 L340-0                    00Z.S2
al=  aimopm        a  Caur
(KILOGRAQ OF0 C   FL WMVALEIT)     173.0       3M1.0       652.0             610.4                   L407.b
FUIUSIDi  BE  WITSL lufanbc
POIVL&TIOUm "D-U   (5W0SA1SU    42231.0       3127-0      352O.0
EiAm POPMALrnW  CZ 0, TOTAL)        36.0        43.3        32.9               47.4                    63.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONIS
POFULATEOd US TA  Z000 tMLL)                             W10.
SrTATEOMAY FOPULATEI (stud                                L9.5
YEA SrATXOKAY FOP PO E                                   2110
POFUtIATIOsF DENISITY
KE SQ. 10.                        25.8        31.3        38.9               36.0                    35.,
PE  SQ. M. AGI. LAND              60.1        72.9        67.               449.0                    93. .
POgPULAIO  ACE SYjCTUUE CZ)
O-14 YRS                         43.4        46.2        40.7               43.9                    40.1
15-4  YRS                         5Z.5        50.0        55.6               52.3                    55.8
65 AXED ABOVE                      *.2         ] 3.3       3.7                3.3                     4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RAtE (2)
rota                              LI/c         1.9/c       L2/c               2.9                     2.3
tIRA                               1.          3.(         4.0                4.6                      3.7
CRUDE BLATl RATE (PEA TIOUS)        48.9        40.6        34.2               42.3                    31.E
CRUOE DEAlt RATE (PER TIWUS)        2L.0        14.6         9.1               12.0                     6.1
GROSS iLEPROVUCTION 1ATE             3.5         3.2         2.5                3.0                     7. 0
FANILY PLACNINC
ACCEP-ORS. ANAlUAL (THMOS)           .        29.2       160.9
USERS C: OF MAtAED SOlE)             .        10.0        21.3
IVDEX OF FOWD PROD PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       97.0        96.0       127.0              97.5                    113.0
PER CaPlA StUPFLY OF
CALORIES CZ OF REqUIRMENTSS)      d3.0        86.0       l16.O             OZ.3                    111.3
PROTEINS (CRAIS PER DY)           5Z.0        57.0        74.0               72.0                    67.9
OF UNICA ANYIAL AID PULSE        13.0        14.0        23.0/d             17.8                    34_1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE         316.        24.5         9.1               15.2                     S.3
ILDU
LIFE EXPECT. AT *IRT7 (YEARS)       .8.1        54.2        60.6               57.2                     4.b
INFANT NOR.- RATE (PER T-OUS)      15R49       131_3        87_b             104.2                     *2_b
ACCESS TO SAFE ;ATUE (-ZOP)
TO-AL                               4. 9.0                61.01e f           59.1                    b4.a
RBAN                                ..          ..        97.0t              84.9                    77.8
RURAL                               -.                     5-0               J -  5                   44.3
ACCESS ;D) EXCRETA DISPIISAL
(: OF POPULATIUN)
TO-TAL                                        62.0           .                  .                    54.b
LRAh                                . .      100.0        42.01                -.                    69.6
RLRAL                               ..        34.0          ..                ..                     Z9.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         100130.0     5930.0      3690.0             1536.0                  1776.0
POP. EElt NURSING PERSON              ..       730.0       90.U            120.7                   L012.Z
POP. PER dOSPITAL BED
IOTAL                            4LO.0       410.0       460.0             043.3                    ;77.0
URBAN                           230-OiL    310.0        350.0/h            5S.d                    b67.S
RURAL                           1040.0!L    1270.0      1lO/01%           24fZ_0                  1921.b
ADm1SSIOMS PEE ioSPITA LEO            ..        24.1        15.0/b             2b.4                    27.Z
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEdIULD
TOTAL                               ..         5.1,1       5.5L-                                        --
CRLWY                               _.         5.1/1       5.51
RURAL                               s. t7l1                5.6.
AVERAGE sO. or PERSOKSIROOM
TOTAL                               ..         3.2/i       3.1.l
uRBAN                               ..         2.77        2.6                  . 
RURAL                               ..         3.67        3.6...
ACCESS TO ELECT. CZ OF DIWELLINGCS)
TOTAL                                         Z           J4.0/21            46.2
RURBA                                                     68.2               77.6
RURAL                               ..          .6.0                         16.1 
_ _   _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _       _   _   _   _   _    _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _  _ _ _ _ _



-19 -
ANNEX I
T ASL  34                                           Page 2 of 6
TIUI1SI                 - SOCIL DICATUS DTA SHEET
SUNISIA                     inn~~umwa cusps (wuKIO     AVERAGE) in
mosT                      (ST USCErN  EsrTIZ) lb
1960b       197db REST.        !      MIDDLE. na              taor MT >6 
ESTIN&L16  M. AMICA &. MU  EAST    LA?. DKUXCA & CWall
ADJUSTED CiROLLJENTr IATtOS
PRINIY:  YBYAL                     6h.0       101.0       103.0                89.4                    105.0
UUAE                    8a80       12t.0       t11S0               104.8                    10o.3
FELALE                  ;3.0        80.0         88.0               72.4                    103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   12.0        23.0        27.0                *1.7                     40.0
SALE                    19.0        33.0        34.0               5.8                      36.6
FEMLE                    5.0        L13.0       20.0                31.2                     41.2
VOCATIONAL (C OF SECtlDUAY)          Z3.5        11.1        27.3                10.3                     34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            6L.0        47.0        39.0                31.9                     30.7
SECONDARY                          16.0        28.0        20.0                Z3.3                     16.7
ADULr LITERACY RATE (2)              15S5        14_0It      62.0               43.3                      79.5
PASSENGER CAiJSTHOUSA2iD POP         10.5        13.0        18.3tl              18.0                     45.6
RADIO RECEIVERSITHOUlSASID POP       40-3        75.7       157_0               138.1                    228.2
TV RECEIVeRsITTWoIsa  POr             0.1        14.0        47.1                45.6                    106.3
SEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
tI.EREST.) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             L8.6        15.9        43.6                31.0                     64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL XrTSDOACEICAPITA        1.6          ..         1.SJd               1.7                      2.9
0-.AL LABOR FORCE (rAOGS)          L138.0      1215.0      1693.0
FEMALE tPERCLSTJ                    6.0         7.7         8.4                10.7                     Z4.6
AG&ICULTUgE (PERCENT]              5b.0        50.0        35.0               42.5                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENr)                 18.0        21.0        32.0               2T.8                      23.9
PARTICIPATIJN UTE (PENCE4T)
TOTAL                              Z7.0        23.7        25.9                25.6                     31.3
MALE                               50.2        46.2        46_9               454                      4g98
FEMALE                              3.3         3.6         4.4                 5.6                     14.8
ECONOMIC UEPENLE2CY RATIO             1_8         2.1         1.7                 L.8                      1.4
IACOIs DISTIDUTKOS
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
R CELVED AY
IIIGNEST 5: OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..          ..        17 0f
iItGdEST 20: OF USNOLDS              ..          .. A2.0L0                       .        
LOWEST 20: OF HOUSEHOLDS             _.                        o.
LINES! 4O OF tIOUSEHOLDS             ..          ._         15.0fl
FOVEC? TARGET COUrPS
CSTIATED ARSOLCTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                0. ._                24.01d             Z76.1                     289.8
RURAL                                ..          ..        97.07d            L77.1                     184.5
STIMATIU3 CEL.CVC;C felVR.Y LsCCU.E
L:VLt- ;_S; eSX0.A :X
193_OId            -00.0                    519.8
193.0t7            281.3                    172.1
?i;.'.} OF. kIc.N_ul-)j>TE
20.01d             22.0                        -
L:RAL                                 .                     S. i;.OId         30.8
.;a-T AVAILABLE
VaT APPLICA8LE
s j r E S
Lu The grosp .uoeraRe tar .ach itdLaetor are pnpulation-weighted arithmetic eans. Coverage of countrtes anug the
indicators depends an *-ail.billtv of data and is not uniform.
!b  Uonlss other.ise noa.,-. - Jata for 1960  refer to any year between 1959 and 1961: -Data for 1970  betrn 1969 OAn
1971; and  at  f.r  'ost 'ecent EstLrate  between 1919 and L981.
!e  Due to esigration. ppu1latt: n ;roath rate I lo_cr than rate of nitur-  ic-rease; /d 1977; Ic 1982; If Access to
piped w-ter only: /; :9:: Yb 1916: /I 1966; 1 1975.
Based on recent official sources, updated percentages of population having access tO safe water are:
total (70.0). urbar (91.0). rural (46.0).  These figures will be included in the next version of the
social indicators data sheet.



- 20 -                                                                                         ANNEX I
cc111Y"U soctot. emte Erc                                                                      Page   3  of  6
Of   wlt.. t~  a.acetoellyCAA            .....itecc             diectt ...e a-   r.tto   t.P-C   ee               net  htem   O
..ofrlhe  OPt. , . ofcAPlec.-        -L.oeos.att.c.eectntt.Jctfcrec    o...tctlc
a-..  ~~~~~~~~:  ...  .. . . C .....  P_aO   t l.       LI      ~        ~        ~       ~       ~     ~      I.cc.cc.. co  m.o.rrac'.p  f  m
refor..   TrOM%..      -                      .                ,.d             .I
jeff t5  z9in dale.                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Icotatc   1-  too,-otem  PDAtcco - ftp.t.eII- dit.ied by  c rb..o oritict
crcc    coc.L  cro=o,lth.jn0    rto~cftCc Peed,                                               ocr.l'..oo-tl carl...
thi.F!Tc  tilt)    COtP.                                                                            Ocotteect  .r-.beci tiC.t..- melt  eric.. ect dcrit    fOpelt-Rom  Itc.!
00, Ie tiF-i. Rhi~i~- It  tat   a.ttioctittoc  h cirect irc..  rttc.            iiilihte10 y.httf000 etoirtbettO    Ott.ycelRlO*Phtertot i
.01,lOd         Octt ROR I 1t 00L.1                                                                       ho -e toothf,.-.   tt.yotc it'o.  !.ofmttch  It.... rotiCi trieccolto. taPi.R,
OttloCi W%tThflZt'i PU tOfl?O - tthci  ofracoet cohcoertteet of tc.-ftcot     cit etot ctotcrc cot fot..oehtty  itoffod  em, * pd -    cLclic.(dcet ty a,cA cec-
y.i.ct  *tc.c,haRcr   Roeo                    Der O..  cJt1ro   ccc 10,4 hdr.    ;.-I.tlc.r...croh                                                .....et.... .c.1  hc     tfocc-o Ie    cmta  e 
tint..                                                                                           ftoo~~~C_..   ..   1  Lcr,t   tle'fhot. -.I..  L*.tet.  CP     t.LLdd1
ttE                     P.,-htoRene    PthtlC-tto.   'art  0.    rate.
cng  c..trece   tib, ROl, cd til det,                                                 roti. 'eh oftoc.moi  Itococtcot  oatc. tt -, total   'trc. tiria
P.0   ecpRatcO  ye- oco L,          -,dot ChoIr       Ltreotey  ec   forhllt                         nr  Oocoot*c  catcoc                      LIAro.
reect.  Ceoeeeee pet..icct for erettty  .00c  cohere..  f chrcc           hot... c..chc  of rcc.ae         crenctoha. oco"n. iL;ccii"  eeo..`  o.,eht
1ir~Rc ci.sltO  It!.  ctchie  at  L.rt III   cc. t  eCho - cc1.atf    cot                      of  -ctocc   t     it;!  L;b.' ot   rto1            htoec                        a-cotoe
nicre    h    iior    c   h ttlIN.oh  .1cc c-co hhto  INo.                                       ronOeott-c       rct
ee.fl.ctt.tce  R  fcetle   eorrec  o  Rooc  Icelac  cot  eeto            ccccE-1tccrtt-    lto  ceo    a   ttc      ao.trbo    t   oo 
tttoctir. cocottc cototicte -  The. to ccttcoct cclr ocr.. forettery  ratoi  .t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oce.t t).rctencor hot.h.:eoc
t.cI.c   ecefo rftac.rohIce    of.0t  ot rrrioctcctal, cooyctar.cchol- te.I  Let.ac-fctt.-,rae   dol. tleactfe-aL
iiO   tocetottOoW    rclec  ted   cocic   0  he  Itta,              ocI 'ecooc01  ae.itti'  ce.c  to.  cc =ocoootecor-cretto
otfotoNoD.      I 11-yo  ett .to  cOo bo.4-.t  ofrh   cat         0cot-atc-                               fca,cIcl-a   tceottnc    ori L-1 ec 1tte   chitrtico mi b-LI
Ic tt  f.tcet-aite  t  tw  oo  12O.ac  te  et  o   tctc   o                                      ..r   b.   .toec  Lt tffI.ot-   -t.Fh   of;  -primary   tiate;fa
Octli.  rie'tO.acotI..                                                                                caco -ctct.-elcre~... Itttcrrlco   o  cactct- toIt.tLr.c
Trt  hctcic  optet.c  crihi      0  ttor a-t.cttccetar                                          lnt, e-     eIc-l  r    o.   raooteotot                        etec
toftltetimi olco caCtI he  escoet.                             Sctoitato.cO.ee  -ttret, 'ccIo o5 fotalo -                ..ro... oc.ibo.....i1cddot
rooc:ata.c heoetc                                                                 cdtit Roctcc.tre  at toct for  .arc efaercoot rre.ir  Ro"trrt itO
Pet oc. -- cetteceforol 10cc - Ccecccot cc ohooc f er torte.1 totot lice        aee.relty octiotof.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-7-.1
,..ItetM   tcci.e.rct  C0eccM.e-'.11h                        h   t..  b..ccf   tRdoccRt                 occlcte  occ -tot  ;totcc.:c  otho   Croef1 a  c... ctA. oo            dt  eo.ot-
t   ac,eAP,trtO)fa.cdeer   ofyc.te   f ettc                                                       ii   r       tetort-oot   of1 cocotor  ic.hteetoIc
fc,pc11rtcc   tO-l  tiir  o-at) AI,it  fac.                                                           pcel-cotccrach-  rlcyo  ct  ecetro- -to  oodcl  crct. 
fortlortec   cc  els-c    th-C    itRTl.                                                                 0 1;1C.rtftg    f  oa   it  rircloch ot oCt Rfareac L             hccr.         d
pcfotaetwc; RObO. ROil. act ROIl titt.                                                  cat. tocteo --,.,.  'I  licc: thAn ctmbtA  ..r.e I.c. ce  eaaoe     ho... Z,ct
icc.  ertocRw   tlo-ceio    cietcc tOtom" cc F ic....11  rwctoechitthitO
ha    Lral  etciotr citttf     1w-yolei  PpLctccr o                dmi -.rcC .I                C-t-i- lcoe(ottece  'ooyta T..i - oIl  Pyi  ec, recoecr  I cti
ercorie.                                                        ,iYt, 19              ~                A hecter f.      rrfoe.n  rt..dlettct-  TV IccotofrOciehe
oty1                          PO,rl-fl_O Kc-eCMo.oicc...oy.                                           p.Zi..c:.rlc.      LI. cfO..catO-   t..,0            '    caf,.-0c.
o.ah' t*"    .                                                                                               t 1..'t'I.eoc   mtco        ocw.d:eda                                    olt.  Pt
otecottorec.faef..e.r'e-.cRt.f-!:~;-      - I-aL' -                                                                             f -  ..'f.. . - ......   e     elamniaEc..
tonot.  .rodo-*to  '0 t. foot  acete lt.   ytce.ct tooecci-cc   erf te                    c       tey   If-eajwfo -.bit   fio   -ot e  Pei.                  .        .
tat toneto..cyl. oy  ilortoc tr. 1tctofrc .oreoo          ortt  re'?fIWrrCt tcoando c- Eottaloaet  ccrO.1Jb  Aeoltlt  it.c
Ie'doooolh  cfn           to  tp   .  celceRetotore   ilap.                                          r          L9cicoyced.   bcC  ettn    ecirt   htht.eo,trrc
.ooocctttcc aecot to toed tceecolo . o    lice..  DA Wt-tihoccc tEt tecctC- ot  tat. .oc..  oc   i. rcotoe  at  eta   Caorfcc
M.ct'.e    c.t-tec   b   A    ii   cpylltct  ot   o   onltVt-otferotC-'ac     ret  frla   ooro    oeo   e
ic Cet    Ic .thc Cecclc.ctcALL cptaoe    crocat.CIheta   othit OtttCbo   tt:te. lP.fmLCVt lOt  toto.
too ot cottecccbonoc   of afotiric. cd etcctct Ittechfc.ae                                   cccnfec't  - tat-   tc  to:eole.   -cctie.-   -Coocactrlc
cleoctc   fitocec~ftta  tobi  ct  otot   O  rec   fcoeo  cd                                    ttctdt.o -otol,  aCd  to  fec-c  toretec   cc-               bz-t.rcttlo
t'ole feeco.  f dtchI? Pci.   etool  ho totcat  Fccl.    Tcate.tc,attn   oo                                                      O. aeitto tr                  ctc lt    Oc
icttei  r  Coo7    t,rco7C7   rc  o   oe    rt Ita.4..,aoc                                         eecocaeett,,tco p c.-                         W---Cit . oct Rtc- e..   P-c.,J
of dtelc0.10 tcc c.ctcao  tcr .         cerlt;2%. I.cre. td  ta   cco                              o,oce.o    r  fi    oe.le.re
tot   .Itto   r ft .. otoft.tti eat,  ol1 a-%.yoe   orl   fcc                                        c   tital tohd   1ott.1. =          =         QIp7 pt)-lb..dr
tote.                                                                                    tiCCyft_`U   _r  .  ttAd.bhitt
Obtt tiic ttt t-el  o:cOcocoOcoo7   t  -  ..ttot.d            -tee-dtoFtetoec                                Prta-  tt...feo  to- rce  octccitt -1  Cc             Ic hopcLac
a       _ ch   -  -r.0   hlte   oOI  air tre_..at  foIech..ociI er -e. tt                                                 0- ';ccrt  foa%rot  zh rtcot.   ac    ec.cecrtee
ctioctttat fieo  ceteto    OroRCceal t; tto  1070ao  lOOt dotc.                                   OtfeI.-h-b-
Macto                                                                                                ro-cto00     toL,
ccaa  -c   t-1c1--Otottoo;lmo,d d0ac  ee  ata"tccee  oicy   eeZliR=otee   ecL Rte......0hoccto
ccc  f  .f  Wee feree  o  eeotlccl-  ort  urb..0.  cmct                                         corh   ati bycit. .ct..taCoctc lot ot-tctccrocrn                            .  t
taber OC coerti thotot, arboc, act retaIl .0th  re.ewoamto acceec it ncr  atfcrdohlt



- 21 -
NUZ I
Pq 4 of 6
nmm - Sc DUC MM=
P4p1lation: b.5 uillion (id-1981)
GUP per Capita.: 1,423 (1981)
Ama! Gnwi Iau
howft                                      (at M9D  rmm)
(milawon Us                      Pc tsku                       Kati;A    PWitewd
Ltiicato                 at currnt pnces)
lYZ          1977   1978   1979   19W    1961   1982       D13    1964   1915   1986
Grow dometic pco.8t L/           7,905.9        5.3    7.1    7.1    6.0    5.0    1.5         4.5     6.0    5.8    5.6
AgricuLture                    1,W5.6       -1W.2    4.5   -4j      6.1    6.6   -6.7        0.5     4.0    3.9    3.7
ltmtay                        2,4dS.0         9.8    9.0   IL9    9.9    1.6    0.0          6.9     7.3    7.0    6.7
Seviceg                       3,370.7         5.6    7.4    8.7    3.9    8.3    4.9         3.9     6.1    5.9    5.7
tansimptim                      6,297.6        1U.4    5.8    4.6    9.9    7.2    4.7         4.9     7.3    6.2    3.9
Gmnu iumnatzm                    2,370.1        6.9   12.9    3.9    5.8   14.5   -3.7        4.3      1.2    1.0    1.8
Ec   of gmds ani WS              2,903.3        5.5    8.2   23.3    0.7    3.0   -6.5        4.2      7.2    8.3   13.7
Tapos of goods aid WFS          3,665.1        16.7    9.6   14.3    7.2   13.0  -3.2        -1.2      6.3    5.9    7.4
Gzos nzuti pl probt              7,948.2        5.8    7.9    7.5    6.5    5.2    1.6         4.2     5.9    5.6    5.3
GCmu nctionl aizs                1,65U.6       -7.2   14.8   21.8  -7.2   -1.1  -10.8         -5.4     0.5    3.1   11.5
PRICES
GDP deflat                                     76.0   80.1   88.3  100.0  110.9  124.9       140.5
EzduzU  rate                                    2.33   2.40   2.46   247   2.03   1.69         L47
Sham of CDP at _4rat price (2)                         Avwap Amml Icrem  (2)
(aC cit pni)                                        (at coant       )
1971     1976    1D81      1982     1986     1991          1971-76   197641    19386   1986191
Gm   usCic product 1/ 100.0   2W.0    200.0   w1.0    100.0    2o0.0 o.8                        6.0       5.3       4.9
Agri.cultzur        U1.8      18.1     13.6     12.7    U2.5      11.7            8.2       0.4       2.7       3.5
IzrAztry             20.6     25.9      32.1     31.4     30.9     32.2           10.2       7.8       5.7       5.8
Services             47.7     42.9      41.3     42.6     43.6     43.9            8.3       7.2       5.8       5.1
Comaqzioo                82.1     77.5     76.8      79.7     81.5     78.4           9.6       7.5       5.6       3.8
Grns ivestment           20.0     30.4     32.2      30.0     25.9     25.5          14.1       8.6       0.6       4.2
Exportx of goods ad NFS   23.8    29.1     42.1     36.7     41.4      41.3           5.6       7.9       8.2       6.3
Iqix=ts of goods and NFS   25.8   37.1     5l.l    46.4      48.9     45.1           13.1       I.1       5.6       4.0
Gross national proiCt    99.6     98.7     00.9    100.5    99.6    99.2              d.5       6.5       5.4       4.9
;et factor ircm          -0.4    -1.3       0.9      0.5    -0.4    -0.8              -         -         -         -
Gross natijmal savings   17.b    21.1      24.1     20.9      18.U     20.8           2.9       3.4       2.9       8.8
As 2 of GDP
(at cmrtnt  ce.)
1971     1976     1981     1982
PUBLIC FIIIAE
Current  evue                                       21.4     24.2      30.0     32.6
Current iezure                                       18.9     18.5     22.4     24.9
Surplus (*) or deficit (-)                           2.5      5.7       7.5      7.6
Capital expemittuz                                   6.9      11.4      9.2      9.d
'                        Foreyp fiuQcir                                        3.2      1.7      1.4      1.9
1971-76      1976-8t       1981-d6       1986-91
011w. DIDICAIBS
CM2 growud rate (Z)                                  8.4          6.5           5.0           4.9
GNP per capita gmwth rate (2)                        5.4          3.1           2.7           2.3
ICDR                                                2.7           5.4           6.0           5.4
Mzginsl sainj  rate                                 24.0         2b.0          12.2          24.4
mport elasticity                                    1.51          2.02          1.06         0.82
/1 CDP at Nrket prices mid caltSmns at factor cort.
EM CP II-C
%UV 19&.



- 22 -
AI I
page 5 of 6
iql:o    6 5 Li   1981
GMP per Cap: $1.4Z21 (L9W
AmlGui 7a)e
-__                                       cat  WE Prices)
IzraC"                 at aza  Prs
DM2              1977   1978   1979   198D   1981   1Z         1983   I91    19       1986
Mflardz ise  ors              L99.2               9.7    9.6   2017    0.8    3_3    4.6        8.0    7.1    8.8   16..U
CMl oil                        Ib6-            12_ 4 124    124    0.2 -_8   -2.4             8.4  -L         1      O.I
FPim-.                   97.3             4.9  -15.7   25.1  -11.9   -0    -17.9    -Z.7    8.3    8.2    8.2
lbrm ,,ctuzes               1.I25.1             6.6   10.4   33.3    3.6   20.3   15.2        8.6   14.1   13.2   26_3 23
_xdaa~ize i~s                 3.263.9            14.1   10.7   15.       7.7    9.5   -5.5    -L.L    6.1    5.6    7.7
Fo obd.4                                        9.6    7.7   39.6   -6.8   143    -5.0        9.1    2.      5.3    5.0
P?eloem                       383.1            13.8   15.1    9.7   13.5    4.9  -34.7        4.4   11_3    82    21.7 2/
Aed2ily a-A      _a            bv6              5.5   15.4   -2.6   -4.4    4.1   -2.4   -11.1   -0_7    0.0    0.0
oqs                         1ehb69             21.6    6.5   2k9    15B    0.0    5.6    18.2    7.8    7.0    5.6
Price IAc
E;mt jWice iW=                                 54.6   56.7   75.5  10.0 17.4  122.9   122.7    1.9  14L9   151.9
t    price io_                                 72.b   76.6   d5.3  1D0.0    4.4  12LZ    131.8  143.3  155.5  167.4
Term  of trade ime                             75.5   76.6      .5  10.0  102.6  1OL4    93.1   92.0   91.3   90.7
o.ioirx of ir=.dse Traid (Z)                          eacage Am1    1rease (M)
(at cregar prices)                               (at ccscrat prices)
197L   1Y76   B9l   1962   96    1991               1971-76    197"1    1981-66   15S691
Exps                         1M30.0  10.0  100.0  DIUAO   W0.0 1OO.0                 4.1       8.6       10.2       5.7
Cet  Oil                  24-5  .a09   51.5   43.6   34.1   28J7                 4.6       5.8        1.2       0.1
Oes pcimz                 19.2   13.4    5.0    4.9    4.4    4.3               -5.4      -1.9       12.7       5.1
1it-fures                 564   45.7   43.5   51.5   61.5   67.0                 6.4      14.1       17.6       8.1
Lwzts                       lU0.0  1MA0.0 100.U    0.        0.0  100.0             U3.1      11.5       5.5        3-9
Food                      2LZ   L.3   1 1.2   11.3   10.1    6.3                0.6       11.9       2.6      -53
2ecole                     3.9   [1.    19.0   IL;   22.7   30.6               23.2      1W.9         9.7       8 S
nbdumary an Equipar    30.1  J319   2 5.2         5             124d            13.5       8.        -LI       -1.0
Otrmers                   4&:i   41:.44  -. J  .t   51.1   49.h   50.3          W_b        13.5       7.6       4.d3
Sure of Trade wix Lh        mae of rrae ich          gre of Trade wim             atare of Trade wi3 i
imlasria1 COztries (Z)    De-e_____________
Irial Cri75       (:)       gr in Ccuies (Z)               E     s (Z)       Gentrallv Plaxud Caniries (7 )
197U    __75               ____             VW 39i                                159 _  1970   L975   1980
OnD=Di OF 1N >
Exits              70.8    60.1    68.7        -.9    21.7    25.4       13.9   11-1    4.8           9.4    6.1    0-4
li~ts            _859    79.5    614           7.1    10.9      7.7      0.7   o63    7.5             6.3    3.1    3.0
1/ Constant price data at 1980 prces.
21  tixrase in refiixg capaity.
DM C?2C
;V L%41



-23 -
Aef 
MAZ r                        m=am=
Gdn      C   .na   oavm
Papai           6iswn     S 3-
GP pe Cai        SL,AM CO
ISL      a          n        so      on            D91
mm C <wca _&  -57.4 D4.  -3% i -4J                                            -Q.A      7              71XS    -93L9 S-IW   5_T_O n
'QOMB f &wf &                           4WJ    . 5  3.U7-   3.9L    3O8J  3,M                      3.&        ISAGM           U_307
zmmaof wat                           ULS   L596    3.1-   4.3   _ A3-  4T=J                    3,SiS5  5.295 7iJ-   2IAt
,A  =02br:          5       2       D 5ZJ             W       GLO     3      6X5 3                     29.4      3ZS   ^,3   2iD
cArwmcom  am                         -S_A   -366.3    2M         76 -6VL   -GOA           S     451-    -as              -LJ=DA
DrMM                    _2.                     W2        S"      236D       j-    33g6            Jb.      350.0   40a        J5Z
-C  i0m (nt                                55.3     WA       4"3  a2L           B-7   3%              4O-  r   i-3    M            7L
rffL,L                                   59.      XKL   JxL         27bS   A9.8   35A                2Z    A7h        M5.   f"f6
Pri                                      -Lb9    37S4    27          5D.      3V       L.6           llL5    24J7   3WL3        ZL
GM    GR-                                   L       55.2   -UL3    72L3    IM 9          -              -         -       -         -
chw      ioavsx                           -0~91.2  3 W  7 ZX   _6m 9  -XS '   -                        37.S   -IA -99_2  _  n
IMMZMEIS                                  LW       3Dra5    4L%5    43557 ;S&2   4--&5                W.C 7
_MWW  AN INOS ofMVEZ            t                  2       L6A      Li.      L.4     1              L3
a;W D_15tDO
qf  sscs                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~35-5    5DL2  51L7  tbl5  233    25-
cm     udMM0  d *t laws             I        OSZ 229-5   GM    53             _ MA  51  fBY
CAZES0U                   asD D0O  3!g5    2 26_3    23329  g
MA                                                         O- K8 as o    I     L-      0.5
c-_ki                                     L4      0.D       (-      19-1      4- 9
-:,omeoom                    4ix2   U1255   403    3L7fi                      -1       370.5
OEficua exr                               3.2     9-9    49-5  555           4;.0      37_
mm                                        =2    25.3      55.4      51.1    69-4      8.
reb  MdCIori                               -     302       11-T     ZZ 6     3L6      2JI
SMRM DMX
DeCOme dic and Daad                       619-5  L1b665  Z_9U      3,W~      3J17L    3_15
Offmca                                  4iQ.0   97L9  1 I 2     2JW.i  Z.1339   4"5_6
mm                                     39.3  J279    237-        269J1    3D5-   379Af
22~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z-    6AU                      6J_3     67.9     67.5     6-.,6
Or ~~~~~~~~~~~~~379,6   779_9 t_ 37  L.60D7  L.746-9  Z.0384
prvm                                     29.5   19K    L.7SJ   LIS4.9  L,037-1  1,039_7
*nLbm  deb                                35L5 I,llJ    1.73&2   1,M35   L.67.35  LS9LD
Mw&  eb sr%e payom                      69sB    98-     31;   4c-'4  506.8    553.46
; wereae                                 29-     36.9    t622    ZSt5    :2-4,   208.0
Pa:        as Z                            t9 119   6_7      9_9    lD_9       ra       16-b
ptc     s : ~w               _A                      2         3       4-_9   5 -   1   . O
A.zer uwzre=r rate .o- rw Laws ( )          _9      Ssb       71       S9       S_3      6.d
iff -ICZ                                   5-     _3        Si       S-9      S 9      -
ftwme                                     _L      ._9      9.      1L_S      IZ_7      -
Aeavr ,,-c.,C of nEw Ln (y-ws              23_3    16.5      15.8     17i2    IS _       15 9
Jfficial                                 26-2    X4        19V.4    19.4      13 X     -
srvae                                    L3.4     as        9        9        5.        -
As:Z of Deke OAqtdq
at k of ebs a
Ye (D8U
.m mstncl e of ddeb au;:ma            Z
I    ztnde wvxm  5 yas37.7
Amwt~~mdm       10i  vos                                  65.6
:ntem   strcue of doeC aWtaU  
tncemd  wimin trstew                         ^,3
U  trcluinK 9mis_
f Pe Imr estmae fo   m-e
ENU  C 2
.% M4



- 2-a -
-~~~-
I of !
A. SOCEm= or          ns AM ML           As of _c  31.  hW
czin                                                                                      - MMRzim
MRb a    ywawow                                    oo                            Ink      U L
Fezy Lom a_      im   fiany  **= eAM   736                                                  2
38        3         BM5 Wp  ofic of  dis   -Z HjamU                               2B.0               71J5
an1      1977      lqick of  sim               Izipcim kwlm 4_ 2003i
Jm5       377      s                                 imm Si9pl                    21.00              230
iI        1978      3.ph    of 7_daia     C     al  1   M~   5i)                  32.W              Ni5s
3175      1979     apbiJ  of Tuia                  d                             2630D             3565
D0        1979     ftvm    of D_a              Swba          M19.00                                 DAB
Vi66 Xa9   3         hiie Ef ; igis         F          ri*Me                      2630        D JD
D96       90       Republic of Zxdsia          S         ZiipEim                  25.00
iD97      19       OffE du Paes ft        a    Tim                 d             4  0 4.0
nu        199   DDP*     of TAfdsia            Fa        Ri#mp                    330               31.n 
30         cimi Mmii   s de
T ccici  at dia Gm                 awal GM PiIIM             370                mm
1            u Som s8e. de M i.  MUM Agemaltum1 Oic                     30.0              30.73
an61     1911       Rhlie of Thuia             Fouth Kcim                         26.0              Z5.5
g69       IS8L     2p1i  of TmAsia        D      qL-m1e 1nazy ow1m                30.0              233
1997      1961      pA i of cmiaia        D      a    _ Z< D sie                 2Z6.0
no        19L       SOCi&* mmisimnf de
rzlmcricita et am Gm       -*-d Pa                           41-50              3035
2635      an5      Jkjpuwi of T~uisia         ft&  md Pupiactam                   323               11.1
312       Su        hpb1ic of hmduia           Te . Mti*bilitim                  1MA0             4ne
3DZ       1961      Fmaii of txasia           Grain vmetiau 4                    4s.               41.23
21V         5       Iaphlis of h~i             Fifi Hiu.  MRwL lo s)              3530              31
n13       nu        m                          Mcteim1   DdmmI Z             ci 30530               336%
213       m 1961six& vcm; Suppiy                                                  3030              20L3
2Z57      nu        kpmlic of  u_              i_uicim teIo                       22.00      2L 26
2197      am   4      Cl       of Tuisia       Teic0 Assim4                                          4.3
3           J3      Rpblic of  -aduis            1    a Da  C    Im               z5.00             Z4.63
ZZ7D      1983      Uq*lic of Fdzsia           ZAEmam V                           27.00             2630
213b      B63-    k.ublic of Thisis           Camam ia  irdwdma 11630                              36.17
2554 at B3          R&public of TXdsia            &m II                           3k.00            3X.0
219 f   195         Republic of Isijaj         S&b-. FLO     zo mccion            25.00             25.00
M         1983      Republic of Tzizsia       tZ1atry ..Y  Fary                   16.J0             163
Z36 4(   1596       lphblic of mmi ia          !6nit Tefiil Amistane                .40             13.40
2386_a/   196       Repabic of Tisia          Sevent           ly                50AO  5DO0
mm                                                        4,.19-752Z
Of si- has bown raid                                        158&86   8.1
Toual am outscand4m                                       1,IJL.33  671
Amt Sold                          1433
of  is3idi has beem iepid        14.33                   1.33  67.1
To al bw h     yHBak adMb/
TocaL izbwud                                                                   657.61
I  st ar efsciimme
b/ Pft  CD aei  rsc adjte
cl  Does nct iaClude the Second trban Transpor: project (S33 nllion loan
ZSc. 2-29`;1) approv:ed bv the Board on May 29. 198.
The St- of be projnts list  iz Pat A is described in a septe  rt
an Bik/m fi*Io-a pwJct  i= n-Iw     i.ihadi is =updad wimm paely and
circulamI ro tahe EFiv Dimazcs m april 30 am  tabor 3L



- 25 -
ANNEX I1
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEIM4T OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as March 31, 1984)
Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligator                   Tvpe of Business     Loan  Equity   Total
1962    NPK Engrais                  Fertilizers           2.0    1.5      3.5
1966    Societe Nat. d'Invest.       Dev. Finance Co.             0.6      0.6
(now BDET)
1969    COFIT (Tourism)             Dev. Finance Co.       8.0    2.2     10.2
1970    Societe Nat. d'Invest.       Dev. Finance Co.             0.6      0.6
(now BDET)
1973    Societe Touristique          Tourism               1.6   0.3       1.9
et Hoteli&re RYK SA
1975    Socift6 d'Etudes et          Tourism               2.5   0.6       3.1
de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord
1974     Industries Chimiques        Chemicals                    0.6      0.6
du Fluor
1978    BDET                         Dev. Finance Co.             1.2      1.2
Total Gross Coumitments                          14.1   7.6    21.7
Less Cancellations,                              11.4   1.8    13.2
Terminations, Repayments,
and Sales
Total Co=mitments now                             2.7   5.8       8.5
held by IFC
Total Undisbursed                                 0.0   0.0       0.0



- 26 -
ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I; Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country                6 months (January - June 1983)
to prepare the project;
(b) Agency that prepared the project;        Societe Tunisienne de l'Electricit6
et du Gaz (STEG)
(c) Project first identified by Bank:        January 1983
(d) Bauk appraisal mission;                  June/July 1983
(e) Negotiations completed;                  May 30, 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:           November 1984
Section II: Special Bank implementatio-' actions
None
Section III; Special Conditions
STEG to;
a) implement a financial action plan satisfactory to the Bank (para. 47);
b) take all measures necessary to achieve a rate of return of at least (i) 5
percent in 1985 and 1986, (ii) 7 percent in 1987, and (iii) 8 percent
thereafter. This supersedes the rate-of-return covenant under the Loan
Agreement with STEG on the Third Power project (para. 48);
c) review with the Government and the Bank, by June 30, 1986, its financial
objectives and projections for the 1987-91 period, including, inter alia,
the adequacy of the rate of return (para. 48);
d) submit to the Government and the Bank, by October 31 of each year, a
forecast of its financial flows and rates of return for the current and
the following fiscal years, and a statement of the proposed actions,
including tariff actions (para. 48).
Government to:
furnish to the Bank by December 31 of each year a program of actions based
on STEG's forecasts to help STEG achieve its financial objectives, and
subsequently implement such actions (para. 48).



IB4D 1742T
r  -                                                                                                    S EZER 9T;S
TUNISIA
POWER IZ PROJECT
EXISTING W133
- 1_s,9,,bcdI;,uW  ca.p ,6                     GENERABTFNG STA-LNONS
STEAM TUBDNES
t '= - -                                              -AS T / ST T5
B *CcI                                                                                   A        * DESEL SrATIOS
.4                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUBSTATIONS;
<}P^6St        @                 E5c - ,             % < %it                i                taGNTEW-Ik 225-Lt50 KV]
C_es         ;ebc                                   7.,0e                                MU%be.l  MEDIUM TENSION 3I
w -25 ; '' j ~~~~~~~~13                                                                                            TRANSMSSIN LINES:
0            5.25dew
Ot,.dDoi  =~ -4-|tnC }_                                                                             E=_  I Ok
El                          _                     /                 9     >   {T;                         D r3e-
r~~~~~1                                                                                               30 .        sc<      %CZPfU
-7':  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~GAS PtIELUNES
r , I - cr w.c s   -   o  OR GAS FIELDS
/ /                       -      O      {     X      le!" MAX MUM IrMv. D
_,Dessc*   j                                                 '} .~    OfldO     J5tL              DISTRIC CENTERS
I   x_       //                      \                              - -                *        NGOVERNORAE BOUAES
A   L  G  E  R  I A       ) cj             =           . -  e'                                                   T           ,a
p    ot                              , Ser.f_  I_1
56 Becr-cf    ,  >   vW        OF
Jebel ~         /~   el-Uf                            _ 0-'c                   A  sErErKN
A       Be, Le          ks 'd                     -                                   i A
}~~ _ A;;0O -sc               *         _   
rJ  =~~' -'u.  Se d. :wcc"c    -                            
XI_   _t _ S0 - X                                                                              3
z 'czo u e0                                                                                       20 aU        so    VW
3~~~~~~~1                                           .'c                                                              oc     lb
HGuc                                su   .                                           )MILES
IU NlS0Xro_       
tCN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'L
A~~~~~~~~IB
<ec~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
*UN ISIA
A&oo                          \           /'                                                     F  RI
So Susse
SUSSE                                  *



