Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20675
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(CREDIT 2100-IN AND LOAN 3175-IN)
and
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (PLAINS) PROJECT
(CREDIT 2131-IN AND LOAN 3197-IN)
"When we met with the villagers, we used to sit in chairs. Two
years ago, we started sitting on the ground with them. This has
made all the difference."
A Project Director
June 20, 2000
Sector and Thematic Evaluations Group
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Uinit = Rupee (Rs)
Annual Average Exchange Rate to USSI, 00
1989                 Rs 16.23
1990                 Rs 17.50
1991                 Rs 22.74
1992                 Rs 25.92
1993                 Rs 30.49
1994                 Rs 31.37
1995                 Rs 32.43
1996                 Rs 35.43
1997                 Rs 36.31
1998                 Rs 41.26
1999                 Rs 43.06
Abbreviations and Acronyms
GIS                   Geographical Information System
GOI                   Go-vernment of India
IBRD                  Intemnational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IDA                   Intemational Development Association
MOA                   Ministry of Agriculture
MTR                   Midterm Review
NGO                  Non-govermmental Organization
OED                   Operations Evaluation Department
PAR                   Performance Audit Report
SAR                   Staff Appraisal Report
VDC                   Village Development Committee
WPIO                  Watershed Planning and Implementation Office
Fiscal Year
Government:           April I -- March 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation            . Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department            Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Acting Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluations Group  Mr. Ridley Nelson
Task Manager                                       : Mr. Christopher_D. Gerrard



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 20, 2000
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Performance Audit Report on India
Integrated Watershed Management Projects
Hills Project (Credit 2100-IN and Loan 3175-IN)
Plains Project (Credit 2131-IN and Loan 3197-IN)
Attached is the Performance Audit Report prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) on the above two projects.
For the Hills project, the Board of the World Bank approved a credit (CR 2100-IN) of US$ 75.0
million and a loan (LN 3175-IN) of US$ 13.0 million on March 6, 1990, which were signed on January
11, 1991, and which became effective on May 10, 1991. The original financing plan was modified by the
cancellation of the loan in December 1991 (due to the depreciation of the Indian rupee to the SDR and the
U.S. dollar), and by extending the closing date of the original credit by 21 months to March 31, 1999.
For the Plains project, the Board of the World Bank approved a credit (CR 213 1-IN) of US$ 55.0
million and a loan (LN 3197-1N) of US$ 7.0 million on May 15, 1990, which were signed on August 22,
1990, and which became effective on February 28, 1991. The original financing plan was also modified
by cancellation of the loan in December 1991 and by extending the closing date of the original credit by
one year to March 31, 1999.
The two projects were second-generation projects. They attempted to build upon the experience
with three previous IDA-supported projects: the Drought-Prone Areas Project (started in 1975), the Kandi
Watershed and Area Development Project (1980), and the Himalayan Watershed Management Project
(1983).
The two major objectives of both projects were essentially the same-conservation and
development: (1) to slow down and reverse the degradation of the natural environment in the project
areas, through the development and use of appropriate soil and moisture conservation measures, and (2)
to promote sustainable systems for the production of grain crops, horticulture, fodder, forest products,
and livestock products in the project areas, that would increase the beneficiaries' incomes from the
production of these products on a sustainable basis.
The project area for the Hills project comprised selected watersheds in the subtropical Shivalik and
temperate Karewas ranges of the Himalayan foothills that traverse across the north-eastem boundaries of
Haryana and Punjab states, and the southwestern boundaries of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and
Kashmir. The project area for the Plains project comprised selected watersheds in different ecological
zones in Gujarat, Orissa, and Rajasthan states.
The largest part of both projects (81% for the Hills project and 71% for the Plains project)
comprised physical investments in soil and water conservation technologies along natural drainage lines,
in commonly held forests and pastures, and on private agricultural land. The projects have largely met
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
and often exceeded their physical targets in terns of land area treated, with positive and substantial
environmental and development impacts. The key question is the sustainability of these investments over
time. Therefore, this audit focused on this particular issue-the extent to which the projects have fostered
the development of institutional arrangements that will sustain and even enhance these investments over
time. Three key questions which permeated this entire audit were the following:
* To what extent are the services of the different line departments of state governments (soil
conservation, forestry, agriculture, horticulture, and animal husbandry) effectively integrated at the
local level and by whom?
*  To what extent did the users contribute to and participate in the planning and implementation of the
new investments that were made under the two projects; and
*  To what extent have the users established institutional arrangements to manage and maintain these
investments over time, particularly those which are held in common by the local community?
This audit rates the overall outcome of both projects as satisfactory, based on the finding that the
projects are relevant, efficacious, and efficient, which concurs with the findings of the two
implementation completion reports corresponding to the two projects. This audit also rates the
institutional development impact in both projects as substantial, and the sustainability of the investments
made in the two projects as likely. The projects have demonstrated the technical and institutional
feasibility of implementing relatively small-scale investments in engineering and vegetative technologies,
which serve to manage and utilize water resources more efficiently in the context of a watershed, and
which yield substantial benefits in terms of both resource conservation and economic development.
There are four major lessons arising from these two projects:
*  A watershed, or sub-watershed, is a very practical unit within which to plan and implement natural
resource management projects in rainfed areas. Among the diversity of natural resources in a typical
watershed, water is the most basic resource on which all other life depends. Managing water in a
watershed not only provides a practical framework for project management, but also a focus for the
collective efforts of the village communities living in the watersheds, since improvements in the
availability of water have the most immediate impact on the quality of their lives.
*  Ownership of the project by the beneficiaries is essential for a successful outcome and for long-term
sustainability. This requires a change of perspective, particularly on the part of project staff, as well
as training in participatory methodologies.
* For the delivery of services by different government departments (in this case, soil conservation,
forestry, agriculture, horticulture, and animal husbandry) to continue to be provided in an integrated
way beyond the life of the project, this requires the development of new organizations (such as
village development committees) and of permanent institutional arrangements among government
departments, local governments, the village development committees, and individual farmers, that
will not only facilitate but also create the incentives for this integration to continue.
*  In order to receive the beneficiaries' support for long-term conservation objectives, it also important
for the beneficiaries to realize some short-term benefits from the project's interventions. This means
working closely with the beneficiaries in order to understand their varied sources of income and their
most immediate needs, and then modifying the standard technical solutions, where necessary, to
accommodate the long-term development objectives to these short-term needs.
Attachment



i
Contents
Principal Ratings .....................................                                                                                              iii
Key Staff Responsible .....................................                                                                                          iii
Preface .....................................v
1. Background, Methodology, and Findings ..1..................................I
Audit Methodology ....................................2
Findings ....................................2
2. Project Objectives, Components, and Design .....................................3
Project Objectives ....................................3
Project Areas and Components ...................................4
Project Design ...................................5
3. Project Implementation .....................................7
4. Ratings: Overall Outcome .....................................9
Relevance: Were projects' objectives right? ....................................9
Efficacy: Did  the projects achieve their stated objectives? ................................................9
Efficiency: Were the projects cost-effective? ................................................................... 11
5.  Ratings: Institutional Development and Sustainability ..................................................... 11
Institutional development: To what extent are the services of the different line
departments effectively integrated at the local level and by whom? ......................... 11
Institutional development: To what extent did the users contribute to and participate in
the planning  and  implementation  of the new  investments? ........................................ 13
Institutional development: To what extent have the users established institutional
arrangements to manage and maintain the new investments over time, particularly
those which  are held  in common  by  the local community? ........................................ 14
Sustainability: Are the projects' results likely  to  last? ..................................................... 14
6.  Borrower and Bank Performance ......................................................................                                            15
Borrower Performance ...................................................................                                                15
Bank Performance ................................................................... 15
7. Lessons .....................................................................                                                                    16
This report was prepared by Christopher D. Gerrard (Task Manager), who audited the two projects in
January and February 2000. William B. Hurlbut edited the report. Ms. Marcia Bailey provided
administrative support.



ii
ANNEXES
A. Basic Data Sheet, Hills Project ........................................................                            19
B. Basic Data Sheet, Plains Project ........................................................                          23
C. Principal Persons Consulted by OED Audit Mission to India, January 16 to
February 3, 2000 ........................................................ 25
D. Borrower's Comments .................                                                                               28



Principal Ratings
Credit No. C2100 (Hills)                 Credit No. C2131 (Plains)
Audit                ICR                  Audit                ICR
Outcome                     Satisfactory         Satisfactory         Satisfactory         Satisfactory
Sustainability                 Likely               Likely               Likely               Likely
Institutional Development   Substantial          Substantial          Substantial          Substantial
Borrower Performance        Satisfactory         Satisfactory         Satisfactory         Satisfactory
Bank Performance            Satisfactory         Satisfactory         Satisfactory         Satisfactory
Key Staff Responsible
Appraisal                 MTR                 Completion
Credit No. C2100 (Hills)
Country Director                          Heinz Vergin           Heinz Vergin            Edwin R. Lim
Sector Leader                             Jan Wijnand          Shawki Barghouti           Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader                          G. Mukami               Hamdy Eisa              T. C. Jain
Credit No. C2100 (Plains)
Country Director                          Heinz Vergin           Heinz Vergin            Edwin R. Lim
Sector Leader                             Jan Wijnand          Shawki Barghouti           Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader                       Bemard van de Poll         Hamdy Eisa               T. C. Jain






v
Preface
This is a Performance Audit Report (PAR) on the India Integrated Watershed Development
(Hills) Project and the India Integrated Watershed Development (Plains) Project.
For the Hills project, the Board of the World Bank approved a credit (CR 2100-IN) of US$75.0
million and a loan (LN 3175-IN) of US$13.0 million on March 6, 1990, which were signed on
January 11, 1991, and which became effective on May 10, 1991. The original financing plan was
modified by the cancellation of the loan in December 19911 and by extending the closing date of
the original credit by 21 months to March 31, 1999. The final disbursement of US$67.55 utilized
84.26% of the credit.
Forthe Plains project, the Board ofthe World Bank approved a credit (CR 2131-IN) of US$55.0
million and a loan (LN 3197-IN) of US$7.0 million on May 15, 1990, which were signed on
August 22, 1990, and which became effective on February 28, 1991. The original financing plan
was also modified by cancellation of the loan in December 1991 and by extending the closing
date of the original credit by one year to March 31, 1999. The final disbursement of US$57.74
utilized 95.7% of the credit.2
This report is based on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) prepared by the South Asia
Region for each project, both issued on November 3, 1999, the Staff Appraisal Reports, loan
documents, project files, discussions with Bank staff, and a mission to India. The Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) mission visited India from January 16 to February 3, 2000, to
discuss the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance with the Government of India, the
Governments of Himachal Pradesh, Orissa, Punjab, and Rajasthan, and the project planning and
implementation units in each state. OED gratefully acknowledges the full cooperation and
assistance of all government officials visited and consulted during the mission.
This PAR contains a more focused review of the projects than the ICRs, particularly concerning
the institutional development associated with the projects and the future sustainability of the two
projects' interventions.
Following standard OED procedures, the draft audit report was sent to the relevant govemment
officials and agencies for review before it was finalized. All comments received were taken into
account in the final version and the govemment's comments are attached as Annex D.
1. Due to the depreciation of the Indian rupee relative to the SDR and the U.S. dollar.
2. The SAR used an exchange rate of SDR 1.0 = US$ 1.291, while the actual disbursements are based on historic
exchange rates.






I
1. Background, Methodology, and Findings
These two projects were designed to address one of India's most serious environmental
problems-watershed degradation in rainfed agricultural areas. Their two major objectives were
conservation and development: to slow down and to reverse the degradation of the natural
environment in the project areas and to promote sustainable production systems for agricultural,
livestock, and forest products that would increase the beneficiaries' incomes in the project areas.
The two projects are second-generation projects. They attempted to build upon the experience
with three previous IDA-supported projects: the Drought-Prone Areas Project (started in 1975),
the Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project (1980), and the Himalayan Watershed
Management Project (1983).
The project area for the Hills project comprised selected watersheds in the subtropical Shivalik
and temperate Karewas ranges of the Himalayan foothills that traverse across the northeastem
boundaries of Haryana and Punjab states, and the southwestem boundaries of Himachal Pradesh
and Jammu and Kashmir. The project area for the Plains project comprised selected watersheds
in different ecological zones in Gujarat, Orissa, and Rajasthan states.1
Following the completion of the two projects on March 31, 1999, the World Bank is continuing
to support a Phase II of the Hills project, which now includes Uttar Pradesh as a fifth
participating state. Except for projects like this, which involve a contiguous ecological area that
ranges across the participating states, the Bank is no longer supporting multi-state projects like
Plains. However, the Bank is continuing to support rural development in Orissa and Rajasthan,
even though it is no longer specifically supporting watershed development projects in these
states.2
The largest part of both projects (81% for the Hills project and 71% for the Plains project)
comprised physical investments in soil and water conservation technologies along natural
drainage lines, in commonly held forests and pastures, and on private agricultural land. The
second largest part (18% for the Hills project and 23% for Plains) comprised project
implementation.3 The projects have largely met and in many cases exceeded their physical
targets, with positive impacts on recharging groundwater, reducing soil erosion, reclaiming
degraded land, and increasing production of agricultural, forest, and livestock products. The key
question is the sustainability of these and future investments over time. Therefore, this audit
focused on this particular issue-the extent to which the projects have fostered the development
of institutional arrangements that will sustain and even enhance these investments over time.
1. A watershed is a piece of land that drains at a defined outlet. This natural drainage area evolves through the
interaction of rainwater and land mass, and normally comprises arable and non-arable land, and natural drainage
systems. See World Bank, "Learning from Experience in India's Watershed", South Asia Brief, Rural Development,
no date, p. 5. Watersheds are also nested. Several micro-watersheds comprise one sub-watershed, a number of which
comprise a larger watershed, and all of which ultimately form part of a larger river system.
2. In Orissa, there is a Water Resources Conservation Project, now effective, and a rural development project under
preparation. In Rajasthan, there are two projects in the pipeline: a Water Resources Conservation Project and a District
Poverty Initiative Project, both under preparation. Both states also have access to other donor funds for continuing
watershed development.
3. See Table I.



2
Therefore, three key questions which permeate this entire audit report are the following:
*   To what extent are the services of the different line departments of state governments
(soil conservation, forestry, agriculture, horticulture, and animal husbandry) effectively
integrated at the local level and by whom?
*   To what extent did the users contribute to and participate in the planning and
implementation of the new investments that were made under the two projects?
*   To what extent have the users established institutional arrangements to manage and
maintain these investments over time, particularly those which are held in common by
the local community?
These issues have been identified in a number of studies as the keys to long-term sustainability.4
They were also identified at appraisal and they are well-known to project leaders and staff.
Audit Methodology
An OED mission visited India for three weeks from January 16 to February 3, 2000. During the
first two days in Delhi, the mission consulted with the Bank's task manager and met with a group
of GOI officials associated with the projects. The mission then visited two of the states
participating in each project-Himachal Pradesh and Punjab for the Hills project, and Orissa and
Rajasthan for the Plains project. In each state, the mission met with senior govemment officials in
the line departments responsible for implementing the two projects, and with the project director
and senior staff of the Watershed Planning and Implementation Offices in each state.5 Then, the
mission spent seven days in the field, accompanied by the project director or a team leader,
visiting nine different watersheds in the four states-five initial, pilot watersheds in which
treatments started before the midterm review and four additional, expansion watersheds in which
treatments started after the midterm review.6 The mission saw at least one example of every kind
of physical investment that has been made under the two projects, from cement structures to
vegetative barriers, and from afforestation to horticulture plantations. At the majority of sites, the
mission also met with the project beneficiaries, whether user groups, village development
committees, or individual farmers. The mission concluded with an extensive wrap-up session
with the Bank's task manager for the two projects.
Findings
This audit rates the overall outcome of both projects as satisfactory, based on the finding that the
projects are relevant, efficacious, and efficient. This concurs with the findings of the two
implementation completion reports corresponding to the two projects. The two projects have
achieved their major relevant objectives efficiently with only a few shortcomings.
4. See, for example, World Bank, "Learning from Experience in India's Watersheds", South Asia Brief, Rural
Development, no date; Cathryn Turner, "Scaling Up Participatory Watershed Development in India: A Review of the
Literature", Overseas Development Institute, Agricultural Research and Extension Network Paper No. 86, July 1998;
and John Kerr et al., "The Role of Watershed Projects in Developing Rainfed Agriculture in India", Indian Council for
Agricultural Research and the World Bank, September 1, 1998.
5. When in Chandigarh, the mission also met with the project director and a senior staff member in Haryana state.
6. See Annex C for the list of principal persons consulted during the mission.



3
This audit also rates the institutional development impact in both projects as substantial, and the
sustainability of the investments made in the two projects as likely. The projects have
demonstrated the technical and institutional feasibility of implementing relatively small-scale
investments in engineering and vegetative technologies, which serve to manage and utilize water
resources more efficiently in the context of a watershed, and which yield substantial benefits in
terms of both resource conservation and economic development. However, there remain a
number of issues that need to be addressed by the governments of the states participating in these
projects in order to ensure the sustainability of these investments:
*  The establishment of more permanent institutional arrangpments among line departments
of state governments, local governments, local communities, and individual farmers for
the ongoing provision, management, and maintenance of public infrastructure
investments and commonly-held forests, plantations, and pastures, which (1) define the
respective roles and responsibilities of these four main groups (such as articulating
demand, arranging financing, providing technical support, and monitoring production
and use) and which (2) create incentives for each of the groups to fulfill their roles and
responsibilities in ways that are efficient, sustainable, transparent, and accountable.
* The building of human resource capacity at all levels-from state governments to
individual farners-to make these new institutional arrangements work.
*  The establishment of more effective monitoring and evaluation of the environmental,
social, and economic impacts of the engineering and vegetative technologies that the
projects are introducing, as well as more effective linkages with the state university
systems in order to effect improvements in these technologies over time.
2.    Project Objectives, Components, and Design
Project Objectives
While the wording is slightly different in the two staff appraisal reports (SARs), the two major
objectives of both projects were essentially the same-conservation and development:
*  To slow down and reverse the degradation of the natural environment in the project
areas, through the development and use of appropriate soil and moisture conservation
measures, and
*  To promote sustainable systems for the production of grain crops, horticulture, fodder,
forest products, and livestock products in the project areas, that would increase the
beneficiaries' incomes from the production of these products on a sustainable basis.
The SAR for the Hills project included a third objective-to reduce flooding and other
devastation resulting from the land degradation both in the project area and in the adjacent
plains.7 The SAR for the Plains project also explicitly recognized the major institutional objective
of both projects-"to introduce effective arrangements for inter-agency coordination in
7. Staff Appraisal Report, February 7, 1990, p. 7.



4
watershed planning and plan implementation, and to ensure the full participation of watershed
land users and their agreement to all stages of development."8
Project Areas and Components
The project area for the Hills project comprised the subtropical Shivalik and temperate Karewas
ranges of the Himalayan foothills in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, and
Punjab states. Sandwiched between the main Himalayas to the north and the alluvial plains to the
south, and covering an area of about 8 million hectares, they form one of the most fragile
ecosystems in the country. Rainfall averages about 1000 mm a year in two seasons, about 80% of
which occurs during the monsoon season (June to September). High intensity rainstorms during
the monsoon, uncontrolled runoff in the upper catchment areas, highly erodible soils,
deforestation, inadequate vegetative cover, and lack of irrigation all contribute to soil erosion,
landslides, declining soil fertility, and frequent crop failures.9
The project area for the Plains project comprised selected watersheds in Gujarat, Orissa, and
Rajasthan states. In contrast with the Hills project, each state had different ecological conditions
to address. The project area in Orissa was the most hilly and forested, with the highest annual
rainfall of about 1,200 mm. However, it is a drought-prone area with special degradation
problems such as shifting cultivation within the forest lands. The project areas in Gujarat and
Rajasthan were more undulating, with more arable land, but drier conditions (from 400 to 1,000
mm annual rainfall).
The project components included primary (treatment) activities and secondary (support)
activities. Primary activities included soil and water conservation, forestry, agriculture,
horticulture, and livestock development. I0 Support activities included project implementation,
research and development, training, monitoring and evaluation, and central support from the
GOI.
Both projects categorized the primary treatment activities into three types: natural drainage lines,
arable areas, and non-arable areas. Treatment of natural drainage lines included a combination
of engineering and vegetative measures in order to contain and reduce the velocity of the
waterflow after the rains, to enhance the degree of in situ moisture conservation, to reduce and
even reverse the erosion of the stream banks, and to store rainwater, both above and below
ground. Engineering structures included cement, earthen, cratewire, and dry stone structures of
various sizes, but all relatively small.
Treatments on private arable land also included engineering and vegetative structures to reduce
soil erosion, to conserve rainwater in situ, to harvest rainwater more effectively, and to bring
additional areas under cultivation, but, in addition, rainfed farming demonstrations to promote the
use of new varieties, seed treatment, fertilizer, pesticides, and moisture conservation practices;
8. Staff Appraisal Report, April 20, 1990, p. 8.
9. S.S. Grewal, A.S. Dogra, and T.C. Jain, "Poverty Alleviation and Resource Conservation Through Integrated
Watershed Management in a Fragile Foot-Hill Ecosystem", Paper presented at the Conference of International Soil
Conservation Organization, Purdue University, Indiana, May 1999.
10. Initially, there were no livestock components in Gujarat and Orissa states. Although these components were
approved in March 1995, there continued to be no significant livestock activities in these two states.



5
and the establishment of rainfed horticultural plantations, most commonly of mangos, guava, and
amla.
Treatments on non-arable land-whether private, common, forest lands, or pastures-included
afforestation, silvipasture, shrub and other vegetative barriers, and contour trenches to reduce
surface runoff, to increase moisture infiltration, and to increase production of fodder and forest
products." l In Rajasthan, the Plains project also utilized sulfuric acid treatments to revegetate
former wastelands of saline and alkaline soils with fuelwood and fodder species, and grasses.
Livestock development activities aimed to increase milk production through upgrading
buffaloes and cattle using artificial insemination, increasing fodder production on pastures and
field bunds, and improving the use of crop residues through chopping and stall feeding. The
projects provided training for para-veterinarians of typically 3-6 months duration in artificial
insemination, castration, vaccination, and primary health care. Some states also established
natural breeding centers, and organized demonstrations of on-farm fodder production (sorghum,
oats, and lucerne).
Previous Bank-supported projects had demonstrated the importance of delivering these primary
(treatment) activities in an integrated way. For example, it is important to treat the non-arable
lands in the upper catchment areas prior to constructing the cement dams and other structures in
the lower areas in order to prevent these structures from silting up. Furthermore, while treatment
of non-arable lands will ultimately provide additional benefits to local communities in terms of
increased forest products and fodder, it is important to restrict grazing in those areas that have
been treated until the trees, shrubs, and grasses are well established. Once established, it is also
more productive to harvest the grasses for fodder once a year rather than to allow continual
grazing.
Project Design
Each state government was responsible for implementing both primary (treatment) activities and
secondary (support) activities in each state. Each state would establish a watershed planning and
implementation office (WPIO),12 to be responsible for the bulk of the implementation in close
collaboration with the line departments. Funds were included for incremental staff, vehicles,
equipment, offices and staff housing, training and study tours, establishing a geographical
information system (GIS) in each state to facilitate planning and monitoring, contracts for
baseline and impact evaluation studies, and short-term consultancies.
Both staff appraisal reports emphasized the importance of inter-departmental collaboration in
planning and implementation, consistent with the integrated watershed management approach,
and the importance of beneficiary participation in planning, implementation, and ongoing
management of common property resources. 13 Initially, it was only envisaged that the WPIOs
would comprise a director and a nucleus of subject matter specialists who would work
collaboratively in the selected watersheds with staff from the relevant line departments. Later,
11. Afforestation is generally distinguished from silviculture by a higher density of trees planted and by steeper land.
12. This is the generic name for the project implementation units. The precise names varied among the seven states.
13. For the Hills project, pp. 14-16, and for the Plains project, pp. 14-17.



6
this changed in most states, so that all the government staff working on the projects were
seconded from their line departments to the project teams working in the various watersheds.]4
While both SARs emphasized the importance of beneficiary participation in project planning and
implementation and in the ongoing management of common property resources, neither SAR
provided specific approaches or models for doing so. Rather, the projects were to work these out
during their pilot stages, with the support of technical assistance and training to be provided by
the GOI.
Research and development included nursery development, which focused on providing vetiver,
forage species, horticultural and tree planting material in adequate quantities in all areas, rainfed
farming technology demonstrations, and applied research at state agricultural universities. In the
Hills project, training was centralized at the Punjab Agricultural University Regional Research
Center at Ballowal Saunkhri, for which funds were provided for buildings and equipment, cost of
lecturers and support staff, and other operating costs. In the Plains project, the three states utilized
their state universities and associated research institutions for both research and training.
Both projects adopted a modular approach to monitoring and evaluation. Both included
modules for (1) reporting the progress of the projects, including a detailed tracking of works
completed, direct investment costs, and associated expenditures; (2) assessing immediate results
such as changes in land use patterns; (3) assessing project benefits with regard to improvements
in agricultural, horticultural, and livestock yields; (4) assessing the economic and social
sustainability of the new production systems; and (5) evaluating the overall environmental impact
of watershed rehabilitation on the wider geographical area, particularly downstream.
The Government of India was to provide central support for technical assistance and training to
help establish the geographical information system (GIS) units in each state that would assist
with project planning and monitoring. For the Hills project, such training was to be provided at
the Punjab remote sensing center in Ludhiana.
The World Bank provided the resources for the physical investments, as well as ongoing
supervision and advice. Project beneficiaries were also to contribute to the costs of the physical
investments, in cash or in labor, equal to 10% of the costs on common land and 30% of the costs
on private land. 15
Both projects were to.proceed in two stages-an initial 3-year pilot phase followed by a midtenn
review, and then a 4-year expansion phase after the MTR. For the Hills project, the initial phase
covered 24 sub-watersheds-2 in Haryana, 6 in Himachal Pradesh, 3 in Jammu and Kashmir, and
13 in Punjab.l6 Project activities were extended to an additional 20 sub-watersheds after the
MTR, and a further 15 sub-watersheds when the credit closing date was extended for an
14. Punjab is a notable exception. Here, project staff still reported to their respective line departments, and the funding
for the project was also channeled through the different line departments. However, this has now changed in Phase Ht
of the Hills project which started in 1999. All project staff seconded from the different line departments now report to
a unified project teamn in the sub-watersheds in which they are working.
15. These arc averages for the two projects as a whole.
16. In 9 of these initial 13 sub-watersheds in Punjab, the treatment activities were limited to drainage lines and non-
arable areas in the upper catchment areas.



7
additional 21 months to March 31, 1999. The total area treated was more than 352,000 ha, or
about 43 percent more than the 246,000 ha estimated at appraisal.
For the Plains project, the initial phase covered 4 watersheds in each of Gujarat, Orissa, and
Rajasthan. Project activities focused on selected pilot areas within these watersheds, covering a
total of 37,130 ha. Project activities were extended to an additional 396,388 ha in these 12
watersheds after the MTR, and to two additional districts in Orissa when the credit closing date
was extended for an additional year.
In both projects, the principal criterion for selecting the pilot and the expansion areas was the
degree of physical degradation of the sub-watersheds and the absence of other donors working in
these sub-watersheds. The willingness or the capacity of the beneficiaries to work with the
project teams and to contribute to the project's investments was not a criterion since this
information was essentially unknown at the start of the projects.
3.  Project Implementation
Each of the states established a watershed planning and implementation office (WPIO) to
implement the projects. In Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, this office reported to the
Forestry Department; in Haryana, to the Agriculture Department; in Punjab, directly to the
Development Commissioner; in Orissa, to the Department of Soil Conservation; in Rajasthan to
the Department of Watershed Development and Soil Conservation; and in Gujarat to the Gujarat
State Land Development Corporation.
Implementation started slowly due to initial difficulties in establishing the WPIOs, in recruiting
and posting staff, and in training staff with the necessary skills to initiate the watershed
treatments. The central training facility for the Hills project at Ballowal Saunkhri also did not
become operational until 1993. Furthermore, when the GOI did not recruit consultants to provide
technical assistance and training, project staff had to develop their own approaches to
participatory planning and implementation with the local communities in the initial, pilot
watersheds.
By all accounts, the midterm reviews, which occurred in September/October 1994 were a crucial,
soul-searching period for both projects. In all four states visited by OED, project staff
consistently confirmed three major changes that occurred after the MTR. All relate to enhancing
the demand-driven nature and to increasing the degree of local ownership of the projects'
investments.
First, there was a greater emphasis on working with project beneficiaries at the village level in a
much more participatory way in both planning and implementation of watershed investments.
Even though the project documents had emphasized this, planning had still been largely top-
down during the first three years of the projects.-After the MTR, project staff received more
training in participatory methods, spent more time helping beneficiaries to organize themselves in
village development committees]7 before proceeding with planning and implementation, worked
more collaboratively with the VDCs once these were established, and were more diligent in
17. Village development comnmittees, or VDCs, are a generic term. For example, some were called village forest
development committees or water users' associations, reflecting the relative important of forest resources or irrigation
in their respective areas.



8
enforcing the project guidelines with respect to beneficiary cost-sharing. They also spent more
time working with the village development committees to help them put in place rules for
managing common property resources such as forests, water, and pastures.
Second, in response to the demands from the local communities-a direct result of the greater
emphasis on participatory planning-there was a greater emphasis on managing the supply of
water within each sub-watershed. Even though water is a scarce and much sought after
commodity in the project areas, the projects had curiously not put much emphasis on this. After
the MTR, the projects took a more deliberative approach to water resources management in
general and to water harvesting in particular. This included a greater emphasis on combining
engineering and vegetative measures for moisture conservation, the construction of small tanks
less than 10 meters high, the rehabilitation of existing or construction of new village tanks,
tapping springs, and provision of pipes and storage tanks for village water supply. These
initiatives appear to be the most widely appreciated components of the two projects, since they
directly address the beneficiaries' greatest priority, namely, water for drinking and other domestic
uses, for irrigation, and for livestock. Also, while the cultivated area that has been brought under
perennial irrigation is quite small, the enhanced availability of water can now provide "life-
saving" irrigation to field and horticultural crops in times of drought.
Third, there was a greater emphasis on generating more immediate benefits for the beneficiaries
by flexibly modifying the standard technical solutions where necessary. In addition to water
harvesting, this included the selection of forage and forest species of more immediate economic
value to beneficiaries. For example, both projects had put a lot of emphasis, largely unsuccessful,
in promoting vetiver grass (Vetiveria zizanoides) for use in vegetative contour barriers before the
MTR, but the local farmers were generally unaccepting of vetiver because it did not have
productive value for them. After the MTR, projects had greater success promoting other species
such as Napier grass (Pennisetum purpureumn) which is used for forage, and bhabbar grass
(Eulaliopsis binata) which is used for rope-making. "Short-term gains to the beneficiaries are
critical for eliciting people's participation.. . . This is particularly true for forestry models, where
bamboo and other grasses provide intermediate returns to beneficiaries after 2-3 years on a
regular basis as against trees that have a fairly long gestation period of 15-20 years."l8
Adopting these more participatory approaches, the project teams also started to work together
better across disciplines. One team leader, who was an animal husbandry specialist, reported that
it personally took him two years to understand the concept of watershed as well as the concept of
a contour line.
Neither of the projects appears to have worked much with NGOs. The project areas are marginal
agricultural areas in which there do not exist many NGOs that have the necessary experience to
plan and implement the types of investments that the projects were supporting. Also, project staff
told OED that the influence of India's 73rd constitutional amendment on decentralization that
was passed in 1992 had so far been minimal in the project areas. However, as elected local
councils have been established at the panchayat level, the projects have encouraged the formation
of permanent linkages between the VDCs and local councils in order to enhance the sustainability
of the VDCs that were formed under the projects.
18. Integrated Watershed Development Project (Hills), Punjab, Implementation Completion Report (1990-1999), p. 13.



9
4. Ratings: Overall Outcome
Relevance: Were projects' objectives right?
The objectives of the projects were highly relevant in relation to India's development objectives,
the Bank's sectoral strategy, and the Bank's current environmental goals.
In its Seventh and Eighth Five Year Plans (1985/90 and 1990/95), the Government of India's
strategy for agricultural development emphasized the stabilization of natural resource systems in
the rainfed subsector. Past agricultural development strategies had focused on irrigated
agriculture and high potential rainfed areas. While such strategies have been very successful and
have been responsible for the green and white revolutions in India, less endowed areas have been
left behind. These two projects focused on such areas in India.
Depending on the state, the project areas exist on the margins between agricultural lands and
forests or pastures. Key problems are the expansion of cultivation, due to population pressure,
into areas not suitable for cultivation, the subsequent degradation of land-based resources, and
the uncontrolled use of commonly-held non-arable lands. To slow down and to reverse this
degradation of land-based natural resources is clearly relevant to the Bank's environmental goals.
According to the SARs, these projects were not specifically poverty-targeted interventions that
placed a major emphasis on poverty alleviation. However, from a geographical perspective, it is
clear that the projects did focus on relatively poorer areas of India. On the other hand, within the
project areas, it is probably the case that, being land-based projects, the projects' interventions
benefited those with access to land relatively more than those without access the land. 1 9
The design of the two projects was sound. The Bank provided external resources for investments
in public infrastructure (such as cement dams and vegetative barriers) and on commonly-held
land (such as forests and pastures), which also had positive externalities (such as flood control) in
adjacent areas. Villages initially lacked both the organizational capacity and the resources to
make these investments on their own. The projects fostered collaboration between state agencies
and local villages, and built up the capacity of both groups to work together to achieve common
objectives. Dividing the projects into a three-year pilot phase, and a four-year expansion phase
also provided flexibility to make adjustments after the MTR.
Efficacy: Did the projects achieve their stated objectives?
The two projects generally met and often exceeded their targets in terms of land area treated,
physical investments in engineering and vegetative technologies, and demonstrations of improved
agricultural, horticultural, and livestock practices.
From the impact evaluation studies that have so far been done, and from general observations, the
projects have had positive and substantial environmental impacts. These include more regulated
19. Two project staff in Punjab expressed their concems about this to the audit mission. For those without access to
land, they inquired about the possibility that Phase II of the Hills project might provide small grants for entry-level
activities such as tools for a village blacksmith. Among olher things, this would provide an incentive, they said, for the
blacksmith not to cut down tress on commonly-held land.



10
discharge of water from the sub-watersheds in the project areas, reduced flooding, groundwater
recharge, protection of stream banks, reduction in soil loss, and land reclamation. However, it is
not clear from the existing impact evaluation studies whether these benefits are general or
localized.
The projects have also generated positive and substantial income and consumption benefits for
beneficiaries who live in the project areas. Most of these relate to the increased availability of
water for human consumption, irrigation, and livestock, but also to land reclamation, reduced soil
erosion, new horticultural plantations, increased supplies of forest products and fodder, and
improved cultivation practices for annual crops. The audit mission saw direct evidence of
increased output of agricultural, horticultural, livestock, or forest products at 21 of the 37 sites
visited on the seven field trips during the mission to India in January-February 2000.
All the private farmers that the audit mission met praised the projects. Of the 9 farmers
interviewed on their own farmsteads, 6 had established horticulture plantations and were lifting
water for irrigation out of their own wells, village ponds, or nearby streams. All said that the
projects had significantly increased the level of the groundwater, thus making irrigation more
reliable. Women praised the use of Napier grass on the field bunds, since this not only facilitated
irrigation and reduced soil erosion, but also became a readily available supply of fodder.
The projects have generated positive and substantial institutional impacts in three areas: enhanced
cooperation among the different line departments of state governments that are involved in
watershed development, the formation of village development committees at the local level, and
the collaborative working arrangements among these two groups. The OED mission met with
representatives of VDCs at 9 of the 37 sites visited, all but one of which appeared to functioning
effectively. Overall, the two ICRs reported that 480 village development committees had been
formed under the Hills project, and 1,267 VDCs under the Plains project, about half of which
were functioning effectively.20
According the Bank's task manager, there was little real research funded under the two projects,
except for small components of adaptive research, which were contracted to state universities in
each state. Project teams relied on existing research and on their own learning-by-doing.
In the Hills project, the central training facility at Ballowal Saunkhri provided training for 2,136
project staff in 86 courses that were held between 1993 and 1999. The project has supported the
development of training materials including a 20-minute video on "Integrated Watershed
Development in the Kandi Area of the Punjab," and the proceedings of three of the most
important workshops that were held between December 1995 and January 1997. To begin with,
the major focus of the training was on the technical aspects of engineering and vegetative
technologies; after the MTR, the major focus shifted to participatory methodologies. Centralizing
the training component had both benefits and drawbacks. The training appears to have benefited
the Punjab and Haryana project teams more than those in Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and
Kashmir because the training was geographically closer to and more relevant to the ecological
conditions in Punjab and Haryana.
The Government of India failed to provide technical assistance and training for the establishment
of functional GIS units in the seven states. While all states have acquired GIS hardware and
20. ICR, Hills project, p. 5, and ICR, Plains project, p. 8.



I1
software under the projects, only Rajasthan has made good progress in developing an operational
GIS.
The monitoring and evaluation units of both projects were primarily concerned with monitoring
progress towards achieving the financial and physical targets. Hence, they effectively
implemented the first two modules of the monitoring and evaluation system relating to progress
reporting and assessing immediate results such as changes in land use patterns. They were less
effective in assessing improvements in agricultural productivity, in assessing sustainability, and
in measuring the overall environmental impacts, in part because of the failure to establish
functional GIS units. There is clearly a need to establish more effective monitoring and
evaluation of the environmental, social, and economic impacts of the engineering and vegetative
technologies that the projects are introducing, as well as more effective linkages with the state
university systems in order to effect improvements in these technologies over time.
Efficiency: Were the projects cost-effective?
Both projects calculated an economic rate of return at appraisal and at completion. These
calculations were based on the actual project costs, and the quantifiable benefits in terms of
increased production of wheat, maize, horticultural crops from arable areas and of increased
production of timber, grasses, and other non-wood forest products from the non-arable areas. The
rate of return for the Hills project was 17% at both appraisal and completion, and that for the
Plains project was 17.7% at appraisal and 14% at completion.
Both analyses are technically sound. Both are explicit with respect to their assumptions
concerning the estimated increases in yields compared to the counterfactual, and concerning the
valuation of inputs and outputs.
5.    Ratings: Institutional Development and Sustainability
For projects of this nature, the development of local, community-based institutions is the key to
sustainability. Line departments of government, alone, are not able to manage renewable natural
resources cost-effectively from the top-down because effective natural resource management is
location-specific and information-intensive. Therefore, this section discusses institutional
development issues first.
Institutional development: To what extent are the services of the different line departments
effectively integrated at the local level and by whom?
This is the first key question that was identified in the introductory section of this audit report.
Both SARs identified the need for such integration and proposed institutional arrangements to
provide such integration. Essentially, during the implementation of both projects, this integration
occurred within the context of the project teams that were working in each watershed. Except in
Punjab, these project teams comprised a mixture of subject matter specialists seconded from the
five relevant line departments (soil conservation, forestry, agriculture, horticulture, and animal
husbandry), and reported to a team leader, who in turn reported to the project director in each
state.



12
In theory, when a project team finished its work in a particular watershed-either because the
project finished, as in the case of the Plains project, or because the project team moved onto
another watershed, as in the case of the Hills project-the village development committees were
to assume responsibility for integrating the services provided by the various line departments by
demanding appropriate services from them as required. Also in theory, the newly created
government assets in each watershed, such as nurseries, were to be turned over to the respective
line departments to maintain.
To facilitate these transitions, some project teams have clearly worked with the VDCs to build up
their capacity. They have encouraged VDCs to register as non-profit societies to help raise
standards for accountability and auditing, and to charge for irrigation water and for fodder
harvested from common pastures in order to accumulate financial resources. In Himachal
Pradesh, the project director told the audit mission that they had established a target for VDCs to
accumulate at least Rs 50,000 (about US$1,200) in their bank accounts, and that some VDCs had
now accumulated more than Rs 80,000.
Some project teams have also encouraged VDCs to establish links with the new local government
structures resulting from the 73rd constitutional amendment on decentralization. Examples
included constituting VDCs as subcommittees of local government councils, and having local
councilors serve on VDCs. In Rajasthan, OED was also told that some VDC members, having
learned participatory skills as members of VDCs, were now running for local councils. Clearly, a
lot of institutional development has taken place with respect to VDCs, but more still needs to take
place. The two ICRs estimated that only about half of the VDCs were fully operational.
OED is more optimistic that this will happen in the Hills states where the project is continuing in
a Phase II. Indeed, the project unit in Himachal Pradesh has just become a registered non-profit
society, effective December 1999. Enjoying more autonomy and flexibility than a government
department, they hope that the project unit will become more effective in scaling up the project's
interventions geographically. Chaired by the chief secretary, the governing board comprises both
government and stakeholder representatives. Project staff continue to receive civil service salaries
and benefits.
OED is less optimistic that this will happen in the Plains states where the project teams are now
disbanded, the staff have been reassigned to their line departments, and the project
responsibilities have been handed back to the line departments. In the expansion watershed that
the mission visited in-Orissa, project leaders admitted that they had simply not had enough time
during the two years in which they were working in this watershed to build up the capacity of the
VDCs. They were so busy working around the clock during the dry season constructing the
various cement structures along the drainage lines. OED also visited a nursery in this expansion
watershed which had been established under the project and which was no longer being
maintained.
The long-term objective should be the establishment of more permanent institutional
arrangements among the line departments of state governments, local governments, local
communities, and individual farmers for the ongoing provision, management, and maintenance of
public infrastructure investments and commonly-held forests, plantations, and pastures, which (1)
define the respective roles and responsibilities of these four main groups (such as articulating
demand, arranging financing, providing technical support, and monitoring production and use)



13
and which (2) create incentives for each of the groups to fulfill their roles and responsibilities in
ways that are efficient, sustainable, transparent, and accountable.
Institutional development: To what extent did the users contribute to and participate in the
planning and implementation of the new investments?
Everyone consulted by the audit mission acknowledged that this was a general problem before
the MTR. While the SARs had highlighted the importance of involving project beneficiaries in
planning and implementation, the projects had been designed without much consultation with the
local people in the selected watersheds. Neither SAR provided specific approaches or models to
follow. Then, when the GOI failed to provide relevant technical assistance and training, project
staff had to develop their own approaches to participatory planning and implementation.
As already discussed, things changed dramatically after the MTR. One project director told OED
that they only work through organized VDCs now. If the villagers in a particular sub-watershed
do not wish to work with the project teams, then they simply move on to the next sub-watershed.
However, this is no longer a problem, since the demonstration effect is now prompting the
villagers in those sub-watersheds that have so far been by-passed to organize themselves and to
request assistance for their sub-watersheds. When starting in a new sub-watershed, this same
project director said that it takes a minimum of 6 months to develop an agreed-upon plan with the
VDCs before any physical work can begin. During this six months, they hold many meetings.
They bring in representatives from sub-watersheds that have already been treated. The plans
include details about what investments will be made, and who will contribute what. Then treating
the sub-watershed takes a minimum of 2-3 years. After treating one sub-watershed, then they
move on to the next one. Finally, when they leave a watershed, they turn the newly created
government assets and the ongoing government responsibilities back to the line departments.
Project staff who had worked on the project both before and after the MTR appeared to be the
most emphatic about the importance of participatory planning and implementation, and of the
need to look after the interests of different groups of land users, including the resource poor and
women.21 They commented how villagers were more eagerly contributing an increasing share of
the costs of the physical investments, particularly for developing water resources, since the
increasing availability of water has made such a significant improvement in the quality of their
lives.
Both project staff and villagers have become more participatory. One project director told OED,
"When we met with the villagers, we used to sit in chairs. Two years ago, we started sitting on
the ground with them. This has made all the difference."
However, there is still need for more training, both technical and institutional, of both project
staff and villagers in order to build the necessary human resource capacity at all levels-from
state governments to individual farmers-to make these new institutional arrangements work.
21. In Phase II of the Hills project in Himachal Pradesh, they now require 6 out of the 12 members of each VDC to be
women.



14
Institutional development: To what extent have the users established institutional
arrangements to manage and maintain the new investments over time, particularly those
which are held in common by the local community?
Both SARs referred to this problem of uncontrolled usage of common property resources,
whether village, panchayat, or forest lands. For the Plains project, one of the main stated goals
was "to strengthen communal systems of resource management on treated lands, so that the
resource is managed jointly by a clearly identified group of local users and by the concemed
government land authority. This requires a set of institutional arrangements that regulate use
while excluding those who are not members of the group, thereby addressing both local needs
and government priorities for land and product use."22
The audit mission met with members of village development committees at 9 of the 37 sites
during seven field trips, and with individual farmers or farm families at 11 of the sites. At 7 out of
10 locations which involved the management of common property land resources, the mission
saw evidence of well functioning VDCs that had established effective rules which they were
enforcing. They hired watchmen to prevent grazing, they levied fines of Rs 200 to 500 per head
of stray cattle, and they organized an annual fodder harvest. In the case of two pastures, the
practice was share-cropping, with farmers keeping 50% of what they harvested, and the
remaining 50% going to the VDC. In another case, each of the 70 families in the village was
allowed to harvest up to one 30 kg headload per day. In yet another case, the right to harvest the
fodder was auctioned off to the highest bidder in the village. In the case of a horticultural
plantation, the right to harvest the fruit was similarly auctioned off to the highest bidder in the
village. In the remaining 3 out of the 10 cases, the VDC was clearly ineffective in controlling
grazing on commonly held pastures.
At 6 sites where water-harvesting structures built by the project were providing water for
irrigation, VDCs were charging for irrigation in 4 locations and not charging in the other two
locations. They were charging from Rs 150 to 200 per hectare per irrigation.
Clearly, some institutionalization of community-based management of common property
resources is taking place. Equally clearly, more progress needs to be made. When the audit
mission raised the issue at the meeting with the principal secretary, the director, and other
government officials in Rajasthan, they also acknowledged the need to do more work in this area.
They offered the importance of establishing well-defined property rights, enforceable rules, and
dispute resolution mechanisms to manage conflicts concerning the use of resources.
Sustainability: Are the projects' results likely to last?
Sustaining the projects' investments involves the active collaboration of a number of groups from
state governments to local farmers. Therefore, sustainability has a number of dimensions,
including technical viability, local participation, government commitment, and financial viability.
On balance, this audit rates the institutional development as substantial and therefore rates the
sustainability as likely. The projects have demonstrated the technical and institutional feasibility
of implementing relatively small-scale investments in engineering and vegetative technologies
which serve to manage and utilize water resources more efficiently in the context of a watershed,
22. SAR, Plains project, p. 16.



15
and which yield substantial benefits in terms of both resource conservation and economic
development.
The major concerns are government commitment and financial viability. Will the state
governments continue to allocate adequate financial resources to watershed development in
rainfed areas?23 As these projects have demonstrated, such expenditures are justified by the
resulting environmental, social, and economic benefits. This is less of an immediate concern for
the Hills project, where the World Bank is supporting a Phase II. It is more of a concern for the
Plains project where project teams have been disbanded and project staff have been reassigned to
their line departments.
6. Borrower and Bank Performance
Borrower Performance
Overall, the borrower's performance has been satisfactory. The projects experienced the usual
delays in getting started-in establishing the WPIOs in each state, in recruiting and in posting
staff, and in training staff with the necessary skills. But once established, the strongest point has
been the operation of the WPIOs in each state. The states clearly have abundant technical
capacity to plan and implement the physical investments that were made under the projects.
Another strength has been the continuity of the trained staff working for the WPIOs. The weakest
point was central support from the GIO for technical assistance and training, which slowed the
start-up of the projects and hindered the establishment of the GIS in all states.
Funds were allocated to the project by the state governments, and expenditures incurred were
reimbursed through the GOI from the World Bank. State governments were sometimes slow in
releasing funds to the WPIOs, and the GOI in reimbursing funds. This meant doing some work
early in the fiscal year based on promises, and being unable to pay contractors for work until
funds were advanced. It also meant intensifying work in the second half of each fiscal year. In
Orissa, some physical investments that were started in the last year remain incomplete, since
some funds that were promised were not allocated at the last minute.
Both projects met their financial targets in rupees, although not in dollars, because of the
depreciation of the Indian rupee.
Bank Performance
The Bank has had three task managers for each project: at appraisal, from effectiveness through
the MTR, and after the MTR through completion. Bank performance at preparation and appraisal
was satisfactory. Supervision has been highly satisfactory, at least since the MTR.
Neither project directors nor project staff were guarded toward the World Bank during the audit
mission. They talked about their relationship with the Bank as a collaborative partnership-as
opposed to top-down or simply advisory-in which all partners were working towards the same
goals, and learning together in the process. They praised the Bank's support in a number of areas:
23. Such resources are needed not only to replicate the projects' efforts in new areas, but also to continue to work with
and provide services to the village development committees in order to sustain the existing investments.



16
*  The Bank actively promoted participatory planning and implementation after the MTR.
The task manager organized two workshops on participatory methods in each of the Hills
and Plains projects immediately after the MTR. Participants came from all states, and
from other donors working on watershed projects. He encouraged participants from the
different states to share experiences and to learn from each other. He also insisted on the
enforcement of the project guidelines regarding cost-sharing by beneficiaries.
*  The Bank actively supported the extension of both projects, 21 months (for Hills) and 12
months (for Plains) beyond their initial closing dates, among other things, in order to
enhance the sustainability of the investments that had already been made. The Bank also
supported the expansion of the Plains project into two new watersheds in Orissa.
*  From time to time, the Bank helped to unblock the flow of project funds from the GOI or
the state governments. The Bank was flexible in allowing reimbursements for
engineering structures that were larger than initially anticipated.
*  When some vehicles financed by the project were taken by the forestry department in
Himachal Pradesh, the Bank helped the WPIO retrieve these from the forestry
department.
The supervision intensity was 30.6 and 29.3 staff weeks per project per year for the Hills and
Plains projects, respectively, at an average cost of US$39,600 and US$32,850 per project per
year. As shown in Table 2, while these are more than the average for Bank projects and rural
projects as a whole, they are comparable with other natural resource management projects Bank-
wide, and substantially less than other natural resource management projects in the South Asia
region.
7.   Lessons
The following are the principal lessons arising from these two projects:
(1) A watershed, or sub-watershed, is a very practical unit within which to plan and implement
natural resource management projects in rainfed areas. Among the diversity of natural
resources in a typical watershed, from forests to annual crops and pastures, water is the most
basic natural resource upon which all other life depends. Managing water in a watershed not
only provides a practical framework for project management, but also a focus for the
collective efforts of the village communities living in the watersheds, since improvements in
the availability of water have the most immediate impact on the quality of their lives.
(2) Ownership of the project by the beneficiaries is essentialfor a successful outcome andfor
long-term sustainability. This requires a change of perspective, particularly on the part of
project staff, as well as training in participatory methodologies. Both project staff and
beneficiaries need to view their working relationship as a collaborative partnership.
Interventions need to be demand-driven by the beneficiaries within the supply framework
provided by the project.
(3) It is important for the services of the different government departments (in this case, soil
conservation, forestry, agriculture, horticulture, and animal husbandry) to be provided in
an integrated way. For this to continue beyond the life of the project (which in this case
occurred within the context of project teams), this requires the development of new



17
organizations (such as village development committees) and of permanent institutional
arrangements among government departments, local governments, the village development
committees, and individual farmers, that will not only facilitate but also create the incentives
for this integration to continue.
(4) In order to receive the beneficiaries' support for long-term conservation objectives, it is
also important for the beneficiaries to realize some short-term benefits from the project's
interventions. This means working closely with the beneficiaries in order to understand their
varied sources of income and their most immediate needs, and then modifying the standard
technical solutions, where necessary, to accommodate the long-term development objectives
to these short-term needs.
(5) During project implementation, it is very important to have feedback mechanisms such as
the midterm review, to effectively evaluate and reflect upon the progress of the project, and
then to make the midcourse corrections that become necessary. The midterm reviews were
a crucial, soul-searching period for both the Hills and Plains projects. These led to major,
project-saving changes in the implementation of both projects in order to enhance the
demand-driven nature and increase the degree of local ownership of the project's
investments.



18
Table 1. Project Costs (amounts in US$ millions)
Credit No. C2100 (Hills)          Credit No. C2131 (Plains)
Appraisal          Actual          Appraisal           Actual
estimate                           estimate
Watershed development works           70.2              74.9             47.51             50.85
Technology procurement                2.8               1.3
Technical support                                                         1.70              2.76
Project implementation               21.6               16.3             18.19             16.13
Central support                       0.8               0.3
Training                                                                  2.16              0.90
Technical assistance                                                     2.42               1.00
Base cost                            95.5              92.8              71.99             71.64
Physical contingencies                15.9                                9.6
Price contingencies                   14.2                                10.3
Total project costs                  125.6             92.8              91.8              71.64
Table 2. Supervision Intensity
Staff weeks per      US$ per project per
project per year             year
Credit No. C2100 (Hills)                                         30.6                   39,600
Credit No. C2131 (Plains)                                        29.3                   32,850
All projects, FY93-99                                            13.9                   49,859
All rural projects, FY93-99                                      14.5                   49,717
All natural resource management projects, FY93-99                30.6                  106,851
South Asia, all projects, FY93-99                                18.2                   53,636
South Asia, all rural projects, FY93-99                          18.2                   47,035
South Asia, all natural resource management projects, FY93-99    71.9                  169,427
Source: World Bank, Corporate Resource Management.



19                                           Annex A
Annex A: Basic Data Sheet
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT (CR. 2100-IN
AND LN 3175-IN)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ millions)
Appraisal             Actual            Actual as % of
estimate                              appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                    125.6                93.5                74.4%
IBRDIIDA                                               88.0                 67.5                76.7%
State Governments                                      28.5                 20.7                72.6%
GOI                                                    0.5                   0.3                60.0%
Beneficiaries                                          8.6                   5.0                58.1%
Cancellation                                            0                   20.5
Date physical components completed                June 30, 1997        March 31, 1999
Economic rate of return                                17%                  17%
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99
Appraisal estimate    4.0     12.0     24.0     39.0     55.0    67.0       78.0     88.0       --
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)         --       -        5.5     12.9    22.3    30.1       40.1      47.7     55.0     67.5
Actual as % of       0%       0%       23%      33%      41%      45%       51%      54%      63%      77%
appraisal
Date of final                                                                     September 10, 1998
disbursement:
Project Dates
Original                            Actual
Identification                      N.A.                                 N.A.
Preparation                         N.A.                                 N.A.
Appraisal                           N.A.                                 June/July 1989
Negotiatons                         N.A.                                 January 16-23, 1990
Board approval                      March 6, 1990                        March 6, 1990
Signing                             N.A.                                 January 11, 1991
Effectiveness                       April 11, 1991                       May 10, 1991
Midterm review                      December 1994                        September/October 1994
Project completion                  June 30, 1997                        March 31, 1999
Loan closing                        June 30, 1997                        March 31, 1999



20                                          Annex A
Staff Inputs
Staff Weeks      US$(OOO)
Preparation to appraisal                180.2             325.2
Appraisal                                62.5             135.7
Negotiations through Board approval      12.8              38.3
Supervision                             244.9             316.8
Completion                               10.0              45.0
Total                                   510.4             861.0
Mission Data
Date      No. of  Staff days   Specializations   Performnance rating   Types of problems
(monthlyear) persons  in field    represented    Implemen- Development
tation status objectives
Through         6-7/89       9        21    Agronomy
appraisal                                   Agricultural
researchtextension
Institutions specialist
Economics
Sociology
Forestry
Supervision
7/91        3        14    Agriculturist          2           2      Establishment of
Research/extension                        Watershed Planning and
Forestry                                  Implementation Offices.
GOI to finalize TA
component. Shortage of
CPF in HP and J and K
and of vehicles in
Haryana and H.P.
2.              2-4/92       3         9    Agriculturist           2           2      Project staffing,
Research/extension                        particularly SMS and
Forestry                                  arrangements for TA.
3.             10-11/92      4         7    Agriculturist           S           S      Arrangements for TA.
Research/extension                        Identification of
Forestry                                  common property
Rural sociology                           management
arrangements.
4.              6-7/93       2        16    Forestry                2           2      Finalization of TA
Research/extension                        arrangements and GIS
and development of
village level institutions
to promote participation
5.              1-2/94       3        11    Agriculturist           S           S      Institutional
Forestry                                  development for
Research/extension                        common property
management and cost
sharing for development
of non-arable lands.
6. MTR          9-10/94      3        15    Agriculturist           S           S      Lack of institutional
Forestry                                  arrangements for
Research/extension                        participatory
management of common
property resources; lack
of agreement on sharing
of cost of development



21                                            Annex A
Date      No. of  Staff days   Specializations     Performance rating     Types of problems
(monthlyear) persons  in field      represented     Implemen- Development
tation status objectives
of non-arable lands;
GOI to appoint TA
consultants; need to
strengthen farmers and
extension staff training
programs.
7.               1-5/95       4         14    Economist                S            S      Need for suitable
Agriculturist                               arrangement to e
Research specialist                         developed with users
Soil conservation                           for protection,
specialist                                  management and
sharing of produce by
State Government of
Punjab and J and K.
GOHP to provide
needed staff and return
13 vehicles to the
project. Better use of
measurable indicators.
Improve quality of
technological models.
Need to launch TA
components by GOI.
8.                5/96        3         11    Research specialist      S            S      Lack of MOA action to
Forester                                    implement TA and GIS.
Watershed                                   Lack of project vehicles
management                                 in HP. Lack of training
and involvement of
women in project
activities. Delay in
completion of civil
works in Punjab and
Haryana and lack of
government resolution
on management
common property
resources/cost sharing
in J and K.
9.               119711        2        2    Research specialist       -            -      Improving sustainability
Financial specialist                        through beneficiary
involvement cost
sharing and
maintenance and
protection of assets
created by the project.
Use of independent
agency for impact
evaluation.
10.               4/97        1         3    Research specialist       S           S       Weakness of MOA in
project monitoring and
technical assistance.
Slowdown in activity
due to uncertainty over
extension of credit
closing date.
11.              6/972'       3         4     Research specialist      S           S       Project financed
Extension specialist                        vehicles not made
Soil conservation                           available. Delay in
specialist                                  filling key posts and
undue movement of



22                                           Annex A
Date      No. of  Staff days   Specializations    Pen'onmance rating     Types of problems
(month/year) persons  in field     represented    Implemen- Development
tation status objectives
staff.
12.              7/97         2        18    Economist               S           S
Agricultural research
and watershed
management
13.              11197        1        2    Agricultural research    -           -      Slowness in MOA
and watershed                             support for TA.
management
14.              7/982a       2        4    Agricultural research     -           -     Project financed
and watershed                              vehicles not made
management                                 available. Delay in
Sociologist                               filling key posts. Need
for decentralized
management.
15.             10/98a3       6        5    Agricultural research    S           S      Need for transfer of
and watershed                              assets created to the
management                                 constituted
Agronomist                                 conunittee/respective
Economist                                 line departments
Forester
Sociologist
Environmentalist
1/ Review of physical and financial progress.
2/ Himachal Pradesh only.
3/ Joint supervision/preparation of Phase 11 mission
Other Project Data
FOLLOW-oN OPERATIONS
Operation                                             Credit no.         Amount             Board date
(US$ millions)
Integrated Watershed Development (Hills-Il) Project                       $135          May 18, 1999



23                                          Annex B
Annex B: Basic Data Sheet
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (PLAINS) PROJECT (CR. 2131-IN
AND LN 3197-IN)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ millions)
Appraisal            Actual           Actual as % of
estimate                            appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                  91.8                71.64               78.0%
IBRD/IDA                                             62.0                57.74               93.1%
GOI and State Governments                            24.1                13.9/1              46.6%
Beneficiaries                                         5.7
Cancellation                                                              4.26
Date physical components completed              March 31, 1998       March 31, 1999
Economic rate of return                             17.7%                 14%
11 This includes expenditures by the GOI, state governments, and beneficiaries, since the state governments were not
able to separate the expenditures by beneficiaries from state expenditures.
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94      FY95      FY96      FY97      FY98      FY99
Appraisal estimate    2.48    3.72      11.16     19.84     28.52     40.30     52.70      62.0
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)       3.07      3.36      6.69      12.34     18.48     27.25     42.79     50.82     57.74
Actual as % of      124%      90%       60%       62%       65%       68%       81%        82%      95.7%
appraisal
Date of final                                                                July 31, 1999
disbursement:
Project Dates
Onginal                            Actual
Identification                      N.A.                               December 1987
Preparation                         November 1988                       October/November 1988
Appraisal                           July 1989                           October 16,1989
Negotiations                        February 1990                      April 4-11, 1990
Board approval                      April 1990                          May 15,1990
Signing                             N.A.                               August 22, 1990
Effectiveness                       November 20, 1990                   February 28, 1991
Midterm review                      September 1993                     September 1994
Project completion                  March 31, 1998                     March 31, 1999
Loan closing                        March 31, 1998                      March 31, 1999



24                                       Annex B
Staff Inputs
Staff Weeks      US$(000)
Preparation to appraisal             188.3            265.8
Appraisal                             54.1            101.0
Negotiatons through Board approval    3.3              6.8
Supervision                          234.4            262.8
Completion                            N.A.            N.A.
Total                                 N.A.            N.A.
Mission Data
Date    No. of Staff days   Specializations  Performance rating    Types of problems
(monthlyear) persons  in field  represented    Implemen- Development
tation status objectives
Through          N.A.     N.A.    N.A.  N.A.                  N.A.       N.A.
appraisal
Supervision
1.              3-4/91     4       25   AG, SCIEX, F, IS       S          S     T, F
2.             11-12/91    4       49   AG, SCIEX, F, S        S          S     T, M
3.              8-9/92     3       40   AG, SC/EX, F           S          S     T, M
4.              3-4/93     2       34   AG, SCIEX              S          S     T
5.              5-6/93     3       14   AG, M&E (2)
6.              5-6/93     2       22   GIS (2)
7.             10-12/93    3       35   AG, SC/EX, F           S          S     T, M
8.              4-6/94     3       30   AG, SC/EX, F           S          S     M
9. MTR /4      9-10/94     3       90   AG, SC/EX, F
10.             3-4/95     2       36   SC/EX, R               S          S     T, M
11.           12/95 -4/96   2      19   R, SC/EX               S          S     T, M
12.            9-12/96     3       30   R, SC/EX, S            S          S     T, M
13.            9-11/97     2       18   R, F                   S          S     M
14.            8-10/98     6       35   R, AG (2), S (2), M    S          S
15. Completion    4-5/99   3       60   AG, E, R
/1 AG = Agriculture; R = Research; SC  Soil Conservation; EX = Extension; IS = Institutions Specialist; F = Forestry; S =
Sociology; GIS = Geographic Information Systems; M&E = Monitoring and Evaluation; M = Management; EC =
Economics.
/2 Performance ratings: HS = highly satisfactory; S = satisfactory; U = unsatisfactory; and HU = highly unsatisfactory
/3 Types of problems: T = technical; F = financial; and M = manageriaVinstitutional
/4 Three additional representatives of GOI also participated in the midterm review.



25                                    Annex C
Annex C: Principal Persons Consulted by OED Audit Mission
to India, January 16 to February 3, 2000
(In chronological order)
Meeting with Government of India Officials, Delhi, February 18
(Ms.) Gur Pyari (chairperson)
Additional Commissioner, Regional Forest Service
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Subhash Chand Ram
Sr. Technical Assistant, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
P. K. Agrawal
International Projects Departrnent, Project, Planning, and Monitoring
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Karnlesh Kumar Narula
Deputy Commnissioner, Regional Forest Service
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Dinesh Nigam
Assistant Soil Conservation Officer
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Deepak Singh
Deputy Secretary, Regional Forest Service
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Meeting with Haryana Project Staff, Chandigarh, January 19
H. S. Lohan
Project Director, IWDP (Hills-II)
R. C. Gupta
Hydrologist, IWDP (Hills-II)
Meeting with Punjab Project Staff, Chandigarh, January 19, and Field Trip to Jainti-Devi-
ki-Rao and Mohan-Majra-Nighi Watersheds, January 20
A. S. Dogra,
Special Secretary to Punjab Government and Project Director, IWDP (Hills-II)
Harbhajan Singh
Project Development Economist
And others
Meeting at Zonal Research Station for Kandi Area and Regional Training Center for
Watershed Development, Ballowal Saunkhri, Punjab, January 20
Dr. S. S. Grewal, Associate Director
Regional Training Centre for Watershed Development



26                                   Annex C
Dr. Hardip Singh Sur, Associate Director of Research
Zonal Research Station for Kandi Area, Punjab Agricultural University
And others
Meeting with Government of Punjab Officials, Chandigarh, January 21
Dr. Kuldip Singh Sandhu
Director, Horticulture
Dr. M. L. Kaushal
Joint Director, Animal Husbandry
H. S. Gujral
Conservator of Forests, Shivalik Circle
A. S. Chandi
Joint Director, Agriculture
G. Ramjibe
Chief Conservator of Soils
Meeting with Government of Himachal Pradesh Officials, Shimla, January 22
Dr. S. K. Pande
Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Himachal Pradesh
Dev Swarup
Financial Commissioner rum Secretary to H.P. Government
Dr. S. S. Negi
Project Director, IWDP (Hills-II)
Field Trip to Nahan Unit, Himachal Pradesh, January 23
Dr. Sushil Kapta
Team Leader, Nahan Unit, IWDP (Hills-II)
Field Trip to Nalagarh Unit, Himachal Pradesh, January 24
Dr. Gumam Singh
Team Leader, Nalagarh-Unit, IWDP (Hills-II)
Field Trips to Begunia and Nayagarh Watersheds, Orissa, January 28 and January 29
Dipak Mohauty
Assistant Project Director, Begunia Watershed, IWDP (Plains),
Dinesh Nigam
Rainfed Farming Systems Division
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Delhi
And others



27                                   Annex C
Meeting with Government of Orissa Officials, Bhubaneswar, January 28
Dr. Giridhare Maharana (chairperson)
Director of Soil Conservation
Shri N. C. Bal
Former Project Director, IWDP (Plains), Phulbani
B. N. Nayak
Former Assistant Conservator of Forests, IWDP (Plains), Phulbani
Srihari Nayak
Additional Secretary, Agriculture Department
Field Trip to Udaipur, Rajasthan, January 31
Dr. R. K. Saxena
Additional Director, Watershed Development and Soil Conservation, Jaipur
R. N. Bhatnagar
Joint Director, Watershed Development and Soil Conservation, Udaipur
Suresh Deval
Deputy Director, Watershed Development and Soil Conservation, Udaipur
Field Trips to Bhilwara and Ajmer Watersheds, February 1
T. P. Mathur
Joint Director, Watershed Development and Soil Conservation, Bhilwara
B. L. Nahar
Assistant Engineer, Bhilwara
Gopal Singh
Joint Director, Watershed Development and Soil Conservation, Ajmer
G. D. Vrindani
Deputy Director, Watershed Development and Soil Conservation, Ajmer
Meeting with Government of Rajasthan Officials, Jaipur, February 2
Krishna Bhatnagar (chairperson)
Principal Secretary, Agriculture
Khemray
Director, Watershed Development and Soil Conservation
G. N. Sharma (presenter)
Joint Director, Watershed Development and Soil Conservation
And others



28                          Annex D
BORROWER'S COMMENT
F No-3-14/99-WDC-1
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE & COOPERATION
RFS DIVISION
104, B-wing, Shastri Bhavan
New Delhi, Dated: 12-06-2000
To
Dr. K. Shivaji,
Deputy Secretary (FB),
Dept. of Economic Affairs,
Ministry of Finance,
North Block
New Delhi
Subject: Draft Performance Audit Report prepared by Operation Evaluation
Department - Comments regarding
Sir,
Please refer to your letter No.415/97-FB-VII dated June 8, 2000 and find enclosed the
comments of Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of
India, on Draft Performance Audit Report of IWDP - (Hills and Plains) Project prepared by
Operation Evaluation Department (OED) that visited India during January 16 to February 3,
2000.
..PYJ)4
Additional Coglouer (FS)
Copy to:
I.  CtS0Ty  .   ,X   n N&rwA        s.4r  4 Jb.T dc EatalwioiSo Group Opraion&.
/Me11lIau Depmma, tWubng4 DX,., tUSA. FAX No. (102) 4T776391
CJ, .  u, Sauor, ApsrzuJro -3%4|niE. L0dhW Road, World Baal



29                        Annex D
BORROWER'S COMMENT
COMMENTS OF DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE &
COOPERATION, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, GOVERNMENT
OF INDIA ON DRAFT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT (PAR) OF
IWDP-(HILLS & PLAINS) PROJECT
The draft performance audit report of IWDP-Hills & Plains Project is a
systematic and comprehensive documentation of the project performance audit
evaluating the extent to which objectives were achieved assessing the overall
outcome.
PAR has rated IWDP-Hills & Plains Projects as satisfactory stating that
the objective of relevance, efficacy and efficiency associated with the project
outcome have been fully met. Physical investment in soil and water conservation
technologies along natural drainage line in commonly held forest and pastures
have come out with concrete and obvious results exhibiting recharging ground
water, reducing soil erosion, reclaiming degraded land and increasing production
of agricultural forest and livestock products. The focus of PAR on institutional
issues concerning institutional development associated with the project and future
sustainability of the project intervention are endorsed fully.
However, PAR have pointed out that MoA, GOI could not attempt to
provide central support for technical assistance and training to help establish the
geographical information system (GIS) units in each state that would assist
project planning and monitoring. In this context it is mentioned once again that
the input of MoA, GOI remains the same as already pointed out in our comments
on the implementation completion report.
Whereas PAR have highlighted strengths and weaknesses of the project
and have rightly marked the project as supply driven MoA fully agrees with this
and stresses more on bottom-up and demand driven approach to phase-II of
IWDP-Hills project.
nfrwoPuGBNL'J"CiR



