Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19872
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(CR. 2100-IN AND LOAN 3175-IN)
November 3, 1999
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 =       Rupee (Rs)
At Appraisal (June, 1989): US$1.00   =  16.43
Completion Year (1999): US$1.00  =    43.39
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FAO/CP   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
GIS       Geographical Information System
GOI       Government of India
IBRD      International Bank for Construction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
JFM       Joint Forest Management
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
MTR       Mid-term Review
NBC       Natural Breeding Centers
NWDPRA Natural Watershed Development Project for Rainfed Areas
SOPs      Silt Observation posts
T&V       Training and Visit Extension System
VDC       Village Development Committees
WPIO      Watershed Planning and Implementation Office
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director: Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:   Ridwan Ali
Task Leader:      T.C. Jain



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (IMLLS) PROJECT
(Cr.2100-IN and Ln3175-N)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface.i
Evaluation Summary ............................................                                   i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..........................................     .        1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .............................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .............................................1
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ............................................               4
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .............................................---.------------------------.5
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ............................................6
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ............................................                              6.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..............................................6
H. FUTURE OPERATION .............................................7
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .........................7
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .....................................9
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .....................................9
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ............................ .1.1
Table 3: Project Timetable ...........................                              11
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........ 12
Table 5 (a) Punjab ......................................................           13
Table 5 (b) Haryana .......................................................         14
Table 5 (c) Himachal Pradesh .......................................................  15
Table 5 (d)  Jammu and Kashmir ......................................................  17
Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation ................................................... 18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .......................................................  19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 8A: Project Costs ..............................................      20
Table 8B: Project Financing ..............................................  20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .............................................  20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants         .......................................... 21
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements            . .    24
Table 12: Bank Resources: StaffInputs ............................................. 24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions          ......................................... 25
APPENDICES:
A.         Mission's Aide-Memoire
B.         Borrower's Contribution
C.         Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
D.         Livestock Aspects
E.         Sociological Aspects
F.         Financial and Economic Analysis



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS)) PROJECT
(Cr. 2100-IN/Ln. 3175-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Integrated Watershed
Development (Hills) Project in India for which Cr.2100-iN in the amount of SDR56.8 million (US$75
million) and Ln. 3175-IN in the amount of US$13 million were approved by the Board on March 6, 1990,
signed on 11 January 1991 and made effective on 10 May 1991.
The original financing plan was modified by cancellation of the loan in December 1991 and
by extending the original credit closing date by one year and nine months to 31 March, 1999. The final
disbursement as of September 5, 1999 is SDR47.86 million (US$67.55 million) utilizing 84.26% of total
credit.
This ICR draft was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Co-operative Program (FAO/CP)
mission' which visited India from 16 May to 2 June, 1999. Dr. T. C. Jain, Task Manager for the project
joined the mission for the latter part of its program of field visits and for the final meetings with each state.
The ICR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, Loan, Credit and Project Agreements, Supervision
Reports and documents in the project files as well as project impact evaluation reports and briefing
documents prepared for the mission's visit by the project staff. Borrower's contribution from the
participating states was made available to the ICR mission. A consolidated report from the Ministry of
Agriculture, Government of India, is annexed as Attachment B. In addition, and with the full
collaboration of the responsible line departments, the mission undertook a program of field visits in order
to allow on site inspection and discussions with field staff and beneficiaries.
J. H. Weatherhogg (FAO/CP Mission Leader, Agricultural Economist), J. V. Alexander (Soil
Conservation/Watershed Management Consultant),  S. K. Ranjhan (Livestock/Fodder Specialist Local
Consultant) and Mrs. R. M. Sethi (Rural Sociologist Local Consultant.
i






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(Cr. 21 00-IN/Ln. 3175-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        Government of India (GOI) strategy for agricultural development in the Seventh and
Eighth Five Year Plans (1985/90 & 1990/95) emphasized stabilization of natural resource systems in
the rainfed sub-sector. Previous experience under World Bank supported projects, in particular the
Kandi Watershed Area Development Project (Ln.1897-IN) as well as the Himalayan Watershed
Management Project (Ln.2295-LN) and the Rainfed Areas Watershed Development Project (Cr. 1424-
IN) had helped to demonstrate sustainable and cost effective treatments to arrest and reverse the
degradation of watersheds. This project, together with a companion project in the plains areas
(Integrated Watershed Development (Plains) Project - Cr.2131-lN/Ln.3197-IN) were therefore
expected to have significant positive effects for the entire rainfed sector in India.
Project Objectives
2.        The project's main objective was to slow and reverse degradation of the natural
environment, through appropriate soil and moisture conservation technology. Improved soil and
moisture conservation were to increase production and income from grain crops, horticulture, fodder,
fibre, fuelwood and livestock to keep pace with population growth and reduce floods and other
damage in the project area and adjacent plains. For this, the project was to promote known vegetative
conservation technologies and verified others, developed co-ordinated, interactive planning and
strengthened management of non-arable lands.
3.        Project components. Project design included a degree of flexibility over the seven-year
implementation period and this was reflected in the components. The Initial Sub-Watersheds
component included 15 sub-watersheds in the four participating states of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal
Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir, covering an area of 110,000 ha identified for priority treatment. This
included vegetative barriers on steep slopes and farm boundaries and programs for on-farm fodder
production, horticulture, silvipasture, afforestation, drainage line treatments and livestock
improvement. Planning allowed for interaction with rural communities to agree the type and volume
of treatments, cost and benefit sharing arrangements and resource management responsibilities. This
was the basis for annual work programs for each sub-watershed, identifying responsibilities for both
implementing agencies and beneficiaries. The component also included treatment of around 16,000 ha
of upper watershed, mainly forest land in Ropar and Hoshiapur districts of Punjab and construction of
small water harvesting tanks' with a bund height of 10-15 meters to provide for domestic and livestock
water needs and be able to command an area of 40-100 ha. The Additional Sub-Watersheds
component provided for extension of the types of treatment developed and tested under the above
component over an additional 120,000ha of upland sub-watersheds, contingent on satisfactory
implementation of works on the initial watersheds and as agreed at the project's Mid-Term Review
(MTR). The Technology Improvement and Application component included three sub-components.
The first, for Nursery Development, focussed on provision of vetiver, forage species, horticultural and
tree planting material in adequate quantities in all areas. Rainfed Farming Technology Demonstrations
provided planting material and other inputs free to farmers for them to establish demonstrations and as
a way to provide training to extension subject matter specialists and University trainers. On-Farm
30 sites were identified by the time of appraisal, resulting in a plan to construct some 27 water harvesting tanks.



Applied Research by the zonal research stations of the State Agricultural Universities in a few selected
sub-watersheds aimed to determine the impact of their treatment and identify any constraints.. The
Project Implementation component provided for the establishment of a Watershed Planning and
Implementation Office (WPIO) in each of the four states. These offices were to include staff of a mix
of disciplines, seconded from their line agencies and to be responsible for the bulk of implementation,
in close collaboration with the relevant line departments. Finance was included for incremental staff,
vehicles, equipment, offices and staff housing, training and study tours, a Geographical Information
System (GIS) in each state to facilitate planning and monitoring, contracts for baseline and impact
evaluation studies, and short term consultancies. The final component for Central Support was to be
implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) of GOI and consisted of Training and Technical
Assistance sub-components. Training was supported at the Punjab Agricultural University Regional
Research Center at Ballowal Saunkhri through workshops/retreats involving staff from all the
participating states, for which funds were provided for buildings and equipment, cost of lecturers and
support staff and other operating costs. The project was also to set up a training facility at the Punjab
Remote Sensing Center in Ludhiana to help establish GIS in the four states and provide regular in-
service training, for which funds for rental costs, equipment and consultants were provided. Technical
assistance was to be provided by a team of consultants, preferably local, who would be recruited to
train staff in interdisciplinary watershed planning, participatory preparation and implementation of
sub-watershed treatment schemes, and organizing, supporting and empowering local communities to
assume management responsibility.
4.         Covenants and agreements were mainly aimed at ensuring adequate and timely staffing
of the WPIOs and release of sufficient budget to enable effective implementation.
5.        Evaluation of project obrjectives. The project objectives were clear and benefited from
the experience gained from earlier projects. Design was good in allowing for interaction with rural
communities in deciding the scope and extent of activities to be supported and had flexibility to allow
for adjustment following the MTR of the project.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.        Implementation started slowly as a result of non-recruitment of consultants by the MOA
of GOI, difficulties in recruiting and posting staff and establishing the Watershed Planning and
Implementation Offices (WPIOs). Security was a problem in Punjab up to 1992 and from then
onwards in Jammu Kashmir, which prevented WB supervision visits, the latter task being regularly
undertaken by MOA. From project start-up in July 1991 activities commenced in 24 sub-watersheds.
Because of the lack of consultants the project staff had to develop their own approaches to
participative planning and implementation with local communities, which was successfully
accomplished. The original design provided a degree of flexibility but following the MTR in 1994 the
project activities were adjusted to bring them still more closely into line with communities' needs and
flexibility increased through sensitive supervision.
7.        The project has proven highly successful in promoting vegetative means for soil and
water conservation. Expansion of activities at the MTR and extension of the credit closing date have
resulted in a total area treated by the project of over 352,000 ha, or 43% higher than the 246,0000 ha
planned at appraisal. Treatment of non-arable land (forest and village community land) accounts for
about 45% of total project investments and has proved very successful, particularly the use of contour
trenches for reducing run-off and increasing moisture infiltration. Arable area treatments covering
28,600 ha include introduction of improved inputs as well as better husbandry and soil and water
conservation practices. As a result, maize average yield has risen from 0.8 tons/ha to 1.4 tons/ha and
wheat yield has increased from 0.9 tons/ha to 1.8 tons/ha. Rainfed horticulture has been successfully
promoted with some 7,500 ha being planted with fruit trees, most commonly mango. Livestock
development has been supported through breed improvement by both Al of cattle and buffalo and
natural breeding, improved feeding by planting of fodder grasses and better use of crop residues and
improved animal health by establishing dispensaries with a significant increase in milk production.
Drainage line stabilization using a mixture of engineering and vegetative means has been successful
in protecting the banks of choes (torrents) and in some cases reclaiming part of the bed for agricultural
ii



use. Water harvesting as originally proposed with medium sized tanks with bunds 10-1 Sm high was
dropped in favor of smaller tanks and a variety of schemes including improving existing ponds and
tanks, tapping springs and provision of simple facilities for domestic uses and for watering animals. In
addition these small schemes give an opportunity for providing 'life-saving' irrigation to field and tree
crops in times of drought as well as creation of 2,000ha of perennial irrigated area. Technology
development financed by the project has been valuable in promoting use of improved technology,
carrying out on-farm applied research and monitoring the effects of treatments on soil loss, run-off and
infiltration. Project implementation support in particular the establishment of multi-disciplinary
WPIOs in each state was satisfactorily implemented and has operated well. Project staff have helped in
the formation of some 480 Village Development Committees to assist in planning and implementation
of project investments and share responsibility for their subsequent maintenance and protection.
Central support for training and technical assistance had mixed success. Training of project staff at
the Ballowal Saunkhri Regional Research Center was satisfactory, but since the training was on-
station, tended to bias the benefit towards staff close to the Center. Technical assistance to be financed
by MOA for consultants to assist in initial operation/staff training and for the establishment of the GIS
were never recruited, so that initial implementation was slowed and no GIS established
8.        Sustainability. The credit for a second phase, five year project is already approved so
continuity of staffing and some follow-up in the existing project areas is assured. For the longer term
sustainability of both this project and the second phase action is required in three respects, namely (a)
at the end of IDA financial support either the WPIOs will need to be dismantled and staff returned to
their parent line departments, or else the WPIOs will need to be reduced in size so as not to be too
heavy a burden on Government budget; (b) Village Development Committees (VDC) formed with the
support of the project will require further guidance and help to become fully operational and also to
link themselves into the local government system (Panchayat); and (c) at present arrangements for
division of responsibilities and benefits between Forest Department and village communities need to
be clarified in order to provide a firm basis for further partnership and management. Since the phase II
project will provide time for resolution of these potential risks, sustainability of the project is rated
likely.
9.        Project cost and financing. Total project costs are estimated at credit closing at Rs3.05
billion (US$92.8 million) compared with the estimated cost at appraisal of Rs2.40 billion
(US$125.6.million) (Table 8A). Government share of funding is estimated at ICR at around 23% of
the total project costs, or about RsO.69 billion (US$21 million), the same proportion as the RsO.55
billion (US$29.million) estimated at appraisal (Table 8B). As of September 5, 1999, SDR47.86
million (US$67.55 million) was disbursed, utilizing 84.26% of the total credit
10.       The main factors affecting the project have been generally positive. In all four states
Government support to the project has been good, or very good. The method of operation of the
WPIOs in adopting a participative and needs-based approach to planning and implementation has been
reflected in generally good commitment of rural communities to the project. Constraints for the
project have been posed by the initial security problems in Punjab up to 1992 and similar difficulties
since then in Jammu Kashmir, which have prevented visits by Bank supervision missions, slowness in
filling important staff positions, too frequent movement of staff, use of project vehicles for other
purposes (in Himachal Pradesh) and non-recruitment of consultants required for project start-up and
establishment of the GIS by MOA.
11.       The Bank's performance in project preparation and design was good, based on
experience of other watershed and forestry development projects and with a degree of built-in
flexibility. The MTR was useful in adjusting the scale of the treatments financed to community needs
and supervision was good, sensitive to the need for flexibility in implementation and encouraged
interaction between the four states. Cancellation of the loan and extension of the credit closing date
showed correct judgement and assisted successful implementation.
12.       Borrower performance has generally been good, or very good, with strong project
support by the four States. Weak points were some slowness in filling key staff posts, sometimes too
frequent transfer of staff and limitation of transport in Himachal Pradesh by using project financed
iii



vehicles for non-project purposes. MOA failed to recruit consultants to assist staff in project start-up
and establishment of a GIS, slowing implementation and preventing GIS establishment.
13.        Assessment of project outcome. The project has generally reached or exceeded the
level of activities and achievement expected at appraisal. Farm incomes are significantly higher as a
result of treatment of arable areas. Quantifying only benefits from increased production of field crops,
horticulture, and wood and non-wood forest products from the non-arable areas treated by the project
the economic rate of return is calculated at about 17% (the same as at appraisal). Benefits from
livestock development, reduction or prevention of flooding, land reclamation, improved groundwater
regime and other environmental benefits claimed for the project have not been quantified. In addition,
the success in building the four WPIOs to be effective in promoting vegetative means of soil and water
conservation in approaches, which are now accepted nationally is a significant and valuable benefit.
Moreover the participative approach to project planning and implementation is reflected in a good
commitment by the rural communities to the project who have contributed 10-14% of the value of
total field operations in their own labor.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
14.        The overall finding of the ICR mission is that the project has been successful in
significantly exceeding the area of treatment anticipated at appraisal. The project has also been
satisfactory in promoting vegetative means of soil and water conservation now adopted in projects and
programs in many states of India, and in establishing a participatory approach to planning and
implementation.  The project has also generated other benefits including the creation of a
multidisciplinary project management office in each of the four states, significant increases in
livestock production, particularly milk, reduction in flooding, reclamation of some stream bed land for
agriculture, creation of around 2,000 ha of perennial irrigated area, and improvement of the
groundwater regime. Higher rainfed farming yields have resulted in significant increases in farm
incomes and these together with benefits from horticulture and non-arable areas are sufficient to give
the project a satisfactory economic rate of return of 17%.
15.        Future operation of the project will depend largely upon the sustainability of the Village
Development Committees, set up with project support.  The second phase project will ensure
continuity of staffing and some follow-up support for this project's activities. Future project operation
of the project should, therefore, be adequate and the project's sustainability is rated as likely.
16.        Key lessons learned. The main lessons learned are: (a) this type of project needs to
address the communities' priorities - particularly provision of water supply; (b) for participatory
projects a degree of flexibility in the choice of project activities is essential; (c) for a Village
Development Committee (VDC) to be successful it has to have some activity and investment as a
focus for its activity; (d) project activities must be needs based, not for example based mainly on
geographic considerations, as for example the Natural Breeding Centers (NBC) in Himachal Pradesh;
(e) for projects of a participative type there is a need for a pre-construction phase in which
communities can be fully involved and consulted; (f) closely integrated; multi-disciplinary teams can
be an effective means of implementing watershed projects. and (g) in view of the adverse effect on the
project of lack of the necessary technical assistance, it would be prudent if technical assistance
contracts were prepared and ready for signing as a condition for negotiations
iv



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(including Cr. 2100/Ln.3175-IN))
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
l.        The main project objective was to slow and reverse degradation of the natural
environment, through the use of appropriate soil and moisture conservation technology. In the process
of conserving soil and in-situ moisture, it would also improve production and income from grain
crops, horticulture, fodder, fibre, fuelwood and livestock, and reduce flooding and other devastation
caused by degradation in both the project area and in the adjoining plains. The project aims to lay a
foundation for sustainable production increases sufficient to keep pace with population growth. To
this end the project has promoted known vegetative conservation technologies, and verified
innovative approaches, developed awareness for co-ordinated, interactive planning, and strengthened
management and use of non-arable areas.
2.        These objectives were clear and well chosen, supporting the Government's key strategy,
as set out in the Seventh and Eighth Five Year Plans (1985/90 and 1990/95), to stabilize natural
resource systems in the rainfed sector. Project objectives and design also benefited from the
implementation experience of previous WB supported projects, in particular the Kandi Watershed
Area Development Project (Ln.1897-IN), the Himalayan Watershed Management Project (Ln.2295-
LN) and the Rainfed Areas Watershed Development Project (Cr. 1424-IN), as well as some social
forestry projects, including the Jammu/Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project (Cr.1286-IN)
and the National Social Forestry Project (Cr. 1611 -IN) and a number of GOI's centrally sponsored
schemes.
3.        As well as the project's ultimate objectives the immediate aims of having a project that
adopted an integrated, multidisciplinary approach; that promoted relatively low-cost vegetative means
of soil and water conservation; that sought interaction with village communities in planning and
implementation; and which embodied a degree of flexibility over the type and extent of treatments
applied according to beneficiary needs, were also well identified.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
4.        The project was appraised in June/July 1989, but because of delay in recruitment of
consultants by MOA, the sometimes problematic security situation and difficulties in recruiting and
posting staff and establishing the Watershed Planning and Implementation Offices (WPIO) in each
1



state the credit and loan only became effective on 10 May 1991. Following a start-up workshop in
July 1991 project activities started in 24 sub-watersheds (2 in Haryana, 6 in Himachal Pradesh, 3 in
Jammu and Kashmir, and 13 in Punjab). In 9 of the initial 13 sub-watersheds in Punjab, project
activities were undertaken only in the upper catchment areas, concentrating on treating the non-arable
areas and drainage lines. The lower catchment areas of these 9 sub-watersheds will be treated during
the second phase of the project. Activities were extended to an additional 20 sub-watersheds
following the mid-term review (MTR), and a further 15 sub-watersheds were added when the credit
closing date was extended. As a result of these changes and extension to the project the total area
treated is more than 352,000 ha, or about 43% more than the 246,000 ha estimated at appraisal.
5.         The project design gave considerable prominence to the introduction of new and
innovative conservation technologies for the stabilization of arable areas. In reality the main soil
erosion problems in the Shivalik zone are caused by uncontrolled run-off from the upper catchment
areas, and when these areas are revegetated and stabilized, the land degradation problems in the lower
drainage lines and arable areas are significantly reduced.
6.         As summarized in Table 5 the project has been largely successful in reaching or
exceeding the targets set at appraisal and the revised targets drawn up following the MTR. Generally
any shortfall in project output for any particular item reflects communities' participation and choice
regarding the type of treatments to be applied. Initial assumptions regarding the use of vegetative
contour barriers, particularly in respect of farner acceptance and the suitability of vetiver grass
(Vetiveria zizanoides) did not prove successful, but there has been good progress with across-slope
vegetative barriers using other species that have productive value for farmers. The main success has
been with forage grasses, and in particular Napier grass (Pennisetum purpureum) and also setaria
(Setaria splendens). Other species that provide economic benefits such as bhabbar grass (Eulaliopsis
binata) which is used for rope making, and Dodenea viscosa which is used for fuelwood, have also
been successfully used as vegetative barriers, particularly in non-arable areas.
7.        Non-arable treatments including afforestation, silvipasture and pasture account for
around 45% of total project investments. Contour trenches for controlling surface run-off and
increasing moisture infiltration are an important technical success. This has resulted to very good tree
and grass survival rates in all states, as well as a more even flow in drainage lines, reduction in
flooding and protection of the lower arable areas.
8.         Tree and shrub species have been selected in conjunction with local communities, and
species composition varies related to changes in ecological conditions. The most common tree species
planted have been khair (Acacia catechu), sisham (Dalbergia sissoo) and reru (Acacia leucophloea).
The most common shrub species has been Dodenea viscosa. Plant survival in project plantations has
been satisfactory and usually above 70%. In some areas the number of surviving tree seedlings
actually exceeds the number of seedlings planted because seed has also been sown along the contour
trenches. The total non-arable area that has been treated is 109,330 ha, of which the largest single
activity has been afforestation which has been undertaken on over 50,000 ha.
9.         Arable areas treatment has included 28,600 ha of on-farm, improved rainfed farming
demonstrations which have promoted introduction of new varieties, seed treatment, fertilizer,
pesticide and moisture conservation practices. As a result there has been a marked increase in average
yields and production. Maize grown in the kharif or monsoon season has increased from a pre- and
without-project SAR estimate of 0.8 tons/ha to an average of 1.4 tons/ha. Similarly wheat grown in
the rabi or winter season has risen from 0.9 tons/ha to an average with-project of 1.8 tons/ha. In
2



addition there has been some diversification in cropping, particularly introduction of vegetables and
fodders such as berseem and sorghum. Prevention of post-harvest losses was promoted by
distribution of grain storage bins to farmers (Table 5).
10.       Rainfed horticulture activities have been reasonably successful. Before the project fruit
growing under totally rainfed conditions was not common in the Shivalik zone. The total area planted
with fruit trees assisted by the project is around 7,500 ha and the considerable potential for rainfed
horticulture is well demonstrated. Farmer preference has mainly been to plant mango trees
(Mangifera indica), but the success with this species has been mixed and there has been considerable
mortality of newly planted seedlings, and this species does require supplementary irrigation at least in
the initial years. The impact evaluation surveys indicate that average seedling survival rate for
horticultural plantations has been approximately 50% on average, but this does not appear to allow for
any subsequent in-filling by farmers. Project supported research at the Regional Research Station at
Ballowal Saunkhri indicates that while mango is suited for soils with a good moisture holding
capacity, on marginal soils amla (Emblica officinalis), and ber (Zizyphus mauritiana) may be better
suited.
11.       Livestock development aimed particularly at increase in milk production through
upgrading cattle and buffaloes using Al and matured breeding, increasing feed resources through
growing fodder grasses on field bunds and boundaries as silvipasture and improving use of crop
residues through chopping and stall feeding.  In addition, the project established veterinary
dispensaries. As shown in Table 5, the project has generally been successful in exceeding the targets
set for breed improvement through Al. Reduction in livestock numbers through purchase of scrub
animals was started but proved unworkable and was abandoned. Initially the project also provided
supplementary feed for in-calf animals and for calf rearing as an inducement to adopt improved
management practices, but this was discontinued after the MTR. The program for promotion of
fodder grasses has been highly successful and is now widely adopted with benefits both in improved
nutrition as well as in time saved in collection of the use of crop residues and repairs or construction
of stalls to promote stall feeding (Table 5). Animal health infrastructure has been improved by
construction of 3 new veterinary hospitals and 12 dispensaries in Haryana and 8 dispensaries in
Punjab.
12.       Drainage line stabilization by a mixture of engineering works, particularly cratewire
structures (gabions) and vegetative means has been generally successful. Species performing well
include Ipomea carnea, Vitex negunda, Dodenea viscosa and Arundo donex, with productive species
such as bamboo and sisal (Sizal sizlian) planted within the drainage line and often resulting in part of
the bed being reclaimed for cultivation.
13.        Water harvesting plans, originally to be 27 medium sized water harvesting structures
(10-15m high), were not proceeded with, particularly due to the Bank's requirement to establish a
Dam Review Panel in each state. Following the MTR, and in response to demands from the rural
communities, much greater emphasis was placed on water resources development in many ways,
including construction of small tanks of below 1 Om in height, rehabilitation of existing village tanks
or new construction, tapping of springs, and provision of pipes and storage tanks for village water
supply. These initiatives have proved to be the most widely appreciated component of the project,
since they directly address the rural communities' greatest priority - water - for drinking and other
domestic uses, for livestock and for irrigation. The area reported to have been brought under perennial
irrigation is reported to be quite small, only about 2,000ha, but the availability of water in these
communities gives the possibility of also providing "life-saving" irrigation to field and horticultural
3



crops in times of drought. Arguably the greatest benefit of all has come from the large saving in time
in collection of water for the house and animals by women.
14.       Technology  development in the form  of improved nursery technology and
demonstration of rainfed farming technology was satisfactorily integrated with the treatments
described above. On-farm applied research was undertaken by the State Agricultural Universities in
each state, in particular by the Punjab Agricultural University, through their Regional Research
Station at Ballowal Saunkhri. Reports of some of the studies financed by the project are listed in
Table 7. Establishment of silt observation posts (SOPs) provided some information on soil loss, as
discussed under environmental impact below.
15.       Project implementation support. Establishment of multi-disciplinary WPIOs in each
state is one of the notable achievements of the project. These have performed well in developing
participative planning and implementation with communities and the organization of such
communities into Village Development Committees (VDCs), some 480 of which have been formed of
which perhaps about half are presently considered fully active. Start-up of the WPIOs and
development of a Geographical Information System (GIS) for project progress monitoring as well as
an input into project planning were constrained by lack of consultancy assistance, as described below.
All the states had plans for improving their office and staff accommodation, but in the event it was
only Haryana which ultimately carried out a significant program, including 4 offices (around 3,900
m 2) and 71 staff quarters (totalling 3,800 m2)
16.       Central support with project funding through MOA was provided for training of project
staff and provision of technical assistance. Training was provided by the Ballowal Saunkhri Regional
Research Station through 86 courses involving over 2,000 participant project staff, for which the
project also financed expansion in accommodation and training facilities, salaries and other operating
costs. Although the training quality has been good and appropriate, since the training was on-station it
tended to benefit those closer units and staff, to the disadvantage of those in more remote areas.
17.       Technical assistance for initial staff training and for training in the use of GIS was
intended to be through consultants contracted by MOA. In the event the consultants were never
recruited and consequently the WPIOs had to develop their own methods of operation and although
the GIS equipment was financed the system has as yet to be developed and activated.
18.       Environmental impact of the project has been positive and substantial, and includes
reduction in soil loss, more regulated discharge of water from the project sub-watersheds, reduction in
flooding, protection of streambanks and recharge of groundwater systems. The project impact
evaluation studies have attempted to quantify the environmental benefits, particularly soil loss, run-
off, infiltration and surface leaf litter. As presented in Appendix C, Table 8, the results show
considerable variation between sites and states, but despite inadequate data on the pre-or without
project situation, the general inference from the measurements available is that the impact of the
project on soil and moisture conservation is strongly positive.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
19.       Factors not generally subject to Government control. The main factors affecting
performance were the initially poor security situation in Punjab up to 1992 and in Jammu Kashmir
thereafter, which prevented visits by WB supervision missions and record floods in the Kandi Zone in
4



1995 and 1996. The project approach and management system were both new innovations and this
resulted in some difficulty in finding suitably qualified staff and establishing the WPIOs.
20.       Factors generally subject to Government control. Lack of consultant recruitment by
MOA to assist project management in the start-up phase slowed initial implementation. Similarly the
failure to contract consultants meant that the GIS has yet to be established. Generally Government
support to the project was good, or very good, in all four states. Release of budget has usually been
timely and adequate. Weak points which have constrained activities have been slowness in filling
important staff positions, too frequent movement of staff, and, in the case of Himachal Pradesh, lack
of transport as a result of retaining vehicles financed by the project for other uses.
21.       Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. The WPIOs in each state
have developed a good multidisciplinary way of working which allows for interaction and
participation by the local communities as well as flexibility. This has allowed the project to be
increasingly tailored to the requirements of the local communities, as illustrated by the change in
emphasis from vetiver to other grass varieties and the increasing emphasis on water resources
development.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
22.       A second phase, five year project has already been approved and retroactive financing is
agreed from March 1, 1999 to provide continuity with this project. This will allow for continuity of
project staffing and some follow-up in areas covered by this project. Sustainability considerations are
therefore common both to this project and the Phase II project now commencing and consist of
project  management;  community  organization;  and  non-arable  area  assignment  of
responsibilities/benefits.
23.       Project management in this project and the Phase II is by the WPIOs, cost of operation of
which accounts for almost 20% of total project costs. Unless there is any still further phase of the
project, before the end of the Phase II project the WPIOs will either (a) need to be dismantled and the
staff and responsibilities transferred to the relevant line departments, or, (b) the WPIOs size and
operating costs adjusted to a level where they can be financed out of Government budget without too
great a difficulty.
24.       Some 480 Village Development Committees (VDCs) have been formed with the
project's support. At present probably only about half are fully operational and the balance will need
further support and guidance to become self-reliant. Initially these VDC were formed for the purpose
of the project and had no linkage with the local government structure. With encouragement from the
project and in line with the 73rd Constitutional Amendment' these are now forming links with the
local government structure. It will be important for future sustainability of the project investments
that the VDCs remain active in furthering the projects aims and operation of assets such as water
supply systems; as a forum for agreement on further community and area development as well as for
resolution of any disputes between beneficiaries; and as the representatives of the community in any
discussions with government agencies.
25.       Non-arable areas treated by the project would generally revert to Forest Department
responsibility in the case of government lands or to Panchayat management in respect of common
Regarding Panchayat Raj legislation
5



lands. At the moment arrangements for assignment of responsibility for protection of these areas, for
fire control and for sharing of benefits, particularly long-termn production benefits, lack clarity. GOI
and forest departments in most states of India are moving towards systems ofjoint forest management
(JFM) between the Forest Department and communities for management of forest areas close to
villages. However, as yet in the project areas the legislative basis and arrangements for sharing
responsibilities and benefits are not clear enough to provide a solid foundation for JFM.
26.       Although immediate project sustainability is virtually guaranteed by virtue of the Phase II
project and sustainability is therefore rated likely, in the longer term the sustainability of investments
supported by the project and its successor phase, or phases, will depend on satisfactory solution of the
aspects mentioned above on management support, village institutions and sharing of responsibilities
and benefits in non-arable areas.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
27.       Bank performance in project preparation and design was good. Design drew on past
experience and included a degree of flexibility. The MTR allowed for some modification of the
project components. Supervision was good, highlighting constraints to successful implementation,
supportive of project management and sensitive to the need for flexibility. The Bank played a helpful
and innovative role in encouraging interaction and exchange of ideas between the participatory states
through arranging workshops and visits associated with supervision missions. The Bank was also
sympathetic to project and Government needs and correct in cancelling the loan as requested by GOI
as well as in agreeing to extension of the project closing date.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
28.       Government support for project implementation was generally good in all four states.
Weak points were occasional slowness in filling staff positions, too frequent transfer of staff and use
of vehicles financed by the project for other uses in Himachal Pradesh. GOI performance in provision
of central support for the project has been less satisfactory. Non-recruitment of consultants slowed the
project start-up as well as preventing the establishment of a GIS, which could have materially helped
the project in monitoring as well as being a potentially valuable input into planning. Due to security
problems in Jammu Kashmir, GOI has also been responsible for project supervision in the state since
1993.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
29.       The project has been successful in reaching or exceeding the level of activities expected
at appraisal. Analysis of the benefits from treatments to arable areas shows a significant positive
impact on farm incomes. Taking only the benefits from farm land (field crops and horticulture) as
well as anticipated benefits from non-arable area, the economic rate of return for the whole project is
calculated at around 17%, the same as the SAR estimate. Other benefits credited to the project from
prevention of flooding, reclamation of land for agriculture from the beds of watercourses, improved
groundwater characteristics and other environmental benefits have not been quantified.
30.       A further considerable benefit of the project, which also has not been quantified, is the
institutional development effect. WPIOs have developed an effective, multi-disciplinary and
participative approach to watershed development. The project has been instrumental in promoting
6



vegetative methods of soil and water conservation. These have been accepted by project field staff
and are now being adopted in other watershed development programs, in particular the centrally
sponsored National Watershed Development Project for Rainfed Areas (NWDPRA). Commitment of
the rural communities to the project has been encouraged by the participative approach adopted for
planning and implementation. This has been reflected in a readiness on the part of the communities to
contribute part of the costs of project treatments, particularly in the form of their own labor. Such
beneficiary contributions vary between the states from about 10-14% of the total cost of field
operations. The overall project outcome is therefore assessed as satisfactory.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
31.       Satisfactory future project operation during the next five years is largely guaranteed by
the existence of the Phase II project. Funding provided under the latter will allow for project staff to
continue to provide support and guidance to the more recently formed VDCs. It will be particularly
important to resolve the division of responsibilities and benefits arising from project activities in non-
arable areas.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.       Watershed development projects, to be successful, need to address the communities'
priorities. A good example in this project was the increasing stress following the MTR given to
provision of water supplies to rural communities, which was in direct response to the villagers
requests.
33.       For participatory projects to work project design has to include a degree of flexibility in
the choice of project activities. In this project the degree of flexibility built into the project design was
subsequently broadened after MTR by sensitive supervision. This enabled the project to better cater
to the communities' needs with consequently greater commitment to the project by these same
communities.
34.       For a Village Development Committee (VDC) to be successful it has to have some
activity and investment as a focus for its activity. If there is an extended period without any real
reason for existing and holding meetings the members and office holders will lose interest.
Introduction at an early stage of the project of relatively simple components, such as improving
drinking water availability can be a valuable catalyst to community group development.
35.       Project activities must be needs based, not for example based mainly on geographic
considerations. To be successful all components need to respond to community needs. Planning, for
example, natural breeding centers (NBCs) on a geographical basis in Himachal Pradesh led to some
NBCs being established in villages where bulls were lightly used and farmers were unwilling to
contribute towards operating costs.
36.       For projects of a participative type there is a need for a pre-construction phase in which
communities can be fully involved and consulted. Since gaining the communities' support is crucial
for the project's success the sooner interaction between project staff and communities starts the
sooner those communities will be able to develop fully operational groups and become more
committed to the project. Building consensus in villages is a time consuming process and these 'social
7



engineering' requires a longer time to implement than the more physical works financed by the
project.
37.       Closely integrated, multi-disciplinary teams can be an effective means of implementing
watershed projects. The project's implementation performance has demonstrated the success that can
be achieved by a well motivated, multidisciplinary team.
38.       Lack of necessary technical assistance delayed project start-up and prevented GIS
establishment. To avoid this situation technical assistance contracts should be prepared and ready for
signing as a condition for negotiations.
39.       The supervision of the state of Jammu & Kashmir was done through the Ministry of
Agriculture, Government of India, which was quite helpful in monitoring project progress. However,
to make project supervision fully effective, it should be done through an independent agency. This
has been taken care of under the follow-up IWDP Hills II project.
8



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                        L                          L             Li
Sector policies                      Ei           E7                           Li
Financial objectives                 EC              i                        [I
Institutional development             z                         L             [I]
Physical objectives                  EC            L             L              i
Poverty reduction                      Fi             I         L              L
Gender issues                        [            [Z             0             L
Other social objectives              l            [             L             Li]
Enviromnental objectives             [3            L             L             L
Public sector management                           L             L             Li
Private sector development           L             L             L             I]
Other (specify)                      L             L                          [
B. Project sustainability            Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
(/)           (if)         (I)
Hi&!
C. Bank performance              satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
O)        O~(-)        W-J-
Identification                        i         [C             L
Preparation assistance              L           EL
Appraisal                           L             ii
Supervision                        K1            L             L
9



Highly
D. Borrower performance            satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(1)          (S')         (/)
Preparation                                    E7
Implementation                    F71
Covenant compliance                            F7C
Operation (if applicable)         L                          LI
Highly                                      Highly
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
L)                             I           LIo
10



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title            Purpose             Year of approval           Status
Preceding operations
I. Kandi Watershed and    Rehabilitation of the Kandi    July 20, 1980  Completed March 31,
Area Development        tract                                           1998
Project. (Ln. 1897)
2. Himalayan Watershed   Rehabilitation/Development   May 31, 1983      Completed Sept.30, 1992
Management Project      of Areas of the Himalayan
(Ln.2295)               foothills
3. Pilot Project on     Watershed rehabilitation and   Dec. 8, 1983     Completed Dec. 31, 1993
Watershed Development   development
in Rainfed Areas.
(Cr. 1424)
Following operations
1. Integrated Watershed    Rehabilitation of watersheds   May 15, 1990  Completed March 31,
Development (Plains)    in plains areas of Gujarat,                     1999
Project (Cr. 2131 and   Orissa and Rajasthan
Ln. 3197)
2. Integrated Watershed    Continuation of watershed  June 1999         Signing July 1999.
Development (Hills)     rehabilitation through                          Retroactive financing
Project Phase If       integrated and participative                     from March 1, 1999
approach
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned    |       Date actualV'
l      latest estimnate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)      N.A.                 N.A.
Preparation                                     N.A.                 N.A.
Appraisal                                       N.A.                 June/July 1989
Negotiations                                    N.A.                 January 16-23 1990
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board approval                                  March 6 1990         March 6 1990
Signing                                         N.A.                 January 11 1991
Effectiveness                                   N.A.                 May 10 1991
First tranche release (if applicable)
Midtermn review (if applicable)                 December 1994        September/October 1994
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)
Project completion                              June 30 1997         March 31 1999
Loan closing                                    June 30 1997         March 31 1999
11



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY'90    FY'91       FY'92        FY'93    FY'94         FY'95       FY'96        FY'97        FY'98        FY'99
Appraisal estimate        4.0      12.0       24.0         39.0       55.0        67.0         78.0         88.0            -           -
Actual                      -         -        5.5         12.9      22.3         30.1         40.1         47.7         55.0       67.55
Actualas%of                 -         -         23           33        41           45           51          54           63         84.3
estimate
Date of final            16 August 1999
disbursement
12



Table 5 (a) Punjab
Achievement of Physical Targets
Activity                         Unit         Initial        Revised        Project
Target        Target'      Achievement
ARABLE LANDS
Vegetative barriers/field barriers                      ha               7,783           7,718          6,439
Rainfed horticulture                                    ha                 116            203            673
Rainfed crop demonstrations                             ha               5,620           6,943          8,283
On-farm fodder production                               ha                 525            635            850
NON-ARABLE LANDS
PRIVATE
Shrub barriers                                          ha                 181         No data          1,219
Vegetative barrier - production component               ha                 513                          4,090
Silvipasture                                            ha                 779                          7,698
Afforestation                                           ha               2,426                         12,050
VILLAGE COMMON LANDS
Shrub barriers                                          ha                 173                           730
Vegetative barrier - production component               ha                 568                          2,911
Silvipasture                                            ha                 581                          2,951
Afforestation                                           ha               2,669                          5,214
FOREST LANDS
Shrub barriers                                          ha                 142                           339
Vegetative barrier - production component               ha                 431                          2,529
Silvipasture                                            ha                 830                           678
Afforestation                                           ha                 990                          4,573
DRAINAGE LINES
Masonry cement structures                               m3              49,043          41,455         48,765
Cratewire structures (gully stabilization)              m3              72,017          67,556         72,660
Dry stone structures                                    m3             213,713         165,410        156,876
Vegetative check dams                                   m              258,039         296,489        283,407
Cratewire structures (streambank protection)            m3              21,406          46,820         69,041
Vegetative spurs                                        km                 523            572             832
Village ponds                                           no                  28             26             28
Rehabilitation of ponds                                 no                  53             34             41
Makhowal structures                                     no                  17             34             37
Water harvesting structures                             no                   7              0              0
Silt retention dams                                     no                   0            116            220
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
Livestock improvement                                   no              26,844          35,694         47,604
Supplementary feeding
Late pregnancy ration                                   no               16,487          9,478          9,478
Female calf rearing                                     no                8,180          5,498          5,498
" The targets were revised at the MTR and again at the time of the two extensions in time
13



Table 5 (b) Haryana
Achievement of Physical Targets
Activity                             Unit       Initial       Revised            Project
Target        Target 1       Achievement
ARABLE LANDS
Vegetative barriers                                              ha              786              13                  13
Terrace repair/vegetative reinforcement                         ha              785               23                 23
Vegetative field boundaries                                      ha            1,318           8,377               7,859
Rainfed horticulture                                             ha               52           1,160               1,443
Rainfed crop demonstrations                                     ha             1,765           4,959               4,515
Herb garden                                                     no                 0               1                   1
NON-ARABLE LANDS
PRIVATE
Vegetative/shrub barriers                                        ha             222            1,184                363
Silvipasture                                                    ha              171            1,191                311
Afforestation                                                   ha               40            7,271               6,589
VILLAGE COMMON LANDS
Vegetative/shrub barriers                                       ha              320              657                448
Silvipasture                                                    ha              204              504                 129
Afforestation                                                   ha               50            2,674               3,224
FOREST LANDS
Vegetative/shrub barriers                                       ha             1,093           1,835               1,863
Silvipasture                                                    ha              124                                 355
Afforestation                                                   ha              474             1,062              3,794
DRAINAGE LINES
Cratewire structures (gully stabilization)                      m3            13,248          61,693              26,842
Earthen gully plugs                                             no               124             472                782
Masonry cement structures                                       m3             8,000          58,489              58,702
Dry stone structures                                            m3            11,760          79,313              60,119
Small stone check dams                                          m3            22,800          60,800              56,731
Vegetative check dams                                            m              249              880               3,055
Silt detention structures                                       no               35              173                275
Cratewire structures (streambank protection)                    m3             6,420           6,420               3,306
Vegetative spurs                                                 m              878           14,878               4,452
Village tanks/ponds                                             no                39             311                269
Sub-surface dam                                                 no                 0              11                  19
Water harvesting structures                                     no                 5               0                  0
Water supply system large                                       no                0                4                 31
Water supply system small                                       no                 0              32                  24
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
Artificial insemination                                         no                 0          36,500              53,866
Health coverage                                                 no                 0         510,000             940,264
Supplementary feeding                                           no              220            2,820               2,769
The targets were revised at the MTR and again at the time of the two extensions in time.
14



Table 5 (c) Himachal Pradesh
Achievement of Physical Targets
Activity                          Unit         Initial       Revised         Project
Target        Target        Achievement
ARABLE LANDS
Vegetative barriers                                      ha                 285            285            285
Terrace repair/vegetative reinforcement                  ha               1,648          7,998           5,814
Vegetative field boundaries                              ha               2,180          9,787           8,742
Rainfed horticulture                                     ha                 422          2,358           2,172
Rainfed crop demonstrations                              ha               1,581           8,466          7,831
On-farm fodder production                                ha               1,176          5,171           3,844
NON-ARABLE LANDS
PRIVATE
Pasture development                                      ha                 788           3,830          2,927
Afforestation                                            ha                 381           2,069          2,702
Silvipasture                                             ha                   0             15              15
Vegetative shrub barriers                                ha                   0             13              13
VILLAGE COMMON LANDS
Vegetative shrub barriers                                ha                 141            505            536
Woodlots                                                 ha                  84            524             144
Silvipasture                                             ha                  17            346             166
Afforestation                                            ha                  17            884            321
Rehabilitation                                           ha                  90             90              90
Replenishment                                            ha                   0           1,000             25
FOREST LANDS
Vegetative shrub barriers                                ha                 473           2,907          2,792
Silvipasture                                             ha                 150          2,010           1,746
Afforestation                                            ha                 239           4,641          4,546
Replenishment                                            ha                 283          2,499           2,568
Rehabilitation                                           ha                 230           3,639          1,980
Smokeless chullahs                                       no                   0           6,225          5,503
DRAINAGE LINES
Masonry cement structures                                no                   5             81              83
Dry stone structures                                     m3              24,656         163,103        123,998
Brushwood check dams                                     km                   0            300             254
Brushwood check dams                                     m3              53,375         53,375          53,375
Cratewire structures                                     m3              10,102         62,723          78,662
Livehedge spurs                                          km                   0            301             205
Livehedge spurs                                          m3              90,669          90,669         90,669
Landslide treatment                                      ha                  75            429             431
Village ponds                                            no                  85            525             623
Earthen run-off structures                               no                  18             64              46
Water harvesting structures - large                      no                   6              0               0
Water harvesting structures - small                      no                   0             89              69
Roadside erosion control                                 km                   0           1,533            113
Roadside erosion control                                 m3               4,812           4,812          5,312
Roadside erosion control                                 ha                   0              0              28
15



Achievement of Physical Targets
Activity                          Unit         Initial        Revised         Project
Target        Target'       Achievement
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
Natural breeding centers                                  no                   9             69              65
Livestock reduction                                       no                 218           2,018            231
Supplementary feeding
Late pregnancy ration                                     no               1,089           7,114          6,933
Calf starter                                              no                 493            493             493
Female calf rearing                                       no                 796           4,446           3,321
Construction of stalls                                    no                 407           7,732           8,662
Rehabilitation of stalls                                  no                 794           3,294           1,034
Chaff cutters                                             no                   0           3,739           3,223
POST HARVEST PROTECTION
Grain storage bins                                        no               2,656          13,606          13,828
The targets were revised at the MTR and again at the time of the two extensions in time
16



Table 5 (d) Jammu and Kashmir
Achievement of Physical Targets
Activity                           Unit        Initial        Revised        Project
Target        Target I     Achievement
ARABLE LANDS
Vegetative barriers                                        ha               5,870            774            665
Terrace repair/vegetative reinforcement                    ha               3,020          7,355          6,415
Vegetative field boundaries                                ha               2,813          8,954          7,883
Rainfed horticulture                                       ha                334           4,100          3,197
Rainfed crop demonstrations                                ha               5,400          9,518          8,018
On-farm fodder production                                  ha                891           2,134          2,250
Horticultural rejuvenation                                 ha                 172          2,927           1,728
NON-ARABLE LANDS
PRIVATE
Vegetative barriers                                        ha                 110            140            132
Pasture development                                        ha                 130            100             62
Silvipasture                                               ha               1,845          1,728          1,728
Afforestation                                              ha                 150            550            464
VILLAGE COMMON LANDS
Vegetative barriers                                        ha                873           1,115            822
Pasture development                                        ha                   0            100             50
Silvipasture                                               ha                671           2,967          2,563
Afforestation                                              ha                653           3,574          3,306
FOREST LANDS
Vegetative barriers                                        ha               2,320          1,665           1,559
Pasture development                                        ha               1,395          2,595          2,390
Silvipasture                                               ha               2,091          2,112           1,977
Afforestation                                              ha               2,164          3,997          3,992
Forest Augmentation                                        ha               2,203          7,868          7,663
DRAINAGE LINES
Dry stone structures                                       m3             185,000        634,350        634,350
Earthen run-off dams                                       no                 25             200            198
Cratewire structures (gully stabilization)                 M3             125,000        125,000        116,818
Vegetative gully control                                   m                9300         300,000        342,367
Cratewire structures (streambank protection)               m3              98,000         98,000         53,207
Vegetative spurs                                           m               11,000        300,000        238,843
Village ponds                                              no                 256            800            736
Water harvesting structures - large                        no                   6              0              0
Water harvesting structures - small                        no                   0            241            184
Roadside erosion control                                   m                1,100         50,000         93,917
Landslide treatment                                        ha                 127              0              0
Landslide treatment                                        m                    0        200,000         187,318
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
Livestock reduction                                        no             No data
Livestock improvement                                      no
Supplementary feeding
Late pregnancy ration                                      no
Female calf rearing                                        no
The targets were revised at the MTR and again at the time of the two extensions in time.
17



Table 6. Key Indicators for Project Operation
PUNJAB              HARYANA             HIMACHAL          -       J & K
_______           ~PRADESH
Unit      Pre-      Present    Pre-      Present    Pre-    Present      Pre-       Present
Project    Status    Project    Status    Project   Status    Project       Status
Status               Status              Status               Status
SustainabilityNVillage
Development Committee
-No. of VDC                     no.                   216                   100                104                        62
-Registered                     no.                     8                   50                  12                         0
-Functional                     no.                   106          -        50         -       104           -            32
2.   Run-off and soil loss          tVha      1994-95   1996-97    1992-93                                  1990-91        1997-99
from established SOP                      87.27     25.88       2.95      0.416     200       67.96      74.32            35
3.   Area protectedlreclaimed         ha           -    2,790           -      4.094        -        623          -           435
(i) Structure saved
-School                       no.                   12          .          8                  72          -              -
-  Village                      no.                    47                    16        -       238           -            15
- Common buildings               no.                    2                    6         -       244           -I
(ii) Roads                      km                   11.6                    5         -        106          -             6
(ii) Perenniality status
(a) Total Khads              no.         27        38                    12        -         04          -            32
(b) Total length             km          56       195          -         12        -        638          -            320
4.  Increase in yield of crop
(i) Wheat                      qtVha          9       18.7      17.9       22.6    20.87      25.61        19.            32
(ii) Maize                     qtVha          8      15.5         13        20    19.35       30.71        31             35
5.   Horticulture
(i) Areacovered                  ha           0       673          -      1,344        -      2,172          -          8,018
- Survival (%)                                      65                    42                  69
(ii) Production level (6h year)  qt/ha              Guava                  32.4                  5           -       Apple 95
35,                                                           Guava 30
Mango                                                            Citrus 35
20                                                           Mango 25
(iii) Income                     Rs                14,000                14,200               7,000          -        40,000
10,000                                                             12,000
8,000
9,000
6.  Increased availability of:
(i) Plantations                  ha           -   44,982                 16,721               7,603                    11,128
(ii) Bhabbar (air dry)          t/ha          1         3                    3                         -                   -
(iii) Grasses (green)          tVha           1       4.5                    4       3.1        7.6                        9
(iv) Fuelwood                  tVha          1.5        5                     7        -       74.4                       10
(v) Projected timber (maturity)  m3/ha        0        65                    75        -      717.5                       60
(20             (25 years)
years)
7.  Increase in milk production:
(i) Artificial insemination      no.               47,604                53,866        -     16,448                     5,645
(ii) Natural services            no.                          -               -        -     16,934                         -
(iii) Female calves bom          no.                9,200                 7,219        -     12,372                     1,455
(iv) Improved milch cattle       no.                3,135                 1,698        -     12,460                     1,025
(iv) Milk yield              It/d/ha        3.7       8.1        2.6        6.7       6          12               _      8-9
18



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study             at appraisal/redefined         Status            Impact of study
1. hnpact Evaluation   As title                   Completed 1998        Detailed study
(IWDP) Hills Project                                                    analyzing impact of the
project in the Punjab
project areas (by the
Institute for
Development and
Communication).
2. An Impact           As title                   February 1999         As above for Haryana
Assessment of the IDWP                                                  (by the Department of
(Hills) Haryana                                                         Agricultural
Economics, Haryana
Agricultural
University).
3. Impact Evaluation   As title                   March 1999            As above for Himchal
IWDP (Hills) Himachal                                                   Pradesh (by the
Pradesh                                                                 Institute for
Development and
Communication).
19



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)              Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Item             Local        Foreign       Total         Local        Foreign        Total
costs        costs                      costs         costs
Initial Sub-          28.3         1.4          29.7          74.7           0.2          74.9
Watersheds
Additional            38.5         2.0          40.5
Sub-
Watersheds.
Technology             2.7         0.1           2.8           0.9           0.4           1.3
Procurement.
Project               20.3         1.3          21.6          16.0           0.3          16.3
Implementatio
n
Central                0.5         0.3           0.8           0.3           -             0.3
Support
Base Cost             90.4         5.1          95.5          91.9           0.9          92.8
Physical              15.1         0.8          15.9           -             -             -
Contingencies
Price                 13.0          1.2         14.2          91.9           -             -
Contingencies
Total  Project       118.5         7.1         125.6          91.9           0.9          92.8
Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign      Total        Local        Foreign     Total
costs      costs                    costs         costs
Source
IBRD/IDA                        80.9        7.1        88.0           66.6          0.9       67.5
State Govemrnments              28.5         -         28.5           20.7          -        20.7
GOI                              0.5         -          0.5            0.3          -          0.3
Beneficiaries                    8.6         -          8.6            5.0          -          5.0
TOTAL                          118.5        7.1       125.6           92.6          0.9       93.5
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic rate of return calculated on total project costs and benefits cnly from increased
production of wheat, maize, horticultural crops and production from non-arable area treatments in the form of
grasses, other non-wood forest products and timber is calculated at 17%.
20



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
INDIA
Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
Agreement Section                                 Original       Revised
Covenant   Present    fulfilment date   fulfilment       Description of
type "    status 2'                       date            covenant             Comments
ADT          I                                    GOIIP shall have records
and accounts for each focal
year     audited     by
independent      auditors
acceptable    to    the
Association and the Bank
MAN          1                                    GOHP  shall staff their
WPTOs with qualified staff
in  adequate   numbers,
including a Project Director
for effective management
and  operation  of  the
respective WP10.
ORG          I                                    GOHP  shall establish  a
Steering Committee to
review and approve sub-
watershed plans, annual
work programs under the
project and relevant draft
budgets.
ORG          5                                    GOHlP shall constitute a
Darn Review Panel for
purposes  of  reviewing
feasibility studies re: the
design and construction o
water harvesting tasks.
MAN          2                                    GOHP shall, for purposes
of disseminating the rainfed
vegetative technology on
arable lands, deploy in
project   area    village
extension   workers  to
achieve the ratio of at least
one   village   extension
worker per 400 farm
families   during   sub-
watershed treatments.
HP para.2.01 and 2.03 PA     MAN          2                                    Cause  to  be  provided,
promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services
and    other   resources
required; and use of goods
and services.
CRY          1                                    GOHP    shall  achieve
arrangements  for   cost
sharing, either in cash or in
kind, in the project area.
ADT          1                                    GOH  shall have records
and accounts for each fiscal
year     audited      by
independent      auditors
acceptable    to    the
Association and the Bank
MAN          1                                    GOH   shall  staff  their
WPIOs with qualified staff
in   adequate   numbers,
including a Project Director
for effective management
and  operation   of  the
respective WP10.
21



Original       Revised
Covenant   Present    fulfilment date   fulfilment      Description of
type "    status 2t                     date            covenant             Comments
ORG          I                                  GOH  shall establish  a
Steering  Committee  to
review and approve sub-
watershed plans, annual
work programs under the
project and relevant draft
budgets.
ORG         5                                   GOH  shall constitute a
Dam Review Panel for
purposes  of  reviewing
feasibility studies re: the
design and construction o
water harvesting tanks.
MAN          I                                  GOH shall, for purposes of
disseminating the rainfed
vegetative technology on
arable land, deploy in
project   area    village
extension   workers  to
achieve the ratio of at least
one   village   extension
worker per 400 fanm
families   during   sub-
watershed treatments.
CRY         1                                   GOH    shall   achieve
arrangements  for  cost
sharing, either in cash or in
kind, in the project area.
ADT          I                                  GOJ&K shall have records
and accounts for each fiscal
year     audited     by
independent     auditors
acceptable    to    the
Association and the Bank
MAN          I                                  GOJ&K  shall staff their
WPIOs with qualified staff
in  adequate  numbers,
including a Project Director
for effective management
and  operation  of  the
respective WPI0.
ORG          I                                  GOJ&K shall establish a
Steering  Committee  to
review and approve sub-
watershed plans, annual
work programs under the
project and relevant draft
budgets.
ORG         5                                   GOJ&K shall constitute a
Dam Review Panel for
purposes  of  reviewing
feasibility studies re: the
design and construction o
water harvesting tanks.
MAN          2                                  GOJ&K shall, for purposes
of disseminating the rainfed
vegetative technology on
arable lands, deploy in
project   area    village
extension   workers  to
achieve the ratio of at least
one   village   extension
worker  per  400  farm
families   during   sub-
watershed treatments.
22



Original         Revised
Covenant   Present        fulfilment date    fulfilment        Description of
type"      status2'                           date              covenant               Comments
CRY           I                                        GOJ&K    shall  achieve
arrangements   for   cost
sharing, either in cash or in
kind, in the project area.
ADT           I                                        GOP shall have records and
accounts for each fiscal
year      audited       by
independent       auditors
acceptable     to      the
Association and the Bank.
MAN            I                                       GOP   shalt  staff  their
WPIOs with qualified staff
in   adequate   numbers,
including a Project Director
for effective management
and   operation   of  the
respective WP1O..
ORG           I                                        GOP  shall  establish   a
Steering   Committee  to
review and approve sub-
watershed plans, annual
work programs under the
project and relevant draft
budgets.
ORG           5                                        GOP shall constitute a Dam
Review Panel for purposes
of reviewing feasibility
studies re: the design and
construction    of   water
harvesting tanks.
MAN           I                                        GOP shall, for purposes of
disseminating the rainfed
vegetative technology on
arable land, deploy in
project    area    village
extension    workers   to
achieve the ratio of at least
one   village    extension
worker per 400 farm
families    during    sub-
watershed treatments.
CRY           I                                        GOP      shall    achieve
arrangements   for   cost
sharing, either in cash or in
kind, in the project area.
....    .     .  ...._............... ... .. ...... ..... .. . .... ..._ ,. ... ......... .....  . ...   ... _....... .. .... .........  ..... ...  .   ,..... .........   ...... .. ....
e- Covenant Types                                        Status
ADT  = Audit                                             I =  Fully complied
CRY  =  Cost Recovery                                    2 =  Partially complied.
FIN  =   Financial                                       3 = Non-compliance
MAN  =  Management and Staffing                          4 =  Not yet due
ORG  =  Organizational                                   5 = Covenant no longer applicable - should be deleted;/modified
RPT  =  Reporting                                        6 =  Compliance date requires revision
STD  =  Studies                                          Al = Audit I year overdue
TCH  =  Technical                                        A2 =  Audit 2 or more years overdue
23



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title         I    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. Disbursements suspended for J&K during 1996-97   Delay in submission of audit certificate
2. SOE procedure was suspended for 1997-98      Delay in submission of audit certificate
There was usual delay in submission of audit certificate
by the states by 2-3 months, but this delay was too long
and too often from the state of Jammu & Kashmir.
Release of funds by the state Government and claiming
reimbursement of expenditures was, by and large,
satisfactory.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                       Planned                  Revised                  Actual
project cycle                                                                                    I
Weeks      US$('000)     Weeks    US$('000)   Weeks    US$('000)
Preparation to               n.a.          n.a.        n.a.         n.a.     180.2      325.2
appraisal                                     I
Appraisal                    n.a.          n.a.        n.a.         n.a. i    62.5      135.7
Negotiations through         n.a.          n.a.        n.a.         n.a.      12.8       38.3
Board approval
Supervision                  n.a.          n.a.        n.a.         n.a.     244.9     316.8
Completion                  21.8  .                   10.0         45.0       10.0       45.0
TOTAL                            .                                          510.4      861.0
24



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of
project cycle       Month!      Number             .         Specialized       Implementat   Development
project cc   oof        Days i           staff skills         ion          objectives           Types of
year                     feld persons   represented          status                            problems
Through appraisal    6-7189            9           21        Agronomy                                             Risk of relatively new
Agricultural                                        technology
Research/Extension
Institutions.
Specialist
Economics
Sociology
Forestry
Appraisal through    -                 -            -
Board approval
Supervision
I .                  7/91             3            14        Agriculturalist            2         2               Establishment of
Watershed Planning
Research/Extension                                   and Implementation
Forestry                                             Offices. GOI to
finalize TA
component Shortage
of counterpart
financing in H.P. and J
and K and of vehicles
in Haryana and H.P
2.                   2-4/92            3            9        Agriculturalist            2         2               Project staffing -
particularly SMS and
Research/Extension                                   arrangements for TA.
Forestry
3.                    10-11/92         4            7        Agriculturalist            2         2               Arrangements for TA..
Identification of
Research/Extension                                   common property
management
Forestry                                             arrangements.
Rural sociology
4.                   6-7/93            2            16       Forestry                   2         2               Finalization of TA
arrangements and GISl
Research/Extension                                   and development of
institutions at village
level to promote
participation
5.                    1-2/94           3           11        Agriculturalist            S         S               Institutional
development for
Forestry                                             common property
Research/Extension                    management and cost
Research/Extension                                   sharing for
development of non-
arable lands.
MTR
MR..... ....   ... .. ............ _
6.                   9-10/94           3           15        Agriculturalist            S         S               Lack of institutional
arrangements for
Forestry                                             participatory
management of
Research/Extension                                   common property
resources; lack of
agreement on sharing
of cost of development
of non-arable lands;
..._ ....... .. ...... ....__.__... - -- - -                   -
25



Performance rating
peStage of                    Number         a            Specialized      Implementat   Development
project cycle      Month/        of        Days in         staff skills        ion          objectives         Types of
year      persons       field         represented         sttus                            problems
of         fied          represeted          s___us                      01GOI to appoint TA
consultants; need to
strengthen farmer and
extension staff training
l______...... programs.
7.                  1-5/95           4           14       Economist                 S        S              Need for suitable
arrangement to be
Agriculturalist                                   developed with users
Research specialist                   for protection,
Research specialist                               management and
Soil conservation                                 sharing of produce by
specialist                                        State Govemment of
Punjab and J and K.
GiOHP to provide
needed staff and return
13 vehicles to the
project. Better use of
measurable indicators.
Improve quality of
technological models.
Need to launch TA
components by GOI.
8.                  5/96             3           11       Research specialist       S        S              Lack of MOA action to
implement TA and
Forester                                          GIS. Lack of project
vehicles in HP. Lack
(S. C. Sharma)                                   of training and
involvement of women
in project activities.
Delay in completion of
civil works in Punjab
and Haryana and lack
of Government
resolution on
management of
common property
resources/cost sharing
in J and K..
9.                  1/97             2           2        Research Specialist                               Improving
(S. Vani)                                         sustainability through
beneficiary
involvement cost
sharing and
maintenance and
protection of assets
created by the project
Use of independent
agency for impact
evaluation.
10                  4/97             1           3        Research specialist       S        S              Weakness of MOA in
project monitoring and
technical assistance.
Slowdown in activity
due to uncertainty over
extension of credit
closing date.
11.                 6/97 2'         3            4        Research specialist      S         S              Project financed
vehicles not made
Extension specialist                              available. Delay in
filling key posts and
Soil conservation                                 undue movement of
staff.
12.                 7/97            2            18       Economist                S         S
26



Performance rating
project cycle      Monthl    Number                        Specialized      Implementat   Development
projec cycle Mouth/      Of        Days in         staff skills         ion          objectives         Types of
year      persons       field         represented          status                           problems
Agricultural
Research and
Watershed
Management
13.                  11/97           1            2        Agricultural                                       Slowness in MOA
Research and                                       support for TA
Watershed
Management
14.                 7/98             2            4        Agricultural                                       Project financed
Research and                                       vehicles not made
Watershed                                          available. Delay in
Management                                         filling key posts. Need
(Ms. M. Singh)                                     for decentralized
management.
15.                  10/98"v         6            5        Agricultural              S         S              Need for transfer of
Research and                                       assets created to the
Watershed                                          constituted
Management                                         committee/respective
line departments
Agronomistl
Economist
Forester
Sociologist
(N. Harshadeep)
1/ Review of physical and financial progress.
2/ Himachal Pradesh only.
3/ Joint supervision/preparation of Phase 11 mission.
27






INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(CR. 2100-IN/LN. 3175-IN)
APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
29






INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(CR. 2100-IN/LN. 3175-IN)
APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
1. Introduction
1.        An FAO/World Bank Co-operative Programme (FAO/CP) mission consisting of
J.H.Weatherhogg   (FAO/CP   Mission   Leader/Economist),  J.V.   Alexander  (Soil
Conservation/Watershed Management Specialist, Consultant), S.K. Ranjhan (Livestock/Fodder
Specialist, Local Consultant) and Mrs. R.M. Sethi (Rural Sociologist, Local Consultant) visited
India from 16 May to 1 June 1999, to prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the
above project. For the latter part of the field visit programme and for the final discussions with
each of the states the mission was joined by Dr. T.C.Jain, World Bank Task Manager for the
project. Mr. K.K.Narula, Deputy Commissioner, Soil Conservation, Government of India joined
the mission for the whole of the field programme. At the end of its field visit programme the
mission met with the Chief Minister of Haryana, Mr. Bansi Lal and his Principal Secretary on 26
May 1999. This Aide-Memoire is based on discussions with the project staff and the staff of the
Departments of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Forestry (AD, AHD and FD), and the
Regional Research Station of the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) at Ballowal Saunkhri and
with the rural communities. The mission carried out a programme of field visits to a number of
watersheds in the Kandi Tract in Punjab, and other parts of the Shiwaliks in Haryana and
Himachal Pradesh which included discussions with farmers and local staff of the concerned
government agencies. Each of the four states has prepared its own Implementation Completion
Report and with the exception on Jammu & Kashmir each has completed an Impact Evaluation
Study. That for Jammu & Kashmir is expected to be finalised in late June. In addition to these
reports a number of briefing documents prepared for the mission by the project staff have also
been very helpful in provision of data on implementation and impact of the project.
2.        This draft Aide-Memoire will be finalised and amended based on the discussions at
the wrap-up meeting to reflect the views of Government and the World Bank and will be attached
as an appendix to the ICR. (Note: This version of the Aide-Memoire includes small amendments
made following the final meeting but does not yet include any comments the Government and the
World Bank may have).
3.        The mission wishes to thank the project staff in each of the states and staff of the line
departments for their time given in the discussions and the information and opinions provided, and
expresses its appreciation for all the assistance and hospitality received.
2. Background
4.        Project origin. The project is a further phase of assistance to that provided by the
World Bank in Punjab for the Kandi Watershed Area Development Project (Ln. 1897-IN) as well
31



as pursuing similar objectives to the Rainfed Areas Watershed Development Project (Cr. 1424-IN)
and the Himalayan Watershed Management Project (Ln.2295-IN).
5.        Project objectives. The project aim is to slow and reverse degradation of the natural
environment, through the use of appropriate soil and moisture conservation technology and by so
doing to improve production and income from grain crops, horticulture, fodder, livestock and
forest products. In addition the project would reduce flooding and other devastation caused by the
degradation in both the project area and the adjacent plains. The project also aims to lay the
foundation for sustainable increases in production to keep pace with population growth. This
would include promotion of known vegetative technologies and verification of new ones,
development of co-ordinated interactive planning, and strengthening of management and use of
non-arable lands.
6.        Covenants were limited and focused on project records and accounts, staffing,
establishment of steering committees and dam safety panels, adequate deployment of village
extension workers and development of cost sharing arrangements.
7.        Project organisation. The aim of the project's institutional arrangements is to
facilitate inter-departmental collaboration to provide an integrated approach to planning and
implementation. Each state has a Watershed Planning and Implementation Office (WPIO). In
Punjab this is attached to the Joint Development Commissioner's office, in Haryana to the AD and
in Himachal Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir to the FD. Each WPIO consists of a multi-
disciplinary team of specialists posted, or on secondment from their respective line departments.
8.        Project implementation started slowly, mainly due to the difficulty in recruiting
suitable staff. In general project implementation has proceeded in a reasonably timely manner,
although somewhat slower than anticipated at appraisal. Implementation in Jammu & Kashmir
was made more difficult due to the security situation. Following the project Mid-Term Review
(MTR) implementation accelerated. An additional one year extension of the credit closing date to
31 March 1999 was granted to allow the completion of project components. Establishment of a
close dialogue between staff responsible for implementing other domestic and externally
supported watershed development programmes has been an important achievement.
3. Mission Findings
9.        Project design allowed for a degree of flexibility, through a "menu" of watershed
treatment options with activities focussed on pilot watersheds during the first half of the project, a
mid-term review and a total implementation period of seven years (subsequently extended to
eight). As well as the watershed rehabilitation activities the project also provided project
implementation support, training of project staff and beneficiaries and technical assistance -
mainly through local consultants.
10.       Soil and moisture conservation technology. The project has adopted a range of
conservation activities that are appropriate and technically effective. An important project
objective was to identify and introduce relevant and cost-effective soil and moisture conservation
technologies, with particular emphasis on vegetative conservation. The adoption of across-slope
vegetative barriers to improve in-situ soil and moisture conservation and reduce soil erosion by
controlling surface run-off and increasing the infiltration of water was an important element of
this strategy. Although there has been considerable variation between states in success in
implementing conservation activities, an important achievement of the project has been the wide
consensus on the effectiveness of this strategy. Original assumptions regarding likely farmer
acceptance and the effectiveness of Vetiver grass (Vetiveria zizanoides) have not been proven, and
there has been limited success in establishing this species. However, there has been good success
32



with vegetative barriers using species that have a productive value for farmers, particularly with
the forage grass Napier (Pennisetum purpureum). There has also been good success with species
such as Bhabbar grass (Eulaliopsis binata) and Dodenea viscosa as vegetative barriers in non-
arable areas.
11.       Area treated. The project has undertaken treatments in 59 watersheds covering an
area of 352,000 ha, against a target of 246,000 ha (110,000 ha in initial sub-watersheds, 16,000 ha
in upper catchment areas in Punjab, and 120,000 ha in additional sub-watersheds).
12.       Non-arable land treatments. A major portion of project investments (about 40%)
have been utilised for afforestation, silvipasture and pasture development activities. The most
important technical innovation has been the widespread adoption of contour trenches for
controlling surface run-off and increasing moisture infiltration. This technique has contributed to
very good tree survival rates in all states, and has had an important impact on reducing flows in
lower drainage lines and in protecting lower arable areas. Species have been selected in
conjunction with local communities, and there is considerable variation in the species being
planted related to changes in ecological conditions. The most common tree species planted has
been khair (Acacia catechu), and the most common shrub species has been Dodenea viscosa. Plant
survival in project plantations has been satisfactory and usually above 70%. At the end of project
activities the treated areas revert to line department management in respect of government lands,
and to Panchayat management in respect of common lands. A major issue that remains unresolved
at the end of the project is clarity in respect of the sharing of the long-term production benefits
with the local communities that have co-operated in developing the non-arable areas, particularly
in respect of governrnent land. Effective techniques for controlling the weed lantana (Lantana
camara), and the introduction of fire control strategies are important issues that also remain to be
addressed in respect of the non-arable areas that have been treated.
13.       On-farm development. A high percentage of the farmers throughout all project sub-
watersheds have received inputs for at least one on-farm rainfed cropping demonstration. These
demonstrations have successfully promoted the introduction of improved varieties, seed treatment
(particularly for termite control), appropriate fertiliser and pesticide treatments, and improved
agronomic practices to ensure moisture conservation. Significant yield increases have been
reported for rainfed crops - both for the main kharif maize crop as well as the main rabi wheat
crop. The improved moisture status on arable lands has resulted in a diversification of crop
production, particularly with the introduction of vegetable crops (for example tomatoes in
Himachal Pradesh), and an increase in on-farm fodder production especially from bherseem and
sorghum.
14.       Rainfed horticulture: There has been reasonable success in introducing fruit
production as a viable activity in rainfed areas. Farmer preference has mainly been for mango, but
the success with this species has been mixed and there has been considerable mortality of newly
planted seedlings and this species does require supplementary irrigation at least in the initial three
years. Project supported research at Ballowal Saunkhri (PAU Regional Research Station for the
Kandi Area) indicates that while mango is suited for soils with a good moisture holding capacity,
better results on marginal soils in the Shivalik zone can be obtained with guava, amla (Emblica
officinalis), and ber (Zizyphus sp).
15.       Drainage line treatments. There has been good success in treating the extensive and
deeply eroded drainage lines (Choes) which are a feature of the Shivalik zone. A major innovation
has been the focus on the use of vegetative stabilisation in conjunction with the judicious use of
engineered structures, which have included masonry and cratewire drop structures in drainage
lines and of cratewire spurs to protect streambanks. Species that have performed well in
33



stabilising drainage lines include Ipomea carnea, Vitex negunda, Dodenea viscosa and Arundo
donex. A feature of this activity has been the reduction in the width of choes, often with land
being brought back into production using tree and grass plantations.
16.       Water supply. The project had initially planned to support the construction of
medium sized (10 to 15 m wall height) water harvesting structures in all states. It was a World
Bank requirement that each state establish a Dam Review Panel to oversee this activity, a process
which was found to be complex and none of the planned structures were constructed. This activity
was deleted at the MTR and replaced by a more flexible approach, which allowed project staff in
close collaboration with local communities, to identify and construct small-scale water supply
systems. These systems involve the diversion of water from springs or perennial streams, the
construction of small dams (wall height less than 1 Om), and below surface earthen tanks. Water
reticulation has normally been by gravity feed. This more flexible approach to addressing water
requirements has been one of the most successful components of the project, and has been greatly
appreciated by beneficiaries who usually identify water shortage as their number one development
need throughout the Shivalik zone. This activity has improved the availability of water for
domestic and livestock purposes, and for life-saving irrigation of field and horticultural crops,
however the area brought under permanent irrigation has not been significant (less than 2,000 ha).
Women have benefited from the improved availability of domestic water resources, and in many
areas this has resulted in a significant reduction in the labour required to transporting drinking
water.
17.       Livestock aspects. The project supported livestock development in a number of
ways, through breed improvement of cattle and buffaloes, both by artificial insemination (Al)
and natural breedingi; improved nutrition through establishment of fodder on bunds, farm
boundaries and as part of silvi-pastural systems, increased use of agricultural by-products, better
feed treatment and introduction of stall feeding; and improved veterinary and animal health
services, including construction of dispensaries and hospitals. Proposals included at appraisal for
provision of supplementary feeds and for reduction of cattle numbers were dropped at the MTR.
18.       Breed improvement supported by the project has had a widespread and significant
impact, both in cattle and buffaloes. However to ensure sustainability the Lay Inseminators
appointed in Punjab cannot survive on Al alone and require a broader role and realistic payments
for their services. Natural Breeding Centres (NBC) should only be established when requested by
a particular village and care should be taken to rotate the bulls at 3-year intervals in order to avoid
inbreeding. Project financial support should be confined to bull purchase and all feeding and bull
health care costs should be met by the village out of revenue charged for natural service.
19.       Improved nutrition measures introduced by the project have been highly successful.
Increased fresh fodder from grasses and fodder trees planted by the beneficiaries, increased
availability of field crop straws and stovers, provision of feeding troughs, chaff cutters and
introduction of stall feeding have all resulted in significantly increased milk production. The main
need now is for more attention to feeding mineral supplements to lactating and growing animals to
improve production and reproduction.
20.       Veterinary and animal health services improvement supported by the project,
particularly through provision of infrastructure has been significant. However, at present the
facilities provided are under-utilised due to inadequate animal husbandry staff. For successful
future operation it will be important that animal health matters remain the responsibility of the
'In Himachal Pradesh a number of Natural Breeding Centres (NBC) have been set up by the project whereby a
bull is provided for natural service in remoter village areas.
34



Animal Husbandry Department and the latter deploys an adequately staffed and equipped field
service.
21.       Research. Considerable and correctly focussed research has been undertaken in
support of the project activities by the Regional Research Station at Ballowal of the Punjab
Agricultural University and by the Agricultural Universities in each of the participating states.
Still more research is required and will be supported under the second phase. One particularly
serious problem in forest areas requiring the attention of researchers is the need to find a means of
suppressing lantana (Lantana camara), which is a widespread and noxious weed.
22.       Studies. As a result of the significant programme of research undertaken a number of
studies have been completed covering important aspects of integrated watershed management.
These have provided a sound basis for planning the technical treatment of sub-watersheds as well
as implementation of the various components and training of staff.
23.       Training. The project has supported a centralised project training facility located at
the Punjab Agricultural University regional research station at Ballowal Saunkhri, which has
provided training for project staff on technical and project management subjects. Farmer training
has been the responsibility of the state project implementation teams. Funds for the centralised
training activities were released through the central government and about half of the funds were
utilised for civil works for improving the accommodation and training facilities at Ballowal
Saunkhri, and the other half on salaries and operating costs. Since the beginning of the project 86
training courses have been conducted, and 2,136 project staff have participated. The training has
been appropriate, but because of the geographical extent of the project, the project units that are
located in closer proximity to the centralised training centre, and in particular Punjab (about 50%
of the trainees have been from this state), have been able to obtain greater benefits from the
training activities. A very important advantage of this centralised training facility has been the
provision of a forum for project staff from all participating states to meet and to share experiences
gained while implementing the project. Future training programmes should include training for
rural women in improved livestock practices, and regular training provided to animal husbandry
staff in fodder conservation methods.
24.       Geographic information systems (GIS). There has been no success in establishing
functional GIS systems in any of the four participating states. The technical support for this
activity was planned to be provided by a consultant to be recruited under the central government
component, with training to be provided by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre at Ludhiana in
Punjab, also funded from the central government component. Although computer hardware and
GIS software was purchased in all four states, the consultant who was to guide this activity was
not recruited, and this was an important factor in the lack of progress with GIS.
25.       Administrative and Staff Housing. The project financed the construction of a
number of offices, staff quarters and other buildings in each of the four states, with a particularly
significant programme of construction in Haryana.
26.       Project benefits. The project has provided substantial production and environmental
benefits. The on-farm benefits include increased productivity of cereal, fruit, vegetable and fodder
crops, and off-farm benefits have included fodder grass, and fuelwood. Benefits from timber
produced in afforestation plantations will only be available in future years. Project activities have
extended over a large geographical area with considerable variations in agro-ecological and
agricultural production systems. Significant increases in yield as a result of the project are
reported for both the main kharif maize crop as well as the rabi wheat crop.
35



27.       Environmental impact. Studies undertaken during project implementation indicate
significant reductions in soil erosion, however the total environmental benefits are difficult to
quantify. Benefits include a reduction in soil lost due to erosion in both the upper catchment areas
and in the lower arable areas, a more regulated discharge of water from project sub-watersheds
which reduce flooding both in and downstream of the project sub-watersheds, improved
productivity in arable and non-arable areas due to improved soil moisture, the protection and
reclamation of land adjacent to streambanks and the recharge of groundwater systems.
28.        Social aspects. Project design recognised the importance of interactive project
planning and implementation, however the proposal for the central government to recruit
consultants to train staff in participatory planning and to assist in developing strategies for cost
and benefit-sharing arrangements was not implemented. Project staff have developed their own
strategies for mobilising community groups to interact with project staff to identify priority
community development needs, and to plan and implement project activities. Notable progress has
been made in forming community groups, usually called Village Development Committees
(VDCs), to interact with project staff. Community mobilisation activities vary considerably
between states, and there are also large differences in the effectiveness of the groups that have
been formed.
29.       The project appears to have had a generally positive social impact. Improved water
and fodder supplies have been of particular benefit to village women in reducing the time taken up
in carrying both home from remote locations. Increased production and availability of the
necessary raw materials has also led to growth in income generating activities such as rope and
basket making. Improvement in the socio-economic conditions of the beneficiaries is reflected in
improvements to their houses, increased land values and better marriage opportunities for the
village youth. The project has also had a good impact in the establishment of village institutions
and empowerment of villagers, and this could be one of the project's major benefits. However,
while good models of effective community groups exist, considerable progress remains to be
made in having the intended beneficiaries assume greater ownership of project activities,
particularly in encouraging further participation by women in the Village Development
Committees (VDC), on which they are generally unrepresented. The situation of women's
participation is relatively better in Himachal Pradesh. Creation of truly self-sustaining VDCs will
take time and will require continued support. For the future still more training will be required
both of project staff and VDC members to improve their ability to pursue the communities'
objectives;  additional income generating activities will need to be introduced; training
programmes could be introduced for NGOs assisting the VDCs; and clarification will be required
on communities rights in forest areas.
30.        Sustainability. The longer-term sustainability of the physical assets that have been
created by the project, and in particular the water supply and non-arable land improvements that
provide community benefits, will depend on the continued operation and viability of the Village
Development Committees (VDC) that have been formed with project support. These committees
need to be able to facilitate equitable access to these assets, and also to introduce arrangements for
maintenance and protection. Consideration also needs to be given to continuing technical support
and assistance to slower developing VDCs beyond the three year period normally provided. An
important sustainability issue that has not yet been satisfactorily addressed is the identification of
arrangements for sharing the long-term production benefits from the non-arable areas, particularly
Government lands, that have been developed with the co-operation of local communities.
31.       Borrower performance was generally satisfactory in project implementation.
Identification and posting of suitable staff was generally well done, such that the WPIO in each
state operate quite well. In each state the project has received the backing of Government and
36



availability and timeliness of counterpart funds has been generally adequate. Weak points have
been too rapid transfer of staff into and out of the project, leaving some senior project positions
unfilled for extended periods and not releasing for the use of the project the vehicles financed for
that purpose' in Himachal Pradesh.
32.       Bank performance has been generally satisfactory in project preparation, appraisal
and supervision. The Bank willingness to adopt a flexible approach, accept a relatively long
disbursement period, extend the project period and prepare and appraise a second phase project
are all commendable. The Mid-Term Review and careful project supervision have undoubtedly
contributed to the project's success.
33.       Donor/borrower relationship has been good throughout the implementation period.
34.       Implementing agency performance of the WPIOs in each state has been very
satisfactory. Despite a slow start in adoption of participative methods of planning and
implementation due to initial reliance on consultants - which did not work - the project staff have
subsequently developed their own very effective methods. The degree of integration of the various
disciplines and the good working relationships within, and between, the individual WPIO are very
satisfactory.
35.       Project Operations Plan (POP). The second phase of the project has already been
negotiated and the credit is expected to become effective in July 1999. The second phase project
allows for continuation of project activities, but with still greater community participation, as well
as providing limited finance for follow-up of those communities and areas benefited in this
project.
4. Lessons Learned
36.       Based on its work so far the mission's provisional list of lessons leamed as a result of
the project implementation experience are as follows:
(i)   This type of project needs to address the communities' priorities - particularly
provision of water supply.
(ii)  For participatory projects a degree of flexibility in the choice of project
activities is essential.
(iii) For a Village Development Committee (VDC) to be successful it has to have
some activity and investment as a focus for its activity.
(iv)  Project activities must be needs based, not for example based mainly on
geographic considerations (e.g. NBC in Himachal Pradesh).
(v)  For projects of a participative type there is a need for a pre-construction phase
in which communities can be fully involved and consulted.
(vi)  Closely integrated, multi-disciplinary teams can be an effective means of
implementing watershed projects.
In Himachal Pradesh 16 vehicles were financed by the project, but for most of the project only 8 were handed
over. Currently 11 are with the project.
37



5. Follow-Up
37.       The mission will prepare an ICR report which will be transmitted to WB by early
July, 1999. The project staff in each of the four states have already prepared their own
Implementation Completion Reports. It would be valuable if a short report summarising the
implementation experience in all four states could be prepared for inclusion in the ICR. General
guidance for the Government contribution is presented in Attachment 1.
Delhi,
1 June, 1999.
38



INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(CR. 2100-IN/LN. 3175-IN)
APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
39






INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(Cr.2 1 00-IN/Ln.3 1 75-IN)
APPENDIX B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
1.0   Project Background:
Since Independence, Government of India (GoI) development plans have
emphasized agriculture and sought to raise foodgrains production by increasing
the use of fertilizer, plant protection chemicals and modem inputs such as
improved seed varieties. In support of these objectives, Gol has strengthened the
institutions supporting this sector in agricultural extension and research seed
production, and agriculture credit and accelerated the development of irrigation.
As a result of these efforts, the annual growth rate in food grain production has
averaged 2.7%, slightly above the population growth rate of 2.2%.
With the irrigated areas just reaching its limits and realising the fact that 50% of
the rural population is dependent on rainfed areas which constitute nearly 65% of
country's cultivated land, rainfed farming has received increasing priority as an
instrument of agricultural strategy articulated in Seventh Five Year Plan (1985-
1990). The investments were directed to address one of the most serious
environmental problem i.e. watershed degradation, with the objective of
increasing productivity of agricultural crops, fodder and fuelwood.
With these considerations, a seven year (1991-98) Integrated Watershed
Development Project - IWDP (Hills) was executed with World Bank assistance to
cover 2.30,000 ha in the sub-tropical Shivaliks and the Temperate Karewas in the
States of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, and Jatmnu & Kashmir.
Shivaliks which form more than 90% of the project area, have been identified as
one of the eight most degraded rainfed agro-ecosystems of the country and hence
included in the priority areas for watershed development. Highly erodible low
water retentive soils which crust easily, severe soil erosion, water scarcity despite
1000-1500 mm annual rainfall, acute shortage of fodder and fuel, subsistence
oriented crop production, and low genetic potential and productivity of live-stock
are some of the constraints of Shivalik region which this project was trying to
address.
41



The main objective of the project was to slow and reverse degradation of the
natural environment through the use of appropriate soil and moisture conservation
technology. The process of conserving soil and in situ moisture, would improve
the production and income from grain crops, horticulture, fodder, fiber, fuelwood
and livestock, and reduce flooding and other devastation caused by degradation in
both the project area and adjacent plains. The aim was to lay the foundation for
sustainable increases in production to keep pace with population growth.
2.0   Project design:
The project was designed to address one of the India's most serious
environmental problems of watershed degradation. The Integrated Watershed
Development Project (Hills) was envisaged to cover the ecologically fragile area
of the lower Shivaliks which were environmentally importunate. This project
became operational on 11.01. 91 with a total provision of $56.8 million SDRs.
The project was under extension till March, 1999.
In order to check degradation, an integrated approach was adopted by including
various activities/interventions which have bearing on the land use (viz. forestry,
agriculture, horticulture, Animal Husbandry, soil conservation. As a policy, the
works were to be executed only in the representative units for demonstration
purposes (pre MTR) so that the people of the watershed area got sensitized to use
the technology and adopt/adapt it for holistic improvement of the area. Later on
additional sub-watersheds were taken up for treatment (Post MTR). Overall
emphasis was laid on creating an enabling environment for greater participation
of local communities in management of the natural resources.
3.0   Project Implementation:
The project envisaged the treatment of 1,10,000 ha of gross area in 15 sub-
watersheds during its pilot phase (1991-94) and a further area of 1,20,000 ha
during expansion phase in 20 sub-watersheds.  Overall physical coverage
achieved upto the end of the project period in 1,47,501 ha against the gross
targeted area of 2,30,000 ha. Against the financial targets of Rs. 292.00 crores,
Rs. 286.05 crores (98%) had been utilized by the participating States.
At the time of initiation it was envisaged that following benefits should accrue
due to the project interventions:
-     About 84,000 ha of existing forests and 59,000 of common lands would be
rehabilitated and protected from fiurther degradation. Approx. 1,00,000
farming families, 10,000 landless families and 5,000 livestock herds
would benefit from the project in four States.
-     Per hectare yields of maize and wheat would increase by 50% and 55%
respectively.
42



Production on non-arable lands (grasses, fuelwood,- timber) through
afforestation, silvipasture, pasture and vegetative barrier measured in
terms of dry mass would increase by 400% , 650%, 700% & 1233%
respectively on a 30 years production cycle.
Net farm income of an average farmer would increase by 240%.
Estimated internal rate of return at the end of the project would be 17%.
Impact assesment exercises have revealed impressive increase in the productivity
of maize and wheat, cultivated fodder, milk and wool due to project interventions.
Reduction in number of draught animals and increase in the number of improved
livestock breeds, decline in grazing pressure and increased stall feeding, reduced
soil loss, ground water recharge with increased availability of water in wells,
enhanced survival percentage of plants, increase in the income of rural population
from Community Property Resources (CPRS) and horticulture, and increased
natural regeneration of bio-mass in the project areas have also been observed.
Componentwise details are in furnished Annexure-I.
4.0   Lessons of Experience: Strengths & Constraints
4.1   Technical Component:
The project stressed targets for physical progress but the rigid commitments of the
staff to achieve the project objectives remained a weak link.
Although on-farm yields have increased, horticulture and animal husbandry
components have done very well and are popular among villagers, establishing
the vegetative barriers on field boundaries and contour ridges has been only
moderately successful, probably because of weak extension efforts and transfer of
appropriate technology. Needless emphasis was placed on Vetiver during the
initial years while local grasses such as Bhabbar and Nappier which not only
conserved soil and moisture but also yielded good income and fodder are
preferred by the farmers. Technology selection would have been need based and
decided in consultation with local people by acknowledging the importance of
ITK prevalent in the area. In the later stage of the project beneficiaries have
started sharing of cost for developing water resources. Construction of Makkowal
Tanks during later phase of the project have been very popular among people for
providing water for cattle, human use and limited irrigation. Therefore, due
emphasis on water resources development and greater flexibility in treatment
practices was needed from the beginning of the project.
Project could only provide partial control to grazing by stray cattle. The landless
population who owns significant number of cattle could not be effectively
switched over to stall feeding. Even the social barriers at the village level failed
43



to come up to the desired expectation to control the grazing menace. Thus there is
a need to broad basing of animal husbandry programmes by direct linkage with
line departments.
4.2   Community Participation & Institutional Development:
Potential beneficiaries of project especially women and other disadvantaged
groups should be involved at all stages of the project from planning to
implementation and subsequent maintenance for ensuring sustainability. Short-
term gains to the beneficiaries are critical for eliciting people's participation and
hence should be catered for in project design. This is particularly true for forestry
models where bamboo and grasses provide intermediate returns to beneficiaries
after 2-3 years on a regular basis as against trees which have a fairly long
gestation period of 15-20 years. Before the MTR, beneficiaries had difficulty in
perceiving benefits of forestry development. It is only after MTR people'
participation has improved and they are coming forward to adopt forestry
treatments. However, people's willingness to protect their resource after the
project ends is still not upto the mark because of insufficient stress on early
maturing species.
Women make significant contribution to the income of both farming an non-
framing families. Their contribution is particularly valuable in livestock rearing,
fodder and fuelwood collection and their active involvement in watershed
development is necessary for ensuring sustainability. This is an area which has
not yet received adequate attention.
Enough arrangements do not exist in the project to build or strengthen
institutional arrangements. Institutional developments which prompt coordinated
social, faster association and inhibit detrimental behaviours did not receive
adequate attention at the beginning of the project. Most states now have Joint
Forest Management Resolutions for benefit sharing with a view to involving the
people in projectactivities, yet social organisations suited to manage and maintain
the project interventions are at a rudimentary stage of development.
4.3    Capacity Building:
Capacity building of implementing personnel and the user community is
important for effective development of participatory planning and implementation
process. The staff training programme was late by two years and in pre MTR
period generally remained weak. These weaknesses were overcome in the post
MTR when a number of training courses were organised. The staff at all levels
was encouraged to visit project areas in other states. They were also exposed to
the work being done by other projects in the country. Now the staff is better
equipped for project implementation. A separate training institute to cater to
training needs staff at all levels has been created in the project.
44



The project did not provide for training of beneficiaries. In the post MTR period
the project promoted visits of beneficiaries to neighboring areas to improve their
perception and facilitate participation. This helped in better targeting of project
intervention. It is suggested that for future projects, capacity building should
commence immediately and ahead of project implementation if sustainability is to
be achieved.  Staff must be trained both in technical skills, community
mobilisation, participating methods and socio-economic aspects.
4.4   Sustainability:
Although provision for cost and benefit sharing, exist in the project lack of
properly established cost and benefit sharing arrangements with beneficiaries
leading to their inadequate commitment individually as well jointly to project
activities, sustainability remain a serious concern till today. Each state is pursuing
this in its own way that too in fragmented form to ensure sustainability of the
project activities. Some definite measures based on past experiences need to be
adopted to improve the prospects of sustainability.
4.5   Research:
Depending on ecological and socio-economic setting of the watersheds to be
treated, there is a need for a detailed analysis on current farming system/practices
etc. Due weightage should also be given to the experiences and skills of the
farmers for finalising the choice of treatments. Watershed development research
need to be better focussed by laying emphasis on low cost technologies, local
needs and prevalent practices.
4.6   Monitoring & Evaluation:
Monitoring of the progress of water management programme is necessary to
ensure proper utilisation of outlays in accordance with the objectives. However,
in the field of watershed management, the monitoring becomes slightly difficult in
view of diversity of activities that have different yardsticks and spread of
activities over large and divergent areas. For effective monitoring GIS facility is
still underutilized by the States.
5.0   Future Strategy:
5.1   Technology:
Notwithstanding the somewhat disappointing extent of spontaneous uptake by
farmers, vegetative conservation technology should continue to be the key
element in conservation efforts of the project.  However, considering the
experience gained so far, the range and mix of conservation flora should be
widened, giving flexibility of choice of species according to edaphoclimatic
45



situations and farmers acceptance particularly with respect to achieving sufficient
immediate and intermediate benefits.
Watershed management needs to be a people's movement. Involvement of
project  beneficiaries  in  awareness  generation,  project  formulation,
implementation, evaluation and monitoring of the project would need effective
extension agency within the project which should follow miscommunication
approach. The extension agency alongwith project functionaries should be
engaged in intensive awareness creation drive among villagers atleast during the
first year. Use of mass media and group contact methods need to be intensified.
Conservation measures promoting in situ moisture conservation and appropriate
planning to improve 'Farm Ecology is required to be adopted with suitable
research feed back in generating various types of technology packages. A model
watershed needs to be developed in each state for training and demonstration
purposes with association of research and extension agencies.
It needs to be realised that the technical solution alone can not solve the complex
equation of poverty and resource degradation. In fact, both technical and social
strategy for the project must be chosen from the outset.
5.2   Research:
The Following suggestions are made to improve the research back up to the
project:
to identify researchable topics on which additional technology is needed
for viable and sustained production.
to identify the strength and weakness of the participatory institutions and
concerned scientists and develop detailed recommendations for
institutional, organisational and financial improvement in the research and
transfer of technology system with a view to ensuring the sustainable,
efficient and productive research and development input at a low cost.
to develop a general work plan on the line of interdisciplinary and inter-
institutional cooperation/collaboration and this should be based on the
centre of excellence approach with net working arrangements with various
organisations and farmers participatory research.
to develop a systems of contractual problem oriented research.
to assess the training needs of the scientists engaged in R&D work related
to the project component.
46



to review the research needs at bi-annual meetings (Rabi and Kharif) at
district level in which the beneficiaries should also participate.
5.3   Monitoring & Evaluation:
Simple monitoring in terms of physical and financial achievements may not
indicate the actual effectiveness of the programme. It is necessary to make a
consolidated assessment of problem area treated. Therefore, it is imperative to
identify quantifiable perfornance indicators on on which observations could be
made at pre-determined intervals. Some performance indicators are suggested
below:
-     area protected from permanent loss through erosion.
-     area reclaimed or developed for more productive management.
-     likely reduction in sediment/run-off.
-     water storage created and area benefitted by supplementary irrigation.
-     increase in productivity of agricultural crops, forests and grass lands.
-     appreciation of land value in post treatment phase.
-     generation of one time as well as regular employment opportunities.
-     number of functional village level institutions, their involvement and cost
sharing in the project activities.
Number of cross breed animals, acceptability by local people and milk
yield assessment.
5.4   Institutional Development & Capacity Building:
In order to involve the people and also to cater the individual benefits before
he/she would care for ecology, the watershed development teams should involve
the disciplines of sociology and economics. Morever, to generate catalytic effects
for large scale people's participation, NGOs and other Voluntary Agencies having
appropriate expertise should be associated in the project.
Since many project activities are going to be looked after by the project for a
limited period, the concerned line departments should also be involved right from
the stage of planning and implementation, so that the necessary linkages are
forged and these continued to be effectively maintained.
47



5.5    Sustainabi!iy & Replicability:
Prerequisites of sustainability of the activities, particularly on non-arable and
common lands need to be built from the very beginning in the project.
Afforestation of private lands without adequate cost sharing by land holders is not
financially sustainable. Similarly, for small scale tree planting, an assured supply
of seedlings of desired species at a reasonable distance from the planting site is
necessary, which can be ensured by establishing a large number of farmer
operated nurseries. For large scale tree planting on private lands, the farmers,
particularly the poor, need access to financial resources.
Provision of adequate finances on a continuing basis is necessary to retard the
continuing trend of eco-degradation. The low economic capability of the
beneficiaries and somewhat long gestation period before benefits start flowing
from the programmes make it difficult to attract institutional finance. It becomes
more difficult as the eligibility for credit support is judged mostly on the basis of
financial returns of crop yields alone. Consideration of multiple benefits, such as,
protection of land base, appreciation of land value, creation of new land stock,
generation of micro-irrigation potential, employment opportunities etc. is required
for working out viable criteria for adequate flow of Institutional finance.
48



INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(CR. 2100-IN/LN. 3175-IN)
APPENDIX C
SOIL CONSERVATION / WATERSHED MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES
49






TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Introduction ...........................................                                                                              53
2. The Project Area ...........................................                                                                          53
Soil and Moisture Conservation Technology ...........................................                                  55
Non-arable land treatments ...........................................                                                 56
On-farm development ...........................................                                                         57
Rainfed horticulture ...........................................                                                       58
Drainage line treatments ...........................................                                                    58
Water supply ...........................................                                                               58
4. Project Planning ...........................................                                                                          59
5. Achievement of Physical Targets ...........................................                                                            59
6. Unit Costs ...........................................                                                                                 62
7. Technical Training ...........................................                                                                        62
8. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) ...........................................                                                      63
9. Environmental Impact ...........................................                                                                      64
Run-off and soil loss ...........................................                                                      64
Leaf litter in non-arable areas ...........................................                                            65
Contour trenching in non-arable areas ...........................................                                      66
Impact on groundwater ...........................................                                                       66
10. Production Models ...........................................                                                                         67
Attachments:
1.               Sub-Watershed Details
2.               Details of Physical Achievements
3.               Unit Cost Details
4.               Production Models
51






INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(CR. 2100-IN/LN. 3175 IN)
APPENDIX C
SOIL CONSERVATION/WATERSHED MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES
1. Introduction
1.        The mission visited three (Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh) of the four states that
participate in this project, to examine project implementation and to assess the impact on agricultural
production, the environment and on the intended beneficiaries. This report summarizes the findings of
the Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Specialist, and the information in this report is based on
data contained in the Implementation Completion Reports that had been prepared by all states, Impact
Evaluation reports that had been prepared by all states except Jammu and Kashmir, and in discussions
with project staff and beneficiaries.
2.        From a soil and water conservation perspective, the Integrated Watershed Development
(Hills) Project has been satisfactorily implemented and has successfully demonstrated a range of
watershed improvement activities that are appropriate and technically effective. Some of the original
project design assumptions in respect of across-slope vegetative barriers have not proven to be as
successful as was anticipated, but effective alternatives have been identified and introduced. There have
been significant increases in the production of grain, fruit, fodder and fuelwood, and from the available
it appears that the project has been successful in reducing soil erosion and in regulating surface run-off.
Beneficiaries provided anecdotal information on improvements in the perenniality of stream and spring
flows, and in rising groundwater levels.
2. The Project Area
3.        The project has been implemented in 59 sub-watersheds which have a total area of 350,000
ha, in comparison to an initial project target of treating 246,000 ha (110,000 ha in initial sub-
watersheds, 16,000 ha in upper catchment areas in Punjab, and 120,000 ha to be treated in additional
sub-watersheds). The major focus of the project is on controlling land degradation in the Shivalik zone.
However the project did include one sub-watershed located in the temperate Karewas zone in Kashmir.
4.        The Shivaliks consist of a narrow belt of hills that run along the sub-tropical southern
foothills of the Himalayan ranges. The westem end of the Shivalik zone commences in the Jammu
Region and extends through to Nepal and on to Sikkim in the east. The project sub-watersheds in
Punjab and Haryana are located where the southern slopes of the outer Shivaliks merge into the Indo-
53



Gangetic Plain. The project areas in these two states are on the southern border of the Shivalik hills of
Himachal Pradesh. The soils of the Shivalik zone consist of deposits of torrents and flood basins, which
have a loose structure and are highly prone to erosion. The Karewas are located north of the Shivaliks
and consist of old lakebed deposits some of which have been uplifted to form hill plateaus, often with
steep ravines.
5.         The total area of the Shivalik zone in the four participating states is nearly three million
hectares with Jammu and Kashmir, and Himachal Pradesh having relatively larger Shivalik areas than
the other two states. Summary details on the respective areas of the Karewas and Shivaliks in the
participating states are given in the table below.
Table 1. Shivalik and Karewas - Details by State
State                  Karewas    Shivaliks      Total area
(ha)       (ha)          (ha)
Haryana                               192,000          192,000
Himachal Pradesh                     1,170,000       1,170,000
Jammu and Kashmir         195,000     755,000          950,000
Punjab                                490,000          490,000
Total                     195,000    2,607,000       2,802,000
6.         Pradesh, 3 in Jammu and Kashmir, and 13 in Punjab). In 9 of the initial 13 sub-watersheds
in Punjab, project activities were undertaken only in the upper catchment areas, concentrating on
treating the non-arable areas and drainage lines. The lower catchment areas of these 9 sub-watersheds
will be treated during the second phase of the project. Activities were extended to an additional 20 sub-
watersheds following the mid-term review (MTR), and a further 15 sub-watersheds were added when
the project was extended in time (1997/98). Details of the names and size of all 59 sub-watersheds that
have been treated under this project are given in Attachment 1.
7.         Summary information for the sub-watersheds that have been treated is provided in the table
below.
Table 2. Summary Details on Treated Sub-Watersheds
State                Sub-           Arable      Non-arable       Total area
Watersheds        Area          Area             (ha)
(ha)          (ha)
Haryana                           9                 60,159        44,025           104,184
Himachal Pradesh                  27                25,008        50,287            75,295
Jammu and Kashmir                 3                 20,124        28,152            48,276
Punjab                            20                36,854        87,569           124,423
Total                             59               142,145       210,033           352,178
54



Soil and Moisture Conservation Technology
8.        The main objective of the project is to slow and reverse environmental degradation through
the adoption of appropriate and cost-effective soil and moisture conservation technologies. Central to
the technical orientation was a focus on biological treatments, particularly the promotion of across-slope
vegetative barriers in agricultural areas in place of conventional conservation treatments that required
larger investments, such as earthen bunding and land leveling. Although there has been considerable
variation in the success that the participating states have had in implementing the conservation
activities, an important achievement of the project is the wide consensus amongst project staff on the
appropriateness of this strategy.
9.         The focus on vegetative conservation measures was not technically complex, but it did
represent a considerable change in approach for field staff, and at first this approach was not universally
accepted. Initial assumptions regarding the use of vegetative contour barriers, particularly in respect of
farmer acceptance and the suitability of Vetiver grass (Vetiveria zizanoides) did not prove successful,
but there has been good progress with across-slope vegetative barriers using other species that have
productive value for farmers. The main success has been with forage grasses, and in particular Napier
grass (Pennisetum purpureum) and also Setaria (Setaria splendens). Other species that provide
economic benefits such as Bhabbar grass (Eulaliopsis binata) which is used for rope making, and
Dodenea viscosa which is used for fuelwood, have also been successfully used as vegetative barriers,
particularly in non-arable areas.
10.       In addition to project field staff accepting the vegetative soil and moisture conservation
technologies that have been promoted by this project, this approach is now being adopted in other
watershed development programs. Of particular significance is the promotion of vegetative conservation
technologies through the centrally sponsored National Watershed Development Project for Rainfed
Areas (NWDPRA).
11.       The project design gave considerable prominence to the introduction of new and innovative
conservation technologies for the stabilization of arable areas. In reality the main soil erosion problems
in the Shivalik zone are caused by uncontrolled run-off from the upper catchment areas, and when these
areas are revegetated and stabilized, the land degradation problems in the lower drainage lines and
arable areas are significantly reduced.
12.       The implementation of the field activities has been on an integrated and multi-disciplinary
approach with the treatments in the upper catchment and usually non-arable areas, the lower arable
areas, and the drainage lines being planned and implemented as components of a linked system. A
Watershed Planning and Implementation Office (WPIO) has been established in each state to implement
the project, and technical staff from the disciplines of forestry, agriculture, animal husbandry,
horticulture and soil conservation have been seconded to the project from relevant line departments.
This seemingly complex organizational arrangement has in fact worked well, and there has been a high
level of integration of the sectoral activities.
13.       The selection of project activities has been from a menu of treatments (listed in the SAR)
that are eligible for financing under the project. The range of activities is extensive and allows for
choice based on physical and social conditions. The project has successfully demonstrated a range of
activities that are appropriate and technically effective and has provided a good basis for the second
phase of the project, which has already been prepared and appraised by the World Bank. The menu of
conservation treatments that will be eligible for financing in the second phase are essentially the same,
55



although more emphasis is now being given to water supply activities, and road construction has been
added as a new activity.
Non-arable land treatments
14.       A major portion of total project investments (44%) has been utilized for afforestation,
silvipasture and pasture development activities. The most important technical achievement has been the
incorporation into the planting models of contour trenches for controlling surface run-off and increasing
moisture infiltration. This technique has contributed to very good tree and grass survival rates in all
states, and has had a significant impact in reducing flows in lower drainage lines and in protecting the
lower arable areas.
15.       Tree and shrub species have been selected in conjunction with local communities, and
species composition varies related to changes in ecological conditions. The most common tree species
planted have been Khair (Acacia catechu), Sisham (Dalbergia sissoo) and Reru (Acacia leucophloea),
and the most common shrub species has been Dodenea viscosa. Plant survival in project plantations has
been satisfactory and usually above 70%. In some areas the number of surviving tree seedlings actually
exceeds the number of seedlings planted because seed has also been sown along the contour trenches,
Tree planting density varies between states, and for the afforestation model Haryana has planted 1,000
trees per hectare, Himachal Pradesh has planted 800, Jammu and Kashmir has planted 1,100, and
Punjab 550 tree seedlings.
16.       The total non-arable area that has been treated is 109,330 ha, of which the largest single
activity has been afforestation which has been undertaken on over 50,000 ha. The state-wise distribution
of total non-arable treatments has been 17,078 ha completed in Haryana (16% of total), 20,571 in
Himachal Pradesh (19%), 26,699 ha in Jammu and Kashmir (24%), and 44,982 ha in Punjab (41%). Of
the total non-arable areas treated, 40,363 ha have been on private land (37% of total), 23,630 ha of
common land (22%), and 45,337 ha of government land (41%). The table below summarizes the non-
arable land treatments by state.
Table 3. Summary of Non-Arable Land Treatments
Activity                        Haryana   Himachal  Jammu &    Punjab         Total
Pradesh    Kashmir
(ha)       (ha)       (ha)       (ha)       (ha)
Vegetative/shrub barriers           2,676      3,341      2,504      11,818     20,339
Woodlots                                -        144          -          -        144
Pasture                                 -      2,927      2,502          -       5,429
Silvipasture                         795       1,927      6,268      11,327     20,317
Afforestation                      13,607      7,569      7,762     21,837      50,775
Replenish afforestation                 -      2,658      7,663          -      10,321
Rehabilitation of vegetation            -      2,005          -          -       2,005
TOTAL                              17,078     20,571     26,699      44,982    109,330
56



17.       At the end of project activities the non-arable areas that have been treated revert back to
line department management in respect of government lands (usually to the Forestry Department), and
to Panchayat management in respect of common lands.
18.       A major issue that remains to be resolved at the end of the project is clarifying the sharing
of the long-term production benefits from the non-arable areas that have been planted in cooperation
with local communities. Effective techniques for controlling the weed Lantana (Lantara camara), and
the introduction of fire control strategies are also important issues that remain to be addressed in respect
of the non-arable areas that have been treated.
On-farm development
19.       Most farmers living in project sub-watersheds have received inputs for at least one on-farm
rainfed cropping demonstration. The total area covered by these demonstrations was 28,647 ha (4,514
ha in Haryana, 7,831 ha in Himachal Pradesh. 8,018 ha in Jammu and Kashmir, and 8,283 ha in
Punjab). These demonstrations have successfully promoted the introduction of improved varieties, seed
treatment (particularly for termite control), appropriate fertilizer and pesticide treatments, and improved
agronomic practices to ensure moisture conservation. The table below provides details on the area
covered by rainfed cropping demonstrations in comparison to the total arable land area available in
project sub-watersheds. In respect of these demonstrations, it is interesting to note that Haryana, which
has the largest arable area in project sub-watersheds, undertook the smallest area of demonstrations.
Table 4. Extent of Rainfed Crop Demonstrations
State                                Total Arable          Rainfed Crop
Area             Demonstrations
(ha)                  (ha)
Haryana                                         60,159                 4,515
Himachal Pradesh                                25,008                 7,831
Jammu and Kashmir                               20,124                 8,018
Punjab                                          36,854                 8,283
Total                                          142,145                28,647
20.       Significant yield increases have been reported for rainfed crops - the main kharif (monsoon
season) crop is maize and average yields are reported to have increased to an average of about 1.4
tons/ha from the pre-project SAR estimate of 0.8 tons/ha. The main rabi (winter season) crop is wheat
and average yields are reported to have increased to about 1.8 tons/ha from the pre-project SAR
estimate of 0.9 tons/ha. The improved moisture status on arable lands has resulted in a diversification of
crop production, particularly with the introduction of vegetable crops (for example tomatoes in
Himachal Pradesh), and an increase in on-farm fodder production especially from bherseem and
sorghum.
57



Rainfed horticulture
21.       There has been reasonable success in introducing fruit production as a viable activity in
rainfed areas. The production of fruit under totally rainfed conditions was not common in the Shivalik
zone prior to the project, but it is an activity that has considerable potential. The total area that has been
planted with fruit trees using project assistance is 7,484 ha (in Haryana 1,442 ha were planted, 2,172 ha
in Himachal Pradesh, 3,197 ha in Jammu and Kashmir, and 673 ha in Punjab).
22.       Farner preference has mainly been to plant mango trees (Mangifera indica), but the success
with this species has been mixed and there has been considerable mortality of newly planted seedlings,
and this species does require supplementary irrigation at least in the initial years. The impact evaluation
surveys indicate that average seedling survival rate for horticultural plantations has been approximately
50% on average (53% for mango in Haryana, 57% for mango in Himachal Pradesh and only 37% for all
species in Punjab). These surveys do not indicate the extent that farmers have replaced dead fruit tree
seedlings, however it is likely that the final survival rates will be higher than indicated in the impact
surveys.
23.       Project supported research at Ballowal Saunkhri (PAU Regional Research Station for the
Kandi Area) indicates that while mango is suited for soils with a good moisture holding capacity, better
results on marginal soils in the Shivalik zone can be obtained with guava (Psidium guajava), amla
(Emblica officinalis), and ber (Zizyphus mauritiana).
Drainage line treatments
24.       There has been good success in stabilizing the extensive and deeply eroded drainage lines
(choes) which are a feature of the Shivalik zone. A major innovation has been the focus on the use of
vegetative stabilization in conjunction with the judicious use of engineered structures, which have
included masonry and cratewire drop structures in drainage lines and of cratewire spurs to protect
streambanks. Species that have performed well in stabilizing drainage lines include Ipomea carnea,
Vitex negunda, Dodenea viscosa and Arundo donex. A feature of this activity has been the reduction in
the width of choes, and the reclamation of riverbeds that have been planted with productive species such
as bamboo and sisal (Sizal sizlian).
Water supply
25.       Water shortages are common throughout the Shivalik zone and it would be difficult to
interest the inhabitants of this area in co-operating in any rural development activities unless there is
some provision for improving the availability of water. The original project design did not give
sufficient attention to assisting the local communities to improve the availability of water, but following
the MTR of the project this deficiency was recognized and more attention has been given to addressing
community water needs.
26.       Initially the project had planned to support the construction of 27 medium sized (10 to 15 m
wall height) water harvesting structures in all states. It was a World Bank requirement that each state
establish a Dam Review Panel to oversee this activity, a process that was found to be complex, and none
of the planned structures were constructed. This activity was deleted at the MTR and replaced by a more
flexible approach, which allowed project staff in close collaboration with local communities, to identify
and construct small-scale water supply systems. These systems involve the diversion of water from
58



springs or perennial streams, the construction of small dams (wall height less than l Om), and below
surface earthen tanks with distribution generally by gravity.
27.       This more flexible approach to addressing water requirements has been one of the most
successful components of the project, and has been greatly appreciated by beneficiaries who usually
identify water shortages as the number one development need throughout the Shivalik zone. This
activity has improved the availability of water for domestic and livestock purposes, and for life-saving
irrigation of field and horticultural crops. The total area brought under permanent irrigation has not been
significant (less than 2,000 ha). Women have benefited from the improved availability of domestic
water resources, and in many areas this has resulted in a significant reduction in the labor required to
transport drinking water.
4. Project Planning
28.       Project design  recognized  the  importance  of interactive  project planning  and
implementation, however the proposal for the Ministry of Agriculture (under the central government
component of the project) to recruit consultants to train project staff in participatory planning techniques
and to assist in developing strategies for cost and benefit-sharing arrangements, was not implemented,
and prior to the MTR the choice of treatments appears to have been driven more by line department
priorities than by the needs of the intended beneficiaries.
29.       During the course of project implementation the field staff have progressively developed
their own strategies for mobilizing community groups to interact with project staff in order to identify
priority community development needs, and to plan and implement project activities. Following the
MTR notable progress has been made in fonning community groups, usually called Village
Development Committees (VDC's), to interact with project staff. The success with community
mobilization has varied between states, and there are also large differences in the effectiveness of the
groups that have been formed. While good models of effective community groups exist, considerable
progress remains to be made in having the intended beneficiaries assume a greater role in planning and
implementing project activities, and in having adequate representation of women in VDC's. While this
shift to a more participatory approach to project planning is essential to ensure community involvement
and the longer-term sustainability of project investments, this approach requires flexibility in project
implementation and a move away from target driven project execution.
30.       The longer-term sustainability of the physical assets that have been created by the project,
and in particular the water supply and non-arable land improvements that provide community benefits,
will depend on the continued operation and viability of the Village Development Committees that have
been formed with project support. These committees need to be able to facilitate equitable community
access to these assets, and also to introduce arrangements for maintenance and protection. An important
sustainability issue that has not yet been satisfactorily addressed is the identification of arrangements for
sharing the- long-term production benefits from the non-arable areas that have been developed with the
cooperation of local communities.
5. Achievement of Physical Targets
31.       No detailed planning of proposed project activities had been undertaken prior to the start of
the project, and the activity targets that were established at project appraisal were intended to be
indicative and had been established in order to prepare investment cost estimates. It was intended that
59



these targets be implemented flexibly so as to allow the intended beneficiaries to fully participate in the
choice of the treatments to be undertaken in their area.
32.       The initial physical targets were revised at the MTR and again when the project
implementation period was extended. Good progress has been made in all states in terms of the
completion of field activities in comparison to established targets. Details of the achievement of
physical targets in all four states are given in Attachment 2. Table 5 provides a summary of
achievements of the main land treatment activities.
33.       Given the objective of involving the target beneficiaries in activity selection, the
performance of the project should be assessed more on the progress in improving socio-economic
conditions and reducing land degradation than on completing field activities in comparison to
established targets.
60



INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100-IN and Ln. 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
Summary of productive land treatments (for financial analysis)
Haryana                  HP                        J&K                       Punjab                    Project Total
At MTR  End projec       At MTR  End project    At MTR  End project          At MTR  End projec        At MTR  End project
ARABLE LANDS
Rainfed horticulture                      151        1,442         455        2,172          214        3,197           55          673          875        7,484
Rainfed crop demonstrations             1,498        4,515        1,680        7,831         607        8,018        1,753        8,283        5,538       28,647
On-farm fodder production                                         1,184        3,844        1,597       2,250          283          850        3,064        6,944
TOTAL        1,649        8,987        3,319       13,847        2,418       13,465        2,091       9.806        9,477        43,075
%                      14%                       32%                       31%                       23%                      100%
NON-ARABLE LANDS
PRIVATE
Vegetative/shrub barriers                 94          363                        13                       132        1,183        5,309        1,277         5,817
Pasture                                                            717        2,927           37           62                                    754        2,989
Silvipasture                              158         311                        15                     1,728          947        7,698        1,105        9,752
Afforestation                             925        8,589         411         2,702          67          464        2,434       12,050        3,837        21,805
Sub-total      1.177        7,263        1,128        5,657         104        2,386        4,564       25,057        6,973       40,363
%                    18%                       14%                        6%                       62%                      100%
VILLAGE COMMON LANDS
Vegetative/shnub bariers                  157         448          136          536          146          822          377        3,641          816        5,447
Woodlots                                                           124          144                                                              124          144
Pasture                                                                                                    50                                    -             50
Silvipasture                             158          129          121          166          384        2,563          303        2,951          966        5,809
Afforestation                            551         3,224         156          321          659        3,306         1.931       5,214        3,297        12,065
Repienish afforestation                                            150           90                                                              150           90
Rehabilitation of vegetation                                                     25                                                              -             25
Sub-total       866         3,801         687         1,282        1,189       6,741        2,611       11,806        5,353       23,630
%                      16%                        5%                       29%                       80%                      100%
FOREST LANDS
Vegetative/shrub bariers                1,183        1,865         564         2,792         240         1,550         471        2,868        2,458        9,075
Pasture                                                                                      383        2,390                                    383        2,390
Silvipasture                             355          355          326         1,746         622        1,977          450          678        1,753        4,756
Afforestation                            602         3,794         716         4,546         436         3,992        1,627       4,573        3,381        16,95
Replenish afforestaion                                             785         2,568        1,957       7,663                                  2,742        10,231
Rehabilitation of vegetation                                       713         1,980                                                             713        1,980
Sub-total      2,140        6,014        3.104       13,632        3,638      17,572        2,548        8,119       11,430       48,337
%                      13%                       30%                       38%                      18%                       100%
NON-ARABLE SUMMARY
Vegetative/shrub barriers               1,434        2,676         700         3,341         386        2,504        2,031       11,818        4,551       20,339
Woodlots                                               -           124          144           -           -            -            -            124          144
Pasture                                                -           717         2,927         420        2,502          -                       1,137        5,429
Silvipasture                             671          795          447         1,927        1,006       6,268        1,700       11,327        3,824       20,317
Afforestation                           2,078       13,607        1,283        7,569        1,162       7,762        5,992       21,837       10,515       50,775
Replenish afforestation                   -            -           935         2,658        1,957       7,663          -            -          2,892       10,321
Rehabilitation of vegetation              -            -           713         2,005         -            -            -            -            713        2,005
TOTAL         4,183       17,078       4,919       20,571        4,931       26,898        9,723       44,982       23,756      109,330
%I                      116%                     19%                       24%                       41%                      100%
61



6. Unit Costs
34.        The unit costs for the various land treatments models are usually calculated by listing the
component activities for each treatment, and applying unit costs to each activity based on state
government approved schedules of rates. The unit costs provided in government schedules of rates do
not always clearly differentiate between labor costs and the cost of other inputs, and labor costs are not
always calculated in labor days (for example labor inputs may expressed in cost per cubic meter or
lineal meter rather than in labor days).
35.       There has been no systematic approach to recording and analyzing the land treatmnent unit
costs, and for the second phase of the project it would be beneficial to establish a system for assessing
the validity of unit costs as part of project monitoring. This will require maintaining an inventory on the
location and extent of treated areas, and details on the inputs and labor that are utilized to complete
these works. This information would provide a basis for making judgements on the validity of the unit
costs that are being used.
36.        There is considerable variation in the unit costs for similar activities in different states. A
full list of the initial and current unit costs are given in Attachment 3. A summary of the different unit
costs that are currently being applied for three of the main land treatment models are given in the
following Table 6.
Table 6. Comparative Unit Treatment Costs
Activity                         Haryana   Himachal  Jammu &    Punjab
Pradesh    Kashmir
(Rs/ha)    (Rs/ha)     (Rs/ha)    (Rs/ha)
Rainfed horticulture                 8,350      17,379      9,200       7,000
Silvipasture (VCL)                   8,778      13,439      7,726       5,839
Afforestation (RF)                   14,499     16,293      14,187      7,052
37.        These unit costs do not include beneficiary contributions, which may partly explain the
considerable variation in unit costs being used by different states for similar activities. However, there is
a need to more closely examine the unit costs being applied in different states participating in this
project as well as comparing the unit costs between this project and other similar domestic and
externally funded projects.
7. Technical Training
38.        The project has supported a centralized project training facility located at the Punjab
Agricultural University zonal research station at Ballowal Saunkhri. The objective was to provide
training for project staff on technical and project management subjects, and it was envisaged that farmer
level training would be the responsibility of the state project implementation teams. Funds for the
centralized training activities were released through the Ministry of Agriculture (under the central
government component of the project) and about half of the funds were spent on civil works for
improving the accommodation and training facilities at Ballowal Saunkhri, and the other half on salaries
and operating costs.
62



39.        Since the beginning of the project, the Ballowal Saunkhri centre has conducted 86 training
courses, and 2,136 project staff have participated. Details of the number of courses and participants are
given in the table below.
Table 7. Training Conducted by Ballowal Saunkhri
Year      Courses  Training                       Participants
(no)    Days    Punjab   Haryana    HP        J&K   Others  Total
1992/93         6       20        28       28        24       7       16     103
1993/94         7       21        50       25        26      15      58      174
1994/95        12       40        54       37        54      33      144     322
1995/96        14       57       143       75        86      18      44      366
1996/97        18       58       275       90        58      38      31      492
1997/98        14       52       182       21        46      41      30      320
1998/99        15       32       275        5        13      23      33      359
Total          86       280     1,007      281      307      175     366   2,136
40.       The training courses have mainly focussed on technical issues, but have also covered
management topics. During the last two years courses have been conducted at the main training facility
and at field locations in Himachal Pradesh and Punjab and have covered the following topics:
*     Rainfed crop production technology
*     Design and construction of soil conservation structures
*     Vegetative technology and seed multiplication
X     Rainfed horticulture
*     Forage production technology
*     Drainage line treatments
*     Project evaluation
*     Joint forest management and community participation
*     Communication techniques
41.       The training provided by Ballowal Saunkhri has been appropriate, but because of the
geographical extent of the project, the project units that are located in closer proximity to the centralized
training centre, and in particular Punjab (47% of the trainees have been from this state), have been able
to obtain greater benefits from the training activities. An important benefit that has been derived from
the centralized training facility has been the provision of a forum for project staff from all participating
states to meet and to share experiences gained during project implementation.
8. Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
42.       There has been limited success in establishing functional GIS systems in any of the four
participating states. The overall technical guidance for this activity was to have been provided by a
63



consultant(s) to be recruited by the Ministry of Agriculture (under the central government component of
the project), with training for staff from the project offices to be provided by the Punjab Remote
Sensing Centre at Ludhiana in Punjab, also funded from the central government component. Although
computer hardware and GIS software has been purchased in all four states, the consultant who was to
guide this activity was not recruited, and this is an important factor in the lack of progress with GIS.
9. Environmental Impact
43.        Impact evaluation studies undertaken during project implementation indicate that there have
been significant environmental benefits from the project. These benefits include a reduction in soil loss
due to erosion in both the upper catchment areas and in the lower arable areas, a more regulated
discharge of water from project sub-watersheds with a reduction in flooding both within the project sub-
watersheds and in areas downstream of the project, improved productivity in arable and non-arable
areas due to improved soil moisture, the protection of land adjacent to streambanks and the recharge of
groundwater systems.
44.        A substantial portion of the positive environmental impacts resulting from project activities
are downstream and outside the project area. Comprehensive quantification of the environmental impact
and assigning financial values to these benefits is extremely difficult. Although the main project
objective is to slow and reverse environmental degradation in the Shivalik zone, because of the
complexity of assigning financial values to environmental benefits, the SAR did not attempt to quantify
these benefits and the financial viability of the project was based on increases in the production of food,
fruit, fodder fuelwood and timber that would result from project activities.
45.        All participating states have contracted independent agencies to conduct impact evaluation
studies. The impact evaluation reports for three of the participating states (Haryana, Himachal Pradesh
and Punjab) had been finalized by the end of project implementation. These studies have attempted to
quantify the environmental benefits, particularly in respect of the reduction in surface run-off and soil
loss as measured at silt observation posts (SOP's) that have been established in all states; the increase in
surface leaf litter in the non-arable areas that have been treated; and increased moisture infiltration from
contour trenching in non-arable areas. While these assessments provide some quantitative data there is
considerable variation in the results in different states.
Run-off and soil loss
46.        An important issue in respect of the run-off and soil loss measuring conducted at the SOP's
is that they were not constructed until project activities in the catchment areas had started or were about
to start, and therefore there is no extensive data on the pre-project situation in respect of soil loss and
run-off.
47.        SOP data is summarized in Table 8 below.
64



Table 8. Summarised SOP data for Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab
Haryana (Sirsa sub-watershed)
Year        Rainfall            Run-off                  Infiltration         Soil loss
(mm)         (mm)          ()          (mm)          (%)         (tVha)
1994             1,283          92          7.2          1,190         92.8         2.65
1995             1,443          73          5.0          1,371         95.0         1.48
1996              766           29          3.7           737          96.3         1.36
1997             1,351          51          3.8          1,300         96.2         1.02
Himachal Pradesh (Nalagarh)
Year        Rainfall            Run-off                  Infiltration          Soil loss
(mm)         (mm)          (%)          (mm)          (%)         ("ha)
Untreated'                                    70.0                       30.0       200.00
1995/96           1,731         660          38.1         1,071         61.9        84.73
1996/97           1,820         716          39.3         1,104         60.7        82.72
1997/98           1,389         537          38.6           852         61.4        74.32
Punjab (Jainti Devi Ki Rao sub-watershed)
Year        Rainfall            Run-off                  Infiltration          Soil loss
(mm)         (mm)          (%)          (mm)          (%)         (t/ha)
1995            1,522          505         33.2          1,017         67.0       151.07
1996              938           70          7.5           868          92.5        51.94
1997              832           36          4.3           769          95.7        24.03
48.        While the results from all SOP's indicate positive environmental benefits, the data varies
considerably between sites and it is difficult to draw conclusions that could be adopted on a project-
wide basis. The data from Haryana indicates that the SOP was located in a sub-watershed that had low
run-off and soil loss at the beginning of the project. The improvements in Himachal Pradesh are based
on estimates of the likely pre-project situation. The results from Punjab do provide credible data and
indicate a significant reduction in run-off (from 33% to 4%), a significant increase in infiltration (from
67% to 96%) and a reduction in soil loss from 151 tonnes per ha to 24 tonnes.
49.        This information does provide indicative data on environmental impact. Substantial
variations in yearly rainfall are normal in the Shivalik zone, and it would be necessary to commence
catchment measuring several years in advance of the treatment works, and to continue recording for a
longer period of time after the works have been completed in order to obtain a more accurate
assessment of the environmental impact of this project.
Leaf litter in non-arable areas
50.        Leaf litter shed by the trees and shrubs that have been planted as part of the non-arable land
treatments provide a protective soil cover, and facilitate conservation of soil moisture and protects the
soil against erosion. The state impact evaluations have measured changes in leaf litter in treated non-
arable areas to demonstrate positive environmental impacts. The results from the three completed
impact evaluation surveys show a very significant increase in leaf litter in planted areas, but no attempt
Estimate
65



has been made to correlate this data with quantifiable reductions in run-off and soii loss. Table 9
summarizes the impact of the project on improved leaf litter in areas that have been afforested.
Table 9 - Summary Details on Surface Leaf Litter
State                                      Leaf litter
(kg/ha)
Control         Afforestation (mean)      Silvipasture
(mean)                              I       (mean)
Haryana                         Not measured                 1 992                  1,702
Himachal Pradesh                        135                44,197                  2,592
Punjab                                   151                6,267            not measured
Contour trenching in non-arable areas
51.        The adoption of contour trenching, usually called v-ditches in the project area, as a
component of all non-arable land treatments has had an important impact on controlling surface run-off
and increasing infiltration in the upper catchment areas. This has had a corresponding positive impact
on regulating the flows in lower drainage lines, and reducing erosion in lower arable areas. This
technique is not commonly adopted in the afforestation activities being implemented by the state
Forestry Departments.
52.        The impact evaluation survey conducted in Punjab has attempted to quantify the impact of
using the contour trenches. It was found that in comparison to the control (untreated area), soil moisture
was 94 to 275% higher.
Impact on groundwater
53.        There is extensive anecdotal evidence from  the inhabitants of village communities
throughout the project area that water tables have risen following the completion of land treatment
activities. Some limited data is available from Punjab that substantiates these claims in respect of
improving water tables. The table below provides details on changes in groundwater levels in four sub-
watersheds in Punjab.
Table 10 - Changes in Ground Water Levels in Punjab (metres below surface)
Sub-watershed   Village      1990             1997                1998
June    Oct.    June       Oct.      June
Dasuya          Malewal      7.68    7.38     4.49      3.95      3.30
Dasuya         Bhanowal    16.64   16.24    9.44        8.94      8.90
Dasuya         Mastiwal      14.69   14.49    7.79      6.49      5.90
Amiala         Baghpur       4.54    3.22     3.63      2.79      2.50
Arniala        Amiala        25.55   24.10    18.55     19.50     18.20
Amiala         Mustafapur   35.40   32.11    24.60      24.45     24.30
66



10. Production Models
54.       Attachment 4 presents the following production models:
Cereal crops                               *  Rainfed wheat
* Rainfed maize
Rainfed horticulture                       *  Mango
Non-arable land treatments                 *  Vegetative shrub barrier production model
* Silvipasture
* Afforestation
67






ATTACHMENT 1
SUB-WATERSHED DETAILS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
State                                                  Page
Haryana                                                  71
Himachal Pradesh                                         72
Jammu and Kashmir                                        73
Punjab                                                   74
69






INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100-IN and Ln. 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
Attachment 1(a) - Haryana
Treated Sub-watersheds
Name of Sub-watershed                                         Arable       Non-arable        Total
Area (ha)    Area (ha)    Area (ha)
INITIAL SUB-WATERSHEDS
Sirsa                                                       4,967          3,997          8,964
Boli-Yamuna                                                 3,595          2,811          6,406
ADDITIONAL SUB-WATERSHEDS ADDED AT MTR
Madhkali                                                    2,093          1,943          4,036
Begna                                                       12,274         5,071         17,345
Somb                                                        12,570         3,320         15,890
Pathrala                                                    6,917          4,380         11,297
ADDITIONAL SUB-WATERSHEDS ADDED AT EXTENSION
Dangri                                                      13,135        11,723         24,858
Nakti                                                       4,608          4,850          9,458
Suk Rao                                                         0          5,930          5,930
TOTAL          60,159         44,025       104,184
71



INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100-IN and Ln. 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
Attachment 1(b) - Himachal Pradesh
Treated Sub-watersheds
Name of Sub-watershed                                                        Arable       Non-arable         Total
Area (ha)      Area (ha)       Area (ha)
INITIAL SUB-WATERSHEDS
Kheri Ka Khala                                                               323           2,315          2,638
Kawal Khad                                                                   524           2,801          3,325
Balad Nadi Left Bank                                                         880           1,656          2,536
Sarahan Di Khad Right Bank                                                 1,088           1,913          3,001
Upper Swan                                                                 1,041           1,991          3,032
Harar Chakki                                                               1,105           2,741          3,846
ADDITIONAL SUB-WATERSHEDS ADDED AT MTR
Trilok Pur-Wala-NalIha                                                       309           2,832          3,141
Gamloti Khad Left Bank                                                       426           2,084          2,510
Nalagarh                                                                     708           1,892          2,600
Brahman Majra                                                              1,182           1,918          3,100
Bhagol                                                                       800           2,300          3,100
Sarhan Di Khad Left Bank                                                     577           1,123           1,700
Bhin Wali Khad                                                             1,509           1,291          2,800
Govindpur Khad                                                             1,201           1,599          2,800
Take Wali Khad                                                             1,197           2,403          3,600
Katilu Khad                                                                1,230            570           1,800
Balud                                                                      1,568           1,332          2,900
Lodhwan                                                                      624            976           1,600
ADDITIONAL SUB-WATERSHEDS ADDED AT EXTENSION
Bhanglan Wali Khad                                                         1,129           1,235          2,364
Patta Khad                                                                   797           2,019          2,816
Gamloti Khad                                                                 166           1,295           1,461
Moginand Wali Khad                                                           392           2,319          2,711
Daggar Ka Choe                                                               730           1,870          2,600
Upper Barera Khad                                                            760           2,840          3,600
Mahot                                                                      2,028           2,257          4,285
Ladori                                                                     2,027            965           2,992
Galore                                                                       687           1,750          2,437
TOTAL           25,008         50,287          75,295
72



INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100-IN and Ln. 3175-lN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
Attachment 1(c) - Jammu & Kashmir
Treated Sub-watersheds
Name of Sub-watershed                             Arable      Non-arable         Total
__________________________________    Area (ha)    Area (ha)    Area (ha)
INITIAL SUB-WATERSHEDS'
Dudh Ganga                                     12,294         13,094         25,388
Ramkote                                         5,742          7,776          13,518
Devak                                           2,088          7,282          9,370
20,124         28,152         48,276
Footnote.
1. No additional catchments were added at the MTR or at project extension
73



INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100-IN and Ln 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
Attachment 1 (d): Sub-Watershed Details - Punjab
Treated Sub-watersheds
Name of Sub-watershed                                                 Arable       Non-arable         Total
Area (ha)      Area (ha)       Area (ha)
INITIAL SUB-WATERSHEDS
Jainti Devi Ki Rao                                                    601           1,990           2,591
Arniala                                                              1,107          1,615           2,722
Nara Dada Manijhi                                                     986           5,075           6,061
Adasuya Langerpur                                                    4,302         13,306          17,608
UPPER CATCHMENTS'
Basu Khad                                                           4,239           6,182          10,421
Chak Sadhu                                                            949           4,578           5,527
Jhanda Ji Ki Khad                                                    1,486          6,793           8,279
Kamahi Devi                                                          1,841          3,472           5,313
Kukar Suha                                                            589           1,935           2,524
Patiari                                                               808           2,346           3,154
Rattewal                                                              580           1,650           2,230
Sahora                                                                450             979           1,429
West Suan                                                            3,543          6,801          10,344
ADDITIONAL SUB-WATERSHEDS ADDED AT MTR
Sughrao                                                              1,961          5,600           7,561
Balachaur                                                             966           1,413           2,379
Mohan Majra Nighi                                                    1,518          1,970           3,488
Suan Khad                                                           4,310           5,989          10,299
ADDITIONAL SUB-WATERSHEDS ADDED AT EXTENSION
Asron Paniali Bhalla                                                 1,488          3,436           4,924
Bachhoi                                                             2,728           7,940          10,668
Noorpur Group of Choes                                              2,402           4,499           6,901
TOTAL          36,854          87,569         124,423
Footnotes:
1. Only the upper catchment areas were treated during the first phase of the project. The lower
catchment areas will be treated in the second phase of the project.
74



ATTACHMEENT 2
DETAILS OF PHYSICAL ACHIEVEMENTS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
State                                                    Page
Haryana                                                    77
Himachal Pradesh                                           78
Jammu and Kashmir                                          79
Punjab                                                      80
75






INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100-IN and Ln. 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
Attachment 2 (a) - Haryana
Achievement of Physical Targets
Activity                                                        Unit        Initial     Revised         Project
Target       Target1   Achievement
ARABLE LANDS
Vegetative barriers                                      ha               786             13             13
Terrace repair/vegetative reinforcement                  ha               785            23              23
Vegetative field boundaries                              ha              1,318         8,377          7,859
Rainfed horticulture                                     ha                52          1,160          1,443
Rainfed crop demonstrations                              ha              1,765         4,959          4,515
Herb garden                                              no                 0              1              1
NON-ARABLE LANDS
PRIVATE
Vegetative/shrub barriers                                ha               222          1,184            363
Silvipasture                                             ha               171          1,191            311
Afforestation                                            ha                40          7,271          6,589
VILLAGE COMMON LANDS
Vegetative/shrub barriers                                ha               320           657             448
Silvipasture                                             ha               204           504             129
Afforestation                                            ha                50          2,674          3,224
FOREST LANDS
Vegetative/shrub barriers                                ha              1,093         1,835          1,863
Silvipasture                                             ha               124              0            355
Afforestation                                            ha               474          1,062          3,794
DRAINAGE LINES
Cratewire structures (gully stabilisation)               m3             13,248        61,693         26,842
Earthern gully plugs                                     no               124           472             782
Masonry cement structures                                m3              8,000        58,489         58,702
Dry stone structures                                     m3             11,760        79,313         60,119
Small stone check dams                                   m3             22,800        60,800         56,731
Vegetative check dams                                    m                249            880          3,055
Silt detention structures                                no                35            173            275
Cratewire structures (streambank protection)             m3              6,420         6,420          3,306
Vegetative spurs                                         m                878         14,878          4,452
Village tanks/ponds                                      no                39           311             269
Sub-surface dam                                          no                 0             11             19
Water harvesting structures                              no                  5             0              0
Water supply system large                                no                  0             4             31
Water supply system small                                no                  0            32             24
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
Artificial insemination                                  no                  0        36,500         53,866
Health coverage                                          no                 0        510,000        940,264
Supplementary feeding                                    no               220          2,820          2,769
Footnotes:
1. The targets were revised at the MTR and again at the time of the two extensions in time
77



INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100-IN and Ln. 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
Attachment 2 (b) - Himachal Pradesh
Achievement of Physical Targets
Activity                                                    Unit         Initial       Revised          Project
Target         Target1    Achievement
ARABLE LANDS
Vegetative baniers                                  ha                 285             285            285
Terrace repair/vegetative reinforcement             ha               1,648           7,998           5,814
Vegetative field boundaries                         ha               2,180           9,787           8,742
Rainfed horticulture                                ha                 422           2,358           2,172
Rainfed crop demonstrations                         ha               1,581           8,466           7,831
On-farm fodder production                           ha               1,176           5,171           3,844
NON-ARABLE LANDS
PRIVATE
Pasture development                                 ha                 788           3,830           2,927
Afforestation                                       ha                 381           2,069           2,702
Silvipasture                                        ha                   0              15              15
Vegetative shrub barriers                           ha                   0              13              13
VILLAGE COMMON LANDS
Vegetative shrub barriers                           ha                 141             505            536
Woodlots                                            ha                  84             524             144
Silvipasture                                        ha                  17             346            166
Afforestation                                       ha                  17             884            321
Rehabilitation                                      ha                  90              90             90
Replenishment                                       ha                   0           1,000             25
FOREST LANDS
Vegetative shrub barriers                           ha                 473           2,907           2,792
Silvipasture                                        ha                 150           2,010           1,746
Afforestaton                                        ha                 239           4,641           4,546
Replenishment                                       ha                 283           2,499           2,568
Rehabilitation                                      ha                 230           3,639           1,980
Smokeless chullahs                                  no                   0           6,225           5,503
DRAINAGE LINES
Masonry cement structures                           no                   5              81             83
Dry stone structures                                m3              24,656         163,103         123,998
Brushwood check dams                                km                   0             300            254
Brushwood check dams                                m3              53,375          53,375          53,375
Cratewire structures                                m3              10,102          62,723          78,662
Livehedge spurs                                     km                   0             301            205
Livehedge spurs                                     m3              90,669          90,669          90,669
Landslide treatment                                 ha                  75             429            431
Village ponds                                       no                  85             525             623
Earthen run-off structures                          no                  18              64             46
Water harvesting structures - large                 no                   6               0               0
Water harvesting structures - small                 no                   0              89              69
Roadside erosion control                            km                   0           1,533             113
m3               4,812           4,812          5,312
Roadside erosion control                            ha                   0               0              28
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
Natural breeding centres                            no                   9              69              65
Livestock reduction                                 no                 218           2,018            231
Supplementary feeding
Late pregnancy ration                          no                1,089          7,114           6,933
Calf starter                                   no                 493             493             493
Female calf rearing                            no                 796           4,446           3,321
Construction of stalls                              no                 407           7,732           8,662
Rehabilitation of stalls                            no                 794           3,294           1,034
Chaff cutters                                       no                   0           3,739           3,223
POST HARVEST PROTECTION
Grain storage bins                                  no                2,656         13,606          13,828
1. The targets were revised at the MTR and again at the bme of the two extensions in time
78



INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100-IN and Ln. 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
Attachment 2 (c) - Jammu & Kashmir
Achievement of Physical Targets
Activity                                                     Unit        Initial        Revised          Project
Target          Targete      Achievemen
ARABLE LANDS
Vegetative barriers                                  ha               5,870              774            665
Terrace repair/vegetative reinforcement              ha               3,020             7,355          6,415
Vegetative field boundaries                          ha               2,813             8,954          7,883
Rainfed horticulture                                 ha                334              4,100          3,197
Rainfed crop demonstratons                           ha               5,400             9,518          8,018
On-farm fodder producion                             ha                891              2,134          2,134
Horticultural rejuvenation                           ha                172              2,927          1,728
NON-ARABLE LANDS
PRIVATE
Vegetative baniers                                   ha                110                140           132
Pasture development                                  ha                130               100             62
SiMpasture                                           ha               1,845             1,728          1,728
Afforestation                                        ha                150               550            464
VILLAGE COMMON LANDS
Vegetative barriers                                  ha                873              1,115           822
Pasture development                                  ha                  0               100             50
Silvipasture                                         ha                671              2,967          2,563
Afforestation                                        ha                653              3,574          3,306
FOREST LANDS
Vegetative barriers                                  ha               2,320             1,665          1,559
Pasture development                                  ha               1,395             2,595          2,390
Silvipasture                                         ha               2,091             2,112          1,977
Afforestation                                        ha               2,164             3,997          3,992
Forest Augmentation                                  ha               2,203             7,868          7,663
DRAINAGE LINES
Dry stone structures                                 m3             185,000           634,350        634,350
Earthen run-off dams                                 no                 25               200            198
Cratewire structures (gully stabilisation)           m3             125,000           125,000        116,818
Vegetative gully control                              m               9300            300,000        342,367
Cratewire structures (streambank protecion)          m3              98,000            98,000         53,207
Vegetative spurs                                      m              11,000           300,000        238,843
Village ponds                                        no                256                800            736
Water harvesting structures - large                  no                  6                  0              0
Water harvesting structures - small                  no                  0                241            184
Roadside erosion control                             m                1,100            50,000         93,917
Landslide treatment                                  ha                127                 0               0
Landslide treatment                                  m                   0            200,000        187,318
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
Livestock reduction                                  no     No data
no
Supplementary feeding
Late pregnancy ration                            no
Female calf rearing                              no
1. The targets were revised at the MTR and again at the time of the two extensions in time
79



INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100-IN and Ln. 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
Attachment 2 (d) - Punjab
Achievement of Physical Targets
Activity                                                 Unit         Initial       Revised        Project
Target        Target'   Achievemen
ARABLE LANDS
Vegetative barriers/field barriers                 ha               7,783          7,718          6,439
Rainfed horticulture                               ha                116            203            673
Rainfed crop demonstrations                        ha               5,620          6,943          8,283
On-farm fodder production                          ha                525            635            850
NON-ARABLE LANDS
PRIVATE
Shrub barriers                                     ha                 181 Nodata                  1,219
Vegetative barrier - production component          ha                513                          4,090
Silvipasture                                       ha                779                          7,698
Afforestation                                      ha               2,426                        12,050
VILLAGE COMMON LANDS
Shrub barriers                                     ha                173                           730
Vegetative barrier - production component          ha                568                          2,911
Silvipasture                                       ha                581                          2,951
Afforestation                                      ha               2,669                         5,214
FOREST LANDS
Shrub barriers                                     ha                 142                          339
Vegetative barrier - production component          ha                431                          2,529
Silvipasture                                       ha                830                           678
Afforestation                                      ha                 990                         4,573
DRAINAGE LINES
Masonry cement structures                          m3              49,043         41,455         48,765
Cratewire structures (gully stabilisation)         m3              72,017         67,556         72,660
Dry stone structures                               m3             213,713        165,410        156,876
Vegetative check dams                              m              258,039        296,489        283,407
Cratewire structures (streambank protection)       m3              21,406         46,820         69,041
Vegetative spurs                                   km                523            572             832
Village ponds                                      no                  28             26             28
Rehabilitation of ponds                            no                 53             34             41
Makhowal structures                                no                  17            34              37
Water harvesting structures                        no                   7              0              0
Silt retention dams                                no                   0            116           220
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
Livestock improvement                              no              26,844         35,694         47,604
Supplementary feeding
Late pregnancy ration                          no              16,487          9,478          9,478
Female calf rearing                            no               8,180          5,498          5,498
1. The targets were revised at the MTR and again at the time of the two extensions in time
80



ATTACHMENT 3
UNIT COST DETAILS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
State                                                   Part
Haryana                                                   83
Himachal Pradesh                                          84
Jammu and Kashmir                                         85
Punjab                                                    86
81






INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 21 00-IN and Ln 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
Attachment 3 (a) - Haryana
Unit Costs
Activity                                                   Unit          Initial         Current
unit cost (R's)   unit cost (R's)
ARABLE LANDS
Vegetative barriers                                 ha                   550                 0
Terrace repair/vegetative reinforcement             ha                 1,835                 0
Vegetative field boundaries                         ha                   760             1,484
Rainfed horticulture                                ha                 3,900             8,350
Rainfed crop demonstrations                         ha                 1,000             1,660
NON-ARABLE LANDS
PRIVATE
Vegetative/shrub barriers                           ha                 3,000             5,770
Silvipasture                                        ha                 5,760            10,973
Afforestation                                       ha                 8,570            14,449
VILLAGE COMMON LANDS
Vegetative/shrub barriers                           ha                 3,380             6,161
Silvipasture                                        ha                 6,149             8,778
Afforestation                                       ha                 8,950            15,481
FOREST LANDS
Vegetative/shrub barriers                           ha                 3,380             5,770
Silvipasture                                        ha
Afforestation                                       ha                 8,950            14,499
DRAINAGE LINES
Cratewire structures                                m3                   163               331
Earthern gully plugs                                no                10,000            20,626
Masonry cement structures                           m3                   310               738
Small stone check dams                              m3                    50                 0
Dry stone structures                                m3                   138               258
Vegetative check dams                               m                    229             1,421
Vegetative spurs                                    m                      8                30
Village ponds                                       no                25,000            45,500
Village tanks                                       no                29,000            45,500
Sub-surface dam                                     no                     0           300,000
Water supply system large                           no                     0           700,000
Water supply system small                                                  0            90,000
Footnotes:
1. The targets were revised at the MTR and again at the time of the two extensions in time
83



INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100-IN and Ln 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
Attachment 3 (b) - Himachal Pradesh
Unit Costs
Activity                                                   Unit          Initial          Current
unit cost (R's)   unit cost (R's)
ARABLE LANDS
Vegetative barriers                                ha                   550                 0
Terrace repair/vegetative reinforcement            ha                  1,840                0
Vegetative field boundaries                        ha                   760              1,641
Rainfed horticulture                               ha                 17,360            17,379
Rainfed crop demonstrations                        ha                  2,370             2,700
On-farm fodder production                          ha                  1,000             1,100
NON-ARABLE LANDS
PRIVATE
Pasture development                                ha                   760              2,928
Afforestation                                      ha                  7,500            16,293
Silvipasture                                       ha                  8,330            13,439
Vegetative shrub barriers                          ha                  1,650             4,664
VILLAGE COMMON LANDS
Vegetative shrub barrers                           ha                  1,650             4,664
Woodlots                                           ha                  7,500                0
Silvipasture                                       ha                  8,330            13,439
Afforestation                                      ha                  7,500            16,293
Rehabilitation                                     ha                  2,500             5,467
Replenishment                                      ha                  1,200                0
FOREST LANDS
Vegetative shrub barriers                          ha                  1,650             4,664
Silvipasture                                       ha                  8,330            13,439
Afforestation                                      ha                  7,500            16,293
Replenishment                                      ha                  1,200                0
Rehabilitation                                     ha                  2,500             5,467
Smokeless chullahs                                 no                     0               400
DRAINAGE LINES
Masonry cement structures                          no                50,000           183,245
Dry stone structures                               m3                   100               360
Brushwood check dams                               km                 5,000            31,800
Cratewire structures                               m3                   200               604
Livehedge spurs                                    km                10,000            42,400
Landslide treatment                                ha                10,000            21,200
Village ponds                                      no                25,000            53,003
Earthen run-off structures                         no               100,000          254,410
Water harvesting structures - large                no             1,000,000                 0
Water harvesting structures - small                no                     0           254,500
Roadside erosion control                           km                   230             2,015
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
Natural breeding centres                           no                 53,000                0
Livestock reduction                                no                   300                 0
Supplementary feeding
Late pregnancy ration                         no                    240               600
Calf starter                                  no                    600                 0
Female calf rearing                           no                  2,500             4,220
Construction of stalls                             no                  1,000             2,831
Rehabilitation of stalls                           no                   400                  0
Chaff cutters                                      no                      0             1,600
POST HARVEST PROTECTION
Grain storage bins                                 no                   600               760
84



INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100-IN and Ln 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
Attachment 3 (c) - Jammu & Kashmir
Unit Costs
Activity                                                   Unit          Initial          Current
unit cost (R's)   unit cost (R's)
ARABLE LANDS
Vegetative barriers                                 ha                 2,926                 0
Terrace repair/vegetative reinforcement             ha                 3,740             1,185
Vegetative field boundaries                         ha                 3,285                 0
Rainfed horticulture                                ha                22,500             9,200
Rainfed crop demonstrations                         ha                 1,610             2,565
On-farm fodder production                           ha                 1,780             2,160
Horticultural rejuvenation                          ha                 6,360                 0
NON-ARABLE LANDS
PRIVATE
Vegetative barriers                                 ha                 4,290             6,709
Pasture development                                 ha                 5,200             4,402
Silvipasture                                        ha                 7,500             7,726
Afforestation                                       ha                 6,418            14,187
VILLAGE COMMON LANDS
Vegetative barriers                                 ha                 4,290             6,709
Pasture development                                 ha                 5,200             4,402
Silvipasture                                        ha                 7,500             7,726
Afforestation                                       ha                 6,418            14,187
FOREST LANDS
Vegetative barriers                                 ha                 4,290             6,709
Pasture development                                 ha                 5,200             4,402
Silvipasture                                        ha                 7,500             7,726
Afforestation                                       ha                 6,418            14,187
DRAINAGE LINES
Masonry cement structures                          m3                     88               100
Cratewire structures                                m3                   358               460
Footnotes:
1. The targets were revised at the MTR and again at the time of the two extensions in time
85



INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100-IN and Ln 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
Attachment 3 (d) - Punjab
Unit Costs
Activity                                                  Unit          Initial         Current
unit cost (R's)   unit cost (R's)
ARABLE LANDS
Vegetative barriers/field barriers                 ha
Rainfed horticulture                               ha                 8,000             7,000
Rainfed crop demonstrations                        ha                 1,500             1,500
On-farm fodder production                          ha                   650             1,200
NON-ARABLE LANDS
PRIVATE
Shrub barriers                                     ha                 1,090             2,197
Vegetative barrier - production component          ha                 1,759             3,541
Silvipasture                                       ha                 2,732             5,495
Afforestation                                      ha                 2,801             5,642
VILLAGE COMMON LANDS
Shrub barriers                                     ha                 1,248             2,334
Vegetative barrier - production component          ha                 2,012             3,762
Silvipasture                                       ha                 2,422             5,839
Afforestation                                      ha                 3,201             5,994
FOREST LANDS
Shrub barriers                                     ha                 1,560             2,746
Vegetative barrier - production component          ha                 2,515             4,426
Silvipasture                                       ha                 3,903             6,869
Afforestation                                      ha                 4,007             7,052
DRAINAGE LINES
Masonry cement structures                          m3                   528              900
Cratewire structures                               m3                   320              595
Dry stone structures                               m3                   152              200
Vegetative check dams                              m                     31                25
Vegetative spurs                                   m                     28                17
Village ponds                                      no               120,000           112,000
Rehabilitation of ponds                            no                53,000            55,000
Makhowal structures                                no               195,000           375,000
Silt retention dams                                no                     0           250,000
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
Livestock improvement                              no                   100              100
Supplementary feeding
Late pregnancy ration                          no                   120                0
Female calf rearing                            no                   650                0
Footnotes:
1. The targets were revised at the MTR and again at the time of the two extensions in time
86



ATTACHMENT 4
PRODUCTION MODELS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Field Crops                                          89
Horticulture                                         91
Non Arable                                           92
87






INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100-IN and Ln. 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
Wheat - Rainfed Crop Production Model
Yield and Inputs (per ha)
Unit   Unit cost             Without       Total                 With          Total
I  I  (R's)         project       (R's)                 project       (R's)
Main products  Grain               kg         5.50                 900.00    4,950.00                 1,830.00    10,065.00
Straw                kg         1.50                1,300.00    1,950.00               2,000.00     3,000.00
Inputs        Seed                 kg        11.00                  100.00    1,100.00                 100.00     1,100.00
Termite control      ml        0.32                     -           -                    400.00       128.00
Fungercide           gm        0.59                     -          -                     250.00      147.50
Fertilizer
FYM            tons     100.00                    1.00     100.00                     -            -
CAN             kg        4.80                   10.00      48.00                  162.00       777.60
SSP             kg        2.78                     -          -                    125.00       347.50
Pesticide             I      100.00                     -          -                       1.00      100.00
Land preparation     Is                                         700.00                               700.00
Labour                             md        60.00                  22.00    1,320.00                   40.00     2,400.00
Total income    6,900.00           Total income    13,065.00
Total costs   3,268.00             Total costs    5,700.60
Net return    3,632.00             Net retum     7,364.40
Return per family labour day (assuming all family labour)                      225.09                               443.84
Total arable area       142,000
Coverage                   55%           From impact evaluation reports
89



INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100-IN and Ln. 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C: Soil Conservation/Watershed Management Activities
Maize - Rainfed Crop Production Model
Yield and Inputs (per ha)
[  Unit  | Unit cost         Without        Total   ||             With          Total
|1 |(R's)  |         |   project        (R's)   |         |   project        (R's)
Main products  Grain                kg         3.50                  800.00    2,800.00                 1,385.00     4,847.50
Straw                kg         0.85                 1,200.00    1,020.00                1,800.00     1,530.00
Inputs        Seed                  kg        10.00                   30.00      300.00                    20.00      200.00
Seed treatment       gm         0.59                     -           -                      60.00        35.40
Fertilizer
FYM            tons     100.00                     2.00     200.00                     2.00       200.00
CAN             kg        4.80                      -           -                    162.00       777.60
SSP             kg        2.78                      -           -                    125.00       347.50
Pesticide             I       100.00                    0.70       70.00                     2.00       200.00
Land preparation     Is                                           700.00                                700.00
Labour                              md        60.00                   18.00    1,080.00                    30.00     1,800.00
Total income    3,820.00            Total income    6,377.50
Total costs   2,350.00              Total costs    4,260.50
Net return    1,470.00              Net return    2,117.00
Return per family labour day (assuming all family labour)                        141.67                               217.61
Total arable area        142,000
Coverage                    45%           From impact evaluation reports
90



INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (1tills) Projent
(Cr. 21 00-IN nd Ln. 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Repon
Appendix C- Soil Co-servation/Watershed Management Actvitles
Mango - Rainfed Production Model
Yield and Inputs (per ha)
{  Unit    Unit cost |                                  Years
0  |  (R's)  |    1    |   2   |   3   |   4     5          6          7          8          9          10   | II to30
Income
Mango yield           kg                                               250        500      2,000      3,000      6,000       8,000   10,000       10,000
Mango revenue         Rs           10                                2,500      5,000     20,000     30,000     60,000      80,000  100,000      100,000
Intercrop net revenue
Wheat         Rs    1,997.60     1,798    1,798    1,598    1,199        599
Maize        Rs       661.50      595       595      529      397        198
LESS: Rainfed crop rev.   Rs   2659.1     2,659    2,659    2,659    2,659      2,659      2,659      2,659      2,659       2,659    2,659        2,659
Total gross income                      -266      -266     -532      1436      3139      17341      27341      57341      77341      97341      97341
Inputs
Seedling              no                   100       30        20
Rs          15     1,500      450      300
Thimate- 1OG          kg                   5.00     5.00     5.00      5.00      5.00       6.25       6.25       6.25        6.25     6.25         6.25
Rs          52      260       260      260      260        260        325        325        325         325      325          325
Phaspomidone           I                                     1.00      1.00      1.00       1.50       1.50       1.50        2.00     2.00         2.00
Rs         355       -        -        355      355        355        533        533        533         710      710          710
Plantozine             1                                     2.00     2.00       2.00       2.00       2.50       2.50        2.50     2.50         2.50
Rs         150       -        -        300      300        300        300        375        375         375      375          375
Topsine               kg                                               0.50      0.50       0.50       1.00       1.00        1.00     1.00         1.00
Rs         870       -        -        -        435        435        435        870        870         870      870          870
Fertilizer
NPK           kg                          20.00    40.00    60.00       80.00    100.00     120.00     140.00      160.00   180.00       180.00
Rs           8       -        160      320      480        640        800        960       1,120       1,280    1,440        1,440
FYM           t                  10.00     4.00     3.00      1.00       1.00       1.50      2.00       3.00        4.00     5.00         5.00
Rs         100     1,000      400      300      100        100        150        200        300         400      500          500
Labour                         md                   155       40        45       35         35         40        45         50          55       60           60
Rs          60     9,300    2,400    2,700    2,100       2,100      2,400      2,700     3,000       3,300    3,600        3,600
Total input cost      Rs                 12,060    3,670    4,535    4,030      4,190      4,943      5,963      6,523       7,260    7,820        7,820
Net Income            Rs                -12,326   -3,936   -5,067   -2,594      -1,051    12,398     21,378     50,818      70,081   89,521       89,521
Retum perfamily labour day                 -20       -38      -53      -14         30        370        535      1,076       1,334    1,552        1,552
(assuming all labour is family)
Financial rate of retum:   48%
(assuming atl labour hired)
Note: Producton for years 11 to 30 will continue as for year 10
Haryana            HP                  J&K               Punjab              All states
Area planted          1,442             2,172               3,197               673                 7,484
to fruit trees (ha)
1. Intertropping (% inputs and yields)  |Year 1   Year 2    |Year 3   |Year 4   [Year 5   |Year 6
90%       90%      80%      60%       30%        0%
2. Figures in production model for intercropping are for net income and based on the before project rainfed wheat and maize production models
3. Area coverage is 55% for wheat, and 45% for maize
91



INDIA: ltetgmetd W.W.rhed De-lopront (ftill,s) PojWo
(Cr. 21 DO-IN ad La., 3173-IN)
b-larlmntatio Comrpletion Repart
Afforestatton Production ModelAped.CSolC.,,inW-dm.eet evti
Yield and Inputs per he
Unit   Uniit cost                                                                              Years
I(R's)           1        2        3       4        5   1 6   17   18                 9       10  I11        12    1-3-  14        15        1         7        1         9        2
Income
Timber                m3100350
Rs        4000           -        -       -       -   -                                                                              0000                                           35.-- 14,00
Fuetwood              M3                                                                                                                                     5.,00                                       140.000
Rs         600           -        -       -       -   -                                                                                .000     -                            -       60.00
Bhabbar grass         ton                          0.50    2.00    2.00      1.50     1.00    1.00    0.50    0.50300600
Rs        1750      -        875   3,500   3,500    2,625    1,750   1,750      875      875     -             -      -     --                  -         -        --                 -
Fodder grass          ton                          1.00    2.00    2.00      1.50     1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Rs         300      -        300    600    600         450      300    300      300      300     -              -     -     ---                                    ---
Totaligrossaincome                         -      1,175   4,100   4,100    3,075    2,050   2,050   1,175   1,175         0       0     0      0     0    43,000         0         0        0         0  146,000
Inputs
Tree seedlings        no                   550      165     110      55
Rs        2.00    1,100      330    220       110
BShabbar tuffs        no                 3,600    1,080     720     360
Re        0.15      540      162      108      54
Chlorpiriphos         litre               0.50     0.30    0.20    0.20
Re      200.00      100       60      40       40
Urea                  kg                 15.00    30.00   30.00   30.00
Rs        4.00       60      120      120     120
DAP                   kg                 15.00     5,00    3.00    1.00
Rs        9.00      135       45      27        9
Labour                    days                  139        38      22      1 2       8         8       8       8       8       8       8     8      8     88                   88888
Rs          60    8,340    2,280   1,320     720       480      480     480    480       480     480    480   480   480   480         480       480      480       480       480      480
Total input coat                        10,275    2,997   1,835   1,053      480       480    480    480    480        480    480   480   480   480          480       480      480       480      480       480
Net income                             -10,275   -1,822   2,265   3,047    2,595    1,570   1,570      695    695    -480   -480  -480  -480  -480    42,520          -480     -480      -480     -480  145,520
Return per family labour day               -14       12     163    314       384       256     256     147     147       0       0      0     0      0     5,375         0        0         0        0   18,250
(assuming all labour is family)
Financial rate oyf return        22%
(assuming all labour hired)
20 year rotation
Afforestation achievements by state                 IHaryana IHP    IJ&K    iPunjab Toa
13,607   7,589   7,762   21,837   50,775
92



INDIA: Itotogstod Woosrhed D .. lopment (Hill) Poj-ct
(C,. 2100-IN od L.. 3175-tN)
troplemerlsoor C-rrplotio Report
Slivipasture Production Model                                                       Apprwdix C. Soil C-nr,alio./WotOShod Moro5roS-t Actwiti.s
Yield and Inputs (per ha)
Unit   Unit cost                                                       Years
I     Rs)_       1        2        3       4        5        6   1 7   18   19 1  10    1 11                 12    13    14    1 15
Income
Timber                M3                                                                                                                                       40
Rs        4000      -         -  -        -        -        -        -           -       -       -       -      -     -     -       160000
Fuetwood              m3                                                        2                                         3                                    1 0
Rs         600      -         --                      1200         0       0       0       0    1800        0     0      0     0      6000
Bhabbar grass         ton                                    0.8       1        1         1       1     0.8     0.8     0.6      0,6
Rs        1750      -         -      1400    1750      1750     1750    1750   1400    1400    1050    1050       0      0     0         0
Fodder grass          ton                                      2       4        6         6       5       4       4       3       3      2     2      1 
Rs         300      -         -       600    1200      1600     1800    1500    1200   1200      900      900   600   600   300        300
Total gross income    Rs                   -               2000   2950       4750     3550   3250   2600   2600   3750    1950   600   600   300    166300
Inputs
Tree seedlings        no                   550       165     110
Re        2.00    1,100      330    220
Grass seed            kg                  1.00     0.30
Re       75.00       75       23
Bhabbar tuffs         no                  1850       500    330
Re        0.15      248       75      50
Chltorpiriphos        litre               0.25
Rs      200.00       50
Urea                  kg                    1 5       30      30
Rs        4.00       60      120      120
DAP                   kg                    1 5
Re        9.00      135
Labour                    days                   128       39      26      1 2        8        8       8       8       8       8        8     8     8      8         8
Re          60    7,680    2,340   1,560    720        480      480     480    480    480        480     480   480   480   480         480
Total input cost      Re                 9,348    2,888   1,950    720       480       480     480    480    480       480     480   480   480   480         480
Not income            Re                -9,348   -2,888      51   2,230    4,270    3,070   2,770   2,120   2,120   3,270   1,470   120   120  -180   165,820
Return per family labour day               -13      -14      62     246       594      444    406    325    325        469      244    75    75    38    20,788
(assuming ali labour is family)
Financial rate of return         27%
(assuming all labour hired)
15 year rotation
Silvipasture ach,ievements by state                 IHaryens  HP    IJ&K    [Punjab   Toa
795   1,927   6,288   11,327   20,317
93



INDIA: Inlogsol Walohds D-vlp-nte (Hills) Pj-et
(Cr. 2 100-IN sd Ls., 31750-IN)
I.hopesoossoion Coospkloto RPort
Vegetative Shrub Barrier Production Model                                           Appondi. C: Soil C--on'oios/Wsterhed Moogosnost Actwifiit
Yield and Inputs (per ha)
Unit   Unit cost                                                                               Years
I      Rs)       1        2        3       4        5        6   17         -8 T      9       10 l    11     12    13     14      15
Income
Timber                M3                                                                                                                                       20
Rs        4000      -         -       -       -        -        -        -       -       -               -      --  -               80,000
FuelwGod              M3                                                                                                                     55
Rs         600      -           -       -       -        -         -       --3,000                         -      -            -     3,000
Bhabbar grass         ton                                    0.8       I        1         1       1     0.8     0.8     0.6      0.6
Rs        1750      -               1,400   1,750    1,750    1,750   1,750   1,400   1,400   1,050   1,050       -              ---
Fodder grass          totn                                     2       4        8         8       5       4       4       3       3      2     2      1         1
Rs         300      -                600   1,200    1,800    1.800   1,500   1,200   1,200    900    900   600   800   300             300
Total gross Income    Rs                                  2,000   2,950    3,550    3,550   3,250   2,800   2,600   4,950   1,950   600   800   300    83,300
Inputs
Tree seedlings        no                   200        40      20
Rs           2      400       80      40
Grass seed            kg                     5
Rs          75      375
Bhabbar tuffs         no                  1850      500    330
Rs        0.15      248       75      50
Chlorpiriphos        Iftre                 0.25
Rs      200.00       50
Urea                  kg                    15       30      30
Rs        4.00       80      120     120
DAP                   kg                     8         8       8
Rs        9.00       72       72      72
Labour                     days                  89        31      24      1 2       8         8       8       8       8       8       8      8     a      8         8
Rs          60   5,340    1,860   1,440      720       480      480    480    480       480    480    480   480   480   480            480
Total input cost      Rs                 6,545    2,207   1,722     720      480       480     480    480    480    480    480   480   480   480             480
Nat Income            Re                -6,545   -2,207    279   2,230    3,070    3,070   2,770   2,120   2,120   4,470   1,470   120   120  -180    82,820
Retum per family labour day                -14      -11      72    246       444       444    406      325     325    619    244    75    75    38    10,413
(assuming all labour Is family)
Financial rate of return         27%
(assuming that all labour is paid)
15 year rotation
Vegetative Shrub Barrier achievements by state      IHaryana IHP   _ J&K    iPun ab   Toa
2,676   3,341   2,504   11,818   20,339
94



INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(CR. 2100-IN/LN. 3175-IN)
APPENDIX D
LIVESTOCK ASPECTS
95






TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Introduction ........................ 99
2. Himachal Pradesh ........................                                                     99
3. Punjab ........................                                                              100
4. Haryana ........................                                                             101
5. Jammu and Kashmir ........................                                                   102
6. Summary of Mission Findings ........................                                         102
7. Lessons Learned ........................                                                     102
97






INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(CR. 2100-IN/LN. 3175-IN)
APPENDIX D
LIVESTOCK ASPECTS
1. Introduction
1.       In the livestock component the main strategy to increase the income of project
beneficiaries has been to raise the milk production from cattle and buffaloes through:
(i)  improved breeding, both by Al and natural breeding;
(ii) improved feeding by expanding feed resources through growing grasses like
napier on bunds and establishing silvipasture and better availability of crop
residues through adopting high yielding grain varieties and promoting stall
feeding of chopped residues; and
(iii) better animal health cover by establishing modem veterinary dispensaries.
Further, it was also envisioned to reduce the number of scrub animals.
2.       In Jammu and Kashmir, in addition to cattle and buffaloes, sheep were also included
in the treatment for livestock sector.
2. Himachal Pradesh
3.       In Himachal Pradesh the main mission findings are as follows:
(i)  breed improvement: both Al and natural breeding approaches are necessary.
This is because in inaccessible areas where Al will be difficult and an
expensive technology, it would be more useful and cost effective to establish
Natural Breeding Centres (NBC). It was, however, observed that at some
places bulls were assigned for three years and more, which may lead to in-
breeding. It is, therefore, suggested that after three years, these bulls should be
interchanged between the villages to avoid such risk of in-breeding. Further,
since the maintenance cost of bulls and honorarium to the Bull Keeper has been
withdrawn after the Mid-Term Review (MTR) of the project the same practice
may be continued in Phase 2. It is, therefore, necessary that NBC should be
established on a need basis and the Bull Keeper could charge the service fee to
maintain them properly. For Al, the World Bank has already made a provision
in the project establishing a deep frozen semen (DFS) production centre in the
99



State. This is required as it will help the State to produce quality semen for
both cattle and buffalo. The institution of para vets should be established to
provide Al and first aid to the farmers' animals and the services provided
should be charged so as to make the para vet operations sustainable.
(ii)  improved feeding: as a further means of improving feed resources, the project
initially provided supplemental feeding to pregnant dairy animals and calf
starters for female calves. These were provided free to farmers. This has
rightfully been discontinued following the MTR. However, a simple mineral
mixture containing common salt, calcium carbonate, zinc sulphate, copper
sulphate and di-calcium phosphate costing Rs7-8/kg should be introduced for
lactating and growing animals to improve production and reproduction. These
could be simply compounded by the project. Conservation of fodder in the
form of hay and silage may be introduced with more emphasis on haymaking.
Supply of manual chaff cutters to improve feed utilisation and reduce the
wastage, appears to have been quite successful and is to be continued in Phase
2. The Mini Kit Programme of the Central Government had very little impact
on fodder production. However, the proposed Mini Kit Programme envisioned
in the project should be based on farmers' needs.
(iii) improved animal health: the project should strengthen the Animal Husbandry
Department (AHD) activities rather than involving the project staff in the
routine treatment of the animals. However, the project may support AHD's
efforts in vaccination and sterility campaigns.
4.        Significant impact was observed in milk production, which was stated to have
increased by 40% through farmers adoption of improved breeding, feeding and disease control
practices.
3. Punjab
(i)  breed improvement was by artificial insemination. About 47,604 cows and
buffaloes were inseminated with frozen semen from improved cow and buffalo
bulls. Breed improvement impact was observed in the field. In discussion with
the farmers they stated that their income had doubled through increased sales of
milk. The Al was conducted both by the veterinary officials of the project and
lay inseminators who were paid a monthly honorarium of Rs500. About 39
local, educated, unemployed youth were trained for three months in Al and
65% of the insemination was done by them. They were provided with all the
logistics free of cost by the project. After the completion of Phase 1 of the
project, these lay inseminators are not doing anything, and their activities have
been stopped. In order to sustain the institution of Lay Inseminator, they
should be provided with additional training in first aid treatment. The logistics
of frozen semen, liquid nitrogen, insemination guns, etc., should be provided by
ADH to complement their activities. Many dairy farmers maintain large herds
in semi-urban areas, having buffalo bulls for natural service which need to be
monitored and, if necessary, replaced by improved bulls.
100



(ii)  improved feeding: farmers have started feeding their improved animals in the
stalls and do not send them for grazing. Grazing pressure has been reduced
thereby from 80% to 42%. The beneficiaries were provided with supplemental
feeding (9,478 pregnant cows and buffaloes and 5,498 improved female
calves), at 50%  subsidy, which has been stopped.  The practice with
supplemental feeding in Phase II, may be replaced with supplemental feeding
of simple mineral mixtures which should be charged at cost price to sustain the
improved feeding.
Farmers have adopted growing improved fodder varieties for feeding their
animals. The availability of grasses and straws has been increased by 30%.
About 17,000 farmer families were provided with improved fodder seeds and
fertilizer free of cost.
(iii) improved animal health: better animal health services were provided to the
animals. Eight dispensaries were constructed under the project in the District
of Hoshiarpur and Ropar in the last nine years. There has been an impact on
milk production, which was reported to have doubled.
4. Haryana
(i)  breed improvement:  artificial insemination in cattle and buffaloes using
frozen semen involved some 53,866 animals with a 55% conception rate in
cattle and 40% in buffaloes at first insemination. The artificial insemination
was mostly carried out by the Veterinary Assistant Surgeons (VAS) and
Veterinary Livestock Development Assistants (VLDA).
Since Haryana has an extensive network of veterinary hospitals (managed by
VAS), the Al in Phase II may be continued through them.
(ii) improved feeding: supplementary feeding rations were provided at a 50%
subsidised price to 2,769 cows and buffaloes to demonstrate to the farmers the
effect of feeding in the last quarter of pregnancy and raising female calves.
This has since been discontinued after the MTR and completion of the Phase I
and there is no need to continue it in Phase II. Instead, simple mineral mixtures
consisting of common salt, calcium carbonate, zinc and copper sulphate, may
be introduced at cost price to farmer beneficiaries to demonstrate the beneficial
effect of feeding mineral supplements in the rations. Mini Kits with improved
seeds of chari, cowpea, guar, maize and berseem may be continued to be given
to farmers to increase fodder production. Similarly, agro-forestry and
silvipasture establishment should be continued to increase fodder production.
(iii) animal health: the project provided inputs to about 54 hospitals and an equal
number dispensaries. This included construction of 3 new hospitals and 12 new
dispensaries. The clinics are well equipped with refrigerators, microscopes,
centrifuges, liquid nitrogen containers, etc., to maintain the cold chain for
diagnosis of diseases and treatment of animals. Some 940,264 animals were
101



provided services in castration, de-worming, vaccination and treatment by the
project.
5. Jammu and Kashmir
5.        Jammu and Kashmir was not visited by the mission, but it was reported that during
the project there had been a significant improvement in the genetics of the livestock (cattle, sheep
and goats), and increase in biomass production (both green fodder availability and cup residues).
The success of vetiver in the cultivated fields is low. Better animal health cover was provided to
the livestock.
6. Summary of Mission Findings
6.        During the project, there has been a significant increase in milk production from the
cattle and buffaloes kept by the target beneficiaries in all the four States, namely Himachal
Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir. This has been possible due to the breed
improvement programme undertaken by the project employing both artificial insemination and
natural breeding (in Himachal Pradesh). In Phase 2, both the techniques, namely artificial
insemination and natural breeding centre with improved bulls, should be provided on a need basis,
and in order to sustain the programme, the farmers should pay for these services.
7.        Farmers have started feeding their animals in the stalls constructed by the project and
have stopped the practice of sending them to graze in the forests. The increased availability of
green fodder through establishing napier hybrid bajra on the bunds and green grasses available in
silvipasture in the forest has further improved the nutritional condition of lactating animals. The
increased availability of crop residues through the adoption of high yielding varieties has further
improved the feed resources in the watershed areas, thus reducing the gap in the availability of
green fodder for animal feed.
8.        The improved animal health services provided by the project have reduced the
mortality and provided better services to the farmers' animals.
9.        Human Resources Development (HRD). There should be a continuous training of
the project staff by conducting study tours to the Indian Grass and Forage Research Institute at
Jhansi (IGFRI) for silvipasture and conservation of forages; and to the National Dairy Research
Institute (NDRI) at Karnal for artificial insemination. The farmer beneficiaries, especially
women, should be trained in one-day training sessions in improved livestock management
practice, including forest conservation.
7. Lessons Learned
10.       The main lessons learned from the implementation experience of the livestock
component are as follows:-
(a)  the need for, and benefit of, an integrated watershed management approach in
planning and management;
102



(b)  the need for participation of the beneficiaries in order to establish need-based
interventions in the area of animal husbandry and fodder production;
(c)  in some places, there will be a need for the bulls for natural breeding, which
should be provided with good bulls. In such cases costs for the caretaker/feed
supply should be met through levying reasonable charges for the services
provided;
(d)  the sanctioned staff for livestock should be appointed on a full-time basis for
the project and not given to additional responsibilities;
(e)   mobility to the staff working in the project is essential so as to provide services
and monitoring to the staff. This should also include provision of a mobile
dispensary.
103






INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(CR. 2100-INILN. 3175-IN)
APPENDIX E
SOCIOLOGICAL ASPECTS
105






TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Introduction .............................................................                                                       109
2. Findings - Overall Assessment of Project Implementation in the States of Punjab, Haryana,
Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir .............................................................                                 110
(a)   Socio-economic Situation .............................................................                       110
(b)  Institutional Set up .............................................................                            111
(c)  Future suggestions .............................................................                              113
3. State Specific Comments ...                                                   .......................................................... 114
(a)   Punjab  Situation .............................................................                              114
(b) Haryana .............................................................                                          116
(c)   Himachal Pradesh .............................................................                               119
(d) Jammu & Kashmir State (which was not visited by the Mission) .............. 122
107



108



INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(CR.21 00-IN/LN.31 75-IN)
APPENDIX E
SOCIOLOGICAL ASPECTS
1. Introduction
1.        The main purpose of this Appendix is to make a social assessment of the project. Its first
objective is to record the visible socio-economic changes that have occurred among the beneficiaries;
and secondly, to find out how far institution building has been successfully implemented during the
Ist Phase of the implementation of the project.
2.        The assessment of social transformation in the watershed areas has been looked at from
the point of both direct and indirect benefits accruing to the beneficiaries in terms of:
-    increasing/decreasing levels of agricultural productivity and the income levels
of the people;
-    increased/decreased availability of employment opportunities for the rural
people, especially the youth and women;
-    availability of better living conditions in terms of housing structures, sanitation
and health facilities, and reduction in drudgery of work;
-    changes in the socio-cultural fabric of the rural people
3.        The provision of an institutional support system and its strengthening during the Ist
phase has been assessed basically to find out how far the dimension of interactive planning had been
taken care of and has been successful in ensuring sustained management of Common Property
Resources. This has been done by:
-    identifying the actual or potential response of the community towards
watershed treatment;
109



studying the working of the participatory planning processes at the village level,
and the amount of success they have achieved in the cultivation of local
community commitment to present and future operation and maintenance of
community resources.
-    assessing the extent to which motivators have been successful in consensus
building among the beneficiaries.
-    studying the extent to which capacity building has been achieved through
identification, prioritisation and cultivation of human resources among the
beneficiaries
4.       assessing the extent to which the different line departments and institutions co-
operate and facilitate the strengthening of the institutional support system developed at the village
level.
5.        The methodology used in arriving at this assessment is largely based on:
-    field visits with the other mission and interviews with the beneficiaries and
government staff;
-    study of ICR/SAR and other reports provided by the state governments;
-    study of impact studies conducted by the state and private organizations or
individuals based in the different universities of the concerned states.
2. Findings - Overall Assessment of Project Implementation in the States of Punjab, Haryana,
Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir
(a) Socio-economic Situation
6.       By and large the project has had a positive social impact in many ways. There is greater
accessibility and provision of water resources for domestic as well as irrigation purposes. This has
changed the life patterns of the people. Time spent in fetching water by women from long distances
has been reduced by three to four hours and the number of days of employment of men and
women in agricultural and related activities have increased considerably. Growth of quality
fodder has led to stall feeding practices and the increased availability of fodder. "Babbar" and
other grasses nearer home has on the one hand reduced the time spent in procuring fodder and
fuelwood and on the other in increasing income generation through "ban" or rope making, basket
making and in dairy farming. In a nutshell, increased productivity and availability of raw
materials has led to the overall growth of labour opportunities and income generation activities.
The dependency ratio has decreased considerably.
110



7.        As a result of all these socio-economic transformations, improvements in the lifestyles
of the beneficiaries are reflected through the quality of their housing structures, ownership of tangible
and intangible assets and household conveniences, and the increased land values. The overall
improvement in the social situation of the beneficiaries has checked the process of out-migration of
whole families to a large extent. Now only seasonal migration of able bodied males takes place.
Improvements in the socio-economic status of the beneficiaries is also reflected in the enhancement
of the marriage prospects of the village youth especially the boys. Beneficiaries on the whole have
become highly conscious of educating their children especially daughters and increasing their
employment related skills. In fact, in every village that the mission visited there were demands for
creating income generation activities particulary for women and youth. Improvements in sanitation
and health facilities were also visible in some villages.
8.        Although some benefits such as availability of water for domestic and irrigational
purposes, cutting of fodder, gathering fuelwood from the forest lands, making "ban" and ropes were
available even to the poorest households, size of landholding, non-ownership of land and gender were
found to be important discriminatory factors.
(b) Institutional Set up
9.        In general, the beneficiaries were highly appreciative of the activities undertaken by the
project staff. Their aspirations from the project had risen manifold. In every village that was visited
by the mission, demand for more water availability for domestic as well as irrigation purposes was
made. There were also demands for expansion of project activities in areas which did not fall within
the purview of the project. For example, the demand for starting income generation activities and
imparting the relevant skills particularly to the village youth and women. There were also demands
for better health, sanitation and educational facilities in the villages.
10.       The project design laid considerable emphasis on interactive planning with the
beneficiaries to ensure sustained management of common property resources. To give a practical
shape to this objective formation of Village Development Committees (VDCs) were promoted by the
project. Notable progress has been made in this direction in all the states. Care was taken to
ensure that there was at least one woman and a member of reserved categories in each VDC. A
few VDCs and FPS's (Forest Protection Societies) exhibited exemplary interactive processes
because of the innovative methodologies used by the project staff. Consequently, these VDCs
had become self reliant and showed signs of sustainability even after the withdrawal of the
project staff. However, their replication as role models had not occurred on a larger scale. The
establishment of village level institutions has inculcated a sense of empowerment among the
beneficiaries. However, the mobilisation of the community differs from state to state. People's
initiative, motivation and willingness to manage the VDCs by themselves has not been
forthcoming because of a long formed habit of expecting aid from the government and other
donor agencies. As a result their own capacities had remained dormant. Only a few motivators
have been highly successful in consensus building among the beneficiaries. By and large the
majority or the dominant caste or classes have a major say in VDCs or FPS's. Adequate
1ll



representation of women and weaker sections of the society and also the different user groups
was considerably lacking at the micro-level.
Box - 1
Barriers in Women's Involvement
Most development agencies tend to address themselves to
men because of the prevalence of patriarchy. Women's role
as a change agent thus stands neglected. It is often ignored
that women play an important role in organizing the
community by performing the most vital functions of
socialising the young and maintaining the family and
kinship linkages intact. Their role as householders becomes
extremely difficult if the natural environment does not
support them. They are the custodians of keeping the
kitchen fires ablaze and the managers of the water
requirements of the village and the Gujjar and lower caste
women are a substantial source of farm labour and cattle
care. They are also responsible for the health and hygiene
of the household and the neighbourhood. In spite of all these
activities they are largely confined to the private or
domestic realm and they are regarded as unproductive
members of society. Moreover, social customs encourage
male dominance and rigid segregation between the sexes.
Women are perceived as izzat (honour) of the household
that must be confined to the four walls of the household.
Above all, development planners fail to recognize the vital
role  women play in ushering social change.  If the
interactive process has to be made a reality , women's voice
have to find a place within the public decision ma!king
bodies, especially in the states of Punjab and Haryana.
11.       The objective of capacity building for the protection of land from further degradation
has been partially achieved. A visible change in people's consciousness has occurred. They do not
regard the project as part of other developmental programmes run by the government. People's
resistance to adopt development programmes initiated by the project has been broken down. Instead
there is a greater willingness and demand for more such watershed projects. People's participation
and enthusiasm varies according to the long- term, short-term or immediate benefits available to the
beneficiaries. Wherever the benefits perceived are immediate the enthusiasm is overwhelming, but in
activities where the perceived or actual benefits accruing to the benefliciaries are long range or
collectivity oriented their interaction and mobilisation is very limited. For example, wherever tree
plantations have been executed on individual lands they stand greater chances of sustainability as
112



compared to projects initiated and executed on common property resources such as the Panchayat
lands, Village Common Lands or the "Mushtarka Malkan" Lands. Wherever assets such as
Makkowal type tanks and village ponds have been created, they show greater chances of
sustainability. The central government's objective of recruiting consultants to train staff in
participatory planning and capacity building of the stakeholders has not been implemented. Project
staff experienced difficulties in developing successful and sustainable strategies for cost and benefit
sharing arrangements.
12.       Assets created on CPR's have not sufficiently evinced the underlying spirit of social
forestry and waste land developmeDt because of the breakdown of indigenous systems of
management and because the forestry rights are not well defined GOI needs to take adequate
measures in reframing forest laws in such a way as to instill confidence among the villagers and
enthuse them to indulge in social forestry.
13.       Inter-institutional co-operation and interaction has been a relatively weak link of the
project. Although the WPIO as an umbrella organisation consisting of multi-disciplinary specialists
functions very effectively, the co-operation and co-ordination of the activities of the different line
departments is often lacking. In certain areas, it was observed that there was compartnentalisation of
functions between the different institutions of the village society such as the VDCs and the Village
Panchayats, or again the activities undertaken by the Block Development Officer and the Project
Staff, or even between the NGOs and VDCs and the project staff. Such compartmentalisation
hampers sustainability of the project and also its implementation and intensification of project
activities and slows the growth in solidarity, trusts and self-organisation of the group members.
(c) Future suggestions
14.       Capacity building of beneficiaries and the project staff through the appointnent of
consultants/co-ordinators needs to be undertaken immediately for a truly interactive planning process.
For capacity building, NGO support could also be utilised. However, care must be taken to avoid
conflicts between the NGOs/VDCs and the project staff. There exists an acute paucity of fully trained
well equipped NGOs in the region. It would therefore be necessary to undertake training programmes
for NGOs as well. All future planning must include:
-    training programmes for rural women and youth in improved livestock
management, other income generation activities such as mushroom cultivation,
bee-keeping or tailoring according to the felt needs of the local
populations.
-    women's representation in VDCs should be at least 33% in accordance with the
guidelines of the 73rd Amendment Act.
15.       Forestry rights such as grazing rights, cutting of fodder and Bhabbar grass collection of
fuelwood, demarcation of boundaries of individually owned lands and cutting and sale of forest
produce need to be well defined particularly where the concept of social forestry is being introduced
113



and experimented with. Although each state government has formulated Joint Forest Management
rules in actual practice the villagers sometimes perceive them as hindrances in their long term
commitment protection and conservation of forests or plantations particularly on "Mushtarka
Malkan" lands.
16.       User financing, contributions by users in cash or in kind, individually or as a group to the
capital and/or recurring cost in the provision of basic services must take into account efficiency,
equity and sustainability.
17.       Social considerations in the planning of IWDP (Hills) were not considered significant in
the initial stages. The lessons learnt during implementation of the project have brought home the
necessity to involve a social consultant.
3. State Specific Comments
(a) Punjab Situation
18.       A rapid survey of the catchment areas of the IWDP revealed that the socio-economic
status of the people had considerably improved in terms of higher incomes, greater availability of
employment opportunities, and in the reduction of women's working hours by saving time spent on
the collection fodder and fuelwood and also in fetching water from long distances. Increase in
agricultural productivity, forest produce, and milk yield had facilitated all this because of the
increasing availability of water, checking of soil erosion and fodder availability. Migration of people
due to floods and famines had been checked. Only people from small and marginal households
migrate to the adjoining towns and mandis to avail of labour opportunities there. Housing structures
and consumption patterns of the people have also shown a remarkable improvement. The availability
of fodder and Bhabbar grasses has not only introduced stall feeding of cattle, the scheduled caste
households have specifically benefited from the easy availability of subsidised mechanical and
electrical rope making appliances introduced in these areas. Breed improvement of cattle had
encouraged dairying activities amnong the Gujjars and Jats of these areas. On the whole, people
were highly appreciative of the project activities and in every village there was demand for
greater availability of water resources. Augmentation and introduction of income generation
activities and imparting of such skills was particularly stressed upon by the women. However, in
some villages where there was a preponderance of the Jats, rise in family incomes had also
increased the oppression of women because of the increased emphasis on liquor consumption. -
19.      Institutional Set Up.  Self help users groups such as water users committees or joint
forest management societies were found to hold regular meetings. However, the participation of
members increased only when they realised the importance of these meetings. Membership of
women in these committees was only nominal or passive. These self help groups contributed their
labour for soil conservation activities such as plantations, constructing bunds and silt control
structures, and growing soil binders along the ridges. The construction of Makkowal type tanks
which took care of local considerations in watershed planning helped in facilitating the interactive
114



process. A few VDCs were also formed. Women generally were unaware of the presence of VDCs.
However, the true spirit behind the interactive process was lacking and no VDC had become
absolutely self reliant. Beneficiary reluctance was clearly visible as far as user financing both in cash
as well as kind was concerned for the maintenance and construction of basic services in the village.
Very little or no collective funding was available for the activities of the VDCs. Whatever income
accrued from the sale of grass or other assets was appropriated by the individuals who owned the land
or by the Panchayats. Moreover, inter-institutional rivalries between the Panchayats, VDCs and the
different line departments hindered the interactive process. Non-existence of NGO had further
hindered the interactive process.
Box - 2
In village Soonk of Jainti Devi Ki Rao the members of the Forest
Management Committee had raised Khair (Acacia Catechu) Plantation
on 1200 acres of forest land through the efforts of the project staff. The
Khair trees are now mature and ripe for cutting. According to the
agreement between the stakeholders and the project staff, the
beneficiaries claim that they had sold the forest to a private contractor
for Rs. 1 Crore 17 Lakhs but the state government did not give them the
per mission to cut or sell the trees for the last four years according to the
existing forest laws. Beneficiary response to the government attitude was
highly critical as they believed that the land belonged to them, that is, it
was Mushtarka Malkan land and the trees they wanted to cut were of
harvestable size and not small saplings. As a sequel to this conflict the
villagers showed stiff resistance in facilitating the participatory process
or in considering the project work as their own programme. They were
even thinking of going to the court of law.
20.       Although the training centre at Ballowal Saunkhri 'had provided good service in training
staff in different subspecialties, the social dimension was treated as a tertiary element in its training
programme. As a result, the capacity building of project staff and the stakeholders has taken a back
seat. Forest Management Committees had been successful in keeping a check on the grazing rights of
the community and in the collection of fodder and other grasses and fuelwood wherever the concept
of social forestry was introduced. However, as far as the sale and cutting of plantations raised on
Mushtarka Malkan land was concerned the forest laws need to be made more explicit. Lack of well
defined forest rights of the different user groups such as the villagers, the panchayats, and the state
had generated conflicts between the different user groups especially the state and the beneficiaries.
(See Box 2).
21.       Suggestions are as follows:
115



(i)  Strengthening  of VDCs, capacity  building  of staff and  participating
communities and the removal of other institutional bottlenecks is very
necessary to make the project a people's programme. Capacity building
through project and NGO interventions is the immediate requirement to infuse
the spirit of direct democracy and self reliance among the beneficiaries.
(ii) More income generation activities need to be introduced with a specific focus
on women.
(iii) Clear-cut demarcation of forestry rights needs to be looked into by the GOI and
the State Government.
(b) Haryana
22.       A rapid survey of the project areas in Haryana revealed that the socio-economic status of
the people has considerably improved in terms of higher family incomes, higher levels of literacy
especially for women, and increased labour and employment opportunities. Improvements in the
standard of living could also be observed by looking at the overall assets of the villagers such as
housing structures, consumer durables and their consumption patterns. Expenses on socio-cultural
activities have increased. Increased prosperity of the villagers has also enhanced the marriage
prospects of the youth in the village particularly the boys. Drudgery of women's work has been
considerably reduced because of the availability of drinking water, fodder and fuelwood. Socio-
cultural characteristics of the villagers in Haryana and Punjab are almost the same throughout the
Kandi tract. People are generally very enthusiastic about the project activities. They want more such
projects to be undertaken in the adjoining areas. Gain from the project activities had accrued to all
sections of the society but the gains of the landowning classes were much higher than other sections.
23.       The institutional set up in terms of user groups such as Hill Resource Management
Societies or water users societies was quite satisfactory but the VDCs require greater representation of
women and capacity building of the beneficiaries. In some user groups the foundation for a healthy
interactive process was laid by taking people's needs into consideration, while framing programmes
for watershed development. (See Box No. 3).
24.       In some projects the user groups had created their own financial resources through the
lease of water, Bhabbar and other resources. In such user groups sustainability of the project on a
long term basis has been ensured. People's participation in the project activities has been evinced
wherever the benefits are immediate.  Haryana has an earlier experience of Hill Resource
Management Societies. Lessons learnt from these societies have allowed greater flexibility in
drafting the agenda for the different user groups and in taking care of local needs. Moreover, the
success stories of the HRMS, and other user groups have not been replicated on a large scale.
Controversies over cost-sharing mechanisms and lack of flexibility between the beneficiaries and the
project staff have also slowed the pace of development. There is much scope for the effective
116



functioning of the VDCs.  Fear was expressed about the reversal of project gains through
indiscriminate boring of tubewells in or near plantations, and the emergence of land related disputes
in the future because of non-demarcation of individual holdings on "Bhai Chara' lands (See Box No.
4). Women's needs have not been sufficiently focused and women's representation in the VDCs was
much below the desired level.
117



Box -3
In village Pargian near Pinjore the project staff has
tapped a perennial source of water from the mountain top.
It has benefited three villages. The Hill Resource
Management Society which has members from each village
takes decisions about the distribution, usage, maintenance
and financing of the water resource. Availability of water
for domestic as well as agricultural purposes has brought
considerable prosperity in these villages. Land values have
gone up. Women's burden of work in fetching water from
the hill top has been considerably reduced. Better living
conditions had increased the marriage prospects of boys of
these villages. Girls were being educated now. Women in
this village were not only aware of JRMS but the society
had a woman "Pradhan" along with two other women as
members. There was also a separate Mahila Mandal in the
village but it was not really functional as it was being
dominated by women of 5-6 influential families of Rajputs.
However, small and marginal farmers living downstream
near the foot of the hill complained that they were not
getting enough water for domestic or irrigational purposes
because of the closure of the downstream pipeline during
the major portion of the day by the villagers situated
upstream. Resultantly they had to climb up 2-3 kms
everyday to fetch water.
Box - 4
In village Tagra near Pinjore a large Khair and Amla
Plantation has been raised on "Bhaichara Mukammil"
lands by making use of rainfed technology. A few villagers
whose land formed part of this plantation expressed the
fear that the actual tenurial boundaries of their land had
been done away with during the plantation and a few years
later when the plants mature boundary disputes are likely
to arise. Moreover, they informed that the adjoining owner
of land was thinking of boring a tubewell just next to this
plantation which will in due course of time reduce the level
of subsoil water. All these factors need to be considered in
the VDC's to avoid future conflicts and factionalism.
Moreover, when plantations are raised on "Bhaichara
Mukammil" lands the individual tenurial boundaries
should not be completely dispensed with even though
118



I partition was based on "hasab rasad raqba khewati'or
according to the proportion of the land revenue paid by the
owner of the khewat.
25.       Suggestions are as follows:
(i)  VDCs need to be made proactive. Capacity building of beneficiaries and staff
needs to be given serious consideration. Training programmes for women in
paramedical veterinary and health services need to be introduced. Other income
generation activities for women as well as men need to be introduced;
(ii) intervillage and intra-village rivalries for the usage of facilities created by the
project need to be minimised;
(iii) successful village institutions need further strengthening and replication on a
larger scale.
(iv) NGO support needs to be initiated for capacity building and facilitating the
interactive process.
(v)  training programmes for staff and stakeholder would help to increase social
capital.
(c) Himachal Pradesh
26.       A rapid survey of IWDP in the state revealed that the socio-economic profile of the
people had considerably improved as a result of project interventions. The income graph of the
people had shown an uptrend because of the various farm and non-farm activities introduced by the
project implementing staff. The total number of mandays of employment in forestry, farming and
animal husbandry had recorded an overall increase. Wherever project interventions have taken place
the village economy had moved over from subsistence level to a commercial economy. Better
standards of living were visible in all the project areas. These could also be observed from the nature
of "pucca"(concrete) housing structures built in the project villages and the acquisition of other
household assets such as consumer durables or other tangible acquisitions.
27.       The socio-cultural profile of villages in Solan district of Himachal Pradesh shows that
the state's performance in terms of sex ratios, literacy rates, particularly female literacy, and female
work participation rates is much above the states of Punjab and Haryana. The state also has a much
better profile of health statistics in terms of immunisation records and the provision of basic health
services. (Census of India 1981 and 1991). The state (especially the Solan district) also has a good
record of NGO activities and the successful functioning of various Mahila Mandals which has
119



positively contributed to an increased awareness and interest in village development activities.
Consequently, people in these areas are highly conscious of the project interventions. They are also
highly appreciative of these activities and communities lying outside the project purview often
expressed a desire to be included in it. Another social benefit of the project has been that the higher
living standards have increased the marriage prospects of the youth in these areas.
28.       The institutional set up of villages where project interventioris have been made was also
quite commendable. In the initial stages the VDCs faced stiff resistance from different sections of the
community but after 1993-94 when local needs of the people and other services were taken into
consideration while in making project plans, the interactive process started and the communal forestry
activities became more popular. People also came forward with their voluntary labour for protecting
drainage lines.
Box-5
In village Gol-Jamala and Amli-dol of Nalagarh project a water
harvesting structure has been constructed on a perennial water
source which has helped in irrigating around 200 bighas of land.
The construction of this structure was undertaken with the help of
beneficiary participation to the extent of Rs42,000 worth of
voluntary labour. The villagers of Amlidol not only shared the
cost of construction of the dam but have shown an exemplary form
of proactive approach in managing the VDC. In fact, it was the
first VDC this consultant visited which had collected a substantial
amount of money (several thousands) for the management of
existing structures and  undertaking new activities for village
development. The VDC was also maintaining proper accounts of
its income and expenditures.  Women's representation in  this
VDC  was also substantial and their voices found a place in the
decision making about the several activities undertaken by the
VDC.
The immediate benefits that helped in facilitating the interactive
process were checking of soil erosion , better irrigation facilities,
availability of subsidized chaff cutting machines and stall feeding;
and over all increase of one and a half times in crop production
and crop demonstrations.   Women's working hours spent in
fetching fodder and water were considerably reduced. Since all
these vital needs of the people were fulfilled they felt involved in all
the project activities.
29.       Community participation was much higher in check-dam areas because of the availability
of life saving water and irrigation facilities and because the benefits drawn were immediate. Project
120



staff took care to explain the benefits that the people could draw from their participation in the
VDCs. Moreover, the project staff felt the need to involve women in the decision making process by
training them through the organisation of Farmer's Training Camps. Though the aspect of capacity
building has been looked into, VDCs require constant nurturing, monitoring and maintenance. For
adequate capacity building it is necessary that VDCs function around a particular activity and
generate their own income. This helps the VDCs to become self-reliant and participate actively in the
cost-benefit sharing arrangements. (See Box 5). Cost sharing by beneficiaries was much higher in
horticultural activities. Wherever the VDC and the Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) were
strongly integrated with one another, the project results were excellent. It also laid a strong
foundation for the takeover of developmental activities by the VDCs after the withdrawal of the
project.  However, it was found that withdrawal of the project often slackened the pace of
development.(See Box 6). Sometimes, NGOs obstructed rather than facilitating the project activities.
In some project areas, intravillage caste/class dissensions had appeared over sharing of developmental
gains.
Box - 6
In village Tujhar of the Sirsa Catchment under the
Nalagarh unit, a hundred year old water tank was
renovated in 1993-94. The tank water is the only source
of drinking water for the residents, their cattle and also
for irrigation of vegetable crops. The construction of this
tank came as a sequel to the lessons learnt that if people's
participation has to be sought then the need for water,
which is vital a need of the residents, has to be met. Once
this flexibility was introduced in the project plan people
contributed not only towards the cost of renovation of the
tank but also developed an effective HRMS for the
management of the assets created.  They propose to
construct a Mahila Bhawan, a road and lay a pipeline for
lift irrigation system. However, after the withdrawal of
the project from this area the pace of development and
maintenance of the village activities has slowed down.
People expressed a great desire for the continuation of
project services because their interactions with other
governmental institutions such as the banks and other
line departments, at the block level were not very
satisfactory.
30.       Suggestions are as follows:
(i)   Constant nurturing and monitoring of VDCs, even when the project is withdrawn,
is a must for the sustained development of the region. NGOs that act as facilitators
121



rather than obstructors in the development process need to be encouraged both for
the sustenance of the VDCs and the capacity building of the  stakeholders;
(ii) Allied social issues such as health and income generation activities also need to
be monitored as part of the project to bring about a truly interactive process.
(iii) Although women's participation in VDCs is there, it needs far greater emphasis
to usher in an era of true social transformation.
(d) Jammu & Kashmir State (which was not visited by the Mission)
31.       The socio-economic profile according to the State Government's ICR shows an increase
in production and income from crops, horticulture, fodder, fibre fuelwood and livestock management.
Total number of mandays of employment in the forestry sector had increased and every household
was getting an additional income of almost Rs14,300 from farming activities.
32.       Institutional set up  of the state showed that only a few functional VDCs had been
formed but where they were functioning they were eliciting a lot of beneficiary satisfaction. In the
initial stages beneficiary response was rather lukewarm. Later, when people started receiving benefits
from the project interventions, their response was appreciable. However, while liasing with the
government departments where much time was wasted in bureaucratic delays the beneficiaries
exhibited substantial resistance. Non-functioning of the VDCs can to some extent also be attributed
to the law and order situation in the state.
122



INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(CR. 2100-IN/LN. 3175-IN)
APPENDIX F
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
123






TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Introduction ............... 127
2. Financial Analysis ...............                                          127
3. Economic Analysis ...............                                           128
4. Result ............... 129
TABLES:
1.        Project Costs, Exchange Rates and Domestic Curency Inflator
2.        Derivation of Parity Prices of Outputs and Inputs
3.        Financial and Economic Prices Used in the Analyses
4.        Economic Rate of Return Calculation
125






INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
(CR.21 00-IN/LN.31 75-IN)
APPENDIX F
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1. Introduction
1.        The analyses have been made in a way similar to that used in the SAR, that is to say
by quantifying only those benefits from farmland, particularly wheat and maize (and horticulture)
and from non-arable areas where treatments involve increased production of grasses and other
non-wood forest products and timber.
2.        A major difficulty in the analyses is in making realistic assumptions or estimates
regarding the without project situation. At appraisal the area was notably remote and backward
and this is reflected in the low pre-project yields recorded in the SAR. It could be argued that
without the project steadily increasing erosion would have led to further yield decline. However,
for the analyses a more conservative assumption has been made that in the without project
situation some increase in yields would have occurred as a result of all the other Government
programmes as well as private sector initiatives.
2. Financial Analysis
3.        The basis for the financial analysis is as set out in Appendix C, Crop Models. For the
analysis it is conservatively assumed that even without the project there would be some increase
in yields over the pre-appraisal situation. It has therefore been assumed that without the project
yield of wheat would be 1.2 tons per ha and yield of maize would be 1.0 tons per ha. This
compares with pre-project and with-project yield of wheat estimated at 0.9 tons per ha and 1.83
tons per ha respectively. For maize pre-project yield was 0.8 tons per ha and with-project is
estimated at 1.385 tons per ha. Cropping intensity is assumed at 100%, of which 55% wheat and
45% maize. Prices used for valuing output and input items are farmgate prices in May 1999
(Table 3). Full use has been made of the Impact Evaluation Reports commissioned by the project,
but in general the estimates of with-project yields adopted for the analysis as representing average
yields are less than those reported in the Impact Evaluations.
4.        On the basis of these assumptions and estimates the net return per ha after charging
all labour would increase from Rs3,880 without the project to around Rs5,000 with the project, an
127



increase of almost 30%. Assuming all labour used is provided by the family, the return per family
labour day would increase by almost 40% from Rs246 without the project to Rs342 with the
project - both figures well above the current average labour rate of Rs6O per day.
5.        In line with the SAR, no analysis has been made of the effect of increased livestock
output, particularly milk, on farm family incomes, nor is data readily available to make such an
analysis. Estimation of the without project situation is again problematic. Undoubtedly there has
been a major increase in milk production - reported in some areas as "twice as much"or "50%
increase". Much of this increase has been due to the project and in areas relatively close to
centres of population is quite dramatic, although estimating benefit for the whole project area
would be problematic. Although the effect of increased livestock production, particularly milk, on
farm-family income cannot be calculated, it is quite clear that it is significant, particularly as cash
income for the family
6.        As presented in Appendix C, the financial result for horticulture is predictably
attractive with a financial rate of return of 48% and high returns per family labour day at full
development.
7.        Financial analysis of the three main types of non-arable land treatment are presented
in Appendix C, and show financial rates of return from 27% to 22%
3. Economic Analysis
8.        As in the SAR, the economic analysis takes incremental net benefits from arable
(wheat and maize) and non-arable areas (afforestation, silvipasture and vegetative barriers). In
addition it includes horticulture development (as represented by the mango model) which was not
included in the SAR analysis. Tradable outputs and inputs have been valued at border parity
prices as calculated in Table 2. India being generally close to self-sufficiency in foodgrains,
wheat and maize have been valued at the average of import and export parity prices. Crop
chemicals, cost of land preparation, and labour have been valued at their financial market rates.
Much of the project area is still subject to outmigration, particularly of young people and labour is
sometimes scarce. Other non-tradable items have been adjusted by the Standard Conversion
Factor (SCF) of 0.9. Prices used for the financial and economic analysis are presented in Table 3.
9.        Project costs for the analysis are as presented in Table 11 and include all costs such as
training and research, which have additional benefit streams. Project costs have been brought to
1998/99 constant terms by applying a local currency inflator derived from the domestic wholesale
price index as reported in International Financial Statistics. One difficulty in the analysis is that
the non-arable treatment and horticulture models, include items of capital expenditure which also
appear in project costs. Accordingly, a part of the capital expenditure in these two types of
models has been added back to the net benefit streams. The method used for doing this is the
same for both model types. Aggregated input costs for the first three years of each model,
compared with project expenditure in each case increase from representing about 40% in the first
year to around 70% of project cost for that item by 1992/93. These aggregated estimates of capital
costs have been added back to the net benefit streams for non-arable treatments and horticulture.
For the period 1993/94 to 1998/99 when the aggregate estimates increase progressively to more
than project expenditure, the amount of capital costs added back to the net benefit streams has
been limited to 75% of project costs for that item. This adjustment is intended to reduce the
128



double counting of costs between project costs and capital cost for establishment of fruit orchards
or treatments to non-arable areas included in the models. Since the adjustment assumes that
between 30% and 60% of project expenditure over the period up to 1992/93 and 25% thereafter is
spent in ways not related to the areas developed, there remains the possibility of double counting
costs both in horticulture and for non-arable treatments, despite these adjustments, as well as in
arable areas where it is assumed that all project costs are for items not charged in the crop models.
10.       Area benefited is taken to be 142,145 ha of arable, 7,484 ha of orchards and 109,330
ha of forest land. The latter is mainly accounted by 50,775 ha of afforestation, 20,317 ha of
silvipasture and 20,339 ha of vegetative shrub barrier treatment.
4. Result
l.        Based on the above assumptions and estimations, the economic rate of return of the
project is calculated at 17%, the same as the figure calculated at appraisal. As in the SAR,
benefits from increase in livestock production, development of an estimated 2,000 ha of
perennially irrigated land, decrease in flooding, reclamation of the edges of stream beds for
agriculture use, and improvements in groundwater regime and other environmental benefits, have
not been quantified.
129



INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100/Ln. 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix F: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 1. Project Costs, Exchange Rates and Domestic Currency Inflator
1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   Total
Project Costs by Component   .................................................................... Rs.Current Million......................................
Watersheds                          11.19      75.58    136.33    167.06    211.67    260.23    401.47    348.24    410.15    434.73   2456.65
Technology improvement               0.00        1.29       4.86       4.62        5.66       5.35       5.32       5.16        5.58       2.91      40.74
Project implementation                1.49     14.42       29.74      38.48      49.97      61.38       75.14      73.19      87.28      106.21     537.31
Central Support                      0.00        0.00       0.00       2.93       0.16        0.57       1.26       0.76        1.26       3.65      10.58
Total Project Costs                 12.68      91.29    170.93    213.09    267.47    327.52    483.18    427.35    504.27    547.50   3045.28
Project Costs by Activity
Non-arable areas (forestry etc.)     4.26      53.30       85.12      96.04    115.00    117.82    191.96    181.20    207.44    211.04   1263.19
Arable areas (field crops)           0.00        2.72      12.31      11.77      15.44      27.92       46.86      45.70      46.23       37.18    246.12
Horticulture (fruit trees)           0.00        1.37       6.00       8.01       8.52       15.41      16.89      12.26       17.30      30.04    115.79
Contribution by beneficiaries        0.00        0.41       1.34       7.94      11.17      23.99       29.03      25.96      32.58       45.47    177.90
Sub-total                            4.26      57.79    104.77    123.77    150.13    185.14    284.74    265.12    303.56    323.73   1803.00
Livestock development                3.04       2.11        2.73       3.04       6.58        8.37      12.95      10.72       11.83      15.96      77.33
Soil cons./drainage lines etc.       3.89      15.68       28.84      40.25      54.96      66.72    103.78         72.4       94.76      95.04    576.32
Research                             0.00        1.29       4.86       4.62       5.66        5.35       5.32       5.16        5.58       2.91      40.74
Training                             0.00        0.00       0.00       2.93       0.16        0.57       1.26       0.76        1.26       3.65      10.58
Project Implementation               1.49      14.42       29.74      38.48      49.97      61.38      75.14       73.19      87.28      106.21     537.31
Total Project Costs (Rs mill)       12.68      91.29      170.93    213.09    267.47    327.52    483.18    427.35    504.27    547.50   3045.28
.......................................................... Rs p er US$  ( av erage in each year).
Exchanae Rate                      16.546    18.814    23.536    27.062    30.713    31.637    33.179    35.653    37.550    42.093
Total Project Costs (US$ mill)       0.77       4.85        7.26       7.87       8.71       10.35      14.56      11.99      13.43       13.01      92.80
............................................................................Inflator .........................................I
Domestic Inflator                   2.083      1.889       1.677      1.531      1.404      1.277       1.188      1.125      1.065           1
....................n.......................................stant 1998/1999 Rs million ..................................
Total Project Costs                 26.41     172.45    286.65    326.24    375.52    418.24    574.02    480.76             537.05    547.50   3744.86
(in Constant 1998/99 Rs. mill)
130



India: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project - ICR
Appendix F: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 2  : Derivation of Parity Prices of Outputs and Inputs
Unit                      Inport Panity                       Export Parity
Wheat   Maize    Urea       TSP       DAP         Wheat   Maize
Projected World Price
In 1990 constant dollars, ave. 1999-20101/  US$/t    127.5    103.3    104.6    132.0    174.4          127.5   103.3
Adj. factor to 1998 dollars          %              104.00   104.00   104.00   104.00   104.00         104.00   104.00
In constant 1998 dollars             US$/t           132.6    107.4    108.8    137.3    181.4          132.6   107.4
Quality Adjustment                   %               100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0          100.0   100.0
World Market Equivalent               US$/t          132.6    107.4    108.8    137.3    181.4          132.6   107.4
Intnl Transport                      US$/t           100.0     50.0      50.0     50.0     50.0         (50.0)   (50.0)
Border Price Indian Port             US$/t           232.6    157.4    158.8    187.3    231.4           82.6    57.4
Exchange rate 2/                    US$/Rs          41.5      41.5     41.5     41.5      41.5         41.5    41.5
................................................ s .........................Rs   ....
Border Price Indian Port             Rs/t            9,653    6,533    6,590    7,772    9,602          3,428    2,383
Port charges                        Rs/t             330      330       330      330      330          (300)   (300)
Internal transport                  Rs/t             300      300       300      300      300          (300)   (300)
Internal handling/marketing         Rs/t             150      150       150      150      150          (150)   (150)
Wholesale Price                       Rs/t          10,433    7,313    7,370    8,552   10,382          2,678    1,633
Conversion Ratio                    %                100      100       100      100       100          100     100
Processing cost                     Rs/t                       -        -        -         -
Raw Materials Value                  Rs/t           10,433    7,313    7,370    8,552   10,382         2,678    1,633
Local marketing/transport           Rs/t            (100)    (100)    (100)    (100)    (100)          (100)   (100)
Farmgate price                       Rs/t           10,333    7,213    7,270    8,452   10,282          2,578    1,533
Fanmgate price                       RswW            10.33     7.21      7,27     8,45    1028           2.'58   1.53
Sources: Mission estimate.
1/ Global Commodity Markets, January 1999; in constant 1990 price.
2/ Office Memorandum, December 2, 1998, the World Bank.
131



INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100/Ln.3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix F: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 3 Financial and Economic Prices Used in the Analyses
Unit   Financial          Economic
................ ... Rs
A. OUTPUTS
Wheat                        kg           5.5                 6.4
Maize                        kg           3.5                4.4
Wheat straw                  kg           1.5                1.35
Maize stover                 kg          0.85               0.76
Mango                        kg           10                   9
Timber                      m3          4000                4000
Fuelwood                    m3           600                 540
Bhabbar grass               ton         1750                1575
Fodder grass                ton          300                 270
B. INPUTS
Wheat seed                   kg            11                12.8
Maize seed                   kg           10                 12.6
Mango plant               per plant       15                 13.5
Tree seedling           per seedling       2                  1.8
Bhabbar tufts              per tuft      0.15               0.14
Grass seed                   kg           75                  68
Urea                         kg            4                 7.3
Calcium ammonium nitrate     kg           4.8                6.2
Single super phosphate       kg          2.78                 3.6
NPK Compound                 kg            8                 10.2
Di-ammonium phosphate        kg            9                 10.3
Farmyard manure             ton          100                  90
Termite control              ml          0.32                0.32
Fungicide                   gm           0.59               0.59
Pesticide                    I           100                 100
Thimate - 1OG                kg           52                  52
Phaspomidone                 I           355                 355
Plantozine                   I           150                 150
Topsine                      kg          870                 870
Chlorpiriphos                 I          200                 200
Land preparation           per ha        700                 700
Labour                     per day        60                  60
132



INDIA: Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
(Cr. 2100/Ln. 3175-IN)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix F: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 4 Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Project Recurrent         Net Incremental Benefits       Balance
Costs    Costs   Arable  Horticulture Non-Arable  Total
Year
1989/90     26.41              0.00        0.00       0.00     0.00   -26.41
1990/91    172.45              0.37       -0.03       0.22     0.56  -171.89
1991/92    286.65              2.44       -0.18       3.76     6.02  -280.63
1992/93    326.24              6.13       -0.41      18.31    24.02  -302.22
1993/94    375.52              11.94      -2.19      29.24    39.00  -336.53
1994/95    418.24             21.60       -3.91      42.68    60.38  -357.86
1995/96    574.02             37.34       -7.15      -4.80    25.38  -548.65
1996/97    480.76             57.67       -7.21      67.52   117.97  -362.79
1997/98    537.05              82.74       1.46      53.90   138.09  -398.96
1998/99    547.50             110.81      19.79      86.55   217.15  -330.35
1999/00               10.62   135.03      51.94     276.65   463.62   453.00
2000/01               10.62   152,81     102.94     183.61   439.36   428.74
2001/02               10.62   164.29     170.26     186.53   521.08   510.46
2002/03               10.62   169.41     246.78     156.73   572.92   562.30
2003/04               10.62   169.41     335.17     145.52   650.10   639.48
2004/05               10.62   169.41     412.76     451.41  1033.58  1022.96
2005/06               10.62   169.41     497.08     635.59  1302.08  1291.46
2006/07               10.62   169.41     549.99     687.56  1406.96  1396.34
2007/08               10.62   169.41     583.78     792.91  1546.11  1535.49
2008/09               10.62   169.41     583.78     813.52  1566.71  1556.09
2009/10               10.62   169.41     583.78    1651.39  2404.58  2393.96
2010/11               10.62   169.41     583.78    1800.83  2554.02  2543.40
2011/12               10.62   169.41     583.78    2057.41  2810.60  2799.98
2012/13               10.62   169.41     583.78    2218.36  2971.55  2960.93
2013/14               10.62   169.41     583.78     801.90  1555.10  1544.48
2014/15               10.62   169.41     583.78    1322.45  2075.64  2065.02
2015/16               10.62   169.41     583.78    1251.73  2004.92  1994.30
2016/17               10.62   169.41     583.78    1439.22  2192.41  2181.79
2017/18               10.62   169.41     583.78    1469.15  2222.34  2211.72
2018/19               10.62   169.41     583.78              753.19   742.57
2019/20               10.62   169.41     576.88              746.29   735.67
2020/21               10.62   169.41     546.65              716.06   705.44
2021/22               10.62              506.25              506.25   495.63
2022/23               10.62              463.32              463.32   452.70
2023/24               10.62              385.61              385.61   374.99
2024/25               10.62              300.46              300.46   289.84
2025/26               10.62              238.66              238.66   228.04
2026/27               10.62              151.44              151.44   140.82
Economic Rate of Return    =    17%
133



