Docu=wt of
The World Bank
FOR  OFAL USE ONLY
AAI 3/714-/
CZ   2 / o2   - /.
Rtq No. 8202-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT (HILLS) PROJECT
FEBRUARY 7, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Asia Region
Xw T      I  b1 - km-a nsobkd  d b do   W tway be wed by redpients only Itnbde ponsaa   of
& tie ofhidd dudeL Its codntees may not otilense be dhbeksed without Wodd Bask autbornkston.



XnU3a33T 3QnUZVAI3U!
USS 1 - Rupoes (RS) 16.50
vISCL YTSAR
GOl, States - April 1 to March 31
=XUZGS  AmmD  UaSus
The metric system is used throughout the report
LXST  OF  AASRZVXI!XONS  A">D aCR03 3136
Al          Artificial insemination
CPRM        Common Property Resource Management
DLCC        District Level Coordination Committee
FRG         Federal Republic of Germany
GOI         Government of India
HP          Himachal Pradesh
J&K         Jammu & Kashmir
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture, GOX
MTR         Kid-Term Review
NARP        National Agricultural Research Project
NGO         Non-government organizations
SAU         State Agricultural University
SLSC        State Level Steering Committee
SOE         Statements of Expenditure
WPIO        Watershed Planning and Implementation Office - Project States
WDC         Watershed Development Council
WHT         Water Harvesting Tanks
M           Million
GLOSSARY
KHARIF      Monsoon season
RABI        Dr4er, winter season
CHOS        Seasonal stream
The project is based on the findings of an XBRD/IDA appraisal mission which
visited India in June/July, 1939. The mission consisted of Messrs. G. Mukami
(task managox), J. Alexander, P. Kohli, and T. Jain (Bank), and Messrs. B.
Nekby (missioii leader), G. Campbell, R. Sabherwal, Galgali and W. Stewart
(corsultants).



FOR OFFCIAL I= ONLY
IXDIA
X1X¢G3ATXD  WA!3R515D  D2VULOPV317      ROJEC!   (ILALS)
I. LOAN/CRFXDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY          .............................   1
II.THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  3..................................   3
Agriculture in the National Economy  ..........................   3
Development Priorities ...................................   3
The Participating States ..................................   3
Watershed Development - Lessons of Experience  .................   6
Bank Group Support  ......................................   6
III. THE PROJECT .............................................  7
Project Area  .........           ..................................   7
Project Objectives; Description  ............................   7
Detailed Features  .......................................   8
Project Costs and Financing Plan ............................  11
Procurement ........................... ....''I......I..I.II.I   12
Disbursement  .........           ..................................  13
Retroactive Financing and Special Account  ....................  14
Accounts and Audit  ......................................  14
Project Organization and Management  ...               .....................  14
Environmental Impact ...........        ..........................  17
Project Benefits and Justification ........            ..................  17
Impact on Women ...................................... 8
Cost Recovery  ..........................................  19
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............................  22
ListI of Annexes
1    Project Costs
2    Format for Sub-watershed Planning
3    Initial Sub-watersheds by States
4    Menu of Eligible Treatments
5    On-farm Applied Research
6    Terms of Reference for Review Panels and for Designing WHT
7    Job Descriptions for Peads of Project and sub-watersheds Offices
8    Terms of Reference for Consultants
9    Monitoring and Evaluation
10   Crop Budget Analysis
11   Economic Analysis
12   Schedule of Disbursements
13   Training Program
14   Cost and Benefit sharing arrangements
15   Documents Available in the Project File
Chart: Organization Diagram
Map:    IBRD 21865
This document has a restrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Rank authoization.



flIDXA
INIUGP.&!D  WATSR8ZD  DUV3LOPNN   P tROJ7C!  (XSLS)
8AIrr  APPRAZS4AZ  RhPOR!
I. LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJ5CT SUMMARY
BOXaNrom.z.              India, Acting by its President
Rxo -ting Agenr4em:     The Watershed Development Coimcil ("DC) of MOA, and
the Governments of Haryana (GOH), Himachal Pradesh
(GOHP), Jammu and Kashmir (GOJK), and Punjab (GOP)
Amonnt!                 IeRD Loan US$ 13.0 mil. equivalent
IDA Credit SDR 56.8 mil. (US$ 75.0 mil. equivalent)
XfTerms!..              IBRD: 20 years, including 5 year grace period
IDA: Standard, with 35 years maturity
On-Tending Tarms*       GOI would make the proceeds of loan and credit
available to the four participating states under its
prevailing terms and conditions. GO0 would assume the
foreign exchange risk.
Pr_oCt Dea6riptnon    The project is designed to address one of India's most
serious environmental problems,-- watershed
degradation. Building on the experience gained under
previous and ongoing projects associated with resource
conservation and watershed management, the seven-year
project would help finance remedial programs in some
of the country's most important, yet ecologically
fragile, agro-economic zones. It would support
vegetative technology which is cost effectiie and can
be replicated over a wide area to conserve soil and
moisture both in arable and non-arable lands. Other
treatments include introduction of horticulture in
marginal arable lands and livestock improvement
programs, such as the introduction of improved bulls
for natural breeding, and promote stall feeding. The
project would also train staff of implementing
agencies in this type of technology and in
interactive planning with beneficiaries (mainly poor
small farmers, landless people and livestock owners in
the Himalayan foothills) to ensure sustained
management of common property resources.
Part of the proposed project would be carried out in
the state of Jammu and Kashmir, which includes areas
over which India and Pakistan have been in dispute
since 1947. In making the proposed Loan/Credit to
India, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final
determination of the claims of the parties involved.
Bla.ks..                 The project faces one major risk which is associated
with the scale of operation. Although the technology
of vegetative soil and in-situ moisture conservation
has been tried elsewhere in India and found to be
successful, it has not been replicated in a wide area,



- 2 -
as proposed under the project. It will need to be
demonstrated that the technology can ke sustained.
However, with government support, and with built-in
safeguards in the project for sustained management of
the common property lands, it has a good chance of
succeeding.
Ustimated Projeot Costs
Components                   Local           Foreign           Total
-------------(US$ million)  -----------
Initial Sub-watersheds       28.3               1.4            29.7
Additional Sub-watersheds/
Micro-watersheds              38.5              2.0            40.5
Technology Improvement
and Application               2.7               0.1             2.8
Project Implementation       20.3               1.3            21.6
Central Support                0.5              0.3             0.8
Total Base  Coats            90.4               5.1            95.5
Physical Contingencies         15.1             0.8             15.9
Price Contingencies           13.0              1.2            14.2
Total Project Costs  1/   118.5                 7.1            125.6
rinanclag  Plan              Local           Foreign           Total
--------------(US$ million) -----------
Participating Stat4s         29.0               0.0           29.0
Beneficiaries                  8.6              0.0            8.6
IDA                          67.9               7.1           75.0
IBRD                         13.0               0.0           13.0
Total                       118.5               7.1         125.6
biRhnrRe_mn     fXQ  E2  EXZ=   zXi   Fiji  EX1E  EXII  EY.92
(US$ million)
Annual                     4.0   8.0   12.0   15.0   16.0  12.0   11.0   10.0
Cumulative                 4.0  12.0  24.0   39.0   55.0  67.0   78.0   88.0
Economic Rate of Return: 17t 
1/ including taxes and duties of US$ 4.7 million



-3-
II.THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Aarurltur.0 In th. Nat1a0&l_RnnnnMy
2.1   India has a land area of 3.27 million km2 of which 49% is cultivable,
with about 62 million hectares under irrigation. The population of about 810
M is growing at an annual rate of 2.2%. GDP grew at little more than 3% per
annum in the 1950's and 1960's, but has averaged 4.5% since 1980. Per capita
GNP roached US$300 in 1987. Average per capital income has increased, but
there has been limited progress in the living standards of the urban and rural
poor - some 280 N people with annual incomes below the poverty line, 80% of
them living in rural areas. Agriculture contributes about 35% of GNP, and is
the largest single sector in the national economy. It engages 65% of the
total labor force and accounts for 25% of India's merchandise exports.
DVlapmnt Prinritiam
2.2   Development plans of the Government of India (GOI) and State governments
give priority to alleviating poverty and creating employment, especially in
rural areas. The primary determinant of rural incomes, especially for the
poor, is the performance of the agricultural sector. Since independence, GOI
development plans have emphasized agriculture and sought to raise foodgrain
production by increasing the use of fertilizers, plant protection chemicals,
and improved seed varieties. In support of these objectives, GOI has
strengthened the institutions supporting the sector - in agricaltural
extension and research, seed production, and agricultural credit - and
accelerated the development of irrigation. As a result of these efforts, the
annual growth rate in foodgrain production over the last 15-20 years has
averaged 2.7%, slightly above the population growth. Watershed management and
environmental protection are also key GOI priorities.
2.3   Rainfed farming is receiving increased attentiori because of its
importance in food production. Presently, rainfed areas support more than 50%
of the rural population. A key element of the government's agriculture
strategy articulated in the Seventh Five Year Plan (1985-1990) and in the
approach papers for the eighth plan (1990-95), is to stabilize natural
resource systems in the rainfed sub-sector. Investments will be directed
towards treatment of watersheds, with the objective of increasing their
capacity for producing food crops, fodder and fuelwood, and protecting the
land from further degradation. Pilot efforts have demonstrated the
sustainability of innovative, cost effective remedial programs that now need
to be expanded over e' wider area. Continued success in the sub-tropical
Shivaliks and the temperate Karewas, together with a companion project in the
plains areas that will shortly be proposed for Board consideration, could havo
significant positive effects for the entire rainfed sector in India.
,Th. PArtiepat4ng States
2.4   The states of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir
have coamon features and administrative setups which are described below::
2.5   IDz±=nntALD=  1sma.  The soils of the proposed project area are
highly erodible. The Shivaliks consist of bands of hard clays, sand and
unconsolidated conglomerates, and originate from erosion of the upper reaches
of the Himalayas. The karewas are old lake bed deposits, some of which were



-4 -
uplifted giving rise to hill plateaus and sharp ravines. Both areas have very
steep slopes in the upper catchments, which, in combination with the typical
high intensity rainstorms, result in rapid erosion even if the area were
untouched by man. High densities of people and livestock ranging from 100-
1500 per km2 of zultivated land, result in fuelwood and fodder extraction far
exceeding the annual biomass production, therefore causing accelerated
denudation. Because of population pressure, cultivation has been extended to
slopes unsuitable for crop production, which too has contributed to erosion.
2.6        use and  nd Ypnnr.  Land use varies considerably in the project area.
It is estimated that, land which is suitable for agricultural production
covers between 15-70% of the project area and is privately owned. Non-arable
lands are predominant in all states except Naryana and are severely degraded.
Land ownership of non-arable land is complex and embraces land held by private
individuals, land hold by groups of individuals on a share basis, village
cormon land, panchayat land, and public forest land with varying rights and
concessions held by villagers. Under the Punjab Land Preservation Act and, to
a lesser extent, under the India Forest Act, the management of individual land
can be taken over by the Forestry Department and restrictions imposed on its
use.
2.7   Forests an Gra2ing L-and. The non-arable upper watersheds are generally
classified as forest land, under the ownership or partial control of the
Forest Departments. State-owned forest land includes Reserved, Protected and
Unclassified (or un-demarcated) forests in which villagers have varying
degrees of access and user rights and concessions. These cover grazing,
cutting grass, lopping branches, gathering dead wood and fallen timber, and
cutting timber for domestic use. Reserve forests have the least user rights,
while unclassified forests have the most. Depending on the St&te, Forest
Departments have some control over Panchayat, Village, shareholder shamlat, or
private forest lands. To varying degrees, all types of forest land are de
facto comaon property subject to some amount of uncontrolled usage, especia,_y
grazing and fuelwood collection. While efforts to protect the Shivaliks
forest region have existed since the year 1900, there has been little success,
because closures for natural re-vegetation and afforestation are mostly
ignored or followed by over-grazing, over-cutting and other forms of
environmental destruction.
2.8   CQDa.  All of the arable land of the project subwatersheds is cropped.
Holdings average 2.5-3.5 ha   The majority of farm families own less than 3 ha
of land which is barely adequate to meet subsistence cereal and pulses needs,
given the present level of technology.- crop production is very much
subsistence-oriented. The main kharif crop during the rainy summer season is
maize with lesser areas of pearl millet, pigeon pea and mung bean. The main
rabi crops during the drier winter months are wheat and chickpea: small areas
of oilseed (rape and mustard) are also planted. In the Karewas, oats as a hay
crops is grown in rabi season. Practically all the arable land is cultivated
and planted with food crops in kharif and about 50-60% in rabi. Yields are
low and averages have little meaning given the variation in land quality and
weather conditions. The main causes of low yields are poor soil moistu,.;
management, inadequate soil preparation, and low levels of input use. As less
than half the rainfall infiltrates the soil, use of improved varieties,
fertilizers or plant protection measures makes little sense, and is generally
not done. it La estimated that maximizing in situ moisture conservation alone
would increase present yields of kharif crops by about 50-60%, and provide a
better moisture carry-over for rabi crops. Once the improved technology of
rainfed farming, including contour cultivation, combined with vegetative



barriers on the contour is used, modest levels of fertilizers and improved
crop varieties could be absorbed to increase production.
2.9   TAa.tarck.  Every farm family maintains cattle, buffalo, goats or sheep
for draft power, milk and manure for own use, as well as for gonerating cash
and storing capital. Most landless families maintain few cattle and large
numbers of sheep and goats, particularly nomads in Jammu and Kashmir. They
graze their animals on public or common lands and supplement this with
purchased or bartered feed. There is scarcely a watershed where the minimum
feed needs do not subst*ntially exceed supply. Although livestock has a low
genetic potential and disease problems are high in the area, the main
constraint to increased productivity is nutrition. Feed sources include crop
residues, which are limited due to poor husbandry. Open grazing on bare
common lands, and on degraded forest lands causes severe degradation of the
environment. Stall feeding would be the solution to the problem by enhencing
the efficiency of fodder utilization.
2.10  BrxL±ltura.  Rainfed hort'.culture ia sub-tropical project areas is
presently a minor enterprise but has considerable scope for expansion. Fruit
species used for rainfed production are mainly mango and citrus (galgal, lime,
lemon, sweet orange). Yields vary considerably depending on the level of
management. On average they are 2 tons/ha for mango and 10 tons/ha for
citrus.
2.11  villagn  Organizatins.  Panchayat (the lowest unit in the Indian
administrative structure) administration exists in all project states. State
governments assist and supervise the panchayats through provision of staff and
funds. Panchayats raise revenue by selling products from their common land.
At present, most panchayats have little aptitude for motivating and
coordinating village people or managing community projects. However, some
panchayats have demonstrated reasonable management skills and the recently
proposed National Panchayat Raj Act is intended to enhance their role. With a
few exceptions, other village organizations in the area irclude cooperatives,
informal irrigation associations, village organizations and some voluntary
organizations. Most of these are neither influential nor active.
However,there are exceptions which include some of the Hill Resource
Management Societies (HRMS) established in Haryana, the village development
committees set up by the Indo-German Dhiauladhar Project in northeast India,
the Forest Cooperative Societies and mahila mandals (woman's organizations) of
Himachal Pradesh. These have demonstrated that, given support, they can be
effective in carrying out their responsibilities.
2.12        urAtnral Rarviees.  Professional extension services are well
established in Haryana, being developed in Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and
Kashmir, and hardly developed in Punjab. The extension services focus both on
irrigated and dryland farming, the latter is not being ignored, but adoption
of recommendations is less in rainfed areas due to the risk involved. The
capacity for agricultural research to address location-specific technological
problems is being strengthened under the on going National Agricultuxal
Research Project (Cr. 1631). Arrangements for input distribution, credit and
marketing are adequate in the project area. Animal Husbandry departments are
active though their main focus is on animal health and artificial
insemination. No other department except Forestry in Jammu and Kashmir, has
clear responsibility for pasture development, which therefore receives little
support. Forestry services are well established in all states but are
somewhat entrenched in traditional methods of afforestation and psotection.
Soil conservation services have so far mainly concentrated on structural or



.
engineering methods of soil conservation on arable lands, which include
bending.
uIatBFRhed ev .ulnnoone -   manna of  x.1neU
2.13 The Bank has supported three projects (Rainfed Areas Watershed
Developyent Project, Cr.1424; Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project,                r
Ln.1897; and Himalayan Watershed Management Project, Ln.2295) that have
applied an integrated watershed approach to enhance resource conservation and
agricultural production, and the Drought Prone Areas Project (Cr. 526-IN) that
has partially supported this approach. Some social forestry projects, for
example the Jammu/Kashmir and Ha:yana Social Forestry Project (Cr.1286-IN);
and the National Social Forestry Project (Cr.1611-IN) have produced valuable
experience, as have a number of GOI's centrally-sponsored schemes. Some
breakthroughs have been achieved, problems identified, and lessons learned,but
both technology and approaches still require further refinement in many
instances. For example, alternatives for soil and moisture conservation in
the form of vegetative barriers in combination with contour cultivation are
now being applied successfully in some states. Also, the integrated watershed
management approach adopted in the implementation of above projects, is a key
element in their success. While this could be a major breakthrough in
stabilizing rainfed farming, the technology for treating non-arable lands for
both fodder and fuelwood production is not as far advanced. With protection
of non-arable lands from open grazing, considerable success has been achieved
in afforestation programs which allow natural re-vegetation to take place.
Replicable and acceptable feasible approaches to deal with the livestock
situation have yet to emerge.
2.14 While the soil and moisture conservation technology on private farm land
can be disseminated through the regula: extension service, common lands
require an integrated effort of (.nservation, pasture improvement,
afforestation and livestock management, as well as close interaction with the
village population to establisn local needs of fuelwood, fiber and fodder, and
to organize sustainable manaCament of these lands.
Rank . Grop Suppo
2.15 India's agricultural development efforts have attracted substantial
support from the Bank Group, particularly to the irrigation sector. Private
groundwater development and other on-farm trials have been supported by a
series of agricultural credit projects in individual states and through lines
of credit to the National Bank for Agricultural Refinance and Development,
(NABARD). Construction of irrigation infrastructure and land development,
designed to improve water use efficiency at farm level, have been financed
through a number of irrigation and command area development projects, and
through the National Water Management Project.  Marketing, warehouses, seed
development, horticulture, forestry, dairying and the development of drought
prone areas have also receivee assistance. A major effort in agricultural
extension over the last fifteen years has resulted in the development of
professional agricultural extension services in all major states.
2.16 In the participating states as a whole, the Bank group has supported,
the Kandi Watershed Area Development Project (Ln 1897-IN), Jammu and Kashmir
and Haryana Social Forestry (Cr 1286-IN), Haryana Irrigation II (Cr 1319-IN),
Himalayan Watershed Management (Ln 2295-IN), Rainfed Areas Watershed
Development (CR 1424-IN), as wel.' as two irrigation protect& - the Punjab                  U
Flood Protection and Drainage Project (Cr 15-IN) and the Punjab Irrigation
Project (Cr 889-IN), which was successfully completed two years ago.



III. THE PROJECT
Rntinals for Bank Inuolvynnt
3.1   The Bank's assistance strategy to India is to support policies and
investments that will encourage economic growth and poverty alleviation in a
context of macro economic stability. The emphasis is on efficient resource
allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector and appropriate
targeting and delivery of support systems to the poor. An increasingly
important element of the strategy is to promote sustainable programs,
especially in agriculture, that will protect and enhance the natural resource
base. The project and the one for the plains, (under preparation) which
includea Orissa, Rajasthan, and Gujarat states, clearly fit within this
strategy with the majority of beneficiaries being the rural poor of a
relatively neglected, poorly endowed and degenerating area.
3.2   Treating the severely degraded Shivaliks and Karewas areas will help
conserve a basis for survival and production for future generations; it will
help increase present yields of crops, horticulture, forest, fodder and
livestock, and thus benefit poor smallholders, landless people and landless
livestock owners. It will simultaneously limit erosion damage to roads,
bridges and farm land. It is a logical and needed progression of earlier Bank
work, and will contribute to the solution of a major environmental problem
facing India. Bank involvement will help promote the technical,
organizational and institutional adjustments which are essential for an
integrated approach in resource management.
PraiaeLA&=
3.3  The project area includes the subtropical Shivalik and temperate Karewas
ranges of the Htimalayan foothills in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jamu and
Kashmir and Punjab states. The Shivaliks, which are more than 90% of the
project area, extend from northwest to southeast across all four states; the
Karewas, in Kashmir, are separated from the Shivaliks of Jammu by the Pir-
Parjal mountain range.  The Shivaliks and Karewas differ in soil, climate and
elevation, but both face severe devastation and will continue to be denuded,
if no steps are taken to reverse the trend.
Projaet Obhjativas2 poseription
3.4   The main objective of the project is to slow and reverse degradation of
the natural environment, through the use of appropriate soil and moisture
conservation technology. in the process of conserving soil and in-situ
moisture, it would improve the production and income from grain crops,
horticulture, fodder, fiber, fuelwood and livestock, and reduce flooding and
other devastation caused by the degradation in both the project area and
adjacent plains. The aim will be to lay the foundation for sustainable
increases in production to keep pace with population growth. The project
would promote known vegetative technologies and verify others, develop
approaches for coordinated interactive planning, and strengthen the management
and use of non-arable lands.
3.5   The seven-year project would help finance remedial programs required to
achieve the above objectives. It will support proven vegetative technology
which is cost effective and can be replicated over a wide area. Treatments
under this technology which include the use of contour vegetative barriers,



- 8 -
shrubs and trees in contour trenches, gully stabilization, stream bank
protection, and construction of water harvesting structures, would conserve
soil and moisture both in the arable and non-arable lands, improve groundwater
recharge and increase the production capacity of the land. Other treatments
incltxde introduction of horticulture in marginal arable lands and livestock
improvement programs, such as the introduction of improved bulls for natural
breeding, supp:.ementary feeding and the use of stall feeding. The project
includes 35 subwatersheds (clusters of contiguous forest, non-arable and
arable lands falling for the most part, into a common catchment), covering an
area of about 230,000 hectares in the four states. Each sub-watershed
comprises several micro-watersheds. The project would also promote the
vegetative technology in a wider coverage outside the sub-watersheds, but in
the districts implementing the project (about 4500 hectares). Staff of
implementing agencies would be trained in this type of technulogy and in
interactive planning to involve beneficiaries to enaure sustained management
of common property resources.
flAlil.rd U4AtatIA
3.6   n4itial SnbwatarRhAdA  (USS 29.7 million or 31% of base costs)
Initially, the project would treat 15 sub-watersheds distributed in all four
participating states (annex 3), covering an area of 110,000 hectares. These
subwatersheds were selected because of their urgent need for treatment to
restore the vegetative cover and reduce soil erosion. Also, these sub-
watersheds are suitably located in a population which is solely dependent on
the natural resources for survival. Therefore, they are considered ideal for
demonstrating the vegetative technology in the area. rndicative plans have
been prepared on the basis of the format provided in Annex 2, which include
details for the catchment characteristics, problems and proposals for
treatment, and plans for initial micro watersheds to be implemented. A list
of treatments for soil and in-situ moisture conservatiorn of sub-watersheds
presented in Annex 4, was jointly developed with participating states and
approved for Bank financing. Treatments include the use of vegetative
barriers on steep slopes and farm boundaries and programs for on-farm fodder
production, silvi-pasture, afforestation, drainage line treatments and
livestock improvement. The plans provide a basis for interaction with the
village population which would lead to agreements on the type and volume of
treatments, cost and benefit sharing arrangements and resource management
responsibilities. Following village interaction, annual work programs would
be prepared for each sub-watershed with identified responsibilities for
implementing agencies and for beneficiaries.
3.7   The project would also include funds for treating the upper catchment
areas of Ropar and Hoshiarpur districts of Punjab, which are basically forest
lands covering only portions of sub-watersheds. This would spearhead a
subsequent program based on integrated watershed management approach. The
same treatments for soil and moisture conservation and village interaction to
reach agreements for cost and benefit sharing arrangements would apply. The
total area requiring treatment in the upper catchment is estimated to be
16,000 hectares.
3.8   A series of small water harvesting tanks, generally with a height of 10-
15 meters and command area of 40-100 hectares, would be constructed under the
project in the four states, particularly as a means to enlist beneficiary
participation in catchment protection. These tanks provide water for domestic
and livestock purposes; they contribute to flood control and rehabilitation of
downstream land, and provide limited supplementary irrigation for food and



fodder crops. So far, 30 sites have boen identified for such tanks. Before
construction, a joint team of experts from WDC, the Participating State and
the Bank would visit the proposed site and certify that its catchment area has
adequate vegetative coverage and that conservation measures to ensure minimum
siltation are in place. In the identified sites, it would be necessary to
ensure that the local population is not in:onvenienced in anyway or cause an
environmental hazard by locating the wator harveating tank in the area.
Detailed feasibility studies will be undertaken for each tank on the basis of
the criteria and guidelines provided in Annex 6, which will be reviewed by
state-level Dam Review Panels prior to construction. Agreements were obtained
at negotiations that State Governments would establish Dam Review Panels in
accordance with the Bank's Terms of Reference, also presented in Annex 6.
3*9   Ao   t nal Bn-- *t.    ish   for Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab and
aA^r nal MThr6-watarshacLf for Jammu and Kashmir (USS 40.5 million or 42% of
base costs) Because the technology has not been tried in a wide area, and the
institutional arrangements require interaction and agreement with
beneficiaries, success will need to be demonstrated through implementation of
the initial sub-watersheds before additional funds can be allocated.
Therefore, funds for treating about an additional 120,000 hectares have been
set aside to be used for sub-watersheds which would be identified and prepared
by participating states and cleared for implementation by the central ministry
of agriculture (Watershed Development Council-WDC)tin consultation with the
Bank, during the first 3-4 years of the project. Satisfactory performance of
individual participating states in implementing initial sub-watersheds would
be a condition of disbursement of loan/credit prvceeds for implementation of
additional sub-watersheds and micro-watersheds. Because of the additional
responsibilities for WDC, agreement was obtained at negotiations that it would
be adequately staffed and supported to oversee watershed development
activities in the participating states and implement activities under the
central support component (paras 3.12 and 3.13).
3.10               pnd Appleation  (US$ 2.8 million or 3% of base
costs)
(a) Nusaery Development. The project includes funds for
implementing agencies for nursery development activities for
vetiver, forage species and for horticultural and tree seedlings to
ensure adequate supply of planting matexial in all areas.
lb) Rainfed   araming  Technology Demonstrations.   The project
would promote the vegetative soil and in-situ moisture conservation
technology throughout the districts in which the selected
watersheds are located through the existing extension service. To
achieve tLis, the project would provide planting material and
inputs for demonstrations free of charge and would train extension
subject matter specialists and University trainers in the proposed
technology.
Cc) On-farm Applied Research. Funds would be allocated to zonal
research stations of the State Agricultural Universities to carry
out on-farm applied research in a few selected subwatersheds to
determine the impact of the treatments and to study possible
constraints in their adoption. Each station operating in these
subwatersheds, would be provided with incremental staff, vehicles
and operating funds for this purpose.



- lo -
3.11  Pr6njet Implenlmti6  (USS 21.6 or 23% of base costs).
The project would support the establishment of a Watershed Planning and
Implementation Office (WPIO) in each participating state. Implementation of
most project activities would be carried out by WPIOs and for the remaining
tasks, in close collaboration with relevant line departments in the states.
To strengthen WPIOs and selected line departments, the project would provide
funds for incremental staff, vehicles, equipment, office biiildings and staff
housing and for operating expenses. Study trips and training would also be
supported under the project. A Geographical Information System would be
established, one in each state, to facilitate project planning and monitoring.
Funds would also be provided to participating states for hiring independent
agencies for baseline studies and for project evaluation, for short-term
consultants for pasture improvement and fodder production, and for production
of information material. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that adequat3
provisions would be made by participating state in their budgets, to cover
incremental recurrent costs. Establisnment of project offices in each
participating state would be a condition of disbursement of loan/credit
proceeds to individual states.
3.12  Central support  (USS 0.8 million or 1% of base costs).
(a) Training. The project would support a training facility to be
established at the Punjab Agricultural University zonal research station at
Eallowal Saunkheri. The station, which is located in the heart of the
Shavaliks, would demonstrate a full range of treatments on a field scale. The
center would promote a series of annual retreats during which staff from the
four states would exchange experience, visit adjacent works in Punjab, Haryana
and Himachal Pradesh and be exposed to other experience or research results
through invited guest speakers. Retreats for staff dealing with arable and
non-arable lands, for project directors, for staff in charge of interaction
and village organization would be planned. The project would provide funds
for buildings and equipment for the center, meet expenses for a facilitator,
guest lecturers and supporting staff, and provide transport for participants.
(b)   The project would also set up a training facility at the Punjab Remote
Sensing Center, Ludhiana b.y providing funds for renting adequate space for
training, equipment and for consultants to help establish units for
geographic information systems (GIS) in the four states and provide regular
in-service training for its staff. The center would also provide training to
project staff in the use of remote sensing materials and interpretation of
aerial photos for watershed planning and monitoring. Essential elements of
the training program are presented in Annex 13.
3.13 Technical Assistance. A team of consultants, preferably local,
would be recruited to train staff in interdisciplinary watershed planning, in
interaction with beneficiaries so that they agree on treatment plans, cost and
benefit sharing arrangements as well as approaches for organizing them to
assume management responsibilities. The team would be placed in Chandigarh
and work in all four states. These consultants would also prepare a number of
village plans in collaboration with project staff. Agreement was obtained at
negotiations that these cor.sultants would be employed not later than December
31, 1990 in accordance with Terms of reference set-in Annex 8.



- 11 -
Proja6t Costa and Finanning Plan
3.14 Total project costs including physical and price contingencies are
estimated at Re 2396.2 million (US$ 125.6 million) of which US$ 7.1 million or
5.6% would be in foreign exchange. The breakdown of costs by components and
by states is shown at Annex 1, Tables 1-25 and are sumearized below. Costs
are based on actual 1989 prices and include physical contingencies averaging
17% on total base costs, and price contingencies totalling 15% are based on
the following projected annual inflation rate.
89/90  90/1  91/2  92/3  93/4  94/5  95/6
Local %                  7.3    7.0   7.0   6.6   6.5   6.5   6.1
Foreign %                7.2    4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   4.4
Identifiable duties and taxes amount to Rs 91.0 million (US$ 4.7 million).
Total project cost, net of duties and taxes, is USS 120.8 million.
-----(Rs.mil.)------     -----(US$ mil.)------        %
Components      Local  Foreign  Total      Local Foreign  Total    For.Ex
Initial
Sub-watersheds   467.7  22.3    490.0       28.3    1.4      29.7      5
Additional
Sub-watersheds/
Micro-watersheds 634.5  33.4    667.9       38.5    2.0      40.5      5
Technology
Improvement and
Application       44.8   2.3      47.2       2.7    0.1       2.6      5
Project
Implementation   336.0  20.9    356.9       20.3    1.3     21.6       6
Central
Support            9.2   5.3      14.5       0.5    0.3       0.8      6
Total
Base Costs      1492.2  84.2   1576.5       90.4    5.1      95.5      5
Physical Cont.   249.1  13.8    262.9       15.1    0.8      15.9      5
Price Cont.      520.2  36.5    556.7       13.0    1.2      14.2      8
Total
Project Costs   2261.5 134.5   2396.1      118.5    7.1    125.6       6
3.15  The total project cost of USS 125.6 million, including contingencies,
duties and taxes, would be financed as follows:
=atoaazx          States        Beneficiaries       Bank         Total
Civil Works        3.2                              12.7         15.9
Equipment and
Furniture          0.7              -                0.4          1.1
Field Operations  17.0             8.6              59.8         85.4
Livestock Program  0.2              -                0.2          0.4
Vehicles           0.2                               0.4          0.6
Technical
Assistance          -                                1.8          1.8
Training            -                                1.1          1.1
Recurrent Costs    7.7              -               11.6         19.3
Total             29.0             8.6              88.0        125.6



- 12 -
3.16 GOI would on-land loan/credit proceeds to state governments, on
standard terms and arrangements. The IDA Credit and Bank loan of US$ 88.0
million would finance about 70% of the total project costs, including foreign
exchange costs equivalent to US$ 7.1 million. The IDA Credit and the Bank
loan would be made to GOI on standard terms and conditions. The
beneficiaries' contribution of USS 8.6 million would be covered in kind or
cash based on cost sharing arrangements to be agreed between the states and
beneficiaries. The states' contribution of US$ 29.0 million would be included
in their normal budgetary allocations for project activities. Funds for
implementing sub-watershed activities would be channeled through Watershed
Planning and Implementation Offices in individual Project States. !-owever,
these funds would be available for reallocation either between components in
the state or between states. This arrangement would encourage participating
states to complete their targets ahead of schedule. Incremental costs for
sustaining activities established under the project following its completion
would be met either by the etate from its budgetary sources or by
beneficiaries from their incremental benefits as a result of the project.
3.17 Civil works for buildings and water harvesting tanks (USS 15.9 million)
and field operations which include treatments for sub-watersheds (US$ 85.8
million), would be undertaken by force account because they are small and
scattered over large areas and thus would not attract bidders. Equipment (USS
1.1 million) and vehicles (US$ 0.6 million), would also be too small to
attract international bidders, therefore they would be procured through Local
Competitive Bidding procedures (LCB), which are acceptable to the, Bank. For
small items that cannot be conveniently packaged in amounts exceeding US$
20,000, local shopping procedures satisfactory to IDA would be used.
Consultant services (USS 1.8 million), wo!Ai be procured in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines. All bidding documents and analyses would be retained by
implementing units for inspection by IDA duiing review missions.
3.18 Local procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank/IDA,
would be used to procure material for operation and maintenance of project
equipment and other facilities, all valued at US$ 19.3 million.



- 13 -
3.19 Procurement arrangements are summarized below; figures in parenthesis
indicate amounts to be financed by the Bank:
Cat=orz                       2= Q$A fiATl
----------------------US$ m--------------------
Civil works        -          15.9          -                15.9
(12.7)                         (12.7)
Equip.and Furn.   1.1          -            -                 1.1
(0.4)                                      (0.4)
FielX
Operations        -           85.4          -                85.4
(59.8)                         (59.8)
Livestock
Program           -            0.4          -                 0.4
(0.2)                          (0.2)
Vehicles           0.6         -            -                 0.6
(0.4)                                      (0.4)
Technical
Assist.                        1.8          -                 1.8
(1.8)                         (1.8)
Training          -            -            1.1               1.1
(1.1)   -(1.1)
Recurrent Costs   -            -           19.3              19.3
(11.6)           (11.6)
Total             1.7        103.5         20.4             125.6
(0.8)      (74.5)       (12.7)            (88.0)
3.20  Disbursements under the Credit would be made for:
(a) 70% of expenditure on field operations Zf_ sub-watershed
treatments, including expenditure on livestock improvement program;
(b) 100% of expenditure on consultants and training;
(c) 80% of expenditure on civil works, including water harvesting
tanks, office buildings and staff housing;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditure or 100% of ex-factory costs or 50% of
local costs of vehicles, equipment and furniture; and
(e) 60% of expenditure on incremental staff and operating costs.
3.21 Disbursements for expenditures for equipment and furniture under
contracts exceeding US$ 100,000 would be fully documented, as would
disbursements for vehicles, consultants, and training. For all other
expenditures, IBRD/IDA would disburse against statements of expenditure (SOE)
in an agreed format. Supporting documents for SOE's would be available for
inspection by aupervision missions and auditors, and retained by participating
states for one year after Bank receipt of the audit report for the fiscal year
in which the last withdrawal from the loan/credit account was made.
Disbursements are projected over a period of 7 years from June, 1990 to June



- 14 -
1997. Project completion is expected by December, 1996, and loan/credit
closing by June, 1997.
grga6t-i   Finiancing and SnLA_A unt
3.22 To expedite project start up, the Bank and IDA would retroactively
finance project costs incurred after August 1, 1989 up to a limit of SDR 3
million, provided Bank/IDA procurement procedurea and guidelines were
followed. These expenditures would include procurement of vehicles and
equipment, consultant services and workshops for training and initial
establishment of nurseries for planting materials and other preparatory
activities. In order to facilitate timely payments of project expenditures, a
Special Account amounting to US$4 million (equivalent to four months
expenditure) would be established in the Reserve Bank of India. The account
would be replenished quarterly or when the account is drawn down to about 50%
of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first.
Accounts and Audit
3.23 The WPIOs in participating states and the WDC would be subject to normal
government control and auditing procedures. Separate records and accounts
would be maintained for project expenditures identifying all transactions
pertaining to Bank financing, which with the supporting documentation would be
retained for review by Bank supervision missions. The existing auditing
arrangements would continue, and an audit in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and auditing standards would be made.
Agreements were obtained at negotiations that WPIOs and WDC would maintain
separate accounts for project expenditures and would send to the Bank
certified copies of the audited accounts and SOEs for the project not later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
Project OrganiZation and Management
3.24 The main organizational principle under the project is to create an
institution which facilitates inter-departmental collaboration to ensure
planning and implementation of an integrated watershed management approach,
and provide the management with sufficient control over project execution. It
would also present an opportunity for interactive planning with beneficiaries
to insure sustained management of common property resources.
3.25 The WPIOs created in the project states to implement the project would,
over time, also become responsible for other centrally sponsored and state
schemes in the watersheds. The office in Haryana will be established within
the Agricultural Department, and those in Himachal Pradesh and in Jammu and
Kashmir would be in their respective Forestry Departments. Punjab would place
the office under the Joint Development Commissioner who was responsible for
the earlier Kandi project. Each state WPIO would be headed by a Director of
the rank of additional director and would include staff for planning and
monitoring, training and institution building and for administration and
accounting, and technical Subject Matter Specialists of inter-disciplinary
nature representative of activities in the sub-watershed, which include
forestry, aoil conservation, horticulture, animal husbandry and agriculture
(extension service). A single budget head for project funds would be created
and controlled by the Director. These funds would then be used for executing
individual tasks in the project area. In addition, the Director would be
empowered to reallocate funds between sub-watersheds, if it becomes necessary
during implementation. He would also participate in the evaluation of the



- 15 -
performance of line department staff working in the project area. To ensure
that women are adequately represented in the interactive process with
beneficiaries, a woman would be recruited in each project office to motivate
and promote women's involvement in all project activities. A watershed team
leader of a district officer rdnk would be appointed for each or a group of
adjacent sub-watersheds depending on their sizes. He would be in charge of
village institution building and interaction with beneficiaries when preparing
annual work programs. He would also supervise their implementation and
monitor performance. Job descriptions for the Director and for the Team
Leader are presented in Annex 7. The appointment of WPIO Directors with
suitable qualifications would be a condition of disbursement of loan/credit
proceeds to individual states.
3.26 The extension service wing of the department of agriculture would play
an important role in disseminating the rainfed vegetative technology on arable
lands. To achieve this, additional Village Extension Workers (VEWs) would be
recruited to intensify the demonstration of the technology in the project
area. A ratio of 1:400 between VEW to farmers is recommended under the
project, which is twice the number of the present strength. For more
effectiveness, their areas of operation would be adjusted to coincide with
watershed boundaries. Once the saturation point is achieved, the additional
extension staff would be shifted to new areas. During negotiations, agreement
was obtained from participating states that additional VEWs would be
recruited.
3.27 The extension Subject Matter Specialists (SMS), and State Agricultural
Universities trainers would be trained in the proposed technology. The
proje^t SMS in Soil Conservation would participate in the monthly workshop at
the zonal research station. Although the VEWs are important members of the
watershed team and will be in close contact with the team leader,
operationally they would continue to work under the existing extension service
arrangement in the districts. To ensure that their involvement in the project
is well coordinated, the extension service would be represented both at the
state level steering committee and district level coordination committee
(paras 3.30 and 3.31).
3.28 Although the project would strengthen the animal health, artificial
insemination, and other breeding services, the Animal Husbandry Department
will remain responsible for providing these services to beneficiaries. Like
extension, the watershed team leader will be responsible for coordinating
their work.
3.29 Zonal agricultural research stations would undertake on-farm applied
research activities in the sub-watersheds to determine the impact of the
proposed treatments and possible constraints in their adoption.
3.30 A Steering Committee would be established at the State level to review
and sanction new sub-watershed plans, annual work programs and approve
supporting budgets. It would also review progress reports as well as resolve
problems of project implementation. The committee would comprise Secretaries
and Directors of implementing line departments, the Director of Research of
State Agricultural University, and the Director of the project would be a
member and secretary of the committee.
3.31 At the District level a Coordination Committee would be created to
review annual work programs and progress report prepared by sub watershed team
leaders and resolve local implementation problems. rembers of the committee



- 16 -
would be line department district officers, local politiciana, and the
watershed team leader.
3.32 Organization and management procedures for the project are discussed
below:
(a) Pliantng And rudgtiae.  Indicative plans for 15 initial sub-
watersheds have been prepared according to the agreed format
discussed in Annex 2. These plans would then be used by project
teams in their interaction with villages to reach agreements on the
choice of treatments, cost and benefit sharing arrangements and
distribution of management responsibilities. Following this
exercise, detailed annual work plans would be prepared to include
estimates of volume of works for each sub-watershed. After which,
supporting budgets would be drawn using already established
treatment unit costs.
(b)    nitoring and Evaluation. The principles of monitoring and
evaluation are laid out in Annex 9. The continuous monitoring of
physical implementation would be the task of the watershed team
leader against targets in the indicative plan and annual work
program. The information would be analyzed and presented in an
annual progress report by the project unit. The state of
vegetative coverage would be analyzed at the outset and at the end
of the project period. The report would also include information
on financial matters. Evaluation of the project would be
contracted to an independent agency by each state, such as the
State Agricultural University. The agency would also carry out
baseline studies during the first year of the project to establish
the present socio-ecological state of the project area. The
appointment of such independent agencies would be a condition of
disbursement of loan/credit proceeds to individual states.
(c) REorting. Mid-Term Review and Projeet Completion Report. Progress
,reports would be prepared by Project Offices and be submitted to
the States Steering Committees and to the Bank annually, no later
than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year. Each report would
contain brief descriptions of the main events of the reporting
period including physical implementation progress; expenditures
incurred; project staffing status; procurement of materials and
services and force account arrangements. These reports would
compare actuals with targets of the Indicative Plans and annual
work programs.
A joint GOI/8ank team would carry out a mid-term review of the
project no later than the fourth year of implementation. The
review will focus on progress made and take stock of the experience
with eligible treatments on the different types of land tenure, and
evaluate problems associated with interactive planning. It will
also determine the success of the cost and benefit aharing
arrangements. Agreed recommendations of the mid-term review would
be implemented by each participating state. A project completion
report would be prepared by each state project office on the basis
of Dank's guidelines no later than six months from the closing date
of the credit/loan.



- 17 -
3.33  The project will have a distinctly positive environmental iupact since
its objectives and design are intended to help alleviate one of India's most
serious ecological problemas -- watershed degradation. The proposed project
and a companion one based in the plains areas that will shortly be prisented
for Board consideration, represeiita an improved intervention in the
agriculture sector along the lines of the Kandi and Himalayan projects
discussed esrlier (pare 2.13). The two projects (hills and plains) would
treat and thereafter protect the environment from further degradation.
Vegetative cover treatmenta supported utder the project and the innovative
management system of comnon lands, which involves beneficiaries, would enhance
the supply situation of foddex, fuelwood and food crops without causing damage
to the environment.
Prnlant Bnoflts aAnd Justification
3.34 Most project benefits include increased agricultural production through
the establishment of sustainable rainfed technology and the restoration of
environmental balance. About 54,000 hectares of existing forests and 59,000
hectares of conmon lands would be rehabilitated and protected from further
degradation. It is estimated 100,000 farming families, 10,000 landless
families and 5,000 livestock herders would benefit from activities undertaken
by the project in the four states.
3.35  *     tion And kLaktinl-g  The project would increase the production of
food crops, livestock products, fruits, fodder, fiber, fuelwood and timber.
No change in the area of non-arable land is expected under the project, but
part of the marginal arable land would be converted into orchards. The
in-situ moisture conservation treatments promoted by the project would enhance
the prospects for successful rabi cultivation, and thus marginally increase
the cropping intensity.
3.36 In estimating incremental production of food crops in the project area,
maize and wheat have been taken as representative crops because they cover
large areas of arable land. Their crop budgets under the present situation
and with improved technology, presented in Annex 10, were used in the
computation of incremental production. Although some decline in yields in the
without project situation is likely, there are no data to illustrate this
trend.
3.37 Projected conservative yield levels under the project, presented below,
are also subject to considerable uncertainly and variation.
Present Yields        Future  Yields with  project
(tons per ha)              (tons per ha)
Maize               0.8                         1.2
Wheat               0.9                         1.4
Total incremental maize and wheat production is estimated to be 162,000 and
51,500 tons respectively, over seven years of project implementation. The
gross value of production of these crops would be about Rs 61.3 million
annually at full development, which is approximately 10 years from the start
of the project. However, it was not possible to estimate the incremental
production from livestock because of lack of data.



- 18 -
3.38 Incremental production of grasses, babhar grass, fuelwood and timber
from afforestation, silvi-pasture, pasture and vegetative barrier treatments,
were estimated from their present and future yields (measured in terms of dry
matter in tons per hectare) which are shown below:
Present Yields        Vuture yields with Project
(tons per ha)             (tons per ha)
Afforestation              0.48                        2.40
Silvi-pasture              0.64                        4.80
Pasture                    0.80                        6.40
Vegetative barrier         0.48                        6.40
3.39  These yields are based on a 30 year time horizon so as to include the
longer term products, such as timber. Full potential yields for grass, babhar
grass, bamboo, fuelwood and timber species would be attained at different
periods over the life of the project. Prices for these products in the
project area are presented in Annex 11.
3.40 The project area is deficient in food production, grasses, fuelwood and
timber due to the degraded state of the land resource base and population
pressure and large numbers of livestock. Therefore most of the incremental
production would be absorbed on the farm and by the landless families in the
villages. The overall marketable surpluses would be negligible to cause any
strain on the existing marketing system which is adequate and operating
efficiently.
3.41  TarmIrn4ma.  An attempt was made to evaluate the impact of the project
on farmers, the landless and livestock owners on a sample basis in the initial
sub-watersheds, but it was only possible to estimate incomes of peasants. The
net income of an average farmer who grows maize in kharif on all of his 2
hectares and wheat in rabi on half of the area (150% cropping intensity),
would increase by Rs 2,775, from Rs 1,950 to Rs 4,725 or by about 240% under
the project. Also, employment opportunities would be created under the
project in carrying out treatments on the degraded lands and their sustained
management. Most of these opportunities would benefit the landless in the
area.
3.42  Imact on Women. The productive role of women differs significantly in
the four states. Women in Himachal Pradesh, and to a lesser extent in Jammu
and Kashmir, are more involved in agriculture activities and decision making
as well as fuel and fodder collection. In Punjab and Haryana, women, except
the landless, are more confined to the household chores and men assume most
responsibility for fodder and fuel collection. By increasing the availability
of fodder and fuel under the project, family incomes from livestock would also
increase. In Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir women will benefit 'o the
extent they control livestock income and save time in fuel collection. In all
states women laborers will benefit from increased employment opportunities and
are likely' to have time savings which could be deployed for productive
purposes. The involvement of women in interactive planning (para 3.25) would
help to ensure that women obtain project benefits.



- 19 -
3.43  Coa5t B_Imer¢y.  Full cost recovery from beneficiaries will not be
feasible under this project. Some investmenta in the watershed protect the
environment which has long term benefits to farmers down in the plains as well
as to the economy as a whole. Thus, it is not possiblo to identify precisely
all individual beneficiaries and recover the cost. In addition, because the
technology being tried under the project is relatively new and requires a
careful interactional institutional mechanism as well as changes in land-use
patterns, limited subsidies should be allowed to cover farmers against the
inherent risk of adopting an innovation that is still being refined. The
project mwst generate public acceptance and support for it to be replicated in
a wide scale.
3.44 Despite these subsidies, there would be substantial savings in the
states' budgets because of the less expensive technology being promoted.   On
average, the cost of treating one hectare of arable land using engineering
structures is estimated to be Rs. 1,400 compared to about Rs. 550 with
vegetative technology. With the present policy adopted by most states in the
project area of either not recovering the cost or only recovering 10% of the
cost of treatment, state governments would save an average of more than RS.
1,000 per hectare under the project. However, in some states, such as Punjab,
substantial indirect cost recovery mechanisms are employed to raise revenue
from beneficiaries.-
3.45 Planting material (vetiver grass, forest and horticultural seedlings)
would be produced in centralized nurseries managed by project staff or on
farmers' nurseries supported under the project. Farmers would receive vetiver
strips free of charge while other planting material would be sold at
prevailing prices, which include a substantial element of subsidy (30-50
percent). To promote a change in land-use on steep slopes, the project would
provide free horticultural seedlings and part time employment during the
gestation period before such plantations become productive. Materials for
demonstrations on farmers' fields would be made available free of charge. The
project would support multiplication of fodder seed which would be provided
free of charge to interested farmers. Materials for constructing animal
stalls would be provided to farmers with a 50% subsidy in order to promote
stall feeding in the project area.
3.46 To support the animal improvement program, health services (including
medicines) and artificial insemination service (including semen) which are
provided in the project area, would continue to be made available at a nominal
fee (10-40 percent of market price). In addition, the project would subsidize
feed for the improved animals to the extent of 50% of the cost of late
pregnancy supplements, calf starter, and raising of female crossbred calves.
3.47 The cost and benefit sharing proportions for different tenure categories
of non-arable land are presented in Annex 14 and vary between states. On
private and common land a minimum of 10% of investment and maintenance cost
will be contributed by the beneficiaries in kind through establishment of
brushwood fencing and gradually increasing their participation in guarding the
lands. The requirement for such a contribution is expected to ensure close
consultation and agreement about the treatments as well as increased
beneficiary commitment. Intermediate benefits (grass, bamboo, babhar grass
for rope making) would generally be kept by the beneficiaries while the
Government would recoup part of the treatment cost by retaining a share of the
final harvest of trees. On public forest land, beneficiary access will be
provided either free of cost through existing rights and concessions or
through agreements providing preferential purchase rights to local village



- 20 -
societies. During negotiations, agreement was obtained from participating
states that project staff would interact with beneficiaries either directly or
through their representatives and agree on the choice of treatments and eost
and benefit sharing arrangements, which would either be in cash or in kind
through the following land tenure categories:
(a)   in respect of privately owned arable and non-arable lands, the
individual beneficiary landholder would contribute about fifteen percent of
the cost of labor and planting materials relating to the treatment;
(b)   in respect of arable and non-arable community lands, veated in the
Panchayats, the Panchayat would contribute about ten percent of the cost of
labor relating to the treatment ; and
(c)   in respect of non-arable state forest lands, the participating
state would enter into written agreements with beneficiaries or their
representatives for the purpose of sharing the responsibility for protecting
the treated forest resources, and the benefits resulting from such
development.
3.48 Treatment of drainage lines and roadside erosion and construction of
water harvesting tanks would be fully funded by the project with no attempt to
recover the cost. However, individual farmers would be responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the water distribution system.
3.49 The fiscal impact on the State governments' budgets would be an
additional expenditure of about US$ 29.0 million over the project period, and
less than USS 1.0 million annually thereafter. Over time, this would be
partially offset by savings in the maintenance of roads, bridges and other
infrastructure, and reduced compensations for flood damage to farm lands. The
amount of these savings could not be estimated, including the longer term
overall environmental protection (para 3.34).
3.50  ron-mic Ana1iya.  The economic rate of return for the project as a
whole is estimated to be 17%. Main assumptions underlying the economic
analysis are presented below:
(a)   The economic benefits have been estimated on the basis of
incremental production of maize, wheat, fodder, babhar grass,
bamboo, fuelwood and timber. The economic prices for maize and
wheat were derived from the latest World Bank Commodity Price
Projections issued June 28, 1989. India is a marginal importer of
wheat and maize therefore their import parity prices, after
adjusting for port handling (except for wheat produced in Punjab
which is a surplus state) and local transport, were used in the
analysis. For other products which are not internationally
traded, suitably adjusted local prevailing prices were used (Annex
11).
(b)   Economic costs have been derived from detailed cost tables
(summarized in Annex 1 Tables 1-23), excluding taxes and price
contingencies. After the implementation period, the recurrent
cost was gradually reduced to about 10% of its original estimate,
because only protection and maintenance of treated lands would be
required. Costs for operational research were excluded from the
analysis because their impact is difficult to quantify. On-farm
production costs were derived from crop budgets (Annex 10), with



- 21 -
built in conservative assumption of gradual adoption of improved
farming practices promoted under the project, which include the
use of fertilizers, improved seed and plant protection chemicals.
{c)   All local costs have been converted to border values by using a
standard conversion factor of 0.8.
3.51 SRnaitivity Analysis. Cost overrun and delays in accrued incr'emental
benefits could occur notwithstanding built-in safeguards in the project. To
estimate what effects these would have on the project, possible changes in
costs and benefits were introduced in the analysis and sensitivity tests
performed. The results are sunmarized below:
Tat Variations                     Intsfl Rates of IRturn
Base Case                                     17%
Benefits down 10%                             16%
Benefits down 15%                             15%
Costs up 10%                                  16%
Benefits lag 2 years                          14%
Benefits down 10% and Cost up 10%             15%
3.52   The overall project economic rate of return is moderately sensitive to
increases in costs and reductions in benefits. Assuming that benefits and
costs do not change by more than 10% of their present estimated zalue, the
rate of return would only drop marginally to about 16%. Even this is unlikely
to happen because of the conservative estimates of yield increases used in the
analysis and the high physical contingency allowance built-in the project.
Also, the return is sensitive to delays in realizing benefits. If major
benefits, particularly those dependent on the adoption of the rainfed
technology by farmers are delayed for two years, the economic rate of return
drops to about 14%. This rate of return is still acceptable for projects of
this type. However, to ensure that the economic rate of return does not fall
below 12%, which is the estimated opportunity cost of capital, special
arrangements, such as identification of site for nurseries and their initial
preparations, including retroactive financing, have been made to accelerate
start-up activities for the project to minimize implementation delays.
3.53   Switchign  vlu  ta-ts show that project costs would have to increase
by more than 56% or benefits have to drop by more than 36% for the net present
value discounted at 12% to fall to zero.
3.54   jaika.  The project faces one major risk which is associated  4'th the
scale of operation. Although the technology of vegetative soil and in-situ
moist_re conservation has been tried successfully elsewhere in India, it has
not been replicated in a wide area, as proposed under the project. It will
need to be demonstrated that the technology can still be sustained. However,
with government support, and with built-in safeguards in the project for
sustained management of the common property lands, the project haa a good
chance of succeeding.
3.55   The reasons for going ahead in the face of these difficulties
underscores the perceived necessity of coming to terms with important problems
of natural resource conservation. In addition, an integrated watershed
approach promoted under the project would be best suited to treat these
complex issues. Also, the project together with a companion project being
prepared for the plains areas, represents the next step in an important joint



- 22 -
learning process, and should generate improved awareness both of the problems
and possible solutions.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMIENDATIONS
4.1   During negotiations the following agreements were obtained that:
(a)   State Governments would establish Dam Review Panels in accordance
with the Bank's Terms ef Reference and the standards of design and
construction of water harvesting tanks would be satisfactory to
the Bank (para 3.8).
(b)   GOI would cause MOA to adequately.staff and support the Watershed
Development Council to enable it to oversee watershed development
activities in the participating st tes (pare 3.9).
(e)   State Governments would make adequi.-.e provision in their budgets
to cover incremental recurrent costs of implementing agencies
during the life of the project (para 3.11).
(d)   GO! will appoint consultants not later than December 31, 1990 to
train staff of participating states in interactive planning,
assist them in preparing such initial plans and advise on the
formation of village organization (para 3.13).
Ce)   State Governments would cause Project implementing agencies to
maintain separate accounts for all components supported under the
project (paras 3.6-3.13), and that proposed audit arrangements
(para 3.23) will be followed.
If)   State Governments would staff initial sub-watersheds by at least
one VEW per 400 farm families (para 3.26).
(g)   State Government would cause project offices and line departments
to interact with beneficiaries and agree on the choice of
treatments and on cost and benefit sharing arrangements (para
3.47).
Ccnditiona of disbursments for individual Iagtioipating States
4.2   Disbursements of loan/credit proceeds to participating states would be
made after the individual state government has met the following
conditions.
'i)      establishment of project offices and associated
committees (para 3.11);
(ii)     appointment of WPIO Director with qualifications
acceptable to the Bank (para 3.25); and
Ciii)    appointment of an independent agency for baseline
surveys and for project evaluation (para 3.32Cb)).



- 23 -
4.3 Disbureements tor additional sub-watersheds for Haryana, Hlimachal
Pradesh and Punjab and for additional micro-watersheds for Jammu and Kashmir
would depend on satisfactory implementation of initial sub-watersheds (para
3.9)
4.4 With the above assurances and agreoments, the project would be suitable
for an I3RD loan of USS 13 million equivalen: for a term of 20 years,
including 5 year grace period at the Bank's standard variable interest rate,
and an IDA credit of SDR 56.8 million (USS 75 million equivalent) on standard
terms with 35 years maturity.



IUIEGCAIED h3E251ED OEVELOPNIT P03ECI I NtiLS I
Suewry  Account by P.oj.et  COt    n t
IUOINEUT                                               Cont I._..
1lillUtt             iWiliUt                    41ttL AND        ICI       CNIAL.......
SusslEKIfinDsagi   StJEI3IED9tDSJCs/NIt.CIaIAI9DS  *C921I36833    INPl6NENttIMUllou  £ 0    Total s           Mount
1. INlS1NEN1 coStS
................
A  civil WOS                                     lK 6.6U. 2                                                       39.697.0   2.300.o    20.66. 2   4 1 29.412.8
L  IttlloStM ANs PtllE                               AO . 06                                                      13.big.9 0    s00 0     14. S. f0  9.8   1.421.2
t lLS OKIAIIONS 3I. w.S                                                           682,900.0     4?.393 3                 -   1.1325.0  1. 02831.9 t  It 4 201.. 2U 
o. tavisuoca PROGAM                                                                       -                        s.1os.s                 6.211. S  10.0     gaa.9
I. VINICLES                                                                               .9.091.0                             t00.0       9.091 0   0.0        0 0
I . IlaOImAt ASSasiasc                                                                                            34.n 963.    G.800a     24.773 S  10.0   2,477.4
G. 16M3696                                                                                                        1 *3.614 0               3. 264. 0  10. 0   3.361 4
.............  - ---- -----  ----- ----- ----    .. ..... ......... ............................ .............. . ................. 
Total IfVSItSKI COStS                               49o.es2 7                        667, 9000      47 *93 1        97.233 i  14.US1 0  1.316.9513.   1 0 236.936 S
it. aEutKEEll cotsi
3.   ..iSIM .C..S.
A.  tNICUE tDPINAIIBN AND NAINIlNNcLI                                                                           20.451 5                 20.4 1l.1  3 e0  2.041 2
S.  ilO  ENhI    aFtW I O 966106 0 M6INIM=S6NCIt                                                                 18.6800                 I&.-O 0  30.9t  1.6as 
C  sitU ttas . WAS AND mA aImiES                                                                                182.843 0               12.643.0   0 0   IC.26U  3
Q. NhilhiUG IS3htIhlCI                                  *2.232 6                                                                         32.212 6  30 0    1.221 3
I. Gl0let SIDWll¢S                                                                                               10.157 0        *       10 lb.?  e       00   1.0s I
l  RIMIAI cIAs                                                                                                   12. 0.                  12.0 *  0 e     l0 o .20 s
6NOISNOP  M9  MINIM11                                                                                           2,800.0                 2.a". 0  30 0       2106
lo.l REINtINI LOSIS                                                                                                2s9.649 I                219. 649. I  3e 0   2s.s9u 9
total  ASLtlill CDSIS                                4t0t:092 7                       667.s0 0       47. 93 3        3s6.082 2  14.135.0   116,603 0  16 7 262.901 s
Physical Contuimnses                               SI.M    9                       133100 t.0      9.438 6         36,864.    3.601 0    26721.1   0.0             6                                                S
Price Cant bngeacese                              312.913 4                        290. 804 9     34.2061?         96.633 6   2.0?? 7    116. 676 2  14 7  61.99189 
total P603C3  COSIS                                  724.1b4 o0                      .092.284 9      70.838 4       490.279 8  18.213 6  2.396. 380.7  14.4 344.*l    4
lais                                               7b.620 tt                        14.614 2       3.141 9         b .813 0     260 %      93. I 30.1  36 o  14.539 4
foreign lachehe                                    3b1.796.a                         9. S34 4      3.772 7        28. 614       6.5tS 0    13.443.4  14 3  39.22M  1
....... ........ .. .. . . . . . . . ~~~~~~.                                             ..  .   . ..   .     ... ..     ..   . ....   ... .. .... .... . .
Igb.uery 1. 1390 33 34
0
tU,



IUIIGiR*OII O iMflUO OIVIOP111111 PRIO.II I NilES I
Projeel Caqaafls.t by los
olabes InclIudsing Contl041pc*ie                                            14als lnIIud.#g Coal$ *40-0Cs
oneA      "Mla   lUl         92113    13/94    04/99      "AS9   laota           U/ne   goi    II/11    una9    9tw9    9nM        Ones   1et.s
a  6.11*1l 9NM111511E                        39.419 1 si. wB  I 156. 239 S IBSe6s a 120. UJ 2 fl.a12.2 41kb3i 6  114. S640  l* 1iu S 4.13 19  6.619 1 t1  1 a. III,  . e18s,  2.20M  3 38S63 I
a mlisumu  sumilmnuos'rnca..ussaos                           ..090. 009S0M. 190 6 217.Oft4 232. IS? 1 241. 100I1. E,092. 254 0              - Ee0.61 a w.i1.2 11. 113 S It. 43  S11.7#W  9 SS.132 9
c  iscmsses   I" m0-,  go  moptEIlC*I S       S6. S.6  16.21162  ft.0I0.4  10.411159  .4ea S  S. aaa a  S. 4. 9    10. W84    6M42    9945s   II 1    Ml0.4   462 I   4" 0    419 6            SAW s
a   OMC*  mlmlwoailIm                        St.9*  a 1?I. I IS I  1. 642 2  60.184 2 63. 69. S 61. 43 a 89.9    3    400.219 a  i. 3ee S *4.49  S  3.2M  3 3. SW  3 3.2' S9  3.324 3 3.196  ISa1W.?0 
*.  sismim  SWOI                              &I .io     %.So.   33. o.4    34309  1.294S        391 I         -   1213. 6    400.1   313 4    2E5 3       is I       ei      13             4ee 
101.1 PSMACI COSIS                            131.119 2 114. SU  3 420.GU0*0401. 611 1 413.242. I 401.9SU06 312.41191 2.396. I$$.?I  Lii? 1110.113 S 23.36.1 I 24. 0fl.@  it.463 I62601.O.3 11.62 111   129. ON4I
S. p  . Om1  is 14
of



IlIlEMUID mlUltStEO  OtlfIIOPUZI PRltlECi I MILLS I
suum     Acousls cost summre
lotS *OO                                            S  't0Ion
I total                                          I total
S Iore.gn  la.                                   I for*otin  Sr*t
local     forign    fotal       Iachae     Costs      tocal   fo10o.g   Total    tachafr    Cwts
I  lwESItmt costs
. ...........     .    ....... 
A. Civil Mms                                  198.641.0   9.824.3   208.665 2          5       13   12.051.0   591.4  12.646.4          5       13
f. LoIPIIPSUII MDt FIIilURt                    13.403.4   1.422 6    14.826 0          to       I      612 3    06.2      8.5           10       I
C. IfEtft OKPtR6ftIS                          S06443. 7  S0.391 91. 038.35. 6          5       66   59.905.7 3.054 I 62.959 7           5       66
0. IIVISIOCK tOtR                               5.974. I    314 4      6.2U 5          5        0      362 1    Is I    3o 1.1          5        0
E. WCMIC&tS                                     7.912.8   1.978 2      9.891.0        20        1      479 6   119.9      ses S        20        1
f. It&OIC*l  ASSISI65 Cf                       12,36.8  12.386 8    24?713 6          S0        2      750.7   70 7   1.501 4          S0        2
C. IMiEIMO                                      6.837.0   6.837 0    13.674.0         S0        1      414.4   414.4      628 7        S0        I
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .  ........ ..... ....... ..............   ... ...... ... . ... .. ...  .. .    .....
total IUVISIIUI COSIS                         1,233.798.7  83. II 2 1.316.953 9         6       84   74,775 7 5.039 7  79.811 4          6       84
Physical Conngaeos                            223.288.1  13.641 1  236.936 6           6       IS   13.532.6   827 2  14.39.8           6       IS
PrIe  Caontm mngm to                          440, OM  I 36.048 3   47f.236.4          6       30   10.967 0 1. IS4 2  12. 121 2        tO      13
lot*l ISCIUDIII  Ct0t11Il.icllitC             l.t97.275.3 132.851 6 2.030. 126 8         7      129   99.271 3 7.021 1 106.296 4          7      III
...   ........: .... .. ...... . ..   .  .... ........   ...   ..    ..   .......... .........
A  VtlICII OPIRAIIS   AND U 1t 1111111UNI:1   20.4SI S               20.4511                   1    1.239 S            1.239 S                  I
B. tlUIPIIII ORAkIION 4110 1N1I311tUCL        16,W00 018680 0                                  1    1, 132 1           1. 132. 1                I
C  541ttRlS . IlEAS AND AtCIIOUfCS           182,U43 0              162.843 0                 12   11081.O 4          11.061.4          -      12
D  8EIIiMO MIUIEMAIICI                        12.212 6               12.212 6                  I      740 2              749.2                  I
E. OtifCt SUIPPliS                           10.157 0               10.1S  0                 1      615.6              615 6          -       I
f. 1ni11  CUAUUS                              12.SOS 0               12.505 0                  1      71 9               1119                   1                                                             6
G. MSMSN PIO  IVAIUING                         1.680 0   1.120 0      2.00 0         40        0      101a    67 S       169.7        40        0
lotgl MICURMIl :COSIS                            258.S29 1   1.120 0   2S9.649 t  -       0       16   15.6tJ 4    67 9  tS, 736 3         0       t6
Physical Contor:i se                           2b.#%2 9      11 0    2.964 S9          0        2    1,566.6    66 6 1. 73 S           0        2
Prico  Continenceis                            79.980 0     459 a     80.439.9          1       5    2.013.9    14.7   2.028.6    t              2
total ICDIIIIG CtIIMOliCIItS                     364.362 0   1.691 8   366.053 9          0       23   19.249 2    89 3  19.338 6          0       20
.... .    ..   A .. .   . . . ... ... . :.   i-:  . . .. .. .. ... .. . :.   .. .: .: ::. .. -: .. :   -  .::. ::   : :: ; I:  . .  :
lotal  AStIltmi COSIS                           1.492.327 6  84.221 2 1.57t.603 0          5      100   Sf.444 I 1. 107.6  9S.51.?7         1      100
Phyiscal Conti arnies                          24U. 141 4  13. 76o 1  262. 901 S        S       I7  1b.099.5   633 9  15.933 4               1  I?
Pric. Contq inincis      .                     120. 18  1 3B6.10  2   116.676 2         7       35   12,980.9 1 168. 9  14, 149 6        a       1S
total PRUlCI COStS                              2.261.637 3 134,543 4 2.39B. 10 7         6      152  118.24 5  .t110o4 125.634 9          6      131
... ..... ..........   .. .:.....             ....  : ....   ........ .:.. :.: .:.: ::::..................... ::; ..... - .:
*abrdary S. 1990  13. 14
oft
.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



lUIEI0D  iS IIIO OfVLtLoptiV   Pt tCC   I MittS  I
PIWECI cOSt StNAIW
gas OOOI                                                   tfss IooM
....... .... .... ..... ........ ...... ......... ............... . ... ..... ...... .......  ........................ .................... .. ...
I total                                                   I total
I foreign  ease                                           I foroeig   I"
tocal       foreign       total       guchhng0    Coats         LOa       foreig   total    Iuchonp    Costs
L  U111911   SUSI8I(REDS                                   467t766.6  22.32b. 1  .490.092 1                 s        31   28 349.  t1353. 1  2S.702.S                 s        31
S. AIsieCAt SIJuSN IslEDOS/iCUhIONEeS                      8*4.500.0  N390.0    667.900 0                   b        42    38.454.1  2.023.   40,475.8                5        42
C. tlitOG? INPIItNt A1N  £D ttCAllOU                      44.33.s    2.359.7         47.191 I             s         3     2.717 2    143.0    2.810.?               S         3
0. ""e1tCl  IP EEIiAilou                                   335.S 4.e   20.910.2    356.82 2                 6        23   20.362  1 1.26? 2  21,82. 2                 6        23
1. cl111l, S1101                                             9.248.    5.286 2          14.03b.0           36          I       560.5   320. 4        88.9            36          1
........   .....   ..  ............  I  .  I. . . ......                                              ...........  ...... ...................
lttal 885LIf E  COSIS                                      1.4s2.327.8  84.27b 2 I. b76.603 0                 s       100   90.444.l 5.10? 6  95. 00. t                         to0
Vhpstsal Canltocsea                                       249. 141.4   13.,60.1    262,901.S s                      I?     t0.d9.0    633.9  15.933.4                s        I?
Intc   Co nt mec- ss                                       20. 163 1  36.s0102    06.6762                  *        35    12.980.9 1.168.9  14.149.8                 a        Is
. . . . . . . . .   . .. . . . .    . . . . ..................... ............ ......................
total P10.8ECI COSIS                                       2.261.637 3 134.543 4 2.396.180 *                  6       102  I1l.024. s1. 110.4  12. 634 9                 6      131
fbruar  S. 1290   13. 14
0
fPt'
I.t-



HINMAcI PRESh SuBMJtCI
Smary Account by Poj.ct CAoqompf
IRS 1000)
I CIUOtoCr                                         Phys Ica I
Is'RaoEw I                                       Cant Ia ees
luhllAlO DD*OO igl                             no          PiOUECI      CEdm16              -.--------- -
SUSmI&RSNloS  sIuWAitIOSMNlcltQOM*IE IS  5,IIC91101109  INl'lPKEUI*I101  SUPPPRI   total        I   s_mt
~~~~~~~~~,a.. .,... ..    s:    :::............ ..       
1. IEVSIKEI COS5
A. Civil IuS                                   19.0M3.                                                      9.1000             20. 93. 8   8.a  2400.6
o  EeoulpmIl *0 FUmIIURE                          AM0.0                                                     4. 610 e5.425.0   G     462 5
C. fitt OPERAlIOmS                              s574.s7                                     13. 2M.4               *3.400.1 102  6.4804
0. vmclEs                                                                                                   2.3400 a            2.30 0   0 0       00 
E. ItCOmCAt ASSiSIuuE                                                                                        1.7100 e.ll7 .0 e                 00    1710 
.. .*13166                                                                                                  4.200 0             4.200.0  10.0    4200
lotslI lUVSlUIUI COStS                            69.465.5                                    13.025.4        2i.91.0            105IS. 2$       5 1.54 S5
II  .iuu   ..SI
e  IGUlPSIUI oPiR*IIoS S"B 3*alUluct                                                                       S.7130              9.713.0  10 0   n?l 3
G* S6 IIS . MAcIS AD AtOIISets                                                                               2J.191 6            20. 191.6  l0 0  2.819.2
fotal  luhl C0SIS                                                                                             31.904 6 537.9046  100  3.790 S
lotal UItlUt COSIS                                 bs 465 5                                    13625. 4         9. 872. 6         '43. 163.   9 6 13. I      0
PFhyh.9l Canhmrnqmcus                            4.771 7                                     2.765 1         6.I G0              13.7450   0.0      00 
FPe lConkeI4c le                                89.004 7                                     4.201.3         16.670.7           3.816 4   8.7  3.4b3.6
....   ..  ....... ..... .. ..   ..... ........  .... .... I     .. .  .. ..  ........... ..................  . .... .....
Total PUdCI CDSIS                                  93. 241 9                                   20.798 a        62.751.6            1957615.3   J.7 87201.6
leues                                            I 509 I                                     9e39.6          I.25135 3.00. 2   3.    539 S
tor.st n £cbeq                                   2.0%,2                                       .0Se.0         6.0 6S              I.3M.6  11a I.3  on 0
fOtuery s. OM oI I p
C2lj
Pt
NJ 
U'



'Hula
HINAHI PlUDS SUtWOOJECI
Project Compnts by T"r
lotals Inlaludng Conti inc's"                                                              lotals Including Contsngmmclae
Ies I 0001                                                                                 Wss Iemt
............................. ......... ............. ............. ........ ........... ....................... ..... .... ...............   ................................. ..............................
19/90      90/91       91/92       02/92       92/94       94/95       Vss96       Total          sltS       WAS0    0/ft2    92/23    632/4    f4/5   95                lotsl
A.  InitIAL  S*tliERSa S                                      . 2090.23  11tt6t 0 20n.61 2 27n79.2  14,641.0   9.4572    5.049.9   93.241.9                     1 t7'    7M  5    1.131 2  1.43.3    74?  I   448.2 233.3  4.39314.2
a.  IECIUltWtOGT I*Ps         tur  no WtLICAUI               2.234.    3.455 4  3.4*   9   3.232.!   2.997.5   3.195.1   2.085.   20t91.6l                      t4t.5    196.7    1I3.?    t72.2    1529             5I?4 2*    A      1.s.i
C. PEeo IPIge        IlAtIOII                               14.023T 13.6t4 5  84215  10.250.) 1t152. 712.787.  11.4923.1   82,75I 6                             14S  9      6.0    46? A    545 7    62e             629.9 544.7   4.445. I
,. ........ .......... ........ ...... ... ....... ........ ..........  .. ..... ......  .... ..... ..... ...... I...... ....... ..... ...... ....... ........ ...... ..................... .. ....
Total N JCI COStS                                             190449.0 3e0120 9 32.267.6 41.411.0 29,193.2 25,039.4  10.628.2 196.785.n   t. ITC 7  1. 41 7  1. 72. 6  tI M   2  1. 520. I  . 233 5  M2.   1 05 5S. 
............................................ ..............................................-......-.....- . . .  .    .     .     .    .    .     .    . . ................  ..........-....-........ ......................................................
lebngr   5.  1990   t3. II
'0
t
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



swuwoy Ccuni cRlOISN SdIIOJtC
SU~R ACCOUIIIS COST SU^RY
tits I 0001                                   lUss I Om0
I bleDa                                       I lojel
KForein   ease                       WSoS  oseo
local  foreign  lotal   Iuheangs   Coust    toc.   foreign  lolal    achro,  Cwts
I  I11wSII1EII COSIS
a  CiVIL 19o1s                              27.383.6   60 2  21. 183 8           3      20   1.OS9.6    48.6  1.70t t          3       20
6. IOUIPIUI AND fISilural                    4,.42 5   4826   S.42  0            9       4     2996     792    328.8           9        4
C. IlEtD o0MRIAlI9S                         61.7S0.0 1.620 1 63.400 1            3      44   3,744 2    2tt 2  3.642 4         3       44
0. "IlHits                                    1.612.0   41 0   2.340 0          20       2      113 5    28 4    149 S        20        2
t. UCItCiS ASSIS6I1CE                           6s6.o0   S56     1.710 0        SO       I      Sl a    Si a    103           6 0O      I
1. IltIItING                                 2.100 0 2.100.0   4.200 0          so       3     127 3   927 I    254 s         so        3
...    .......  .   ~~~~~~~ ~~~.....  .    .......    .. ....  . .....  ....    ....    ..  ...     .. ..    .... .
total ISRIIIENI MM09 C                         91.933. 1 6, 325. a  0. 25S 9        b      74   S. 9S  9   363.4  6.379.3         6       74
Physicl Contnstices,                         S. I96 7   767 8   9.954            6       7     sss6    4? ?    603 3           8        I
Price Canisng e. es                         25,349.2 2,142.0  27.,43.3          8       t9    607.1    70 b    737 6           90       9
1l.9l 1K1IUG1:    CCUtIIUNICIIS               133.441 1 9,256.6 142.696.7           6     100   7.21S8  609 6  7.720 2            6       S9
I I  Itt1u t  1U:Rttl 9OI 
A  IeOU9MPW9   OPtRAIl4 tt0o AND IrlU*U4CI  9.793 0            9.793 0                  7     bag 7             b8a '                  7
6  S1A198 S , tlSStS M1tD At1 UtANCIS      Is. 191 6          2?.199            -      20   6,7066            1.708 6                 20
t.ol . tcuRtIIU   COSIS                        37.904 6           37.904 6                 26   2.297 2           7,!97 2                 26
PhCs Carl Cnlingmncs.                         3.790 S           3.790 6                  3     229 7             229 7                  3
Urtc. Contig  ic.*s                          17.393 s          12. 393.s                 9     306.6             30! S                  4
9.9.9 IttCtUIIIC CDIIIUGIUFS                   64.          088 s  s4  o3 6 lt  2?.36 4                           2U83s.4                 33
total U6skiltt  COSIS                            36.837 7 .32  8 143. 163 6          4     ioe   8.293 2   383 4 88676.6            4     9o0 
Phycal C    inncie                           t2.9gl2   7878  13.7460              6      to      7e8  3    47 7    833.0         6      t0
Uric  Cong"9   c $es                          37.734 7 2.1420  39.e76e            t      78     9765      705  9,046.0           1      12
total tt1CI COSIS                               987.29 6 6    26s 6 196.;7s  3       t     937  90.06 40   609 6    s0.Mb    6            9>2
, . - ~~~.... ....    .... ..     ...    ..... ,.--4-+*
....     ... .......... .......... ...                             ..  ..   . .....  ...     . ... ..  ,...     ..     ..     . .,.., ...... ......... ............. .. ..... .......... .... ......   
*ruury S. 9990 13 of
am. Cop I Inf  Sifile  I    US9OIR3/NATWI  Ca lled by S6f ile    CO£W6SS
C $Iione   C05148 version 9901661 l666
(2 (7 olading *ros. 8tSf 9890/19
6SIC INIOlIniIOU division cqi led
( (2 P< ading Ifro SPIN
S ECII INSI tCIIONS division coa led
(" (  lading frit POCUS
PRICE COlIltlGECC divi&mon copiled
(2 (2    ding from COWS/UNVISEO
CSPrOtUNIS division cvitled
<( <(, ladinsg (ra SU111*C
SIIY  CtOUtl3S diviSion ce    l ed
(2) (  Reading Irow lMART*l/SIIS*/Sms
(2 () leading from N*91YU *rAIIAIS0S1
OEIUltD COSI 141t 902 CO1IlPlIEt
(2( 2 leading from N*87*18l/IllelPI
6(1*91t9  COS  1*61f 903 cONPiiCo.
(2  2 leding from tl IINA/PIWIU6G
6(Al9*f  COS1 :01*1   104 CONIIPI(
4.6(F4OtI8    311087 8(0o   -998l "OMS
9t0C8 COCII 1A181C11S.
.    ._ ._            *  



IIIDI
IliNAClIal PR3DES1 5U6PROJEC1
PfWF ICI COS[I SUIAIUR
* csoOl                                                11115 * OW
*t0tal                                                 * 10t .1
I foreign  64s0                                                         amo.gn 6t
tocal    foreign   olosa         V zchauqp    Colst        local    foreign    latal    Exchap           Costls
:.:~-    ,    .:   .....::. .       I      . -.  :   : . ... . .    - :4  z.:.  , -   ,-.-. :
I. 1111116  SIUiS1ECSNEOS                                  65.170 A 1.294 t  69.465,5                   2        49    4.131.6        7t.5   4.210.0               2       49
0.  IECIUEtO lG   INl_lEhII AND  9PP1ICAI ION   t            3. 134  1   691.3   13.625 4               5         10       796 0      41 9      83U 9              5        10
C. PIJCI  Il1P1fI1U111AIIN14                               55.532.8  4.339.8  59.872 6                  7        42    3.365 6    263.0   3.6286                  7        42
foltl 8asEIfII  COStS                                        136.837.t 6.325     143. 163.b                4       100    S.293.2    383 4  8.516,6                  4       100
yical Colironpu           "                               12,957.2    167 a   13.745 0                 6        la       765.3    4*  7        833 0             6         to
PrIce Conlingwaic"                                        37.734.7 2.142 0   39.876 8                  5        28       9755         o0 5   1.046 0             7         12
.......... .......    . ......   ...... ..   . ... ........   ....    ...... ..  ...  .... ..   .....   ......  ........    ..    ......    .......
Total PRulCV  COSIS                                         187.529 6 9.255.6 196.1t5. 3                   5       137   10.054 0    501 6 10.5S   6                5       122
. .   . .   .                                                                                          ..   .    ..   ....  ..  .  .... .... .  . _...... ...... ... ... .  ... .  ... .. . . ....... .... . ....   . . . .....
labriaty  b.  11190   13. 11
VI
*FEf
X 
II
UA



"ARIA"  SUEPfJICI
S_try  Account by Prolct Cappnsnt
IRS 1000W
1lCliN0I00V                                               Physical
t_EttjH1:1ai111                                         Cont tg  icts
llTItl l  1DDI l tJtft                               lUtD          PRO tECI       eUtlZtA.......
SUtlEliStE S  SUOMIftIEt1SINEDS/141COIEtiStEDS  APPtleftilet   IttFtEftEltItItss   StlM   lolul               S     ftlm
1. IttISIuII   costs
A  Ciuti uORIS                                        30.8t1  8                                                            33.72  0               4- 4.337 8  IS 0  6.1 0  I
8. ECUIPitEl AND FtuirInU, t                                                                                                3.123.0                3. 123.0  1t  0    312 3
C  SitS DPiRAII11S                                    21,320. 0                                          10.719 2                  -              32.039 2  20 0  6.407 8
0  WidiCIS                                                                                                                  1. 345 0               1 345.  0 O 0        0 0
L. ItCNNICAI ASSISIANCt                                                                                                     7.560 0                  .tS60.0  tO 0     755.0
IRAIUtIG                                                                                                                 3. S90 0               3,600.0  10.0    369.0
............ .... .....   ..  ...   .  -     -----  .....   ...  ....    ........  .........  .......    .....   . ...     ........... ...
Walte  INWSIRZUI COSIS                                   52. 137. a                                         10. 719 2         29,438. 0              92. 29  0  is t 14.,525. 
I. mItimal costs
a  VIHIC41 OPIIlAIIIIU AND tAINlINAnCt                                                                                     2.639 0                2.b39    10 0    263 9
8  tOuhPi&'NI   OPIltAIItUt AND RASUBINIANCI                                                                                9g9 0                   939 0  tO 0         9S9
C  SalittlIS .  AItfs AND AIIowAEN(%                                                                                      32,a4b 5               32.6463 S       00  3.284.7
9. BUIIDIliG NAIII1U111I                                                                                                      19 6                   59 6  10 0        2 0
t  Dttici SUPPIIIS                                                                                                         1.400 0                1.400 0  t§ 0       140 0
F tuIat&  CttM.is                                                                                                           4000                   400 0   10 0      40 0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    .                 .      .    . . . .   ..  .   .  . .     . . .    . . ....................... 
lo0al WitcumO  t CoSs0                                                                                                          3.264 1               38.264 I  10     3.626 4
total tASLIt Il  LOSIS                                    S2. 137 a                                          10.119 2           67.702 t              130.559 t  14 t 18.352.2
Physical Contingenc os                                  B. a86I                                            T.143 8            7. 321 7              18.I32 2   0 0        a 0
Pe,c. Conte I    nc is                                 13.457 9                                            3.253 6           17,061 3              33.772 6  12 0  4.059 0
total PROJiCI COSIS                                       74.412 4                                           lb. 115 7         92.0i3  I              182-6S4.2  12 3 22.4112 2
.  ..... ........ .. ... .... .... .  . . .  ..  . .  .. . ..  .. .. .. .  ..  . .  .  . .  . .  .  . .
lasx"                                                   2.342 b                                              803. 8            938.3                4. 126.7  14 3       88 9
foeige fmchange                                         3.9379                                               8389            9.7067                 14.- 033   It )  1.604 t
tebruse  3, 1S 90  13 12
W
Mt1
t.J
tJt



gaRmas sualai0Jl
Projoct Cuopow ts by far
totals Includ.ng Canl ingancmn                                         to als cluding Cons sngseiens
(8%  0001                                                              (us$ I0Om
891/90    90/9*    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    W959       totel      89/9    90/91  91/92   92/93   i3/-4   VIAt  U/Af6 Ttaml
&   I1111W  SU61141RS*l10S                   10.751 4 14.487 6 13iJ31 6 1I.920.? 12.564 6 10.064 9  I. 361.S5  74,482.4    651 6   637 4   740 6   634 I  641 I  495 A64. 5 tU.0   I
S  11030100? INPIWEIVINI AUG £WLICAIIUm         2,063. 2  2.516.?  2.8  7  2.108 2  2.099 0  2. 19? 4  2.202 4  16. 116?7   *2S.0   151 3   IS? 2   112 I   107 I   *08 2 104.4   U6S.4
C. Puwtc; lpewuNmwrauu                         19.66553 15.0me.s 12.255 0 13.614 5  9.921 0 10.343 7 11.228 6  92.085.l  I. *93. 2   670.9   680 8   724 2   56. 2   549. 5532.2S. 015 0
totle 860.1CC Costs                              22.469.2 32.1Ill 3 28.416 3 2? F4 Mi 24,584 6 22.506 1 14.719256 182,684 2  1.969 3.859g6 1. W8 7 1.470 4 3,254 3 1.1*136 706.I1. so4. 6
lflsry  5. *990  *3 It~~~~~~~~~ c-  a--   ..  ~4
.Z. 4  zz    4. . . . . .  . . . . . . .  . . . . . .                                     -z-o~~~~~~~~~t
.    . .     . .     . .     .    . . . .                          .. . .. . .                 . .    . .    .       1 !
fwuorv S. 1294 M12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



3803813  S3IBPOOEC3
s_tv Accontis cosi Stuuma
ttS  0001                                           fUSs  i000t
...     .  .     .     .... .......  .     ..... . .. .. ....... ........ ....... ..... . ....     .... .........   .........    ..........  .......... ..................
I total                                          2  0otal
1 lorSigli  bas                                  I Ioreign  ease
local   loreign    lote       Ltchaist    Costs    tocel  loreoag  lot1 l   Exacha           Costs
:;:,:~~.        ;    .. . . . . .   ::::...... _.... :: ..   .....__._ .;::........:.:::;: 
I  IIUsI Ett COSIS
..........    ........ .... 
A. CIVILt VOMS                                   42,310.9  2.226.9  44,537 8               5       34  2.564.3    3 3  0 2.699              5       34
6 a    1Ptl R    tiD tIfuHIluRi                   2.610 *      312 3   3.123 0            10        2     170 3      t8 9   189 3           tO        2
C. 9I3tD OPIR*I toS                              30.43n1.   1.602.0  32.039 2              5       25  1. 84.7    97 1 1.941 8              5        25
0. StHICtES                    I.076.0                         269.0  13345 0             20        1      65 2      16.3    81 5          20 t
f. IFHIcI tL ASSISIANCI                           3.7 8 0  3.780 A   7,560      50                  6    229 1   220 1   458.2             so         6
*  3I0A3NN                                          ,645.0 t.US5.0   3,690.0              SO        3      it 118   II 8   223.6           SO         3
.. ~~~~~~~~...    ..                   ......  .....     ....      ...... .  .   .....   ..... .......   ........ .    ..  ...   ....    .......
lotel 1     IU03IHtIt CoSts                          82.259  2 10.035.2  92.295 0            11       71  4.915.4   608.2 5.593 6              Is       71
Phtsical Contingam ces                            13.277 ?  1.248.2   W4M525 8             9       11    804 ?    7S 6   8O 4                9       11
Price Coneirgscm es                               18.977 0  3.220 2  22, t97 2            lb       37    520 a   t07.0   627 7              t7        a
lotal ItCIUDlttS COU3IlIUGC3&S                      114.514 5 14.503 S 129.018 0              3       SO9  6,310 9   790 8 7.101 7             11       90
~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  .   . .  ,..   ....  ... ...........   ..... .   .. .. .... :.:
11  RfCtl tt I COSI'S
At VINC11 OI311Dlt6 AD NAIU3IU*13C1             7.309 0               2.659 0                     2     ISO 9              IS9 9                    2
6  EQUIPFNItI OtAtlltON AlNlD Nl*3 1At1&N           050 0          -       599 0                   I      58.1              t o             -        I
C. S*l*lltS . "AQkS AND AItUt3tCIS              32.846                32.846 5                    25   1.990.?7          3.00  7                    25
0. 8UIIDIIIC NAiNtUC&E                               3s 6                  19 6                    0        1 2               1.2                    0
E tOiC   StPP3IIES                                1,400 0               1.4000                     1      84 8              84 8                     I
f. Rt4IA8   CtUtS                                   400 0                 400.0                    0      24 2              24.2                     0
3ot3l OEIC30i   COStS                                38.264                        1 38.64 3          29  2,319. 0           2.319 0                    29
Physical Cont4.ngem is                             3.826 4              3,t2b4               -      3    231.0              231.9                     3
Pria   Coetsingpm es                              tl.,75 6                ,11575.6         -        9    29209              292. .           -        4
Iotal 1CtUUttS C0141111CttCiS                      S3.66b  2             53.b6b 2                   41  2.843 8            2.843 8                    36
.. ... ......... ...:.... ..........  .     .    :   .     .   ..  . ..   .
total s.ELIlltl COSIS                                120.524 0 30.O0S 2 130. 59 t              a       300  7.304 S   608 2 7.912 7              8      t00
PhysICal Contingenie:s                               17, 304 I  1.248 2  18.32 2            7       14  1.0366    75. 6 1.112 3               7       14
Pr Ico Cont angencis                               30,A2 b  3.2202  J3.772 8               t0       26    8t3 7    0? 0   920. 6             32       32
lot  POf    CI COStS                                 16, t80 r 14.503 S 11t2.4 2               6       340  9, 54. 6   1900 .  .945 6            8      126
..         ..   ...   ..   .   .... ......  .  ....   ....  .......;... :.  .:..,:
..  ........... ............... . .. ... ..                        .................................
I braery 5. 3090  13 32
*to C**  lI Ing Sit Ilae  NaS3tRIP3UtjAS  C&Iled t by  tdi* Ito    COIIPASS
CplIIng   C605108 version  3I3038  355S
* ()<  Reading tram 8*5E1K10/1P11Ud48
BASIC 3ItO6IAIlOU division compiled
U  <t Rltding trom SPIN
SPtC10U   IttSIluciltS ddiision copi l   edd
O ) Reading trom P3(609
PttlC  a1&itrANL1 division ciqiled.
<> 4) leadng firma COI3PS/R1iV3StO
CEttP[NtUtttS divsion compxiled
4) <) Geading from %IC                                                                                                                                                                                                       o
S_Wtt  ACCOtdIS division compiled
0) U  Reading from PJ/UA3IAS3S
K 143t16  C05T 10811 401 CONPUlE0.
(0 Rbieading trom PJ/DbSU1V/SltS
0tlAlt*1    COSt 11841  402 CONPIIlO
*) <t Reading trom PI/OtI53/3S(5
011tUltt C6l 14t8t 403 COIIPIIl.
4) 4) btding trfm Irom P/KHAIU/SNS
Oft 1*1D COST 31811 494 COlPltkO
R) <t Reading from W J/ACf1t11tttt/SltS



IlsTM   SUSPUOJI CI
POOJiCI CoSI SLUM
IRS   0001                                                          Wss '0001
..... .... ............... .... ....  . .......    ....  . .. ....    ... ....   ......    ........  ............. ... .... ......
I  lotal                                                        I  lotal
I  Toreson   Base                                                I  foreign   Ba,s
Local   foreign   Total    tJch_r   Costs    locai  foreign lossl   Eschesig    Cosls
::::: a:: ' __ _::: .: :: :_::: .::: .   ...... .: .:: . . . zLz zz z; . .   z.     L .::   .....:: :.::;-:: .::. I; ..: U;.--: ::::
A.  1(4112t     SU81^TIf   NIEDS                                     49.530.9   2,606 9   52.137 8                         5          40   S.001 9          ISO 0  3. 19 9                  5          40
B.  lECHIH3loGR        IIIPIIOEIII AD   PPIIC*IlOU                    10. 183 2        536 0    10. 719 2                  5            a      617 2         32 5      649. 6               6           8
C.  PIIWECI  INPLENiN8AbiO                                           60 809.8 S .892  3   67.702  1                       10          52   3.S85  4    417  7 4.101  2                     10          62
.. .......        .......     . .   .... ..... .   .. ..  ...    .   ...  ....  .         ...... . ..... .      .     .   . . .. .......
tlotsel BSIIIN   COSTS                                                 120.6240  20. OS   2130.S6g  I                         a         100   7.304S          6082  7*912  7                   8        100
Ihysical Contingncies                                               17. 104.1    1.748  2    18.362  2                    7          14    1.036  6        75 6  1,112  3                  7          14
Pr,c. Contrnepcues                                                  30.552 6  3.220 2  33.772 8   l                       0         26    013 7   107 0   920 6                           12         12
total   ulICI  COSIS                                                    68. 180.7  14.S03.5  182.684  2                       8         140   9.154.8         790.8  9.94S 6                   8        126
4    .      4z. .   ... .. .... .... .   .. .. .   ..  .    .. .... .  .. .     .     .  ..  .. . . . . . . . . .     . . .  . .. . .     .. . . . .
.  . .. ... .  ..  .. . ..  .. . .  .. .      .. ..  ..  . .   . .. .  . ..     .  .  .. .     .  .. . . .. . . ..  . .  . .. .. ..  ..     . .. ..   . .. ..... ...... ........ ...... ....... . ... .... .... ..... .. . .. ... ... . ..................
bruary  S.  I290   13  12
U,



J3i11 Y40 IssiwIIS I sUE6IIECt
Sa4ey iccoant by Project Cowfbnt
(Rs 000$
fli.OWBLOG?                                          Phyiscal
IIPOVKII                                           Coat tef.mc'S
1111141              Ao2IlCr,AI                  NIo         PRWtCI        CtinlR.lt              -      -
SU1mt91iiloS  St"Ii 5us"IsOS/ClilamiSi"OS  4PPtl&C8110    124Pt1i6l8iI31 1 0W*1   rotal             3 fwnt
...~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~                                         ~..    .......
I. INEVSIWElI COSIS
A. civil 101.s N1.191                                                                                 -          0.132 0        - 5.'12 s  21.0  9.102?r
E. QIOUIPNlI AND 8 UIIIIOURi                                                                                     2.52.0              2,124.0  to0      252 4
C. fiflo OPIIIIUS                                s9.890.3                                      1.1*g6. s               *01.028    2002.080.8
0. tlivES2Ie  IDIU0I                                                                                            & 2.                 6.28  t   100    628.9
It Vnicits                                                                                                       1000.0               1.0000   0 0       0 
f  ItCHUICAI £SSISIUC*                                                                                           1.30 s              1.353 6  200    12 94
Gi ItMIUBUG                                                                                                      1.000 0              t.000a  20 0 o    oo 0
Total IUVIS2IlNI COSIS                             144.709.8                                      lb. 48.5        22,688 1 282.16 4  17 5 33.921 1
11  StCUMR[I cesis
A  VINtICII OPtItAllW  MO10 t AlIttNilUt1                                                                      10.080 0            fo.oso 0    to 0  1.00o   0
*  10U2P141  upitiAl 3tun AND HINAN11.l                                                                        2.ts2  0             2.520 0  30 0   212 0
C .SSMII5 .    I. AND At9OS9110                                                                               33.850 o             33.5500   oo      . 1 S 0
0  WlOUiNlG tAlMtlltAUI                                                                                       8,873 0              9 8730  to 0    98" 1
4: 039ctWUp9iolli%                                                                                             4.9000               4,900 0  20 0    490 0
I  tINhiatl  dtAGIS                                                                                            9.80 0               9. 0o o  10 o    s0    0
C  NDKUSIPS WR IBAIKING                                                                                       s2.0oo       .        2.8000  0o 0    2*0 0
lotal RICU#RIN  C9515                                                                                            7.1?23 0         *   73.523 0   00 o       .352 3
lotal 6S*I511   COSIS                               144.709 8                                      15. 148 5       96.223 1            256.079 s  II 3 39.279 4
PhbicaI cant,ungem,es                             2b.201 0                                       3 029 7          0. 048 7           39.279 4   00        00  
Price Contingflcies                               48,b76 4                                       4.390 2        25. 662.4        -  78.  8 9  13 1 10.610 4
lot.l PUOJCI LOSIS                                  219.587 2                                      22. 68 4       131.932 2            374.087 8 a 3 13 49.     8
Imx%                                              a8.81 7                                        1. 228 4        2.095 3             II.801 4  14    2 1.714 A
loragon Lschang.                                 12.784 0                                        b .299 2        4.988 *4            27. 97  1   3.7 2.470 1
Iebruary 0. 1990  33  2.
0-'I-
C 
Pg.
N
t,



lABIA
iA.W  8b "SaleI suBPOo.c;i
Project Compoets by Teyr
, ,,,,, . *1' teIlst"coel t%C's {~~~~~~~~~US$ 'OWl 
89/90    gotII    91/92    92193    93/94    94/95    95/96    lotal             89/90   90/91   91192   92/93   33/94   941K    15/96   loal
A. 16I111&I SUMIFAIEDS                            lS.4I8.4 26,814.8 34.686 9 329268 3 40.542 8 36.274 2 27.5?? 8 219.987.2    934 4 1.550 o 1.9227   2.03s 5 2.01.5  1.787 I 1.307.0 II.8Go  I
S. ltcIUOLO6T t6PRMV1t1  NS  WILicaioN            3.816.9  2.932.4  4.013.5  3.649.7  2.us4.s  2.t4.5  2.890.0  22.564 4    231 3   169. 5   2230    194 1   130 0   133 &   I37 0  1.218.0
C. PIMCI lIPtIEf AlUlaFm                         21.100.8 25.7B0.0 15.469:6 16.696.5 16.473.1 1UI?            018.,768.2 13.932.2  1.22U  7 1.490.2   859 4    U8  I   840.5    652   1189.5  7. 118.
.......  ........     .....  . .   ...  ....  ......     ........     .. . .. .. ..     ..   ..   - .     .....  ..... .......  ------ .. --- .. --- ... .... - .... ---   ----   --- --   --..--...----..... ... ....
total P0 CI COSIS                                   40.416.1 55.527 2 54.170 0 58. 614. s 59. 564. 3 56.558.7 49.237. 0 314.087 8  2.449.5 3.209.7 3,09 4 3,117 S 3 039. 0 2.786 1 2.333 S1   945.8*
::::s::: ....::  :.::.                  ---.::   :::::::    -;-::  :::     :. ::.   :.::::  :--::  :::::: :.::: :::::- -:::  .:::S                 ......
leray  s. 1990  03 II
"A,
0
W s



IRS 10001                                        WUS$ .0001
I lotal                                             Total
I foreign  Base                                    foreign  Bass
tocal   fworegn   Total    I.changs,  Costs    local   Foreign  lolal   lachang.   Costs
1. imvtsiMui cosis
A. civil MOMS                                 62.083 9  3.267 6  66. 3626            6       26   3.762.?   198 0  3.960.?            6       26
6  EQUIPMENT AND FlRIU*lu                      2.271 6    262 4   2.24 0            to        I     I3??7    163    263 0            20       I
C. 12110 oFtulAloS                             K9.7869  S. 261.9  06. 036. 8         S       421  6.047 7   318.3  6.366.0            I       41
0. f.2V1S1012 P9060R3                          5,974.l    324.4   6.288 6            6        2      360  1    I9 I    361 1          S        2
1.VIllICttS                                       n00.0    2000   1.0000            20        0       46.6b    12 1     60 6         20        0
I . 12C221C*I *SS2SI*uCI                         676.8    676 a   2. 3b3 6          s0        2       42 0    41 0      62 6         60        I
S  118168                                         600. 0    600 0   1.000 0         60        0       30.3    30 3      60 6         60        0
l.2.2 INVtlSNCU  COSTS                          172.093 3 10.463 2 182,666 4           6       71  10.429.9   634 1 11.064 0            6       72
PhYSICal Cant ingancies                       30. 212 2  i.71l. 9  31. 927 2         6j      12   1.831 0   103.9  2.935 0            6        22
Prioco Caut sngences                          St.8129 3  4.2101 7  S6.9WI 0          7       22   1.333 7   233 0  1. 466.?7          9        9
lot.2 IKICIDINB  UIl 12N(.1UEI                  h 24. 224 6 lb. 279 7 270.404 6         6      206  23.5694 6   672 I 24. 466 7          8       93
It  2itcuR1IIU  CO%I$
A. VIIOICIL 00268221011* AND  8INUlI.2E      20.080 0             10. "C. 0                  4     620 9              620 9                   4
BtIou2Pt UlOI 00111113   AND NakSiKINI*E      2. b20 0             2.620. 0                  I      262 7             162 7                   I
C  ¶82*12S * wasl *329 *tdhf*CIS             33.660 o0            33.660 0                  13   2.033 3            2.033.3                  13
0SuliolIG 21A22IINCL                         9.813 0              9.873 0                   4     698 4              698 4                   4
I  Attic, SI2PAI'2S                           4.900 0              4.900 0                   2     297.0              297 0                   2
If1281A CIIAUGIS                              9.600 0              9.8000                    4     693.9              693 9                   4
CINM$IRiIOPS   IOU 2922KG                      2. 680 0  2.120 0 2.6000            40        2      2028a    67 9     169.7         40        ,                                                                       w
f0ist lft2200tl COSIS                            72.4030  2.2120 073.523 0              2-      29   4.368 2    67 9  4.466 9            2       20
Phiysical Continigencies                       7.240 3    112 0   7.3b2 3            2        3     43889    b..       446 6          2        3
Price Contingenciles                          22. 348 I    469 6  22.608 0           2        9     663 2    24 7    677 7            3        4
tota l IICtUDIff C069 2NGIXl2t$                  202.992I6  2.b92 6103. 683 3           2       40   6.369 9    89 3  6.419 3            2       36
lfals  685122221 CCSII                           244.49b 3 11.663 2 2ti6.079 6           6      100  14.81a80   702.0 26.670 0            S      too
Physical Coninrgencies                        37.462.6  1.8Tb 9  39.219 4            6       26   2.269 8    120.7  2.360.6           6       I6
Price Contingencies                            74. 267 4  4.bIb  6  76.72869          S       32   1.8066      2 47 7  2.0446S         7       23
Total PUJICI COStS                               366.1226 3 27. 971 6 374.067 a          6      246  I6S984 6   960 4 29. 946.0           6      229
*ebriaery 6. 2990  23 II
..CaV  I ,ng S.ebmI   N8la 5218/P$tADIIN  Cal led by Stii~f ,e    COMIPASS
Comiling.  105186 Version 120188 1666                                                                                                                                                                          I.
t) 4) Reding from 6*SI2I0I/PRA0ISNI
BASIC INIOI2281 202 division compi led
4) 4) Reading from SPIN
SPiCIAL I211IR0C1202S division comi led.
t) 4) Readong from P21L3U                                                                                                                                                                                     Vs
PRICE C(Mi 2261 CY division cwi led 
4)  ) leading from CORPS/vIlVIsio
CONIPONIUIS division comi led                                                                                                                                                                                  P
4), 4  1eading team SUIlAC23
SUNrIAUI ACCIIJIS division coWilled                                                                                                                                                                            U%
4) 4) lading from ilI'/KARIP,UI
ot02 l 1*211   IAO I   [2 201 CImiPIlo
0) 4) Reading from IIP/SWNA/SNS
011*111D C0SI 2A811 202 £0110111
4) 4) leading Orom HP'..12*A1283/IN%
011*1116 CO'.I 1*212  20.2 £12212220
4) 4) Reading I raw ,iP/*AA32a/Sib



AlM  MDf KASimim StIPRDJECI
PIdOiCI COSI SUlhAIY
(IS '0001                                                        tUSS  0001
............ .. .................. .... .... .  ... ... ........   ........  .  ....... .........   ............   ..................... . .....
I  total                                                        I  Total
7  foreign   Base                                               *  foreign         la,.
local    loreign         total        tachag          Costs        Local    lor.tOn    Iola$    Elachat               Coats
A.   Ittll4t SJSlAIEitsItIlS                                    137,474.3   7.235  5  144,709,8                      5         57    8.331.8        438.5   8.770  3                 5         57
8.  HtCHlOtItf IPtOVNEtNI AND  APPLICAIIe                         14. 391. 1       757 4   IS. 1485                  5          6        872.2        45 9       918  t              5           6
C. PRODECI l11ktE1E1tAlSDtC1                                     92.630. 9   3.590. 2   96.221.                      4         38    5.614.0    2t7  6   5.831. 6                    4         38
..........................  ......... ....... ....... . ......  . . ... ... .. ....  .. ....    ... . ... .. .......... .. .......
total SASfINI   COSIS                                              244.496  3  1t.S83. t 256.079  5                    S        100   14.818  0    702 0  15.520 0                      5        100
Physical Conthu acle.s                                           37.452.5   t.826.9   39.279 4                     5          tS    2.269.8        110.7   2,380.6                  5         lb
Price ContihS             cleB                                  74. 167.4   4.561.5   78,728.9                     6         31      1.896.8       147 7   2.044 5                  7         lS
Total PlltWECI COSIS                                               356.116.3  17.971 S 374.087  8                      S         146   t8.984 6    960 4  19.945.0                      5        129
............~~..   ... . .  ... . . .   ... .   ..... . . .    ... . .   .. .  .  .                ..      .. . .                 .    ..  .  ..    .  .  . .    ... ..  ..
lebruary  5.  1990   13: 1
'I           1
U'



linda, sumPud1cI ~ ~ ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      contis I*
Siiny hccoiml bV Proenct C        _liue
gas ecoJ
lvillit               88VM214450 aIU                            P0ECl         U11119U-                       43-3
S.SMIIImNIDS   U2IuONE$If20hAIE0NloS   82012C               3  2 IEEUU       U   110  0    I.tl         Z       3it
2:.*iaes:sa.:  4e:::::::A:.t~; :*t..izsIt:S:.S:  :zi;.,3.z  s,s1:is;:siiss   Sat...   J.SSa;:.  Sat: ZSSS3SS*
I. IUWSIKIIl 1052$
A.122 C lO S                                       02. t tI                                 -                        6.340 0          -  88202 I  ff.O l10242.8
C. tItlE  wt1l8 4S                                262. an.4                                 .       1.se.0                               16H.332 4  200 33666.0
*.  EIIICEs                                                                                                          44 06.           -    4,406   00          @ 0 e
1.  1lC2c81 t 5ssis21c8-                                                                                             4 3400 O              4.340.O  t0.0    414.0
C  2882121                                                                                                           4.1840a               4.184 0  20 0    418 4
fietl I2ESILttt  COslS                               223 1g. 6                                         7, so. 0        23. 12.0 e           254,408. 6  17. 45. 30.1
11. KcnempI cosIS
*  nVileHi  OPftllS 8M60 AN8II      K                                                                               7.7.32.0              7.732 0  20.0   713 3
*  IIOIPUII OP38fAI24  10 N8I2IllCIf48C1 -                                                                          0.480                 S.48.0  12 0    S4 8
C  satarnils . "us tAO  IIImias                                                                                    W.2049                U8.2%4 1  100 oS.2h.5
o. 15      ;t1l6   AIhU2IUMi                                                                                        2.3200                2.3'o. 0   0o0    232 0
I  OlficI cP2IIIS                                                                                                   3.8 W0                2.017 0  12 0    30 7
;. tNtiiN C10U* S                                                                                                   2. 0M.0               2.30      2 00 e    220s
fostl IIflh til Costs                                                                                                 t09.ss7 4             100.357 4  200o 2e0.0   7
poise 8St112   COS£ S 0213.79.S                                                                         7.b0o 0        133,08.4              3 2.3868    0 I   1 S   .343.8
Pk"psea I Cant  l,uiic,.                            41.6bl. 6                                        2.000..         23. I80 3              8. 34.3. 8   0 0    0.0
Prsee Ccn Ii species                                 I.814 4                                         2.3626   3,7.23 2                    222.415.2  13 6 15.186.1
total Pf2cl COSIS                                     337.2S2.                                 -        t. 36t.6        83.0200            ;   32.1 24.09  13.4 11.529. 
..     i...  .-   ...   .  .....  ;  ... ... .  ..:.. ±  ..               .....hj ...ss:,   : .8   .. .. 
I.,                                                 274.2417                                          S682            2 $?. 9              Ilk,403.4  1S.4  2.021.5
tor.sgn tIchanp                                     26.023 7                                           6    I         .es063 0             2f6.3.3  23.5  2.403 4
................... ........................... ....... ..  ..                         ....   ..... ......   .....   ....................... ... ..     ...................     .. .
1usp 0. 299.0 13. 3
o.I
s.d



/IUjlk  SUSN9JECI
Projct CWooUnts by Yter
lolass  Includtng  Conlmnpsctlea                                                                        tal,  Including  Conltla            sos
IRS  0001                                                                                            WOSI 0061W
.. ...   ....   ...... .   .............................................         .  ......   ......  ....   .   .................................................................. ............................................ ......
89no0   90/SI    0192                    92/n3    93/94    94/9S    99/96    lotal                          69/90   "9    91/92   92/93   13/94   UA5   99/s6   Total
:X::;s; :=:::::: ;::::.:....;  ..~s:::..  s;..L;............ . :::n.:.  t S:.t  £ .  ::::::.: :     : : 3  ;U    ;.       :      ::::::  ::         : :     SZ Sg:.S  .5.....5
&   luillAt  Stli8*IRSIlIDS                                      6. 159.0 27 602.6   87. 8S  9  107.438.1  3.232.8  42.422.0  12.U42  3 337.252.5                              373.3  1.S9 S5   4.880 9 S.714.8  2.17160  2.09  C  6 SU.4  11.964.6
B.  IICIIIIIoB     IlSolEttl  4t110 *PPtIC*il11                   1.753.1   1.281.7          1, Mt.3       1.690.6   1.603 5   1.574.8   1.675.9   tl.361.6                     106.3        14. 1      67 a       ".9         92 0       J7 C        79 *       "6 .I
C. PUWECI  INKENI^IM        l     6                             32.721.9 22.164 5   21.497. 1  26.213.3 21.143.68 26.70. t  AB491.2  183.510.8   1.963                                     3 1.309S5 1.194 3  1.3M. )  1.2M. I   31 1  1.350.3    .634.1
lotal PIOECI CDSIS                                                 40.634. 6 51.58.8  t110934.2  13t.342.0  80.180  t 70,785.6 42.709  4 532,124.9   2.462  7 2.979  1 6.163.0  7. t90  *4.00  I 3.467.0  2.024. t 3.499 C
:;-z-s: ;. ..- ..... .                                        : .......                                  z.-                 --...   -:z            -  .... . &.z:..  .. ...............................;::.::. ..- ::: :; :.:.--s
... .. ....... ........... . . .  ..... ....... ..................   ...................................  ....  ....    ... .... .......... ................. .    ........... ....................  ..............   ................ ................ ...
**uery S. 191t0 13. 13
tO
Nft



Pitttt43 Stl8PRO tlCI
sumr accmas CoSI Stmma
IRS  I0001                                           (US$  OOOt
.  ..    .... .. .   .... ..........    ....................................  ...    .   ...................................
I lotWl                                            I lotal
I foroegn  Base                                    I  o V Bass
Local   foreign    lotal    (Echuga   Costs    tocal   foreign  lotal   techangs   Costs
I. 16t5il5 tl COSTS
...     ... .   ...     .
A. CIlI)  IMS                                    64.877.5  3.414.6  b8.292 1               0       19   3.932.0   20f.9  4.138.9               5       19
8. LoulpIWtI 440 ftI IURE                         2.928.6    325 4   3.254.0              10        I      :77 S      19 7     197 2          'O        I
C.  litIE    OPEJIIOtS                          160.865.8  8.466.6 169.332 4               S       46   9.749 4   S13 1 10.262.6               S       46
0.  INICtiS                                        3.524.8    U81 2   4.406.0             20        1      213 6    53 4    267.0             20        1
E. ItItihC*) ASSISIAUCE                           2. 170.0  2.170 0   4.340 0             SO        t      131.      3 131.5    263.0         SO 0
I. IRAllING                                       2.392.0  2.392 0   4.7840               SO        I      140 0    145.0    289.9            00        t
..... ..........    ........  ...... I...  ......   ...........   .......   . ....  ......    ..... ..... .........   ......   .....     ............    .......
Total 111ttS1101:11 CotSS                          236.758.7  7. 649 8 254.408 6              7       70  14.349 0 1.069 7 1t.418 7               7       70
Physical Conlt,nwctes                            42.653 8  2.694 3  40.348 1               6       12   2.058b I   163 3  2.748 4              6       12
fPric  Conlinganme s                             71.403.t  6.349 277.7 12 4                8       2)    1.849 9   208.8  2.058.7             tO        9
lotal  INCIIUDIPC CON111GANCI:t!                   3150.86)  7 2b.693 3 377.509 0             7      104  18.784 0 1.441 8 20.226 8               7       92
.. .. .... . ...... . . .. . . ...... ......... .......            ......     ....     ....  .
I I IItCUlRItII C03517
a  tItICIl 07)116ltr4 4itD "a I1111N1N11       7.737 -               7.732 1                     2      488 b              468 b                     2
a  foulpmNl 07661Il4 *l00 HU1IINU6EI             S..4J8 0              5.488 0                     2      232 6               332 6                    2
C  SIAMRS .  1*G11 "13D 6 *IIN6IICIs           8. 24 9               88.2S4 9                    24   53.3468             13.348 8                   24
0  BUltDING fAIIIFIhuCE                          2.320 0           -   2.320.0                     t      1406                140 6           *        t
E. 0tflCE SuPPLIIS                               3.857 0               3.8S7.0                     1      233 8              233 8                     I
I. Rttl41 CtbUtttS                               2.30s 0               2. 30  0                           139 7               139.7                    I
lotal RICuRNI COSIS                                109.9S7 4             1t9.957 4                    30   6.664 1             6.684 f                    30
fPsical Contle inces                              10.99S 7             10.99S 7                    .3      66 4                 66 *4                   3
Price Contisgencies                              33. 662 7             33.662 7                     9      849                8 913            -        4
1o011  IUCIUOIUG CoNliNGICII1S                     154.611  9            tS4.btS 9                   42   S. 180 0            8.180 0                    37
. . . . .. .   . .. . . .    .   . . . .   ..  . ........... ....      . .....
Total USIltti  COSIS                                 34h.71b 1 17.649 8 3b4.3bb 0              0      100  21.013  I 1.0D9 7 22.082.8              0       100
Physical Contengcefs                               13.649 6  2. 694 3  Sb.3438              0 S           I0 251.S    163 3 .3414 8             0       lb
Price Contirnencies                               tO.065 9  6.349 2 111.413 t               8       3t   2.699 4   2088  2.908 3                7       13
lotsl PllWtCI COSIS                                 Sff.411 6 26.b93 3 032. 124 9              5      146  26.964 0 1.441 8 28.400 8               0      129
...... ....     . .. ....  ..  .... ..  ..         ::  ::::
... . .. .. . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                               .. . ..    .  .   ... ......   .    ... .   .... .... . ...............
ebrarwy S. 1990  t3 tl
*a COIPlIng S-hEila  N8$lf11lN1lt14  talied by Sfstile    COIIVPAS
Ct ilng        0 CDS143 tersion  11018  131s3
0  4) "aMding frti. SPIN/INDIA
SPtC181 IUSIIIuCIIUO  division com)led
4)0  leading from 8Asttl711t/DIS FA
UASIC   fOUIni ARUllS division coPi,1ed
C) 4) teading Irom PllCCt
RRICt0 CONIIGLNC  division caupled.
4' <5 Riading from COlll VISEl
COiPtDIS dvlision cwi.led                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
o  0 ltading from SUMAC                                                                                                                                                                                                      o
StlUtt tCCOttIS division crp led
4) 4)  ading from tlUttUU751RSUSltS                                                                                                                                                                                          tJI
Ol1*tD1  cOSI lAtt tOt aCIwillo
4) 4  Readiong  Irom n U8    r/y M/sts
Ol8ttD1  cuS1 166it 102 cetlPIlto
4)s (I Ruddiing Ir.mt IVa#t/I INI /11 PI
IN IAl 1D  ousIS 16t13i tDl tulDill
<1  <> lkading tro  It8RlIN/PIAMtlltt
l411iP letdI WAtiPio  /10 I811t/1N
N"d <i ntqntI rco HP/11HMftItaSU



PImMI SU88IIDOtCI
PRO4tCI COSI  SUtIhI*h
*                                                          t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RS I0001                                    o$11 10001
, ~~~~~~~.                                      .........          ........    .   ... ..   ....    ... .......  .................  ........
r  lotal                                                            I  Tota.
2 For*ign  XBase                                                      foreig   Base
local       fortogn        lutol        f.chare,   Costs              tocsl        lorcogn    Iot@    l    Exchant           Cases
:::::        :,::::z     ..    .  :::::    :. : ::    :::: .........:::: - :    ::::-:   :,:::: Z       ::-   :::: .... . :::.
IL   lillt  SUSMIRVSAteS                                            212.590.6  11, 189 0 223.779  6                        S          61    12.804  3    678  1 13.562  4                      5          Sl
B. IEtIOIOGt IPOVEtNI AN0 APPtIC1IO9N                                  7. 125.0    375 0   7?.00 0                         5           2        431 8    22 7    414.5                         5           2
C  PUOdCI INPI&HUEIallilm                                           127.000 6  6.0899 133.086 4                            5          37   7.697 0   3686  8.065 8                             5          37
... ....   ...... ..... .... ..........  ..    ..... .  .... .... .  .... ...... ..... .........  .........    ........... .......
lotel Bs*tillU   COSIS                                                346.716. 1 17. 649. 8  34.3l6  0                        S        100   21,013  1 1.069  7 22.082.8                          5        100
Physical Contingsecws                                               S3.649 6  2.694 3  S6.343 8                           5          IS   3.251 5   163.3  3.414 8                            5          Is
Price  Conkensafc ues                                              10.06   9   6.349  2  111.415  I                       6          1t    2.699 4         208.8   2.908.3                    7          13
..... ....       ...  ....                             . .    ..  ...   .  ......    ... ...... .   ........... ......    .   .....   ... . .. ............ .. ............ .
loCal PUNCI  COSIS                                                    901.431 6 26.693  3 532.124  9                          9         146   26  964.0  1,441 8  28  405.8                       5         129
:::: :: :: . L.   4. ~.-. . -. . . :.:.       :       .. :                                     .: :: .: :.: ::: :: :: :::  z  .:: ::::: : Z:::::
. . ..   .. .. ..  ...     ..                                             .. .   . . . . .  . . . . .          .. . . . .. . . .. .. ..                             .. . . .. .     .. ... . .... . .. .. ..... ....... . .. .. .. ... ... ... ... .. . .. ........
February  S.  1990   13. 13
4J



V.4
I
X    4             at *      sw   §"
SIS 6  1311 1
,gs 4aIOs   Adoqgv   Aouv1s                                                                              gw*.qlv3g  $mlll
(01    00I   I  1   0 1   W #                                                                                       m s  e  "0
* SIS  *S    q sjeg   q g1g gg                                                     .51   123I  6.
00   00       0 $I 0 * 1605e  S946 ,S0"
* Inl 03    0 *~O Se e I* X1@I 6                                                                                             '1.s 8*
slim   unsZ   SI
* 6111 06  OIf  0                      lend a VsIas                                                        lSO Icau  3*1.I
015   001   sosSe   00651                          W                                                    niuamw  msum   I
0 0    0 0    0 onn OH                                                                                                sill 3
0 1£   So   0 116   0 13                                                                                       Sim         3
0 qf  016   0 OK's  005                                                                                         INSW12
S;113 ulMISAli
631111613   1 flewd      GM1                      MvIIIU           vll
un im w   inmo uluu mi u
no. So
Itommolipi   60 3111196       IMMIN5112
vious  &MNI   MN



Prjui CgNOeit a     l. y Vgdf
total. l~IKIl.ng S4utIngpfmcs.s                            bUg.I lfileaISni £c.u.oqlcm.
..ns   ...t   ela   9.).. . ....... .. ..  ..... .... u...                   ..... ......u..s..... .........  .
a  Ust4111  SNUl        b4.24  1 S1. %b 0l."3  4 343 S. S24 % 3981 1          U.211 b  409   323 4 28e i      8I 3  0 '0  19 3        l.0" 4
1S.b asS          CISIS   G.I4 I"  I f       t0    4 343 9 I.2 4     t1 1        8.21 X   409 1 3234213) 3  IS 3 0   0  19 J             ,a  4
*..5*~   ..    ...   ...........  .   .                  . ..    . .      .     . .8                              .5
_~st 1.  tM   It 44
l
0



ii
to
-*9
d6lIO¢t 'SlWIflSS lUll SW 3136 UI S3td
a                                                                                                          . . . . . . . .   . . . .   . . .          .   .....
U Ct    or tf    e O  C It   to  it     I U91d I  oft8  I     'I                  "e _e@11     ess
cc tt             o6    I it    r ce   of      cc        0 Ieet l  0 usc   0  o I              S9666etT     I-SA
. ..   . .. .. .  . . . .. . .. .   .. . .. .. ...,-.   .     T'- X-7w-e ssT
gig     qf        t rhee t nts   o  MA  WC         it       ISi tlotl e W%tC I ltrt'l         S113ttMtlltA  VtMttStt lt t
to            ri It    C K          Itl   Os   It        a 40, s      nspi at 1,01                 m=le   ; t-l*at d
Itl     tt        e Uto Ilt    t CA   is          ftt           01"-1  e tt     e UO-I             mam ltoo   11=06t
eez  U   s en   tl Lat   LK ec            OSn  n        oct's U  116 It  ran6  I t  ssisX    ll8i oult I
pin  e  q         6         et  0 A  1 t9    9     ar          o e      016  06 Ss            1        1s3 uUiUull0  6
to    I       016    3         I 19   Is       II        01131t N  om    01106ink Wt'S291tU1
006t   n          t 1      081 t 190      C t05    IW. 9                  Os    Om                       Ws  1115 5.1   0 a
19  09        9619I 'K   16 A    1K 914       09         0OK131        Clb   9166             211           115131   1
91      S'        1K UI 01   I L ttll             0         9     O OD CSI IUW SUllS                            ISIU    I
*5%1  Itttttisuu*s  'I
Oso3  Iil@@        ;      D;13 uO *                  e        lV       D         t
015 3                                     91201 1
6000. 1sm                                     00oo. 911
Umugnz sltlm       t *_S3 313
SlWng   IS1139 SO 159116 AN16
M6036 t   IN116 tilZ
wleltl



fore ignga s                               I foreign  Uaso
local   *oerefm  Wotas   Euchowg   Co.i.   tacil lorSS9t lfoit   (adwoig    Co.Is
-.:; 4... _ ::, _; ............... ,-  : ... ......  . .......  .....  ...... e...:, ..  : ... :. :.: .... -
a  tSI8  IA                     6.246 t   2"  2 14. l4Ub 0    J    6      tC 0   60 S    J20 4   a80S        36  1o
leta, SSSUIE  CUSIS               6.248 1 5.2U  2 14.b3b 0          36      100  b606   320    88M5            36      t00
ftiy..al C.nt.ap.r ..          1.01 0   e4 0  1."s 0             33       of  6    3           0I a    W 0  33       SI
Prn4.t.m Cn  ac                 1. 302    1248 t 2.0311 I        it       14   41 2    30 2    i5.         42        I
Islas ""to U CSS         *       11.266 6. 5%0   1623 S             36      In  6bl 0   33 3 5.046 4           lb      Its
. . . . .. ~~~~~~~~~~~.                                     .   . ..  ..     ... ....
bt 2. 8W 1144
11!
0
ko
t.



~~~~~~~~Table  25 of 25-
.......
_  .     , .          
*  0.--.
*   * . *,
3.      _   
.. *  *  .. ...*
,* * .   *  
*.      '  a  ae
S.~~~ a                a.  .i-..
_a               .      _   _  .  _.,
ji§            a.          
=_             ** _ 
.i 
I        
- ^~~~~
_          * .      .3
,~~~~~
V       . s~~~
E 
I 
l. 
| 0 .0
El |            , 
.  Z3| 
III              9 '
_ i:1 



-49-                     sAnn&
Pago 1 of 4
INDIA
INT!GRaTAD  WATURSED  DXVSLOPMZ! 1ROJXC!  (XLLS)
rorat  for  Subwatetrhed  reasibility  Study
1.    The building blocks of the subwatershed plan would be the detailed
analysis of each village or microwatershed. Small villages may be aggregated
to facilitate this process. The main objective will be to arrive at a
defined, relatively cohesive and manageable (not too large) group of people to
interact with in defining problems and treatments. Public forest land,
drainage lines and roadside erosion will be dealt with separately. The
village boundaries may not coincide with the subwatershed boundaries. It will
be necessary to compromise and decide which villages should be included and
which should not be included in a particular subwatershed.
A.   Vil1AgBiMicrnwatArshed analysis
2.    anakgrQUn Data. The first step would be to establish the influence
area and some basic parameters about land use and tenure, population,
livestock, organization and facilities of each village/microwatershed.
a) Influence area should be shown on a 1:10,000 map. It may not always
be a contiquous area.
b) Land use and land tenure. The following categories should be
distinguished:
-  Private farm land-rainfed
-  Irrigated
-  Private non-arable (forest) land
-  village common land (land which is de facto used by the village and
which is not under active forestry department management)
(Encroachment on common land would be shown as private farm land.
We want to portray the de facto not the legal situation).
c) Population. What is needed is updated information about total
population, the number of households subdivided into farm households
and landless households. Some information about how much of
income/employment is derived from crop/livestock production and from
other sources would be a useful indicator of both labor availability
and the relative importance of and interest in farming. A large
number of female heads of households may give a similar indication.
d) Livostook Population. Updated information about the number of
draftanimals, buffaloes, dairy cattle, scrub cattle, young stock and
sheep and goats would be needed. This information is needed
separately for farm facilities for landless. The feeding practices
(degree of stall-feeding, possible grazing outside the watershed)
will need to be explained.



-50-
Page 2 of 4
e) Village Orgn4fat4nn and Pacdlltim. One would need information
about which Panchayat the village belongs to (and which other
villages belong to the same Panchayat) as well as possible other
groupings (women and youth clubs, etc.). The adequacy (quantity,
quality, possible seasonal shortages) of the village water supply
should be indicated. Distance to nearest source of fertilizer, seed
and credit and to nearest veterinary hospital, primary and secondary
achool would be provided.
3.    Pr* Iema Anti TreatmLntE. This analysis would refer to the different
land use and tenure categories identified in para 3(b). A firm link must be
established between the observed problems and the proposed treatments.
a) Rainfed farm land.  The proportion of levelled and sloping lands
would be established. To what extent *re these lands terraced or
bunded? What is the condition of the bunds and terraces? Is there
visible evidence of sheet eros.on and gullying? Given soil
conditions what effect can be expected from in situ moisture
conservation? The type and volume of treatment would be given in
this perspective.
b) Private non-arable land and village common land.
4.    The present vegetative conditions and likely per ha production of fodder
and fuelwood from these lands must be portrayed. Problems of erosion/gullying
would be observed.
5.    The demand and supply for fuelwood would be analyzed.  Demand would be
based on per capita consumption and sources of supply may include the
estimated production from village private and common land, adjacent public
forest land, dung, etc. A gap would be established and how this gap is
presently filled (over-exploitation/degradation of land; procurement of
charcoal, kerosene, etc.) would be discussed.
6.    The fodder situation will need a similar analysis.  The demand for
fodder would be derived from the size of the livestock population. Sources of
fodder would include cultivated fodder, crop by-products, fodder from private
non-arable and village common lands, fodder from adjacent public forest land
and from net grazing outside the villa,e (after deducting the use by other
villages or nomads of the village lands).  A gap would be established.  To
what extent is this gap filled over-exploitation of land, purchased fodder
and/or under-feeding of animals?
7.    The above analysis will guide the relative emphasis on conservation,
fuelwood and fodder in the subsequent treatment.  How can one close the gaps
and keep ahead of population growth?  What is the mixture of treatments that
will accomplish this?



-51-
Page 3 of 4
-  LivAt Xek Managmna. A gradual move from grazing to sta.l-feeding.
How much land can be protected from grazing? Methods of protection?
Permunent or rotational closures? Do landless face particular
problems in closure?
-  Plantatlions within then Enelonuren. The relative emphasis on
fodder and fuelwood. Volume of plantations.
E znerg  aving Deviesa.  Introduction of improved chullas and
pressure cookers. Adoption curve? Energy savings?
_Rem               b cattle anti int-oduetion of iMproyAd braeda.
Savings expected?
- Methods to prevent erosion and improve infiltration of runoff and
improve prospects for regeneration.
To what extent will these measures close the fodder and fuelwood gaps?
8.    ManaqeMentL_c f   Mn a_Und. -vho is responsible for protection?  How
will produce be allocated? How will fences, plantations, vegetative barriers
and conservation structures be maintained? How will O&M be funded?
9.   Retutrn.  How will farmers and landless benefit from the project?  Is
any individual or group adversely affected? This will be analyzed using the
unit budgets derived at the state level (para l(d)).
B. Public Forest Lanf4
10.   The size and demarcation of the public forest land in the total
subwatershed (managed by the forest department) would be indicated and the
legal usufructory rights of different parties (sedentary, nomadic) and actual
utilization and possible encroachment should be described. The vegetative
conditions, erosion hazards and likely per ha production of fuelwood and
fodder and other forest products would be analyzed. The objective of the
public forest production would be discussed in the light of the remaining gaps
of fuelwood and fodder in surrounding villages. Effective FD management must
be assured which will entail clear demarcation and protection and possible
renegotiation of some existing village rights which would jeopardize
production.
C. Drainage inan
11.   The length of these drainage lines would be determined from aerial photo
and/or imagery. The revegetation of non-arable land should generally precede
the treatment of drainage lines which would be done from top to bottom.
Possible bank erosion problems threatening arable lands or village structures
would be noted as would seasonal inundation problems. Sites for possible
ponds and/or waterharvesting tanks should be indicated.



-52-
Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
D.  Roads4ido *Xroion
12.  The length of the road system should be indicated from maps and problem
spots surveyed on the ground to derive the type and volume of treatment.
E. cost ntimatn 
13.  On the basis of the observed problems treatments would be selected from
the agreed list and the volume of each treatment carefully surveyed. In
determining the phasing of these treatments the following ahould be kept in
mind:
-  It will most likely not be possible to start in all
villages/microwatershed simultaneously. Capacity for interaction
and implementation may not allow this and more importantly it will
take some time to reach agreement on the treatments and on
investment contribution to and management arrangements for common
lands. Some villages will be more amenable than others.
-  practices like contour cultivation and stall-feeding will not change
overnight but follow a certain adoption pattern.
-  some investment should precede other investment (e.g., catchment
protection before construction of water harvesting tanks;
rehabilitation of vegetation before drainage line treatment).
14.   The volume and cost of treatment would be summarized on which the list
of eligible treatments and the unit cost will be preprinted to facilitate the
watershed planning. The costs would also be summarized by each implementing
department.
F. Ha8a
15.   Subwatershed planning should ideally be done with the help of 1:10,000
aerial photos. Village/microwatershed influence areas and arable land should
be shown. It should also be possible to indicate the public forest land on
the map. Topography, roads, villages and drainage lines would be illustrated
and the sites of major treatments (tanks and ponds, plantations, enclosures)
would be indicated.



-53-
INDIA                             Annex 3
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HILLS)
Initial Sub-watersheds by State and Areas to be Treated
(hectare)
Himachal Pradesh
.........  .......  Toti             non                                 total
sub-watersheds     area    aable    aas    common  foret                 treat
.........  ...........                .....    ....     ......            ......
kharl-ka-khala        2638     236       91      163      570              1060
upper swan            3032    1256      499      202      130              2086
shrahan-dl-khad       3001     984      218      266      235              1703
kawal khad            3325     524      178      178      250              1130
balad nadl            2536     880       as      342      500              1810
harar chakki          3846    1085      748      120      565              2518
sub-total            18378    4964    1822    1271       2250             10307
Jammu and Kashmir
.........    ............. ....
sub-watersheds
.........    ...............
dudh gana            25388    7891        0      901    4471              13263
ramkote              13518    4135      250    1092    2690                8167
devak                 9370    2036       120     204    3012               5372
sub-total            48276   14062      370    2197   10173               26802
Punjab
sub-watersheds
.........    ...............
arnalla               2523      828     628      172        0              1628
dasuya langerpur     14813    2970    3226    2540        635              9370
Jainti devi ki rao    2591      477       46    1010        0              1533
nara dda manJhl       6168      785       0      269    1758               2812
sub-total            26095    6060    3399    3991       2393             15343
Haryana
sub-watersheds
.........    ...............
sirsa nadi            8964    2652       181     430    1470               4633
boll yamuna           5903      992     252      144       97              1485
sub-total            14867    3544       433     574    1567               6118
total               107616   27630    6524    8033   16383                58570
upper catchment      16008        0    10680    2664    2664              16008
(punjab)
total area          123624   27630   172J4   10697   19047                74578



-54-
Annx 4
Page 1 of 2
INDZA
INTEGRATED WATZRSHED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (BILLS)
Mnau of Zligible Tr-atments for Financing Undar the Project
1.    On the basis of experience with the effectiveness of certain technical
measures and having regard for the principles of low cost, sustainability and
wide scale replicability, it is proposed that only certain measures would be
eligible for financing under the project. The list is extensive and allows
for some selection according to topography and social conditions. However,
certain traditional soil conservation activities notably engineering works for
arable land such as levelling, shaping, contour bunds, and waterways are
specifically excluded given their ineffectiveness in erosion control and their
high cost.
2.    The treatments listed below are those that are eligible for financing
under the project. A separate fact sheet has been prepared for individual
treatments which describes the treatments and indicates the conditions Lader
which they would be applied. These should be used in compiling subwatershed
feasibility studies. Appropriate treatments from the list would be applied as
solutions to the problems that had been identified.
3.    Cost estimates for these treatments were prepared for all participating
states and these will form the basis for preparing detailed watershed
investment plans. During project implementation it will be necessary for the
states to review treatment costs based on experience gained during project
execution.
4.    Treatment List
(a)   Arable Land
(i)   Contour vegetative barriers
(ii)  Terrace repair and vegetative reinforcement
(iii) Vegetative field boundaries
(iv)  Silvipasture
(v)   Rainfed horticulture
(vi)  Farm forestry/agro-forestry
(vii) On-Farm fodder production
(viii)Rainfed horticultural demonstrations
(ix) Rainfed cropping systems demonstrations
(b)   Privata Non-arable. Common and Forest Lands
(i)   Vegetative/shrub barriers in contour trenches
(ii) Pasture development



-55-                    AnnaLx4
Page 2 of 2
(iii) Silvipasture
(iv) Afforestation
(c)   Drainage Lines
(i)   Gully stabilization
(ii)  Streambank protection
(iii) Village ponds and tank construction
(iv)  Rehabilitation of village ponds
(v)   Water harvesting structures
(d)   Roadside Erosion Control
(e)   Landglide Trgatment
(f)   Animal Husbandry
(M)   Natural breeding centers
(ii) Livestock reduction
(iii) Supplementary feeding
(iv)  Construction and rehabilitation of stalls
(g)   Post-Harvest Loss Prevention
(i)   Grain storage bins



-56-
XNTZGRATED WAYNRINUD D3MrhOPVZM3 PROJECT (HXLLS)
on-fax= Applied Research
Introduction; Most of the research has been directed to irrigated
agriculture and neglected rainfed farming. Worse still, the shivaliks and
karewaa of the four participating states have not been studied to the extent
required to determine the level of degradation and possible solutions.
Therefore, under the project, each waterahed will be linked to a zonal
research station being managed by State Agricultural Universities in the area.
As a starting point existing projects such as Kandi, Sukhomajri and Bunga,
would be used to provide the type of experience and highlight problems typical
of the area. To ensure that the watershed research program gets the attention
at the state level, Directors of Agricultural State Universities would be
members of steering committees, and would also be represented at the district
level committees.
Tasks: Zonal research stations would be responsible for planning and
execution of adaptive trials on the watershed sites and for trials at the
respective research stations. They will also study the impact of vegetative
soil and moisture conservation methods being promoted under the project and
determine their constraints for adoption by beneficiaries in the project area.
Detailed research programs would include:
(a) Soil and in-situ moisture conservation through contour farming and
the use of vegeRative barriers;
(b) Identification of suitable tree species and moisture conservation
practices to promote rainfed horticulture;
(c) Development of suitable agro-forestry systems for reducing soil
erosion at the same time enhance the producticn of fodder and
fuelwood;
(d) Development of pasture management systems on non-arable lands,
increase fodder production on arable lands and improve the quality
of livestock using cost effective methods, such as natural
breeding; and
(e) Provide training and conduct workshops in watershed management to
staff of participating states.
Support: To enable zonal stations carryout above tasks, the project would
provide funds for field experiments and for incremental staff, including
associate professor level scientists in soil and water conservation,
agricultural sub inspectors and support staff. Vehicles and funds for their
operation and maintenance would also be provided. The Punjab Agricultural
University station at Ballowal, would be provided with additional
accommodation facilities (10 rooms, 20 beds, kitchen, recreation room and
accessories), and equipment for training. The station would also be provided
with additional staff, vehicles and their operation and maintenance funds.



-57-
-   ID                                ANNEX 6
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVElOPNWT PROJECT (HILLS)             of  10
!wm Iai as"    Ern
DAEEMPAN
1.     A Dam Review Panel (DRP) shall be established for the L) Project by the
Governmt of (       . ) to undeatake periodic, comehensive and
widh the objectve of evaluating feaus and actons peini  to the safet of diedam and
providina rmumndatins to the Govaement of (   .. J of actdo  that may be needed
to   u   the dam and appurtanc  to  cptb  sfetY Sd          The DRP Sha be guided by
the Dim Safcty Assurance objectives of dte GOL the Covanmn of (     I and the related
legislaive regulans standds and guidelines IThe DRP shall be established at dth dm:
alteadesigns ae beig cond  before final design comme     andd shbe maintined for
die duon of the project, unil all facilites are placed into final operati
2.      The DRP shall contain a nucleus of four members with exets in the folowing four
disciplinew (a) flood hydrology:; (b) engineering geology (dfoua s) (c) dam design
(concre. ea    mclll accg IO project dam type); and (d) dam consco  enginrng
and management. There should be four o six membe on the DRP but all four of the disciplines
shal be represented Should dte project contin hydropowe generation as an iegal part of the
dam and outlet waors sysem, an expert on the desip and coosnucon of powerplants and
appialenant waays shall also be included as one of the DRP membs.
3.      The flood hydrology exper may be rekased upon review and acceptn  by the exper,
Govenment (            ) and CWC of dte computauon and flood routing of dte project design
flood, and slang of spllway facilites
4.      A Chaiman sha be appointed amongst the membes by the Goveme  of
(  to cooRnae the ommm    ns of the DRP, to call and chai its meetings,
to ensure the    bshi  objecdvity and to povide balance to its reviews and recomm-ndadons.
The person rosible f the oicial coespondence with the DRP Chaimn shal be
S.      Mm DRP ad the Govenment of (            J shall establish a list of exper and
ie of the four disciplines mentioned above such as seismogy, routing,
sedim aon, materials tesdng, rck mechanics or construcon supervision. The
DRP may then choose at theirdiscreton qualified experts fom such list to perfonm special
assignmnts or evaluadons on short notie and to report mesults direcdy to th DRP. The
assignments of such expem shall not exceed an aggregate time of (  ) mandap per year.
Additionl time may be asowed subject to direct appvl of the Govenment at
(  upon wtten request and justfication by the DRP.



-58-                          AM=  6
Page 2 of 10
6.      lem DP wMil met a fquetl   necessa  ddin  on the d stau of dhe dam
involved butasle* hW*  wotMdMesa yew duig i deg and Initial consrcionphmase  n
o    a yew                   i     mup Fordms under             m ngs s    be hed
a suh nivas to assur die DRP of the MaOu    Of de    d          , f    in
desgm paame, foundation ana    dim  bpe co  dam SeUo degn and
d-androuigof t d fld D                         dcod             phe at et onemeeting
will be schdued jus as tpened to we  critical condions rlating t fo on
trea en at rned for additional e  can be observed. Meetns may asc, be convened at
the requs   of de Govnment of ( _.
7.  l he DRP meetings will noramly be at the project ie ad sh  be attded by all
mea           io  of the sit deigs or of the dam under consucdon individually should
0W y     specul                    d in such cases e member wil send his repon of
finds to odan el members for issuance joindy afr concurece by al panl membas
8.      An advace schedte of medng wiR be dra up by the DRP ad the Govemen of
( .         J) nd sent to CWC an  the Word Bank o aow dtem to sed an obere to
DRP _mee        if dfcy so des   he Dank wil not piipae hin any miwer in the --ee-gsor
discusion  CWC WiI dircr  pard ipae ody to de ext i serves as a coltn ad  so
requestd by the Government of.  CW   bower, w  attendd ad muinie sessions
in the come of fulilling its espsibilies for the ontry-wide dam safty poga
9.      Wbile the DRP will rview ad evaluate minly technical ele of te dam desiu
they shall not be concerned  with the poject scope, gen   fea     oecoomic c
The specific elements to be reviwed and  l d by the DRP shall include but not be limited to
(a)   To rview site explrion dam for the foundato and for mataial soures
inclu1i  results of drilig or boring, lbortory testing, in-sit tes and regional
andlkxd po all-mciitdcs;
(b)   To review th designs of the foundation tmnt. pposedcxcavation, selected
foundaton srgth paametes and seepge contol masu;
(c)   To rview tie sngth pames nd ch        sdcs ofthe selected construction
mais for emb         t dam including zoned m ials, filts, and placement
requhuiimeni
(d)   To review the seleced aggte  so       cement type. and matrl characrstic
for conrete and masonry m   including reslts of dubit, graion and
reactivity tests, tdal mdesi    strengt design p    and cons ion
rqunuenIts;
(e)   To mview stabilit analysis and resuldng fac    of safety fW noul, unusual
and exteme loading condidons for eankment ad concrete dam., spillway
Stres  d ouet wor  incluig detinaton of sdic lding cr;



-59-
Page 3 of 10
(f)   TO mv_ew upsu       condion inred to fomaow of Undslide or ice dam
(I)               o of flOods caused by   cllaps of such naul dan.
(g)   To mview de reecVO fC    of  Mbiity                wave t 
cle_n Plans ad dr effect o dam stbiiity
(h)   To eview de uood hydrobl  me ly ad c               forde ing
dt prxojct desi  flood         res              spily sing;
(O)    To review the desig of spilway facidite including flow cndition, enry
dissipationor need for modelling;
()    To eview die inlet and oudet works, including its hydmaulic   capity for
emergency resevoir drawdown s     hanang capabili,       dthermal
ses, regulaion range and ote facs;
(k)   To eview the designs of diversion wor, schdule, hydolog ad ds* tors
associated with diven  ding co n  and widt the closr of diverson
works at ivo fi
(O)    To  view the risk r had evaluan inclg ned for dam beach aaly
(im)   To eview the desin fo dam  Isiton and de prom far collecdg
evaluation and miaintaining dam to be obtained;
(n)   To reiw the final plans and s  ad ons for desi  adequacy, constructio
schoduling and owner quality conWol pocedumes;
(a)   To make at least one field inspction of dh nary compleed foundato
excavaos pdor two pboement of eit  emankmt or cone   (Mandatory for
DRP membas coveing geology, dam engineeng and foundadton engieing).
(b)   To mae at lea one field inspection duing the ealy phases of placement of
eidte embankmen or concrete main dam secdon, to evaluate quality control
procedus bing used dusing construction and to evaluate if materials being
ulizedand constucdon metds being eaployed are meeting design paramets
and cotam tspufiaios
(C) To review any major field design changes that occur because of changed field
(d)   To rview the opatdonal plan for initial eservoir fllUing, including the time of
closr, maximum allowable filling r, measurments, emergency rdease plan,
and deignadon of responsble opeating pasonnel;
L=onTa   pMskn Phase
(a)   To zkicw and evaluate the organizatian,p   and pgam tocay out
long tm independent morntonng of the dam safew status icluding the
inspecion frequencie instumentaton recordssystm, projct tafiks.
evluaion criteria and means to prvide remedial actons; and



-60-                           AM=  6
Page 4 of 10
(b)   TO rview the adquac             WAoesto   ndmaintenae mgnouzlS, Sad
emblishamt of oct            n     dm_
(c)   To mview ad evalae mnUuly plaus imbAnsg downem floong effe,
emegeny rseroi drawdown9 notifcato  f             agest
downstr amunioiel aahrti   iqrfod V*waiing Systes,mao
flood siln _   e         pl             dain emrgecies
(d)   To rew           des frhd    pje               in      g as buit
drwinqa, opeation reords, a~i _nrcrs Is_lubtaon data and othr
SlstsMr Serde
10.     The Government Of             Js  esns ad en          ncosultn       if any,
shall be ignt dawing selected DRP meeting at the ruest of the DRP. R e DRP wil be
d    the llecewybackground inraton, any eeat data noes or exlnain rgdinfg
te desigs, conanaons or methos used. The Goermetof (. ....,...s aiEf Engne fo
tbe (.       ). Pkoject will cor e the assemblig of such nforma        Te DRP may ask
e ds       to co caddid          studies to assist i eva io f dt  MA     ilang to the
dam's safety status
i1.      Ihe Govenment of            shall pve clerical, drfng ad o
ices for the prparadon of DRP repo    The GOI ad the Govmentof                ) shall
take necessay actons to allow pe tral cleaoes of DRP membas or  eialists requesd
by the DRP and sAall provide full physica access to the projct sis
12.     The minute of the  engshr  by and signed by 1  nbes and
pesened to he Govenment of (m  toe                    of te  em_be   The minutes shall
bifly outlin areas of conce    quest for adional anaysis and pesen m endatom  for
acton, if any. Withi th   weeb die minutes may be supplementedby    donal analysis,
discussion, or refeence mateials prvkded by the DRP members.
13.     A copy of each minutes of meeting and supplemen       will be hnsmited by
Govemment of (    .    to CWC, and tfe Wod Bank. The Govenment of L           ) may
append a semet of actions teon recme            s of the preous panel meeoing.



-61-
Page 5 of 10
Criteria, Standards and Recommendations for Water harvesting Tanks
1.      General Criteria:  Suggested criteria is summarised as follows:
-  Catebment and comand area ratio may be about 1:1 depending on
hydro meterological conditions of the area.
-  Culturable command area (CCA) should be about 40 hectares and not
exceed 100 hectares.
-  Ratio of area submerged by storage to CCA would be not less than
1:4.
-  Ratio of volume of water storage to embankment volume should
preferably be 20:1.
-  Cropping pattern would exclude paddy and sugarcane.
-  One Kharif and two Rabi watering. each of 7.5 cm would be allowed
subject to availability of supplies.
-  Live storage requirements (annual) including evaporation loss from
submergence area would be around 20 ha/m for 40 haICCA.
-  Valley profiles developed in the lower Shiwaliks as a result of
denudation and erosion indicate that on1the average heights of dan
embankmente would not be less than 10 m for 40 ha/CCA as observed
from the data on some WHTs built in Punjab and Haryana.
-  Investigations, planning, design and construction of Dam and
appurtenant works would be done by Engineering staff experienced
in earth dams.
-  Because dam embankment heights would usually exceed 10 m above
stream bed, a panel of experts approved by Bank would be
maintained to periodically review the dam concept and associated
structures designs.
-  For planning dead storage, sedimentation rate would be adopted
from generalized relationship developed between sediment yield and
canopy cover on treated sub-water sheds in each state (see Annex 8
for Punjab Kandi area).
-  Water distribution systems would be planned and constructed te
deliver supplies down to the 2 ha level.
-  Whenever natural surface gradients permit (more than 1.5%), buried
pipes would be used to deliver supplies to the command area
fields.
-  Construction of WHT will commence only after State Head of Forest
Department certifies the catchment area has been adequately
protected and sediment yield reduced to achieve projected life of



-62-                      Annex 6
Page 6 of 10
storage.
- Catchment grasses and storage water would be shared by the
beneficiaries according to predetermined procedures.
- Hill Resources Management Society would be set up on each WHT and
intensive official aupport/guidance provided for its effective
functioning.
- State Government would undertake to ensure proper Maintenance and
Operation of WHT and distribution system.
2.      Standards: The following Bureau of Indian Standards (IS) and other
publications would be consulted and applied as considered appropriate for the
investigations, planning, design construction operation and maintenance of
earth dams and appurtenant works and distribution system of WETs.
(ii)  Hvdrological and Sediment Yield OhReryations
-  Estimation of discharges by establishing Stage  IS: 1941-1964
discharge relation to open channels
recommendations.
-  Measurement of suspended sediment in open         IS:4890-1968
channels.
C ontrol sediment in reservoirs-Code of              IS: 6818-1972
Practice
Bank Guidelines on establishing vegetative hedging.
-  Glossary of terms and symbols used in             IS: 1191-1971
connection measurement of liquid flow with a
free surface.
-  Guide for selection of method for measuring       IS: 9922-1981
flow in open channels.



-63-
Page 7 of 10
Instructions for the collection of data          IS: 2915-1964
for the determination of error in measurement
of flow by velocity area methods.
Velocity area methods for measurement            IS: 1192-1981
flow of water in open channels.
Liquid flow measurements in open channels        IS: 9108-1979
using the plate weirs.
Evaporation loss from NHT reservoirs to be estimated
from observations on existing reservoirs in Kandi and
Kerewas areas. IS 6963-1973 on Evaporation for
Reservoirs, methods of determination would apply.
(ii) Geological and Foundation Investigations.
Site investigation for foundation.s,             IS: 10042-1981
Code of Practice
Sub surface investigation for foundations,       IS: 189-1979
Code of Practice
Diamond core drilling for site investigations
for river projects, Code of Practice             IS: 6926-1973
-Guide for core drilling observations            IS: 5313-1980
Indexing and storage of drill cores,             IS: 4078-1980
Code of Practice
Presentation of drilling information and         IS: 4464-1967
core description in foundation investigation.
Sub-surface explorations for earth and rock      IS: 6955-1973
fill dams, Code of Practice
Sub-surface explorations by pits, trenches,      IS: 4453-1980
drifts, and shafts, Code of Practice
Symbols and abbreviations for use in             IS: 7422-1974
geological maps, sections and subsurface
exploratory bores, Part I to III.
In situ permeability tests, code of practice    IS: 5529 (Part I)
for part 1 - Tests in over burden.
Part 2 Tests in hard rock                        IS: 1969 & 5529
(Part II)
Recommendations for grouting of pervious soils  IS: 4497-1968
(iii) Hrolo  and fFidnc nan1t4&* of reseroiX



-64-
Page e of 10
Handbook on Hydrology GOI MOA Central            IS: 10084(Part I)
Unit for Soil Conservation (Hydrology) and       1982
Sedimentations - 1972
Guide for atorm analysis                         IS: 5542-1969
Criteria for design of division works            IS: 10084 (Part I)
part I- Coffer dams
Methods for fixing the capacities of             IS: 5477-1969-71
reservoirs-parts 1 to 4
CWC Book on Estimation of Design flood peak and
recommendations on water availability.
(IV) RAz±.LDAm
Classification and identification of soils       IS: 1498-1970
for general engineering purposes
materials testing codes                          IS: 2720-1971-85
Guide to topographical surveys for river         IS: 5497-1983
valley projects
Guide for storm analysis                         IS: 5542-1969
Code of practice for drainage system for         IS: 9429-1980
earth and rockfill dams
Code of practice for stability analysis          IS: 7894-1975
of earth dams
Code of practice for Drainage system for earth
and                                              IS: 9429-1980
rockfill dams
Guidelines for free board requirements in        IS: 10635-1983
embankment dams
Guidelines for design of under seepage control  IS: 8414-1973
measures for earth and rockfill dams
Code of practice for protection of slope for    IS: 8237-1985
reservoir embankment
Code of practice for design, construction and   IS: 5050-1968
maintenance of relief wells
Drainage systems for gravity dams,               IS: 10135-1982
Code of Practice
Criteria for design of small embankment dams    IS: 12169-1987
Design of small dams                             USBR



-65-                     AM        S
Pago 9 of 10
(v)   Criteria for hydraulic design of Irrigation      IS: 11570-1985
Intake structures
(vi)   ni1liwa  and saram  channesa
-  Guidelinea for fixing spillway capacity.          IS: 11223-1985
-  Recommendations for Hydraulic design of ogee    IS: 6938-1973
overflow spillway.
-  Criteria for design of Chute and channel          IS: 5186-1969
spillways.
- Plain and reinforced concrete-Code of Practice IS: 465-1978
- Recommended guidelines for concrete mix design IS: 10262-1982
-  Concrete manual                                   USBR
(vii)             } ration And Maintenane
-  Guidelines for operation of reservoirs            IS: 9323-1974
-  Guidelines for safety inspection of dams          Central Water
Commission, New
Delhi, June 1987
(viii)      water and Management
-  Watershed Management related to soil con-         6748
servation, recommendations Part I                 (Part I) 1973
Agronamic Aspect
lix)  Ditribution syAtem
(a) In WHT command areas with flatter slopes         IS: 12379-1988
(about or less than 1%) open lined channel
constructed down to ha level could be economical.
Code of practice for lining of water courses
and channels would apply in such cases.
(b) Where commands have steeper slopes (more than 1%),
buried pipes (concrete or PVC) may be used. The
following standards would apply:
- Concrete pipes (with or without reinforcements IS: 458-1971
second revision)
-  High density polyethylene pipes                   IS: 4984-1987
-  Low density polyethylene pipes                    IS: 3076-1985



-66-                      Annex 6
Page 10 of 10
-  Plastic pipe work for portable water supplies-
Code of Practice
Part 1 Choice of materials and general
(Part I) recommendations.                       IS:  7634 (Part I)
1975
Part 2 Laying and Joining polyethylene           IS: 7634 (Part II)
(PE) pipes                                      1975
Part 3 Laying and Jointing of                    IS: 7634 (Part
III) unplasticized PVC pipes                     1975
B.      ernal Reeaimmdmnat-Inn
Prnee±tlon of Igainfed Agri-cultu al 'Lands by& Chan Diversion
Detailed surveys of choe courses ahould be carried out in the
selected watersheds to ascertain if single or group of choes can
be suitably diverted in their head reaches and diversion channeled
up to outfall for saving downstream agricultural land from
erosion, sand casting, etc. during flood season.
Fodand bank proteo-tion  X=oaoal for RainfAd Aginultural lanlds
Where choe diversions are not possible, proposals for the
protection of of rainfed agricultural fields by channelizing choes
along their natural courses by raising flood protection
embankments combined with bank erosion control works (spurs, etc.)
should be investigated and feasibility reports prepared.



-67-
AnnaxL7
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
INTZGRASTD WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HILLS)
Job Description
I.    Director Waterghed fevAlopmet OrZanisation
A.    Taaks:  The Director would:
1.    Suggest and prepare the agenda for the Steering Committee which has been
set up to approve Indicative Plans for new subwatersheds, annual work programs
and budgets and the annual progress report and to resolve problems of
coordination. The Director would be the Member/Secretary of the Committee and
keep minutes of the meeting.
2.    Guide the preparation of indicative plans for new sub-(micro) watersheds
undertaken by the planning and monitoring unit in collaboration with the
technical SFS and subwatershed staff as well as the monitoring of physical and
financial performance and annual progress reporting entrusted to this unit
assisted by the watershed team leaders. The unit would also operate the
geographical information system.
3.    Appoint and supervise the agency entrusted with project evaluation.
4.    Guide the watershed team leaders in interactive planning (including
women groups), village agreements on treatment, village institution building,
in compilation of annual work programs and budgets; in the liaison with
district level administration and officers and in work planning for the
subwatershed team.
5.    Plan the work schedule of the technical line department SMS who would
guide subwatershed staff in selection and design of treatments and of detailed
planning of works and in supervising the technical execution on the basis of
agreed treatment specifications. The director will contribute to the annual
performance evaluation of these staff.
6.    Guide the training officer in the planning and execution of the training
program, in the production of information material to promote resource
literacy and to publicise project objectives and achievements, in his efforts
to promote village interaction, women interaction and village institution
building.
7.    Liaise with the Agricultural Department (Extension), Animal Husbandry
Department and the State Agricultural University concerning their role in the
subwatershed development program, their annual work program and budget
requirements and progress in implementation.



-68-
Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
8.    Guide the work of the administrative section in reviewing and compiling
subwatershed budget submissions; in issuing authorisation to incur
expenditures to the watershed team leaders: in keeping accounts and compiling
project accounts by obtaining statements from sub-watersheds: in submitting
withdrawal applications; in reporting on financial implementation:. and in
general office administration. A single budget head for project funds would
be created and controlled by the Director. He would be empowered to
reallocate funds between sub-watersheds, if it becomes necessary during
implementation.
To ensure that women are adequately represented in the interactive planning
process with beneficiaries, a woman would be recruited for each project office
to motivate and promote women involvement in all project activities.
B.    Oualifieations
9.    The post in question would be created at  additional director level or
an lAS/IFS officer. The incumbent should be highly qualified manager with a
proven ability to maintain good working relationships. He should have
extensive experience of agriculture/forestry/watershed development.
C.   Term of Agointnent
10.   The appointment should be for not less than three years.
II. Subwatershed Team leader
11.  The team leader would report to the WPIO Director and will be in charge
of one or several adjacent subwatersheds.
A.   Iaaka:  The Team leader would
(i) be responsible for village interaction and reaching agreements on
treatments, cost and benefit sharing arrangements and managerial
responsibilities. He would also lead the organisational efforts to
promote village institutions to assume managerial responsibilities
for common lands. Special attention in the interaction process would
be given to the views of the women in the village.
(ii) take the lead in detailed work planning. Starting from the
indicative subwatershed plan he should improve the data base and
problem analysis and guided by the village interaction lead the
detailed planning of works.
(iii) prepare and submit to the Director an annual work program specifying
the components by implementing department. Using the unit costs of
different treatments he will prepare the annual budget request.
(iv) suggest and prepare the agenda for the District Watershed Committee
which will review the annual subwatershed work programs and recommend
approval or changes, review progress and resolve problems of
implementation. The team leader will arrange regular Visits by



-69-
Annax 7
Page 3 of 3
district officers to review the work in the field and be exposed to
the treatment specifications.
(v)  would review the work schedule of different departments to assure
coordination, monitor implementation, help resolve problems in the
relation to villages, reallocate funds between departments in the
light of progress in execution, report annually on physical
implementation. The team leader would have an input in the annual
performance evaluation of the departmental staffs.
(vi) would monitor the protection maintenance and management of treated
areas and propose actions for strengthening.
B.    Ona1ificatieons
12.   The team leader post would be created at district  officer level (Class
I). The incumbent could be an officer from one of the main departments
(forestry, soil conservation, agriculture, animal husbandry, horticulture) or
be an IAS/ IFS officer. He should have a proven ability to maintain good
working relations and demonstrate an interest in and ability to interact with
the subwatershed population.
C.   Term of Aopointment
13.   The appointment should be for a minimum of three years.



-70-
AMz2n.1
Page 1 of 3
IND1IA
XNTEGRATED WATZRSHZD DEVELOPNENT PROJECT (BXLLS)
T-rms of Reference
Consultant Team for Interactive Planning,
Organization and Management Training
1.    Introduction:  As part of the central component of the Integrated
Watershed Development Project (Hills), a consultant team will be recruited to
work with the project staff in the States of Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and
Kashmir, Punjab and Haryana. The consultants will work under the overall
coordination of the Government of India, which will convene regular meetings
of all participating states to discuss, approve, and modify annual work plans
developed by the team in consultations with the States. The consultants will
be appointed to work for two years, no later than December 1990.
2.    Tasks:  In collaboration with each participating states, the consultants
will be responeible for assisting the project implementing agency in
introducing effective and sustainable interactive planning and resource
management in accordance with project objectives and components. This will
include:
Ca) developing a methodology for inter-disciplinary and interactive
planning with line departments and beneficiaries, including
landless, women, migratory herders and farmers;
Cb) refining policies and procedures for reaching long term agreements
with beneficiaries on cost and benefit sharing arrangements and
management rights and responsibilities;
(c) developing methods for registering and supporting local
institutions responsible for resource management;
(d) conducting training programs for staff at all levels, including
training of trainers with accompanying training curricula;
(e) developing program formats for beneficiary training;
(f) jointly producing sample interactive plans and common property
management agreements in selected subwatershed as part of the
training program.
3.    Outputs:  The following specific outputs are expected over the life of
the consultancy:
(a) manual for interdisciplinary and interactive planning;
(b) manual for group organization, registration, support and



-71-
Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
supervision;
(c) formats (proforma) for resource use and management agreements,
including cost-benefit sharing arrangements;
(d) manual for training beneficiaries in sustained resource management;
(e) analysis of further policy alternatives for sustained resource
management, including legal issues involved;
(f) trained staff and selected villagers in selected subwatersheds;
(g) pilot subwatershed plans based on interactive planning;
(h) pilot agreements and group organization in each state.
4.    Consultant Team Composition:  The team will consist of three fulltime
professionals:
o Team Leader/Planner (either social scientist or technical)
o Interactive Planning & Training Specialist (social scientist)
o Technical Specialist (forester/soil conservationist)
5.    These consultants will be supported by three officials, with particular
responsibility for training, one of whom should have particular skills in
women's development activities:
o Training/Curriculum Specialist
o Group Organization Specialist
o Mapping Specialist
6.    In addition to office support staff, there will be provision for up to
20 manmonths of short term consultant assistance in such fields as legal and
policy analysis, natural resource economics, silviculture, non-timber forest
products and fodder grasses, extension and training.
7.    Working Arrangements:  The project subject matter specialist for
interactive planning and publicity in each state together with staff appointed
for institutional development at the subwatershed level will be responsible
for making the necessary arrangements for the activities to be carried out in
their states. The consultants will also work closely with the Ballowal
Saunkheri Training Centre and the Remote Sensing Centre at Ludhiana in
coordinating training programs and the use of their training facilities. Each
state will be responsible for selecting trainees and covering their expenses
for training, as well as providing data required for planning exercises.
8.    The consultants will be based in an office to be established for this
purpose in the Chandigarh area. Office rental, equipment and supplies will be
the responsibility of the central ministry of agriculture.



-72-
Anns*x A
Page 3 of 3
Project Advisor-Geographic Xnformation System (GIS) ond
Remote Sensing
9.    Duties:  In collaboration with the Punjab Remote Sensing Center (PRSC)
and the State Watershed Development Office, the Project Advisor for GIS would:
-   design the GIS facility for the PRSC and other participating
states;
-   advise on the selection of appropriate computer hardware and
software;
-   assist in the development of remote sensing demonstration project
to evaluate resource degradation in the Kandi region;
-   assist in the development of training materials suitable for
scientists of the PRSC and those of other participating states in
the field of GIS;
-   supervise the implementation of GIS and Remote Sensing
demonstrations related to the watershed development.
10.  Qualifications:  The advisor should have academic training and
experience in the fields of natural resource survey design, GIS, remote
sensing techniques, spatial analysis, database management, and natural
resource management. The candidate should demonstrate good planning skills
and the capacity to manage inter-disciplinary technical teams.
11.   The preferred candidate would have field experience in the Indian
context and should have a demonstrated ability and capability for working in a
multi-disciplinary environment. The candidate should understand not only the
technical aspects of GIS/Remote Sensing but should also demonstrate
sensitivity to problems of rural development and dry-land agriculture.
12.   Duration:  approximately 18 months
13.   Duty Station:  Ludhiana, Punjab with regular visits to the field and to
major centers of remote sensing and GIS activity in India (Dehra Dun,
Bangalore, Hyderabad) and regular field visits to the Project Offices of the
participating states.



-73-
ADnnel
Page 1 of 6
=ZIWGR&!D  W&IsasmD  D3'VUOPOUZN   PROJEC!  (RILLS)
A.   Scope of Monitoring  and 3waluation
I.    The conceptualization of the monitoring and evaluation component of the
project follows closely the declared project objective, viz. the reversal of
the ecological degradation to improve the production of crops, fodder and
fuelwood and the income of the p,opulation in the project area and to reduce
flooding and devastation of farm lands in the plains. The laying of a
foundation for sustained production gains, verification of conservation
technology, the development of sound approaches to common resource management,
the generation of improved data for economic analysis of resource conservation
are also major project aims. Obviously,a monitoring and evaluation system that
would contribute to addressing the information requirement for assessing the
progress towards these project goals would be highly complex and resource
demanding. It would require very careful planning, organization, and
management throughout the project cycle, and some key activities could only be
conducted meaningfully beyond the point of direct investments. Thus a high
degree of commitment to monitoring and evaluation would be required of the
borrower institutions.
2.   Given the complexity of the monitoring and evaluation system, the design
approach should be modular. a basic module could be one that deals with
internal management, providing verifiable changes in land use (contour
cultivation, grazing pattern, cultivation on steep slopes) and cropping
patterns as indications of reversal of ecological degradation. The collection
and analysis of economic data for assessing productivity gains could be
another; the analysis of the sustainability of the new system with a stronger
organization in common resource management, and heightened environmental
awareness among rural producers should be another of these modules. Finally,
there will also be a need for a technical module to assess the wider benefits
of watershed treatment like silt retention and flood reduction in the in the
lowland areas.
3.   A modular approach to monitoring and evaluation for the project does not
imply conducting the various tasks as outlined above as distinct activities,
for doing so would cauae uneconomical duplications in data collection efforts
as well as serious gaps in analysis of results and in assesament of
achievements in terms of causalities. The modules have to be planned and
undertaken in a well-integrated and systematic manner. Underlying the project
objectives and aims is a causal chain that extends from the physical
investments to rationalized land use pattern, to improvements in
productivities, through sustained developments with strong social resource
management institutions, and ultimately to the achievement of environmental
benefits well beyond the iediate confines of the treated microwatersheds.
This can also be conceived as a hierarchy of goals, the achievement of which
would proceed from each level to a progressively higher one. The progress is
also related in time. For technical clarity, the five levels (modules)



-74-
AhmL
Page 2 of 6
ranging from investment physical activities to silt reduction in the lowland
water courses would first be elaborated; the implementation and management of
the monitoring and evaluation system under the project, the three phases of
H6E activities would be introduced.
S.   Th  five Levelg  of  Uuviroaastal U&S
4.    The first and the basic level of monitoring and evaluation of the
project is the PrniJot  Iml.mzntation Mnnring. The module has to do with
the detailed tracking of works progress, direct investment costs and
associated expenditures. The source of information would be internal records
kept by project implementation entities. Some modifications to the way in
which expenditure records or accounts may be necessary to satisfy the needs
for comparing the cost effectiveness of the various watershed treatment
methods. Project implementation monitoring would be a direst input for
reimbursement of project and a contribution supervision. The responsibility
for maintaining proper project implementation monitoring would be that of the
project management entity (Annual Report). Where feasible, both the record
keeping and results verification would be done internally. Under the project,
time scheduling techniques would enhance implementation management efficiency
and to facilitate record keeping as well as valuation of work in progress.
5.    The second level is that of            .AdoMina
As the main cause of past environmental degradation has been irrational land
use, the first results of the project must therefore be a change in the land
use pattern in accordance with sound husbandry principles. While the project
would maintain records on acreages of contour cultivation, enclosures, and
plantations on a continuous (seasonally) basis for planning and tracking
purposes, the actual vegetative coverage would also be verified regularly by
aerial photos or satellite imagery, perhaps once every two years.
Interpretation of imagery data on land use changes would require more
elaborate procedures than visual inspection of satellite photographs. Higher
skill levels and larger expenditure on equipment would be required. Whether
this verification of immediate treatment results should be done internally or
on contract should be decided on a case to case basis.
6.   The third level of monitoring and evaluation has to do with the
collection of economic eata on a continuing basis for Proiecti Bengfits
Mnaaazmn"e. This module deals with assessing the improving productivity over
time in different type of land use, such as crops on farm land, fodder on
pastures, trees and private and public plantings. Experience has shown that
the measurement of crop or fodder yields is notoriously difficult, partly
because of the technical problems of the measurement methods, but mainly
because of the interpretation of problems of yield measurements. Apart from
the beneficial results of the project, in terms of better soil moisture
retention, yields are also influenced by weather conditions, soil composition,
input levels, husbandry standards, etc. On a before-and-after basis, very
large numbers of measurements continued over an extended period of time
(perhaps nine years under rainfed conditions, would be required to detect a
rising yield trend and possibly indicate a contribution attributable to



-75-
ahmL
Page 3 of 6
project intervention. If acceptable pairs could be established, representing
the with and without project situations of each of the treatment methods, then
both the length of the data series and the numbor of measurements required
could be reduced. This level of M&E should best be contracted to an
agriculture/agronomy faculty or a research instit-tion, which would design and
implement this economic data collection exercise, with reference to, but not
engaged in, the monitoring land use changes mentioned above.
7.    The evaluation of the sustainability of the improved and environmentally
sound agricultural production system represents the next higher level of
monitoring and evaluation of the project.  This Pro-tz snsta4  ilitMv
A.sansaumt module has to do with evaluating the social and economic dynamics
of the new production system in order to determine whether the increasing
population can be supported by the improved management system, and the social
mechanics can ensure equitable distribution of benefits potential or realized
so as not to harm the environment again through competitive exploitation. The
skills required for conducting this type of assessment are not usually found
within a soil conservation agency and probably not even among these contracted
to conduct the economic assessment. Separate arrangement under a specific
term of reference should be made for undertaking this important component of
the monitoring and evaluation system.
8.   Finally, the last but not the least important level of M&E is the module
anging th        act of NA                        in terms of benefits accrued
to the wider geographical area, particularly the lowlands. The assessment of
this impact requires instrumented measurements and scientific analysis of
reducing soil loss on stabilized slopes and lowering silt floe in the wider
watershed aretw. This module could also include the estimation of indirect
benefits such as protection of human lives, private properties, economic
infrastructures, and agricultural land from flooding, resulting from the
investments in the treatment of degraded or threatened microwatershed in the
catchment areas of major rivers.  This type of assessment would be very
demanding in technical skills and experience and would involve continuous
measurement over extended periods of time. To the extent that a national (or
international) agency is interested in taking on this task, the project could
finance the additional equipment and be supportive of the monitoring effort.
C.   Implementation Phases of the Watershed M&x
9.   Normally, there is some staggering in the appropriate timing in
commencing the work of each of the five modules described above. Clearly, the
Project Implementation Monitoring module would begin as soon as project
activities began, followed in perhaps two or three years by the Monitoring of
Project Results and Benefits. At or soon after full development,
sustainability of the newly improved system should be assessed. The
appropriate timing for evaluating the overall impact in the wider drainage
area would be determined by a number of factors including the study design,
though measurement would probably begin much earlier to establish a time-
series. Given that activities under the project would be staggered over seven
years, some of the monitoring activities would overlap. Also, given that the



-76-
Page 4 of 6
decision on future investmen.s would have to be made before the end of the
project, assessment of the economic benefits and of the sustainability of the
resource management system would have to be advanced.
10. For the period between appraisal and project completion, the following
timetable for implementing the Monitoring and Evaluation System ia suggested:
Phase x:  Before Loan Sffectiveness:
Design Progress Reporting System;
Arrange for Air photography/Satellite Imagery servicus;
Contract an agency for Productivity measurement.
Phase X1: First Year of Project:
Implement Progress Reporting System;
Establish/Enhance Air photo/satellite capabilitiea:
Establish baseline for measuring productivity changes;
Contract for Socio-economic study of resource management and
sustainability;
Purchase/Install instrumentation for silt measurement.
Phase JIX: Second and Third Years of Project:
Continue Progress Reporting System;
Comwence measurement of Land Use Changes;
Continue Productivity measurements;
Conduct Socio-economic study and report on results.
11. If the schedule is followed, a sound progress monitoring of work
performance and expenditure would exist throughout project life, and some
evidence of positive change in vegetative coverage would be evident from air
photography/satellite imagery. Some indication of the rising productivity
trend for crops and fodder may also be possible and economic benefits could be
projected more accurately. But even at the end of the project, it may still
be too early to discern permanent changes in the manner resources are managed
to produce continually rising incomes for a larger population. Nonetheless,
well conducted socio-economic case studies in selected areas may provide some
indications of positive developments.
12.  It is important to emphasize the importance of rrmnLtnte  of project
implementation agency to lognVgpr monitoring and evaluation activities. As
soil and moisture processes in rainfed farming are slow in manifestation, it
is only through patient and continued efforts that the halting of
environmental degradation and the emerging of positive benefits can
unequivocally be confirmed.



-77-
ABMz-
Page 5 of 6
Appendix I
Proposed Azzangements for manitoring and ealuation
A.   no         h                      would:
1.    Monitor the progress of physical works and investment costs by
subwatershed and treatment (Annex 3) and produce an annual progress
report.
a     Arrange for continuous run off and siltation measurements for a few
selected smaller catchments (Max 100 ha) which would be treated under
the project. The sites should be selected to illustrate the treatment
effect under different slope, type of treatment and land use conditions
(arable, pasture, forest). The measurements would need to continue for
a long period of time (20 years?) and would be the responsibility of the
SMS Soil Conservation in the Directorate. The number of sites should
probably not exceed 5 in any one state.
3     Contract aerial photo/imagery analysis of vegetative coverage at the
outset of the project and in year seven for gam of the initial
subwatersheds IJ&K 2). The aerial photo for the first analysis should
not be older than 1985. Some examples of such analysis are enclosed.
B.    The State agricultural univereitv would undertake the operational
research component funded under the project for one of the initial
subwatersheds in each state (J&K 2).
(a)   Analyse yields throughout the project period of different
treatment options (arable and non-arable lands) and comparing it
with the yields of similar non-treated areas. Analyse changes in
cropping pattern and cropping intensity.
(b)   Record the use of inputs, labour and draft power and proceeds
realised (subsistence and sales) and produce (crop) budgets for
land under different treatment and for the matching non-treated
areas.
(c)   Analyse constraints that are experienced in the adoption of these
treatments such as the performance of soil and moisture
conservation measures, survival rates of plantations, performance
of different species, difficulties in adoption of e.g. contour
cultivation etc. Propose improvements and/or further research.
(d)   Report annually to the WDO director on its findings.
C.   An TIn u             atin  Agan=  would be contracted to determine in one
of the initial subwatersheds in each state (J&K 2) the changes over the
project period with respect to:



-78-
Page 6 of 6
(a)   the returns realised from different types of land (different
Commodities).
(b)   how benefits have been distributed with particular attention to
the consequences for landless and women.
(c)   how different types of land are managed and protected and the
prospect for sustainable improvemnts.
(d)   the extent of over exploitation of natural resources and awareness
of possible problems.
4.   To be able to illustrate such changes a baseline survey would be
undertaken in the first and final year of the project. Such a survey
should need to cover the following points:
(a)   the land tenure situation;
Cb) user groups for each parcel of commonly or publicly held land; the
rights and concessions enjoyed by these groups, the management
practices and the distribution of benefits;
(c)   the livestock population (type of livestock, occurrence of old
unproductive livestock and the disposition of such stock) feeding
practices (grazing, stallfeeding, type of feed, quantities),
production, labour inputs (men, women, children), budget (revenue
and cost). This analysis would be made separately for farmers and
for landless.
(d)   the sources of energy (type and location).   Quantities;
(e)   fuelwood and fodder requirements annual production - possible over
exploitation;
(f)   the role of women in the farm household;
(g)  awareness of degradation of natural resources and possible causes;
(h)   village level institutions for management of non-arable lands
(common, panchayat lands);
5.    The vegetative coverage and yields and type of production would be
available through the work noted under section A&B above but the
baseline study should at least enumerate the types of produce that are
extracted from different types of land.



7Amex 10
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HILLS)
Crop Budget
Present Situation
wheat
(Hxa)
total
quantity      price/cost    value/cost
(Rs)         (Rs)
yield
grain(ton)                 0.9        1850.00       1665.00
straw(ton)                 1.3        1050.00       1365.00
total                                               3030.00
Inputs
hired labor(mandays)      12.8          15.00        192.00
animal(days)                25          50.00       1250.00
machine(hrs)                 0         100.00          0.00
seed(kg)                   100           4.00        400.00
fertilizers(kg)
N(urea)                     1 0          2.31         23.10
P(dap)                       0           3.73          0.00
K(mop)                       0           1.43          0.00
fym(tons)                    1          75.00         75.00
plant protection(kg)         0          10.00          0.00
total                                               1940.10
net return                                          1089.90



Annex 10
-80-                         Page 2 of 4
Crop Budget
Future with Project
Wheat
(Ha)
total
quantity       price/cost    value/cost
(Rs)         (Rs)
yield
grain(ton)                  1.4        1850.00       2590.00
straw(ton)                   2         1050.00       2100.00
total                                                4690.00
inputs
hired labor(mandays)       15.4          15.00        231.00
animal(days)                25           50.00       1250.00
machine(hrs)                 0          100.00          0.00
seed(kg)                   100            4.00        400.00
fertilizers(kg)
N(urea)                     30            2.31         69.30
P(dap)                       0            3.73          0.00
K(mop)                       0            1.43          0.00
fym(tons)                     3          75.00        225.00
plant protectbon(kg)          5          10.00         50.00
total                                                2225.30
net return                                           2464.70



-Auiez 10
Page 3 of 4
Crop Budget
Present Situation
Maize
(Ha)
total
quantity       price/cost    value/cost
(Rs)         (Rs)
yield
grain(ton)                  0.8       1500.00       1200.00
stover(ton)                 1.2        500.00        600.00
total                                               1800.00
Inputs
hired labor(mandays)      15.7           15.03       235.50
animal(days)               15.5          50.00       775.00
machine(hrs)                 0         100.00           0.00
soed(kg)                    3 0           2.00        60.00
fertilizers(kg)
N(urea)                      0            2.31          0.00
P(dap)                       0            3.73          0.00
K(mop)                       0            1.43          0.00
fym(tons)                    2          100.00       200.00
plant protection(kg)        10            7.00         70.00
total                                               1340.50
net return                                           459.50



-82-                           Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
Crop Budget
Future with Project
Maize
(Ha)
total
quantity      price/cost    value/cost
(RS)         (Rs)
yield
grain(ton)                 1.2        1500.00       1800.00
stover(ton)                1.9         500.00        950.00
total                                               2750.00
inputs
hired labor(mandays)      20.5          15.00        307.50
animal(days)                1 8         50.00        900.00
machine(hrs)                 0         100.00          0.00
seed(kg)                    20           2.00         40.00
fertili-ers(kg)
N(urea)                     20           2.31         46.20
P(dap)                       0           3.73          0.00
K(mop)                       0           1.43          0.00
fym(tons)                    2         100.00        200.00
plant protection(kg)        20           7.00        140.00
total                                               1633.70
net return                                          1116.30



-s3-                    Annew _L
Page 1 of 2
INDIa
XWZMGRA&!D WAYURSSZD D3V5LOPM Nr PROJXC! (3XLLS)
3conoulc Analycis
A. Crop Price.
1.    Prices for wheat and maize are based on projected world market prices
for the year 2000, converted to 1990 constant dollar equivalent. These were
derived from the World Bank commodity Price Forecasts issued June 28, 1989.
Prices for the two crops are discussed below:
Wht
2.    India's average annual production of wheat since 1980 has been about
43.0 million tons, which is mainly for domestic consumption. All
participating states, excluding Punjab are deficit wheat areas, therefore most
of their supply is imported either from neighboring states, such as Punjab or
from overseas. Based on projected world prices and after adjusting for port
handling (except for wheat produced in Punjab), and internal transport (from
Bombay and Chandigarh to Srinagar and Simla), the import parity price for
wheat was estimated to be Rs.4289.0 per ton.
Price(fob port of export)            USS per ton  180.0
Add freight                          US$ per ton   36.0
Sub-total                                         216.0
Exchange rate Rs.16.5 to one dollar RS.         3,564.0
Add port charges                     Ra.          286.0
Add marketing costs                  Rs.          111.0
Add internal transport costs         Rs.          328.0
Total                                Re.        4,289.0
MA±u~
1.   Likewise maize is imported into the project area to supplement local
production. its world market price landed in Bombay is US$ 152.4 per ton.
After converting the price into Rupees and making all the adjustments, its
import parity price becomes Rs. 3138.0 per ton.
Prices for locally traded products of the project are shown below:
ZXQduot                 Priet   ger ton eRA)
Shrubs                               150
Grass fodder                         250
Tree fodder                          750
Fuelwood                             250
Small timber                         450
Timber                              1600
Babhar grass                         600
Bamboo                               450



-84-
Annea-lI
Page 2 of 2
5. Value of production from arable land
Xitx 41R2-ned
4.   At full development approximately ten years of the project, tho total
net incremental value of wheat would be Rs. 2666.3 per hectare annually (with
improved technology minus present situation), and that of maize would be Rs.
1405.8 per hectare. With 150% cropping intensity, that is 100% maize in
kharif and 50% wheat in rabi, the total net incremental value of both crops
would amount to Rs. 2739 per hectare annually.
5.    The area under improved rainfed technology (with project situation),
would be 14861 hectares, or 54% of the arable land. Therefore the total
incremental value of production would be about Ra. 40.7 million annually.
6.   The incremental value of production from the remaining arable land
(12769 hectares, would be Rs. 26.0 million annually. This is about 75% of the
value of production with improved rainfed technology.
Addt-ienal sub-watmr*ha
7.    Treated area would be 123,000 hectares, of which 57,810 hectares is
arable land. About 31,200 hectares or 54% of the arable land would be under
improved rainfed technology. Therefore, the net incremental value of
production from this area would be Rs. 85.5 million annually, and that from
the remaining area (26,610 hectares) would be Rs.54.7 million. The latter is
about 75% of the value of production with improved rainfed technology (Rs.2054
per hectare per year).
B.   The improved rainfed technology would be extended beyond the boundaries
of sub-watersheds, but within districts implementing the project to include
all arable land. The total arable land under this category would be about
4375 hectares for all participating states. It is estimaced it would take two
years before such land can start benefiting from the new technology.
Therefore, at full development, the net value of incremental production would
Rs. 2739 per hectare annually, amounting to Rs. 12.0 million for the whole
area.
9.   The value of other products were estimated from area build-up for
individual treatments during project implementation. These are presented in
the attached tables.



-85-
INDIA                          Annex 11
Table 1 of 14
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HILLS)
crop budget
present situation
wheat
(Ha)
total
quantity       price/cost    value/cost
(Rs)          (Rs)
economic      economic
yield
grain(ton)                  0.9        4289.00       3860.10
straw(ton)                  1.3        1050.00       1365.00
total                                                5225.10
Inputs
hired labor(mandays)       12.8          12.00        153.60
animal(days)                25           40.00       1000.00
machine(hrs)                  0          80.00          0.00
seed(kg)                   100            3.20        320.00
fertilizers(kg)
N(urea)                      10           1.85         18.48
P(dap)                        0           2.98          0.00
K(mop)                        0           1.14          0.00
fym(tons)                     1          60.00         60.00
plant protectlion(kg)         0           8.00           0.00
total                                                1552.08
net return                                           3673.02



Annex 11
-86-                          Table 2 of 14
crop budget
future with project
wheat
(Ha)
total
quantity       price/cost    value/cost
(Rs)         (Rs)
economic      economic
yield
grain(ton)                  1.4        4289.00       6004.60
straw(ton)                    2        1050.00       2100.00
total                                                8104.60
Inputs
hired labor(mandays)       15.4          12.00        184.80
animal(days)                 25          40.00       1000.00
machlne(hrs%                  0          80.00          0.00
seed(kg)                    100           3.20        320.00
fertilizers(kg)
N(urea)                     30            1.85         55.44
P(dap)                        0           2.98          0.00
K(mop)                        0           1.14           0.00
fym(tons)                     3          60.00        180.00
plant protection(kg)          5           8.00         40.00
total                                                1780.24
net return                                           6324.36



Annex 11
-87-                          Table 3 of 14
crop budget
present situation
maize
(Ha)
total
quantity       price/cost     value/cost
(Rs)          (Rs)
economic      economic
yield
grain(ton)                   0.8        3138.00       2510.40
stover(ton)                  1.2         500.00        600.00
total                                                 3110.40
inputs
hired labor(mandays)        15.7          12.00        188.40
animal(days)                15.5          40.00        620.00
machine(hrs)                  0           80.00           0.00
seed(kg)                     30            1.60          48.00
fertilizers(kg)
N(urea)                       0            1.85           0.00
P(dap)                        0            2.98           0.00
K('.o-p)                      0            1.14           0.00
fym(tons)                     2           80.00         160.00
plant protection(kg)         10            5.60          56.00
total                                                 1072.40
net return                                            2038.00



-88.-                        Annex 11
Table 4 of 14
crop budget
future with project
maize
(Ha)
total
quantity       price/cost     value/cost
(Rs)          (Rs)
economic      economic
yield
grain(ton)                   1.2        3138.00       3765.60
stover(ton)                  1.9         500.00        950.00
total                                                 4715.60
Inputs
hired labor(mandays)       20.5           12.00        246.00
animal(days)                 1 8          40.00        720.00
machine(hrs)                  0           80.00           0.00
seed(kg)                     20            1.60         32.00
fertilizers(kg)
N(urea)                      20            1.85         36.96
P(dap)                        0            2.98          0.00
K(mop)                        0            1.14           0.00
fyws(tons)                    2           80.00        160.00
plant protection(kg)         20            5.60        112.00
total                                                 1306.96
net return                                            3408.64



Area and Incremental Production
sub-watersheds                      1        2        3         4        5        6         7
.........     .................. ..... ............. 
demonstration area(ha)           5044    15131    25218    35305    40349    45392    50436
Incremental production
.........     .................. .................... ..
malze(.4tons per ha) tons      2017.6   6052.4  10087.2   14122  16139.6  18156.8  20174.4
wheat(.51ons per ha)
on haN area(tons)                1261  3782.75   6304.5  8826.25 10087.25    11348    12609
other treament area (ha)         3937    11813    19689    27565    31502    35440    39379
Incremental production
..................-....
make(.30tons per ha) tons      1181.1   3543.9   5906.7   8269.5   9450.6   10632  11813.7
wheat(.38tons per ha)
on hal area(tons)               748.0   2244.5   3740.9   5237.4   5985.4   6733.6   7482.0         iX
total Incr.production(tons)
.........  .........  .........
maize                          3198.7   9596.3  15993.9  22391.5  25590.2  28788.8  31988.1
wheat                          2009.0   6027.2  10045.4  14063.6  16072.6  18081.6  20091.0
total area                      8981    26944    44907    62870    71851    80832    89815
% area devebped                 16.12    48.36    80.61   112.85   128.97   145.09   161.21
% anwai                         16.12    32.24    32.24    32.24    16.12    16.12    16.12
%; rounded                         10       20       20       20        13       10        7
0



-90-
initilJ dem. moe                         Annex 1 1
Table 6 of 14
Incremental Production (Rs M):-     4 1
Annual Buildup Year  1    2       3    4      5      6     7     8      9     1 0
of benefits:  %    10   20   35   50   65   75   85   90   95   100
% Area       Incremental Production from Area Completed in Year ...    Total
Yr  Developed   1    2       3     4     5    6      7     8      9    1 0  Benefit
1      10
2      20      0.4                                                            0.4
3      20      0.8   0.8                                                      1.6
4      20      1.4   1.6  0.8                                                 3.9
5      1 3     2.0   2.8   1.6   0.8                                          7.3
6      1 0     2.6  4.1   2.8   1.6  0.5                                     11.7
7       7      3.1   5.3  4.1   2.8   1.1   0.4                              16.7
8              3.5  6.1   5.3  4.1   1.9   0.8   0.3                         21.9
9              3.7   6.9  6.1   5.3   2.6   1.4   0.6                        26.6
1 0             3.9   7.3   6.9  6.1   3.4   2.0   1.0                       30.7
1 1             4.1   7.7   7.3   6.9  4.0   2.6   1.4                       34.1
12              4.1   8.1   7.7   7.3   4.5  3.1   1.9                       36.7
1 3             4.1   8.1   8.1   7.7  4.8   3.5   2.1                       38.4
14              4.1   8.1  8.1   8.1   5.0   3.7   2.4                        39.6
1 5             4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  3.9   2.6                        40.2
1 6             4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  4.1   2.7                        40.6
1 7             4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  4.1   2.8                        40.7
1 8             4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  4.1   2.8                        40.7
1 9             4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  4.1   2.8                        40.7
20              4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  4.1   2.8                        40.7
21              4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  4.1   2.8                        40.7
22              4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  4.1   2.8                        40.7
23              4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  4.1   2.8                        40.7
24              4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  4.1   2.8                        40.7
25              4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  4.1   2.8                        40.7
26              4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  4.1   2.8                        40.7
27              4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  4.1   2.8                        40.7
28              4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  4.1   2.6                        40.7
29              4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  4.1   2.8                        40.7
30              4.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   5.3  4.1   2.8                        40.7



*-91-
inifial other modelAmex 11
initial other iii@dM              Table 7 of 14
Incremental Production (Rs M):-  2 6
AnnualBuidup Y*ar  1   2   3   4   5    6    7    8    9    10
of benefits: %   10  20  35  50  65  75  65  90  96  100
% Area    Incrental Prodution from Area Completed in Year ...  Total
Yr Deveope   1   2   3   4   5   6    7    8    9   10 Benefit
1     10
2   .20    0.3                                                 0.3
3     20    0.5  0.5                                           1.0
4     20    0.9  1.0  0.5                                      2.5
5     1 3    1.3  1.8  1.0  0.5                                4.7
6     1 0    1.7  2.6  1.8  1.0  0.3                           7.5
7     7     2.0  3.4  2.6  1.8  0.7  0.3                      10.7
8           2.2  3.9  3.4  2.6  1.2  0.5  0.2                  14.0
9           2.3  4.4  3.9  3.4  1.7  0.9  0.4                  17.0
1 0          2.5  4.7  4.4  3.9  2.2  1.3  0.6                 19.6
1 1          2.8  4.9  4.7  4.4  2.5  1.7  0.9                 21.8
1 2          2.6  5.2  4.9  4.7  2.9  2.0  1.2                 23.4
1 3          2.6  5.2  5.2  4.9  3.0  2.2  1.4                 24.6
1 4          2.6  5.2  5.2  5.2  3.2  2.3  1.5                 25.3
1 5          2.6  5.2  5.2  5.2  3.4  2.5  1.6                 25.7
1 6          2.6  5.2  5.2  5.2  3.4  2.6  1.7                 25.9
1 7          2.6  5.2  5.2  5.2  3.4  2.6  1.8                 26.0
1 8          2.6  5.2  5.2  5.2  3.4  2.6  1.8                 26.0
19           2.6  5.2  5.2  5.2  3.4  2.6  1.8                 26.0
20           2.6  5.2  5.2  5.2  3.4  2.6  1.8                 26.0
21           2.6  5.2  5.2  5.2  3.4  2.6  1.8                 26.0
22           2.6  5.2  5.2  5.2  3.4  2.6  1.8                 26.0
23           2.6  5.2  5.2  5.2  3.4  2.6  1.8                 26.0
24           2.6  5.2  5.2  5.2  3.4  2.6  1.8                 26.0
25           2.6  5.2  5.2  5.2  3.4  2.6  1.8                 26.0
26           2.6  5.2  5.2  5.2  3.4  2.6  1.8                 26.0
27           2.6  5.2  52  5.2  3.4  2.6  1.8                   28.0
28           2.6  5.2  5.2  5.2  3.4  2.6  1.8                  26.0
29           2.6  5.2  .2  5.2  3.4  2.6  1.8                  26.0
30           26  5.2  5.2  5.2  3.4  2.6  1.8                   28.0



-92-
addgonal dem.modelAnnex 11
additional dem.modal                   Table 8 of 14
Increnwntal Production (Re M):-  65.5
AnnualBuildup Yer  1    2        3     4      5     6      7    8    9    10
of benefits: %    0    0    20    40    60    80   100  100 100  100
% Area         Incremental Production from Area Completed In Year ...  Total
Yr  Developed   1    2     3     4      5     6      7     8    9    10 Benefit
1
2
3     20
4     20
5     20
6     20                  3,4                                               3.4
7     20                  6.8   3.4                                        10.3
8                        10.3   6.8   3.4                                  20.5
9                        13.7  10.3   6.8   3.4                            34.2
10                       17.1  13.7  10.3   6.6   3.4                       51.3
11                       17.1  17.1  13.7  10.3   6.8                       85.0
12                       17.1  17.1  17.1  13.7  10.3                       75.2
13                       17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  13.7                       6Z1
14                        17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                      85.5
15                        17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                      85.5
1.6                       17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                      85.5
17                       17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                       85.5
18                       17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                       85.5
19                        17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                      85.5
20                        17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                      85.5
21                        17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                      85.5
22                        17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                      85.5
23                        17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                      85.5
24                        17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                      85.5
25                        17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                      85.5
26                        17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                      85.5
27                        17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                      85.5
28                        17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                      85.5
29                        17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                      85.5
30                        17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1                      85.5



-93-
addtnal other model                   Annex 11
Table 9 of 14
Incremental Production (Re M):-  64 7
Annual Buld up Year  1    2    3      4     5     6    7    8    9    10
of benefits: %    0    0    20   40    60   80   100  100 100  100
% Area        Increme   Production fromn Are Completed In Year ...  Total
Yr  Developed  1    2    3      4     5     6      7    8    9   10 Benefit
1
2
3     20
4     20
5     20
6     20                 2.2                                             2.2
7     20                 4.4   2.2                                       6.6
8                        6.6   4.4   2.2                                13.1
9                        8.8   6.6   4.4   2.2                          21.9
10                      10.9   8.8   6.6   4.4   2.2                    32.8
11                      10.9  10.9   8.8   6.6   4.4                    41.6
12                      10.9  10.9  10.9   8.8   6.6                    48.1
13                      10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9   8.8                    52.5
14                      10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                    54.7
15                      10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                    54.7
16                      10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                    54.7
17                      10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                    54.7
18                      10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                    54.7
19                      10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                    54.7
20                       10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                    54.7
21                      10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                     54.7
22                       10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                    54.7
23                       10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                    54.7
24                       10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                    54.7
25                      i19   10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                     54.7
26                       10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                    54.7
27                       10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                    54.7
28                       10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.0                    54.7
29                       109   10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                    54.7
30                       10.,  10.9  10.9  10.9  10.9                    54.7



-94-
demons. outside subwater             Annex 11
Table 10 of 14
Incremental Producton (Re M):-  1 2
Annua Build up Year  1   2   3   4   5    6    7    8    9    10
of beneits: %    0   0   20  40  60  60  100 100 100  100
% Area    Incremental Production from Area Completed in Year...  Total
Yr Developed  1   2   3   4   5   8    7    8    9   10 Benefit
1
2
3     20
4     20
5     20
6     20              0.5                                       0.5
7     20              1.0  0.5                                  1.4
8                      1.4  1.0  0.5                            2.9
9                     1.9  1.4  1.0  0.5                        4.8
1 0                    2.4  1.9  1.4  1.0  0.5                  7.2
1 1                    2.4  2.4  1.9  1.4  1.0                  9.1
1 2                    2.4  2.4  2.4  1.9  1.4                 10.6
1 3                    2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  1.9                 11.5
1 4                    2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                 12.0
1 5                    2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                  12.0
1 6                    2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                  12.0
1 7                    2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                  12.0
1 8                    2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                  12.0
1 9                    2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                  12.0
20                     2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                  12.0
2 1                    2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                  12.0
22                     2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                  12.0
23                     2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                  12.0
24                     2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                  12.0
25                     2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                  12.0
26                     2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                  12.0
27                     2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                  12.0
28                     2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                  12.0
29                     2.4  2.4  2.4  2,4  2.4                  12.0
30                     2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4                  12.0



-t  5505   Sit  Oil   SillCiSI   sts  SIm  Wi    t551iLLSisiS    ill  emS  1~l  lil   SoIlsee,   ee,  #51  itl   Ni   isiS Kit  WtS  OK 1W    55    Lit*#t it                        am
.4               ~~~~~~~sKi    Chi    gem5 iteM  ewe   '"et stH4    ti  SKit SNOWt OuSt ite    0001 Stl0 41"000WtWt   SKI  hi"K                               0KM  SIOS 104W  WOO  iSie. ii.   suit iii 
"to.   "it  "sos   not,  "to,  "scs  1cisc1  "tso  "cIt  "cso  "sos  "It  scIt  "              iteM    t   "it,  sit  "it  Nest  ali   iti   et"i  *itl   tet  isi   sits  so    at   so                  5imawl)    w
115 ii,Se   55551  55 of Isi   SIS  tees  1Sli   tees  1ies  tees1  lees%  11l,t   MS0  S@    sta   tOSS  iO            4"   on    en5   A"    a"5  Sa"   1554   50 
551 es    5 C 4       55 II    em t, its sa    em"   ets9  ems I s  skit6 et a1II6 Im  ess   ems   em,tl  cits W                      1111   all  we   "Is   no   as   115`5                             (eimAmed am
~~~.4           l~~~gets  ,9 4iii  Liii   li  ,01 ift se    &"Is  stem   9996  Age-  ;144  s1,06  40ie         Ies Au t m tic    gu    stem   Wi.   is  is,   Nio    Iti  deas  "tos  s0tw ii    s                             4fsciIUt
Net 4    VIsi  setes ite  seilsie         fill ee OSSS ieee  K         see   oil   et'e  ses  wee  set s   wi   tel'   cmi  Wsi  sue  use  ie   Sie   gL5  evm   esisi. et    liciulAmu SW
"til    Kit  Ki5   Kim   wot   "etl  OKt  K0im   Kil  Kim6 Kim   Kit  Kims  KCo  tee    "els  Kit  Ki59 eat  seal  tess  cit.  "tie    we    Ni9  OU6  "es   "toss
teeI    oil  lsse  as I   sees  tie    sil  see   oite             Ilsae sic se    le    1   Si    lit   Ste I ice   t6  all  IN1'   "'   5t   Is         miee Sw       wo   "I*   5o   Ar    5                     d"
nil    OKIs  owm   sem  stem   "Cs  owlt  SiSt  "Cs   im1  weto hem14  w0el  4t   "et  itil   "es  "sI   elOc                           itNt "C   Om"ii"  "tes   uni  ftt  oNi   Ni   41isW 4a
msis1   teim  MIS  liest  911CS  eltes f legCO   slim  sIes  Slim  140l  eofs  sees  Itel  sCit  4sti   501  INIthi 5t  l                           ie "    "  osoSe   INS   A"5   "IS   #"1   S"  oo sb
es l    Nil  oil  SeemaKim  Nel   55aI55                age K   S  01 eKi   6i  KiS   oil  elit  GigS  41Kit otKaiS     eit          Iel's  411t  "SK  5155   WI  5we  @10   1W    or K             ,i      af nJdS
KS11    Km       t00               nI0,                 11   Km   cit   K  K1,es5 KS    Ks   K  WI   Km KmIci   Kt   W   WI   Km    WI'   as   mS    Ws  its   ere  Km    wel   wI   itS    tO       iof SW
lie     Soo   mIn    mIs          tie   gte   SW    Sao   55   me"    I          Sic   SIt   SN    ti    met  tie   si    sic   tIc    sit   Sit   I"    tie    st   ta"    S               S1N    Si              $ w
In                  el      eg~~~~~$m   as$  " el  ci 4110    0 it 0 ci o ii 41  5,1  Si1  "em   "emit    em ,i,,tes 0          11444"        "    Gis   SI9  ou    S1e   8          ow    ask   t"    on                          *o 5
INSi toNt  SKI  ltSt  ti411  Ni0  letgs  OSafe55 Setel             ittem  lieS O oil out  5   les   SS5S0  slot  lea.  is S" i 9SI KiSs  N t Ii    MeI  Sees  la"   WIt  ga5 is    it                      miU Wi
wit    liii  Oem   test  seem   wi    $,1m wi     Ie  111it   MOwi        doeo$ "t il et Ni iS    K m   gei   slit  45,51  Kim   9" N S KiS   49 tOil  SItS N    gm    Ni"  400    noK
es14    "5    III "4                     41 "I "                      IIt   it    ill  1 Ut   Mm 015   ee    it  em ii 5 Itm I  its mi     at  itt    Ws   Ws    SI    wi ie  KS6   I e   9 WOiU5.UNme  'o
In                  oc~it          es95    sot    I    tol  VIt     tt   its    is    el  is         i so    AI   ito   its o i tk *          t5   SIs   ito    VS    51    Ie    at   it    it    KS SC5e
it*m   itei  item   5sm   as"m   "Am  iems  Ilem  Isis  Sitig "Set  eae   gme   eism  isis  iems  ease  cos "t Ii  sects "sa   aue   Si    MOlim                        "doos,i wet   "tis  itom  st       ot        mes
PtIe    9 i1  elm 4 te  Illt   elmC s            itsI w      gelt    C  Pet      Ros    et5   W  tot   its I  I   tip Km    "S    KW  lt KI as mg as n           155   515   US   Wi    KS        He               ad 55u
eI'M    Ills  isis  ott   agmm   emmm,  tM$  ttm  Visis  teas   MSm  tiltSeets  tilt  lIti  post  fill  issI  elet  ills                S    aget fts   vost  fills  poll  tilt  ass   ii    m"Om
Se9 t   I    egg  Il    51 Pta      s   ICs   ofI            P S  OS I  55 I m    sm    is#    it    i     o,s  lot   sot   It4   WI  5t    a             5      0. 5O as   we   Ros               S       Io a
tices    Uslem ci0tilsge  tt 4# kitfs  itu   MSl  Smes  slost slew eete U               MgiS e Iem sil s iS    Usts    edwo  Usel  Seat  "itt 0555   LUt1 cicil  $eSts  1411  SKi   4ii.           1,e SIt  55U     m
ian     MUi   Om:  iOm   ian   iste   mse  Slits isea   ill  itln  ism   amn   ane  tsen   IeeO  ai  eis t"#5   lis   a"4   mml   Nit  Isi  Ies   Ii   I"i                                                     I u$KV
of i    os g         w  .OC9ot       I  flI  So S   PC  gel   fl@     I   PC aeelSt us ICso   li     USI ,mo     tim  Itt    WIS  555   gSt   Wst dv6           its ewo we           eV*e iSOl uolo  dO
gee6   ges  get  tits  oleo  se$  Otto  Ode  4eel0  gee6  ge   died    tiies5  50s  stOt   lit  lit)  tI   tim    "Os  Vist  iltl   Win  odes wes    ste  "ts    t,                                                ORN
"etK  "S'S  Scsi   SSC1  cars  Wis  "iVt   Wto  "VI  "et  "u   sta,t  "to  "Pte   u    esi    et   esi   iel  out  cit, este  lose   gm   sowt  ewes  cis   e"    ases
"St eto    KIet   KcI Pt cIi  Nils  Ni   It   NISt  I it SKc  cot I  nIP                     PCt 5 I sgsc ste   lI 9C tI e  5fl   lIi 9 sees     Ii  WIs  mSle  Ise   got  set   a*sIwo II4               a       of IeSUmm
PMn    owe  neti  ant  ciu   "as   "ate  oese* oe , we  seig  tint  site  "Ic  et    we "e  owe  coue   Mt*   Mt,  gm   spit  "ae  ouc  owe  e                                enl   me   owiS                       Wie
gmeu   Oml   tilt  tAm   til   iS   on i listAt  lU11gm I IC" citstIl   tAt  tsRt  tAft  Vtan   Mct  oCIC   tii   Ome  le5f  lam   #05   tIf  Oms  is.   Nit  It    le    lt                                          maI5iP
uszm   6et   gee0 4i1   uso, uel   dour  flu   "e             ee 5gel           gel,40    w,o  150o  5o  gm   SOt  101   "no lee   515  sgm    505    "to  som   s  li   ice   Cl   Sm    io               5i     uNb
ens     o   ts o s  te:  en     ite   too.  isis 11c   ice   ste   ise   ese:  as a 040et          ices  i to in    ins   eit  ill: 0 SIt  iSe:  iSs  ie   thes   mt  west  ewe  Slit                             adlit
CC  it    ii    51    it    It    if    55    CL    i~~ ~~~S @5 i  i    d      1     i       5     t      5     I       5     c     i      1      5     i      0      5      5      I555i55



P4
0
-6 L.~ ~~~~e                    O        o      e Is 9            S o         s W         t     t C         t t          S *1 W            s Vs t            s     0     IC         'I  1*      etCttormma
'4',~~~~~~m   We  cv  tie6iee  Woi                               o  1  t9 tocitns  01  $n9                       8""  f      tu"    '          a    we4I          "  wo 1oWtOC                   C 00 "IN MP
SI -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O11oww  mSo
0% ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a~ o 
94 10I   ut$081*fel01alWek  Se  "It Lngto"Ito"I"a   e Ot on  "tsItIt O"letutu   g   at0   t wo   oattd"g$Im    t'o  wo"O"I "OOxn"go0m
to 06  369et 09903400934 99lotSC  36 at    so0t3t53t Vs36  60099330 IV W W     O  t 0093 *0 Oft 5 U    3t0t0363636  50 I 600E5L365OK   60"Elit3006 09       36I 11   ONO  I   0t" 93s  0033  t   06   Ws60V6of
#3l        2        IAl  got 9ot 93   063        Solt 03    930 #to   cm3tot  oil  of 93    #3    93    93     #3    93 ,6  0110  to   I'm i  3      ,00 6   COS  065  005  366   600   Iva.11 0im
III95            "     IC63639339 is 9 PC 0031 9(33*03a  60a*095a3PC3a*PS50PC*I0II60*PS6  1034      PS03   0a C  9336  *3   aS 06a SUE SU    £60936       St96  669 0(3    663   3(    36   93PR
93500       006
et     to '        a * 9     *9     I9  *s*   et*  @e0  £06   *6   030   es*  3e*   e0t   et5   at   866  06  9366    096  @306  et   es   06    #0go   06    03    09    0        6     OmWowop op#
3      W 300    St  35   30 3tpt0`1t0           w 6P 3CS0   Of330  a35   35            S   tit  sit310 310   30   31    I33 300 30   PO  tot I5 it  33   #9a    oI t9 09          so3 t0p0 0aN      MP
et993        i  A03    I9 309   309   309  Cs9 309   309  309  069   06   3096A 309    309   309  306  3936I   333   000   690 3.  3   EE    A0    9      0     0     0     0o wn"  ees



Annex 11
Table 13 of 14
TOTAl
NET
PERIODS IOMITS   COSTS  FITS
1     0.83  102.10  -101,27
2     3.53  119.30   -115.77
3    13.24  269.50  -256.26
4    32*02  281.60  -249.58
5    63.19  233.00   -169.81
6    114.56  215.10  -100.54
7    S9.45  184.70   -25.25
8   201,47   17,90    183.57
9   240.99   10.70   230.29
10   312.66   5.40   307.26
11   359*.    2.40   357.08
12   386.76    2.40   384.36
13   387.28    2.40   384.88
14   361.60   2.40   359,20
15   359.28    2.40   356.88
16   352.78    2.40   350.38
17   350.97   2.40   348.57
18   349.00   2.40   346.60
19   347,82    2.40    345.42
20   387.86    2.40   385.46
21   407.81    2.40   405.41
22    414.53    2.40    412.13
23    397,5    2.40   395.35
24    357.45   2.40   355.05
25   3M410    2.40   351.70
26-29    347.39    2.40   344,"99
30   1988.62    2.40   1986.22
Irtrnal RAt  of Rgtwn of Not Strm
NMT                     17,461
SWITIZNG VALUES AT 122
PRISAL     SMlTHINS   pEENA6
5MAN                   MA.E        VAUE         OW
11                  1.408,11      90039        -36.063
CI                    900*39    1.408.1         56.3m
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



SVGSITIVITY rESTs                                          -98-                                     Annex 1L
Nf AS  2                          Table 14 of 14
PRESENT            OF PRESENT        tITuIIk
VkUE AT OCC        COSTS AT OCC       PATE OF
TEST CASES   TEST CASE WIIIATIONS              OF 12.002          Of l'.00          kETUPP
.           .  ..........                   .......       _    -_-____-__-_-_______ _.
.9ASE CASE                                            507.7              564?           17.5?
TEST CASE  I 81               Dow  102                366.9              40.82           16.1:
TEST CASE  2 81              DOwN 15t                 296.5              3 2.9 1t.3:
TEST CASE  3 Cl              UP  102                  417.7              42.21           16.22
TEST CASE  4 PI              LAG    2 YEARS           2'2.1 2I. S                        14.11
TEST CASE 5 91               PDOM  102
UP  102                 276.9              283.2           14.92
PRESENT VALUES Of MET STREAMS AT A DISCOUNT ATE W  122
e1    ol           UP 1102     UP   2     02 U 5 0%   DOWUA1 C1 ' ,   02 W    SULAt YEAR L  2 YM   LAO 3 YWS
Cl                507.7       648.5       789.3    1,211.8      636.9        226.1      -196.3      356.9       222.1      101.'
UP 10t            417.7       558.5       699.3    1.121.?       276.?       136.1      -286.4      266.9       13.1.
UP 202            32'?.6      468.5       609.3    1.031.?       186.8        46.O      -376.4       176.8       42.1       -'8.'
UP 502             !7.5       198.3       339.1       761.6      -83.3      -224.!      -646.5      -93.3      -:2.1       -34!.!
WN 10t            597.8       738.6       879.4    1,301.8       456.9       316.1      -106.3       446*9      312.2       19.0
DOW  202          687.8       829.6       969.4    1u391.8       547.0       406.2       -16.3      536.9       402.2       282.)
DM  52            757.9     1098.7    1,239.5    I.662.0         817.1       676.3       253.9       907.0      672.3        2.1
LAG I YEAR            -                                                                      -       453.3      318.6       198.3
LAG 2 YEARS           -           -           -           .                      .                       -      404.0       294.5
LAG 3 YEARS                                                                      -                                  -       36*.4
INT           ATES O  METU  W NET STlM
el     110 i          20UP  S P02    DW  102          01 201    DOW 50u  L1YEARLA2YEARSLG 3 YEARS
Cl               17.464      18.80       20*10t      23.728      16.058     14.577       9.47       15.5H 4     14.089     12.9!9
UP 102           16.188      17.464      18.609      22.121      14.853      13.445       .573      14.487      s3.166     12.100
UP 202           15.080       W6.M       1M.4M       20.730      13.804      12.458      7.760      13.550      12.350     11.37!
UP 502           12.458      13.541      14.577      17.464      11.319      10.111      5.86?      11.301      10.370      9.600
DOW 102          18.955       0.3a2      21.755      25.612      17.464      15.897     10.S22      16.789       5.14      13.850
DWw  202         20.730      22.257      23.728      27.864      19.136      17,464      11.753     18.240      16.385      14,931
DOW 502          29.167      31.187      33.136      38.638      27.0"       24.6        17.464     24.65       21.906      19.677
LAB I YE-                                           -                                        -      17.464      15.554      14.000
LAO 2 YEARS                 -           -           -                 -           -          -           -      17.464      15.554
LAO 3 YE*A     *                                                                                                     -      17.464
Prmnt Vaw ot Strems at            12.00Z
of                  1408.11
Cl                    900.39



-99-
Annex 12
ZEUGRAI D "fW&!lSUUD D3mWOPZNWT PRO33C! (UZLLS)
Rank/Ynk liftRhinAu1   f Dinhum.mant
And *-m M Pa&                Si-Annual               Cumulative
---------USS million--------
1990
Second                             4.0                     4.0            4
1991
Firat                              6.0                    10.0           11
Second                             2.0                    12.0           14
1992
First                              8.0                    20.0           23
Second                             4.0                    24.0           27
1993
First                              9.0                    33.0           37
Second                             6.0                    39.0           44
1994
First                             10.0                    49.0           56
Second                             6.0                    55.0           62
1995
First                              8.0                    63.0           72
Second                             4.0                    67.0           76
1996
First                              7.0                    74.0           84
Second                             4.0                    78.0           89
1997
First                             10.0                    88.0          100



-100-
Ann& 
Page 1 of 2
KND 1
I"3TRGA!D  WATSUR8ED  DVELOPM3N!T PROJfC!  (EZ.LS)
Training Program
A.    Ina1 Tra4n4ng
(a) A 3-day workshop for the preparation groups of the four states
would be arranged by GOT/MDO to discuSs preparatory actions
required before the project becomes effective. Also,
recommendations of the common property study would > reoiewed.
(b)   The SMS of the Watershed Development Organisations (UDO) in the
four states would need exposure to and training in agreed
tzeatments. GOI/NDO will need to arrange.
(c)   WDO staff including the watershed team leaders will require
training in project concept, indicative plans, village interaction
and agreements, administrative manual, monitoring and reporting.
The Director WDO in each state will need to take the lead in this
training.
(d)   Field staff (watershed teams) will similarly need indoctrination
in project concepts, treatments, procedures for village
interaction and agreements including interaction with women. This
should be provided by the watershed team leader assisted by the
UDO-SMS (treatment specificatl.ons).
Ce) Introductory course for staff dealing with Geographic Information
System from participating states (GIS) for 2-3 months at Ludhiana.
B.    &w~nnYl  tafw YTraining
(a)   One week sessions at Ballowal training centre to exchange
experience, visit sites in Punjab, Haryana and HP, and obtain
outside experience and research findings through invited guest
speakers. Special sessions for
Forestry staff
SC staff
Horticulture staff
Extens$on SWS/SAU trainees
Watershed team leaders
Project Directors
Staff responsible for village interaction
and institution building
Operational research staff.
(b) Annual workshops for sub-watershed team on work program, progress,
treatments, interaction and village institution building.



-101-
Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
(c)   Refresher course on GIS at Ludhiana (2 weeks)
(d)   Use of aerial photo and imagery in watershed planning at Ludhiana
(1 week).
(e)   Action training in inter-disciplinary and interactive watershed
planning and village organisation for watershed team and WDO
economist, training officer and SMS through consultant group
visits as well as workshops at Ballowal and/or at State
facilities.
(f)   Study trips outside project area (domestic and abroad) for Project
staff, extension SMS, SAU trainers, district officers.
C.            =
(a)   Course for teachers on resource degradation, causes and solutions
at Ballowal.
(b)   Study trips for farmers outside subwatershed to visit project area
and review technology and project concepts.
(C)  Visits to project area by district and state officials and local
officials to review technology, concepts and progress.
D.    Farimr Trninlng (within subwatersheds)
(a)   The project would promote a very intensive interaction with
village population on problems, project concepts, treatment
options, cost and benefit sharing, management and protection of
non-arable lands. Women play a very important role in fodder and
fuelwood collection and will need to be consulted on the above
subjects. The consequences of proposed treatments in terms of
workload will need discussion. Work program a-d progress will
need to be reviewed annually. A special meeting place,
documentation centre, would be created in each subwatershed to
facilitate interaction and provide information on plans, and
progress.
(b)   Village invtitutions to take increasing responsibility for the
management of the treated non-arable lands will need to be
organised. The watershed planning consultants will need to
organise training for selected/elected villagers in the
constitution tnd operation of such village societies.



-102-
Annex 14
INDIA                                                  Page 1 of 5
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMIET PROJECT (HILLS)
Sumary
Cost-Benefit Sharing on Non-Arable Lands
(in percent)
-COSTS ---------------- -----8 ENEFI TS-
LAND MANA6EENT                   ESTABLISHMENT       3PERATION & MAINTENANCE'  INTERMEDIATE PRODUCTS' LONG ROTATION PRODUCTS
CATEGORY    STATE ---------------
People Forest Dept.'    People Forest Dept.'    People Forest Dept.'    People Forest Dept.
PRIVATE         H.P.                10          90           20           80          100            0           75           85
INiOIJ!OUALS    J.3 K.             25           75           50           50          100            0           80           20
& LINEAGES      PUNJAB              lO          go           10            90         100            0          100            0
(il. Trusts) HARYANA                15          85           15           85           100           0           85           15
mean               15           85           24           76          100            0           85           15
CORPORATE       H.P.                10          90           20           80           100           0           75           25
SHAREHOLDERS   J.  K.                5          95            10           90          1OO            0           80          20
(PRIVATE)       PUNJAB             10           so           10           90           100           0          100            0
HARYANA             15          aS           15           e5          100            0           95           15
Mean               10           90           14           86          100            0           85           I5
PANCHAYAT       H.P.                10           90           20           80          100            0           50           50
USER  ROUPS    J. K.                 5           95           1O           90          100            0           80           20
PUNJAB             10           90           10           90          100            0          100            0
HARYANA            10           so           20           so           go           lO           es           I5
Mean                9           91           is           as           98            2           79           21
FOPEST LAND    H.P.                  0          100           10           90           '0           70           50           50
VILLAGE JSER   J.  K.                0          100            0          100          100            0           15           e5
SOCIETIES       PUNJAB               0          100            0          100            2           99            0          100
HARYANA             0          100           20           80            30          70            5           55
Mean                0          lOO            8           93           41           60            18          83
Mears           H.P.                 9           93           18           83           83           18           63           39
J.  K.              9           91           18           83          100            0           64           36
PUNJAB              8           93            8           93           76           25           75           25
HARYANA            10           90           18           83           80           .0           65           35
ALL STATE           8           92           15           85           85           16           67           33
NOTE: Tbese cost and benefit sharing arrangements were agreed during project appraisal,
but in most states, will reqwuire issuance of rne government orders and the establishment of appropriate
comunity resource management groups according to the land's tenure.



Cost-Benefit Sharing on Non-Arable Lands
(in percent)
-  --- e ao 8 T 8  ---                             9--    8 E N E F  I T      ---
LA MDAM        '  ESTABUSWMIE                  OPERAT'ONA MANOEIIWICE        H!IE.TEPROM'                  WHO RTATION PNXXCUS         COOMEO
P_e_                                                        I FoM  D0s hePM*  F   om  D   poep  Fem .  ' Poe*  Feast DeP_
PIATE                                                                                                                                   *ime
WONDUtS                   101 90%                       10190%                       1001O1                        100%0%              osif    by
ai*EA                                                                                                                                   FOes Dot
(u 75% (swIng (remaIin    (mebhimie In    (tipsiy is     (us fuel-                     (faw  w-       (in hiW. ful  Ur  ai'.
erods             mWd 15%        Iw ad d        I  ON            n Fors      weed. be                      wt eu"iW-t.       eto roaw-  10 pus
4 _ S               s Id         ameell    pFOstle)             p. rpe_       & t    hI                     ad. sh; n     wy reqfed-   t hiuuihiule
Wig PnLs Agi                                                    sIDlIuy)    Sos  hI IOoNL)                  Wg am         net prtse  butre.
_WFEN M           t       101%90%                       101 10%                      100110%                       100%                 stUrd*   by
(PUWATE)                                                                                                                                Fors Dupe
( 75% Sn         (      u     (-_t    hI         dy Ws       Ws. wol-                       (int   w-      (n Ils.h ll bAu       -
0*4msm            m 2iS%            WM d          -            enduI FoRest    weed. hII  wI vst rnlot-    Clt  rm-   so pupe
m t SO.         seein)         matlatsb)   protue)          Dept reses-    & rum  in                      ed.  --    or requInd-  l_t mr hmd_
t_ SWA 4 5                                                       IbSiltY)   S&4 hi 1Om.)                   oang s*)    ne promee   funr.
PMHI%YAT                                                                                                                                LK.   1 _                      o
tJEGR8M                   101601                        10SO11                       t0o%0%                         1001101               _   by
F&reiDePt
04 dimenht      (.75% tbing      (Meme         (elem   hI       ey re-        (grm, ue-                      *I,  hnw-     Ph lw. ais br
*& posai          wid 15%        low mid emd                   MOM Fort sled. I Ier                        lnt roltu-    costotes-   n purPe
trAd  SesA & 5     sIng          Maw")   pnm )                Dep. tepl       IpuhIn                        St  Ie -    my requrell-  hw hidelt
sibilty)   8=4 hI 10qm.)                   on"  W*)    no Prdle         tn".
0$11001 t                     01100%                        1110011                       oS1100%           UIS ges
eS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he tui ne                                                        .
Preoteed                                                                       poegauno                                                 PWW: amee
Fongt                                                                          tll, hi                                                  "W gi
pe       NAP                                                by Fort De.
I-i
0*
Ut



Cost-BenefiLt Sharing on Non-Arable Lands
(in percent)
***-***C                               S     S    .    ***-*****---*---BE EIS.-- -
*        ...........-* . -  ...  C  O   S  T  8  -**--***w-         '        --*-    6*1  E  N  E  f  I T  8   -  - 
U I T   E5rAJSHMI>                                  OFE TONAMANTEMANCE              'h~w1 PRoeuoCv                     lUSCA1MlI 0U1S
awmv~~~~~~~~~~~--    ........................... -....................................... ........... ....... ----.------
_tpl             F_ores DL        P60              Forest F DeL    'Pep               ores F Dept  ' PBeelee F Osgi
lmxvnws                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WIN teownr
1u0m1s                       156%  5%                          I 6%  5%                         1400%  O5%t5% I                                         cltlkcaan
I_ Sec 48           (bnasllwood      (reanng         (lAdce rowr      (pe_n up for       (gras                           (an procees       (recovry    Orde mi work-
5SHardlPe,           famin by       IabJhw_t         & proto4          Sac 485)         iher. fue-                        after |eb-        sa4        lig procediwe_
Ad? A S.3 od         farmer)           cowts)        8% se fr    15% sre fr             wo   bish                         dvn cogs         cosws WWWl
Fhor  Ago                                            dvlpmodel        dslpsmdL            "1hoO)                           deined         out brst)
aiE                                                                                                                                                      WIN re*"
uAM                          1S%65%                            15%65%                           100%o%                             55$%     nSS          r_wouOrder
(PRVATE)                                                                                                                                                8 retzn
g       _.                   d       (mnfn repeIr                     (beting    ar        S.                             (a procee        (recovery    eheoi
m*u,_ iw dat         faming by nc8 pro_ec4Ion)                         Sce4 4  5)       WshWr, ful-                      dchfr _sNab        d _ftbk    cunreno
PaUt  wide           former)           cOW)          W*5 So     far    15% sh    r             _oo00  IIsh.              fim- cost         cos  lti.   cost ai g
an 4, A                                              u_ SleU .Nodel    al    mol                )                          dsduce)         out Iret)   pacced
tST ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~I _             _____                                   - _________                                __ ______________
UNaRDw                                                                                                                                                   R s"    no
UUD                           I%SUS%               t019Sl                            2S%0 90                                       *5% 156%                Ordw
mot                  (o br            rnung            pogo                               (p              (proposi           po             (recover     mt iso
rid            fancing)         inp'ts)        di. setu                          bh_bsr. fuel-      sono            alc str ebu       d _-o       Paid
_d                                                     costs r                          wod bush          recove          dnedcoa          cosw iVol          mrnrg
inoona res~i)               Simabo)         far wai)          d_Oced          ou  bitr.)   i    'l
WL     _E                      O%100%                          20S 0%0                           30S 70%                                                 Rw*%  95Sbl
SOEI                                                                                                                                                     So95ieties ofdR
-          F_ (pro__sing                                                                (conreselon       (throgh         (sM  gAb        (sit rena-   ef e tm    n
deam8                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~dim  wtduar          and  -emi           leenI  Ii   e          n A       kV havest       -   eel.
R_e.. For-                       _osts ahar                                             S *l auctions     idZ 4uctions)    8 Imalo.)                    esidais"*u,
eetsHinS                                             income .eV)            _           b Sode)                _                                           .L
II
l.a



cost-nenefit Sharing on Non-Arable Lands
-m  Pad"b                                                   (in percent)
* ____¢_ 0  I ST-                                   -                      B E N E F I T    -
UWOWIINVS         ' ESTAEAfhMNT                 CPEP'TICNIMANIIAICE           HTWIEOMMEPROC0TS           'MNEOTA            ES oiATs 
¢           ~~~~.........................................................................................................................................................
* ftspb       FMrest OWpL    a,s110         ANrfst DSep   Puoph          F_et ep     ' Pl             Foret De.
-IE
uinOS~*            _0% '601                              20% '0%                      100% 0%                       75% 2%            Rupile P_w
a~~b_zs_                                                                                                                         Seat (. -t
I. 0%         (60PM km      (a 10% om      (a GM% mm       (urs,                        (WeSa,          long
be mm          ae   _       sot S p.       ust S pm.      WOW.                          rot.   _ teosvtj
piepeslma  mudu          petsm           mi d         Sase, S                      Sae s.
aI- pl                          -M            ad as) mmlsIeb)  b  
41m     M      I% 6S0%                                    20% 0%                      100% 0%                       75% 25%            RI"  a
~~VMU)                                                                                                                            Gt"_t . vim
.    bs      am lo          w     (a 0t% 6%05             _ps.                         (Ies.           (
o GUO so                   gm S Iwa..    NMe S i*         Itbs,                         tsmove)
PXIAYAT
A.1    ~                    10$tlOS                      20S10%                       100%0%                        60%50%             EdeI_  _10                   t'1
FM"ci mldd
.0 palm           (.31  bb        PM I0w        to o% 60w    toa 6% 60w        wowls                        (Iirbq
11id               Ilet N            d        &Mt 1 pm,       amt S pe.       --A- a_i.  Sm
pfopulm.         etuds        PIoedo.        mWded laa6Rne. a                           kWn dsam-
_i p115                      tlwefr         meeles         fuuIaud                      _a  ihs
(a  0w  ed  mtib)            (d eet)      (dMalseba)        ao 
96M0011=                      tS" t}%                                            10 )
ONOt(S" {S _
WUtOfLn                                                                                                                                ESIkwF
WLAOEU                       0O tO0                       10% 90%                      30% 70%                      50% d              of Sodem
(10% not y.. If                    .                         (Utpre
dn wi*                                                  a                      SaM                          Sat   I. 
I_ I                       *s ar                                                f uulmu                    bI  tig ohts.
"_  "  I                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o l



Cost-Benefit Sharing on Non-Arable Lands
d5  " KiOb                                   (in percent)
_ e ao  8                                   aBB E NE F I T  8--
LWW       _'N                        OPTEhJT  'OIATMOtN& UICE    MKI^TEPo1's      'lllSOTATCNFrINI_       alMEu8
(-re)         Pa*b        Fu OWet.   P_          Fens) Dep    P_I       Fas De      Fepi        Fuse De
P1E                                        .I   
15% 5%m                50% 50%               100% 0%        I        60%  20%      zAppr NW
Out Tase        i% of     PM dw    _      e       (a to metr-   (gOs buw             (Umber)     (mthb;   a    t
NW          widnoe      mms)       id omnae)   be. Usbutene.                       on s     a NJAOGWL
CWE
5% s%                 10%t0%                100% 0%                80% 20%        Apoprus)
l 10% d   ( OS% _u    (% in gm    PM I mml mews
a& mm          I" IObl W d           S PLsS; S%-   yL4 0%4S0%                     .al J a OKst
u_ Mo           east)      ma_teb     100%  be-    Uwahstr
or k awtML                  cast        ater
PAMNYAT               5%95%                 10190%                lOOW                     0% 20%         A     d -am
U- lht d_ C1
(10% of   (.0% ubue   (10% In Usg  P60 in est                                            VW    .
_                         mid idet  I"il 3 pi_L; 30%-  8 y  0%-O                                        bu J *  Keax
_   _           cost)      maudis 1_   t9*0% _m-   wraerw                                                Pr_* pro
asuIW"                    east       after                                                             pass 100% mu
_ _. ay.                                                                                               FDID Y
fl"O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poda r _
UlinI                 OS%10% 0t100% tOtOOSOW OS%Sas                                                       PM"" $-
_ssp                                         d. d.os                (5% b*      (96 h*   pbn 
_rs. - _m  -, _d                  _             e_d
_ugs..                                        hiUm)                 0% Umb)   100% Umb _) o S" _
"Im 
0*-
-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .



COST AND BENEFfT SHARING
BY TYPE OF LAND
100L
90                                                           FAMVLY
80                                                             -
70  CORPORATE
60                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~PANCHAYAT
50
CL       ~~40                                                         FORDEPT.a
30-
20-
101
01
EST.COST  O&M COST   NTBM      FI&BE}
MEAN PERCENT PEOPLE'S SHARE



-108-
Annex 15
INDSA
XNIMGRA!UD UASSR8H3D DZV3LOPDUN! PROJUC! (HXLLS)
DOCCMENs IN THE PROJECY VILE
1.    Individual Sub-watershed Feasibility Reports
2.   Detailed Cost Tables
3.    Impact o@  Soil and Water Conservation Technology
4.    Common Property and Non-arable land Strategy
5.   Geographic Information System
6.    Treatments Eligible for Financing under the project
7.    Cost estimates for Individual treatments by State
S.    Farming Systems i$  Himachal Pradesh (An Economic Study)
9.   Criteria for Watershed Development Tanks
10.   Draft-Common Property Resources Management Study (3 vol.)
11.   Inventory of Natural Resources of Kandi Area of Punjab-Proposals for
Strengthening of the Punjab Remote Sensing Center, Ludhiana.
12. Resource and Institutional foundations for successful common property
resource management in the Shivaliks



INDIA
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HILLS)
Organization Chart
Project State
Lk*eanw            ----- -    Sb4Commil   ----- - -- - -  Agrlou
~~;-~~ I~
Load Dnepatm;
I
Waershed Panning
Impnme nton Offmc
I i I
------ - - -  -----  - -1  ~~~~~~~~~~~                      Research
SubAwatershied   Sub-watershed              Sub-watershed   Sub-watershed
AnkmaMheep         UiUntnt                                                       r           OperadIonal
tlusbav                                                                                      FResearch
E."o           Tdiown           Tea                        Teamn                    ._
Service
-l-Pmbuneits
-     LM.aloammuii  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~drMiUWs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 218664
/"  0MherSfprbO, Th. l*0OO eFze     -                     . 7 ..                   ........            78
~~O0   .v..  ~~ W?OO~ - 001 o~~v&,* .eo~~o~  I  ....*                                  -   ~~                       CHINA
,.,o w.co,Oo,m o..oHao no.0. r.. .v-_- 6                                        C;,'--                            PAKISTAN 4     ofp-Oi-.. 01-6
*'04*  ~P*O0eolact                                                                                    d .A.  _                              Dr lt ,s  N  PAr N_w
/~~~~~ -35                                                                        *-- oI.. ~m .,    ~,NGA    U  Prjc wa.ne Ars                           'N ,wwh^>.95'
JAMMU AND KASHMIR
0    10    2       3p    A 40
KILOMEThiRS
HIMAHALHIMACA
\ \ g ~~~~~~~\ se6sso > ~~~~~~P RAD E SH  32
Paticda.~~~~~~~~~~~~Bnga
. Jlai#nda                Im*
To Noaread.
C~~ffA-                           HIMACHAL
P  U  N   J  A                                   N R                                 -
INTEGRATED WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT SUB-WATERSHEDS
' -IWatershed Areaos                                       Canals                                                           U
Inilial Sub-watersheds Under Project           o         Rivers           H                        A                                                             RYANA
*    Projeed Offices                               o    Towns and Villages
-     Roads                                  0    National Capital                                                            bAmshola
_ Dams                                    ---   State/Union Territoy Boundaries                                                 T. Kmcl,
Infernational Boundaries                                                                                                        C
NOVEMBER 1989



