Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2100 IN
        (Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated January 11, 1991
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2100 IN
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 11, 1991,  between  INDIA, acting by
its  President,  (the   Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has  also  requested the International Bank
for Reconstruction and  Development  (the  Bank)  to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing  of  the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith  between the Borrower and the Bank
(the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assist-
ance in  an  aggregate  principal  amount  equivalent  to thirteen
million ($13,000,000) (the Loan);
     (C)  the Borrower and the  Association  intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of  the Credit provided for in this
Page  2
Agreement be disbursed on  account  of  expenditures in respect of
the Project before disbursements of  the  proceeds of the Loan are
made;
     (D)  part of the Project will be  carried out by the State of
Haryana  (Haryana),  the  State   of  Himachal  Pradesh  (Himachal
Pradesh), the State of  Jammu  and  Kashmir (Jammu & Kashmir), and
the State of Punjab (Punjab) (individually "the Project State" and
collectively "the Project States")  with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such  assistance, the Borrower will make available
to the Project  States  part  of  the  proceeds  of  the Credit as
provided in this Agreement and part of the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in the Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the
Bank and the Project States.
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Additional  Sub-watersheds"  mean  the  additional sub-
watersheds in the  Project  States  indicated  in  Part A.1 (b) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
     (b)  "Initial Sub-watersheds" mean the initial sub-watersheds
in the Project States indicated in  Part  A.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement;
     (c)  "Loan Agreement" means the  agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and  the  Bank  for the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
the  "General  Conditions   Applicable   to   Loan  and  Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such
agreement, and all  schedules  and  agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement;
     (d)  "Micro-Watershed" means a part of a sub-watershed;
     (e)  "Project  Agreement"  means   the  agreement  among  the
Association,  the  Bank  and  the  Project  States  of  even  date
herewith, as the same may be  amended  from time to time, and such
term includes all  schedules  and  agreements  supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
     (f)  "Project  Area"  means   the  subtropical  Shivalik  and
temperate Karewas ranges of the Himalayan foothills in the Project
States;
     (g)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (h)  "WPIO" means the  Watershed  Planning and Implementation
Office.
Page  3
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-six
million   eight   hundred    thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 56,800,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of  goods,  works  and  services  required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Reserve Bank
of India on terms and  conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge  shall  accrue:  (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from  the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable  on  each  May  1  and November 1
commencing  May  1,  2000  and   ending  November  1,  2024.  Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
November 1, 2009 shall be  one  and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of
such principal amount,  and  each  installment thereafter shall be
two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
Page  4
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other  obligations under this Agreement: (a) shall
carry out Parts B.3, C.1, C.3  and D.5 of the Project (through the
Watershed Development Council in its Ministry of Agriculture) with
due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices,
and  shall  provide  promptly  as  needed  the  funds, facilities,
services and other resources required  for Parts B.3, C.1, C.3 and
D.5 of the Project  and  for  the Watershed Development Council to
carry out its  monitoring  activities  under  the Project; and (b)
shall cause the Project States  to  perform in accordance with the
provisions of the  Project  Agreement  all  the obligations of the
Project States therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken
all  actions,  including  the   provision  of  funds,  facilities,
services and other resources,  necessary  or appropriate to enable
the Project States to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any  action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of
the Credit available to the  Project States in accordance with the
Borrower's standard arrangements  for  developmental assistance to
the States of India.
     Section  3.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
respect of Parts A,  B.1,  B.2,  C.2  and  D.1  through D.4 of the
Project shall be carried  out  by  the  Project States pursuant to
Page  5
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.05. In carrying  out  Part  D.5 of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ specialists for  purposes of Part A.1 of the
Project by December 31, 1990.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of  Parts  B.3,  C.1,  C.3  and D.5 of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out Parts B.3, C.1, C.3 and D.5 of the Project or any
part thereof.
     (b) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such  scope and in such detail
               as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
Page  6
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  A Project State shall have  failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which  shall  make  it improbable that a Project
State or the Project States will  be  able to perform its or their
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and  shall  continue  for  a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional  condition  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that  all  conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the  Loan  Agreement  have  been fulfilled, other
than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association,  namely,  that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Project States, and is
legally binding upon the  Project  States in accordance with their
terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section  6.04.  The  provisions   of  Section  5.02  of  this
Agreement shall cease  and  determine  on  the  date  on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty
years after the date  of  this  Agreement,  whichever shall be the
earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  7.01.  Any  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy  Secretary  or  Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in  the  Ministry of Finance of the
Page  7
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Department of Economic Affairs
          Ministry of Finance
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECOFAIRS                          31-61430
               New Delhi                         31-66175
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           197688 (TRT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA)
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                  82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INDIA
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                        Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                          Regional Vice President
                                                             Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
                          and of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of  the  Credit  and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage  of  expenditures  for  items so to be
financed in each Category:
                       Amount of     Amount of
                      the Credit     the Loan
                       Allocated     Allocated      % of
Page  8
                      (Expressed    (Expressed    Expendi-
                        in SDR       in Dollar    tures to
     Category         Equivalent)   Equivalent)  be Financed
(1)  Civil works:                                80%
     (a)  Borrower       130,000        30,000
     (b)  Haryana      1,740,000       400,000
     (c)  Himachal     1,030,000       240,000
          Pradesh
     (d)  Jammu &      2,580,000       590,000
          Kashmir
     (e)  Punjab       2,710,000       620,000
(2)  Equipment,                                  100% of foreign
     furniture and                               expenditures,
     vehicles:                                   100% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (a)  Haryana         90,000        20,000   (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 50%
     (b)  Himachal       180,000        40,000   of local ex-
          Pradesh                                penditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
                        Amount        Amount
                        of the        of the
                        Credit         Loan
                       Allocated     Allocated      % of
                      (Expressed    (Expressed    Expendi-
                        in SDR       in Dollar    tures to
     Category         Equivalent)   Equivalent)  be Financed
     (c)  Jammu &         60,000        10,000
          Kashmir
     (d)  Punjab         150,000        40,000
(3)  Consultants'                                100%
     services
     and training:
     (a)  Borrower       460,000       110,000
     (b)  Haryana        580,000       130,000
     (c)  Himachal       260,000        60,000
          Pradesh
     (d)  Jammu &        130,000        30,000
          Kashmir
     (e)  Punjab         450,000       100,000
(4)  Operating                                   60%
     costs:
     (a)  Haryana        970,000       220,000
     (b)  Himachal       980,000       230,000
          Pradesh
     (c)  Jammu &      1,910,000       440,000
          Kashmir
     (d)  Punjab       2,860,000       660,000
Page  9
                        Amount        Amount
                        of the        of the
                        Credit         Loan
                       Allocated     Allocated      % of
                      (Expressed    (Expressed    Expendi-
                        in SDR       in Dollar    tures to
     Category         Equivalent)   Equivalent)  be Financed
(5)  Field opera-                                70%
     tions and
     materials
     under Parts
     A.1 (a), A.2,
     B.1 and B.2
     of the
     Project:
        (a)  Haryana     1,130,000     260,000
        (b)  Himachal    2,120,000     490,000
             Pradesh
        (c)  Jammu &     4,070,000     930,000
             Kashmir
        (d)  Punjab      6,240,000   1,430,000
(6)  Field opera-                                70%
     tions and
     materials
     under
     Part A.1 (b)
     of the
     Project:
        (a)  Haryana     8,970,000   2,050,000
        (b)  Himachal    4,920,000   1,130,000
             Pradesh
        (c)  Jammu &     2,970,000     690,000
             Kashmir
        (d)  Punjab      3,420,000     780,000
                        Amount        Amount
                        of the        of the
                        Credit         Loan
                       Allocated     Allocated      % of
                      (Expressed    (Expressed    Expendi-
                        in SDR       in Dollar    tures to
     Category         Equivalent)   Equivalent)  be Financed
(7)  Unallocated       5,690,000     1,270,000
                      _________    __________
          TOTAL      56,800,000    13,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
Page  10
     (c)  the term "operating  costs"  means incremental costs for
salaries  and  wages,   vehicles   and   equipment  operation  and
maintenance, and office supplies.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made:
     (a)  for expenditures prior  to  the  date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an  aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 3,000,000, may,  subject  to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, be made in  respect  of  Categories  (2), (3) and (5) on
account of payments  made  for  expenditures  before that date but
after July 31, 1989;
     (b)  for expenditures:
          (i)  in respect  of  Categories  (1)(b), (2)(a), (3)(b),
               (4)(a) and (5)(a)  until  Haryana has fulfilled the
               conditions set forth in paragraph 4 below;
         (ii)  in respect  of  Categories  (1)(c), (2)(b), (3)(c),
               (4)(b),  and  (5)(b)  until  Himachal  Pradesh  has
               fulfilled the conditions  set  forth in paragraph 4
               below;
        (iii)  in respect  of  Categories  (1)(d), (2)(c), (3)(d),
               (4)(c)  and  (5)(c)  until   Jammu  &  Kashmir  has
               fulfilled the conditions  set  forth in paragraph 4
               below;
         (iv)  in respect  of  Categories  (1)(e), (2)(d), (3)(e),
               (4)(d) and (5)(d)  until  Punjab  has fulfilled the
               conditions set forth in paragraph 4 below; and
          (v)  in respect of  Category  (6)(a), (6)(b), (6)(c) and
               (6)(d),  respectively,   until   Haryana,  Himachal
               Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, and Punjab, respectively,
               has made progress,  satisfactory to the Association
               and the Bank, in the  carrying  out of Part A.1 (a)
               of the Project.
4.   No withdrawals shall be made  in respect of payments made for
expenditures referred to in paragraph 3 above until:
          (i)  the WPIO referred  to  in  Part  D.1 of the Project
               shall  have  been  established,  and  the  Steering
               Committee  referred  to  in   paragraph  2  of  the
               Schedule to the  Project  Agreement shall have been
               constituted;
         (ii)  the Director of the  WPIO shall have been appointed
               pursuant to  paragraph  1  of  the  Schedule to the
               Project Agreement; and
        (iii)  an independent  agency  for  carrying  out baseline
               studies  shall  have  been  designated  pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of  Section  II  of  Schedule 4 to this
               Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objectives  of  the  Project  are  to  slow  and reverse
degradation of the  natural  environment, through the development,
support, promotion,  and  use  of  appropriate  soil  and moisture
conservation   technology,   primarily   vegetative   conservation
technology, and  to  introduce  sustainable  production systems to
keep pace with population growth.
Page  11
     The Project shall  be  carried  out  in  the Project Area. It
consists of the  following  parts,  subject  to such modifications
thereof as the Borrower  and  the  Association may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Sub-watershed Treatments
1.   Treatment, as defined in the  Annex  to this Schedule, of (a)
initially fifteen sub-watersheds distributed in the Project States
covering an area  of  about  110,000  hectares; and (b) additional
sub-watersheds  in  Haryana,  Himachal  Pradesh  and  Punjab,  and
additional micro-watersheds in Jammu  & Kashmir within the initial
sub-watersheds,  pursuant   to   identification,  preparation  and
appraisal thereof satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Treatment, as defined in the  Annex  to this Schedule, of the
upper catchment areas of Ropar  and Hoshiarpur districts of Punjab
covering an estimated area of about 16,000 hectares.
3.   Construction of small water  harvesting tanks, generally with
a height of about 10 to 15 meters and with a command area of about
40  to  100  hectares,  in  the  Project  States  after  the upper
catchment for such tanks has been stabilized.
Part B:   Technology Improvement and Application
1.   Development of nurseries  for  vetiver  and other appropriate
conservation flora, for forage  species  and for horticultural and
tree seedlings to ensure  adequate  supply of planting material in
the Project Area.
2.   Carrying  out  demonstrations  and  dissemination  of rainfed
farming  technology,  particularly  vegetative  soil  and moisture
conservation technology, throughout  the  districts  in which sub-
watersheds are located by  providing  planting material and inputs
and training extension  subject  matter specialists and university
trainers in the rainfed farming technology.
3.   Carrying out of  on-farm  applied  research by zonal research
stations  of  the  Project  States'  Agricultural  Universities in
selected sub-watersheds to determine  the impact of the treatments
and to study possible constraints in their adoption.
Part C:   Training
1.   Establishment  of   a   training   facility   at  the  Punjab
Agricultural  University  Zonal   Research   Station  at  Ballowal
Saunkheri to be used by the Project States to train selected staff
dealing  with  arable   and   non-arable   lands  in  conservation
technology,  production  systems   and  in  interactive  planning;
including construction  of  additional  facilities, acquisition of
equipment and provision of related technical assistance.
2.   In-service  training  of  field  staff  in  interdisciplinary
watershed planning  and  in  interaction  with  beneficiaries, and
training of  farmers  in  conservation  technology  and production
systems by the Project States.
3.   Establishment of a  training  facility  at  the Punjab Remote
Sensing Centre in  Ludhiana  (Punjab)  to  be  used by the Project
States to train selected  staff  on geographic information systems
for watershed planning  and  monitoring,  including acquisition of
equipment and provision of technical assistance.
Part D:   Project Implementation
1.   Establishment of  a  WPIO  in  each  of  the  Project States,
including  construction  of   offices   and   staff  housing,  and
acquisition of equipment and vehicles.
2.   Provision of  training  and  study  tours  related to Project
implementation for the staff of the WPIOs.
Page  12
3.   Establishment of a Geographical Information System in each of
the Project State to assist in  the planning and the monitoring of
Project activities.
4.   Provision of technical assistance  to  the Project States for
production of information  materials,  for pasture improvement and
fodder production, and for Project evaluation.
5.   Provision of technical assistance  to  the Project States for
the development  and  implementation  of  procedures for preparing
interactive multidisciplinary watershed management plans.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
                        Eligible Treatments
     Any of the treatments listed below are eligible for financing
under Part A.1 and A.2 of the Project:
     (a)  Arable Land
          (i)  Contour vegetative barriers
         (ii)  Terrace repair and vegetative reinforcement
        (iii)  Vegetative field boundaries
         (iv)  Silvipasture
          (v)  Rainfed horticulture
         (vi)  Farm forestry/agro-forestry
        (vii)  On-farm fodder production
       (viii)  Rainfed horticultural demonstrations
         (ix)  Rainfed cropping system demonstrations
     (b)  Private Non-Arable, Common and Forest Lands
          (i)  Vegetative/shrub barriers in contour trenches
         (ii)  Pasture development
        (iii)  Silvipasture
         (iv)  Afforestation
     (c)  Drainage Lines
          (i)  Gully stabilization
         (ii)  Streambank protection
        (iii)  Village ponds and tank construction
         (iv)  Rehabilitation of village ponds
          (v)  Water harvesting structures
     (d)  Roadside Erosion Control
     (e)  Landslide Treatment
Page  13
     (f)  Animal Husbandry
          (i)  Natural breeding centers
         (ii)  Livestock reduction
        (iii)  Supplementary feeding
          iv)  Construction and rehabilitation of stalls
     (g)  Post-Harvest Loss Prevention
          (i)  Grain storage bins
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to four million  dollars  ($ 4,000,000) to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account or  the  Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and
deposit in the  Special  Account  such  amount  or  amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of each such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account or the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall
be required to  replenish  the  Special  Account  with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments  made  out of the Special Account
for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account  or  from  the  Loan  Account  under the respective
eligible Categories, and in  the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified  by  the evidence supporting the request
for  such  deposit  furnished  pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of this
Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which requests  replenishment  pursuant to paragraph 3
(b)  of  this  Schedule,   the   Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the
Page  14
Association, prior  to  or  at  the  time  of  such  request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of paragraph  (a) of Section 2.02 of
               the Development Credit  Agreement  and Article V of
               the General Conditions or  from the Loan Account in
               accordance with Section 2.02  of the Loan Agreement
               and Article V of  the General Conditions applicable
               thereto; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Credit and the
               Loan allocated  to  the  eligible Categories, minus
               the amount  of  any  outstanding special commitment
               entered  into  by  the   Association  or  the  Bank
               pursuant to Section 5.02  of the respective General
               Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
               the  equivalent  of   twice   the   amount  of  the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit Account and the
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and
the Loan allocated to  the  eligible  Categories shall follow such
procedures as  the  Association  shall  specify  by  notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit  into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so  request, refund to the Association or
the Bank) an amount equal  to  the  amount  of such payment or the
portion thereof not so  eligible  or justified. No further deposit
by the Association into  the  Special  Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to  the  Association  or  the  Bank  such  outstanding  amount for
crediting to the Credit Account  or  the Loan Account, as the case
may be.
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   Procurement Procedures
1.   Force Account
     Civil works and field operations shall be carried out through
Page  15
force account.
2.   Local Competitive Bidding
     Equipment, furniture  and  vehicles  shall  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally,  in  accordance  with   procedures  satisfactory  to  the
Association and the Bank.
3.   Shopping
     Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed  the  equivalent  of  $200,000,  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines for Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans and IDA Credits
published by the Bank in  May 1985 (the Guidelines), in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
Part B:   Review by the  Association  and  the Bank of Procurement
          Decisions
1.   Review of final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to all  contracts  the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed  copies  of  the   contract   together  with  the  other
information required to be  furnished  to  the Association and the
Bank pursuant  to  said  paragraph  3  shall  be  furnished to the
Association and the Bank as  part  of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraph (a) shall
not apply to contracts  on  account  of  which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account  on the basis of
statements of expenditure or  the  Bank has authorized withdrawals
from the Loan Account on  the  basis of statements of expenditure.
Such contracts shall be  retained  in accordance with Section 4.02
(a)(ii) of this Agreement and Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the  Borrower  in carrying out Part C.1 of
the Project, the Borrower  shall employ visiting specialists whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Association  and  the  Bank. Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to  the  Association  and  the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
2.   In order to assist the  Borrower  in carrying out Part C.3 of
the Project,  the  Borrower  shall  employ  short-term specialists
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to  the Association and the Bank.
Such consultants shall be  selected  in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
3.   In order to assist the  Borrower  in carrying out Part D.5 of
the Project, the Borrower  shall employ short-term specialists for
purposes of Part A.1 of the  Project for the initial period of the
Project, whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
Page  16
of employment shall  be  satisfactory  to  the Association and the
Bank.  Such  consultants  shall  be  selected  in  accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory  to the Association and the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
4.   In  order  to  assist  the  Project  States  in  carrying out
Part D.4  of  the  Project,  each  State  shall  employ short-term
specialists  whose  qualifications,   experience   and  terms  and
conditions of employment shall  be satisfactory to the Association
and the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall  be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association and
the  Bank  on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use  of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
