Page  1
                                                            June 26, 1991
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
      Re:   Credit 2100-IN/Loan 3175-IN
            (Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project
            Amendment to Increase Disbursement Percentages
Dear Sir:
      As noted in our letters dated October 18, 1990, November 5, 1990
and November 12, 1990, the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank) and the International Development Association (the
Association) have decided, pursuant to a new policy designed to assist
Borrowers affected by the recent Middle East crisis, to temporarily
increase the Bank and IDA share of the cost of projects financed under
Bank Loans and Association Credits, respectively.
      Consequently, the Association and the Bank propose,  subject to
your confirmation, to hereby amend Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement dated  January  11,  1991  (Development  Credit  Agreement)
for  the  above referenced Project, incorporated in the Loan Agreement of
even date therewith (Loan Agreement) between India and the Bank for such
Project pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) thereof, in the manner described in
the Attachment hereto. This amendment will take effect upon receipt of
your confirmation by the Association and the Bank and will apply to all
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan or Credit allocated to the
categories made by December 31, 1991 or such later date as the Bank and
the Association may establish.  Thereafter withdrawals shall be made on
the basis of disbursement percentages determined by the Bank and the
Association and notified to you.
      Please confirm your acceptance on behalf of India of the foregoing
amendment by signing and dating the confirmation form on the enclosed
copy of this letter and returning it to us for our records.
                                Yours Truly
                         Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
                              Acting Director
                       Country Department IV, India
                                Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
INDIA
By:   /s/ N. Prasad
      Authorized Representative
Date: 19/07/91
                                          Cr 2100-IN/Ln 3175-IN
                                                      Attachment
                          Amendment of Schedule 1
      Subject to the provisions of the letter agreement of which this
attachment forms a part, the table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement,  which table is  incorporated  in the Loan
Agreement, is hereby amended to increase the percentage of expenditures
Page  2
to be financed for the categories therein noted below as follows:
            Category                                  Disbursement
No. Description                           Existing    Amended
1.  Civil works                           80%         90%
(a) Borrower
(b) Haryana
(c) Himachal Pradesh
(d) Jammu & Kashmir
(e) Punjab
2.  Equipment, furniture and vehicles:    \x 100%     \x 100%
                                          \y 100%     \y 100%
                                          \z  50%     \z  80%
(a) Haryana
(b) Himachal Pradesh
(c) Jammu & Kashmir
(d) Punjab
5.  Field operations and materials        70%         90%
    under Parts A.l (a), A.2, B.l and B.2 of
    the Project
(a) Haryana
(b) Himachal Pradesh
(c) Jammu & Kashmir
(d) Punjab
6.  Field operations and materials        70%         90%
    under Part A.l (b) of the Project
(a) Haryana
(b) Himachal Pradesh
(c) Jammu & Kashmir
(d) Punjab
------------------------
\x of foreign expenditures
\y of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
\z of local expenditures for other items procured locally
