CREDIT NUMBER 2100 IN
LOAN NUMBER     3175 IN
Project Agreement
(Integrated Watershed Development (Hills) Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF HARYANA
STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH
STATE OF JAMU AND KASHMIR
STATE OF PUNJAB
Dated     ,cYxLc             1991


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2100 IN
LOAN NUMBER 3175 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     Cs_ALLCLAH  L           , 1991, among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELO      NT ASS0GIATION (the Association),
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank)
and STATE OF HARYANA (Haryana), STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH
(Himachal Pradesh), STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR (Jammu & Kashmir),
and STATE OF PUNJAB (Punjab) (collectively "the Project States"
and individually "the Project State").
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President, (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty-six million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 56,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Project States agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Project States agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Project States, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the


﻿-2-
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General
Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement, respectively) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Project States declare their commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts A.1, A.3, B.1, B.2, C.2 and D.1 through D.4 of the Project,
and Punjab shall also carry out Part A.2 of the Project, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
such Parts of the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association, the Bank and the
Project States shall otherwise agree, the Project States shall
carry out Parts A.1, A.3, B.1, B.2, C.2 and D.1 through D.4 of the
Project and Punjab shall also carry out Part A.2 of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Project States shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to the Development
Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Project States shall, at the request of
the Association and the Bank, exchange views with the Association


﻿- 3 -
and the Bank with regard to the progress of their respective Parts
of the Project, the performance of their respective obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit and the Loan.
(b) The Project States shall promptly inform the Association
and the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of their respective Parts of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the
Loan, or the performance by the Project States of their respective
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Project States shall maintain records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices their operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of Parts A, B.1, B.2, C.2 and D.1 through D.4 of the
Project.
(b) The Project States shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association and the
Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its records and accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for
such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association and the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association and the Bank such other
information concerning said records and accounts


﻿and the audit thereof as 'the Association and the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which both the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, of the Bank and of the Project States thereunder
shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which both the Development Credit
Agreement and the Loan Agreement shall have
terminated in accordance with their respective
terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement or both of said Agreements terminate in accordance with
their respective terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association and the Bank shall promptly
notify the Project States of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions applicable to the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter


﻿- 5 -
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                      197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                    197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
82987 (FTCC)
For Haryana:
Directorate of Agriculture
Government of Haryana
Sector 17-C
Chandigarh (U.T.), India
Cable address:                   Telex:
AGRIHARYANA                  395-374
CHANDIGARH


﻿-6-
For Himachal Pradesh:
Department of Forest Farming
and Conservation
The Talland
Shimla
Himachal Pradesh, India
Cable address:                    Telex:
CHIEFSOIL                     391-210
SHIMIA
For Jamimu & Kashmir (November through April):
Forest Department
New Secretariat
Jammu Tawi, India
Cable address:                    Telex:
FORSEC                        375-229
JAMMU
For Jammu & Kashmir (May through October):
Forest Department
New Secretariat
Srinagar Kashmir, India
Cable address:                    Telex:
FORSEC                        375-224
SRINAGAR KASHMIR
For Punjab:
Department of Agriculture
and Forest
Government of Punjab
Chandigarh, India
Telex:
395-028


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of each of the Project States may be taken or
executed by the Director of Agriculture on behalf of Haryana, by
the Chief Conservator of Forests (P & D) on behalf of Himachal
Pradesh, by Commissioner and Secretary to Government on behalf of
Jammu & Kashmir and by the Financial Commissioner Development on
behalf of Punjab or such other person or persons as each Project
State shall designate in writing, and each Project State shall
furnish to the Association and the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to the Project States and so long as the Development
Credit Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the
termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a) the obligations of the Project States to consult with,
and to furnish information, documents, plans, reports, records and
statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to the extent
performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the
Association;
(b) the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to
furnish information to, the Project States shall be satisfied to
the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and
(c) all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or
granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the
Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant
to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement,
and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the
Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
By                        CLC)S Ma A A-13
Regional Vice Pres dent
Asia
STATE OF HARYANA
STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH
STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR
STATE OF PUNJAB
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.   In carrying out Part D.1 of the Project, the Project States
shall staff their respective WPIOs with qualified staff in
adequate numbers, including a Project Director with such powers
and functions, as may be necessary for the effective management
and operation of the respective WPIO.
2.   Each Project State shall establish a Steering Committee to
review and approve sub-watershed plans, annual work programs under
the Project and relevant draft budgets.
3.   Each Project State shall, for the purposes of reviewing
feasibility studies regarding the design and construction of water
harvesting tanks under Part A.3 of the Project, constitute a Dam
Review Panel. The Dam Review Panel shall have terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
4.   Each Project State shall, for the purpose of disseminating
the rainfed vegetative technology on arable lands, deploy in the
Project Area village extension workers so as to achieve the ratio
of at least one village extension worker per 400 farm families
during the sub-watershed treatments.
5.   Each Project State shall cause its WPIO to consult with
village organizations prior to the treatment of sub-watersheds and
to agree with them on the choice of treatments and cost and
benefit sharing arrangements.
6.   Each Project State shall achieve arrangements for cost
sharing, either in cash or in kinds, in the Project Area,
including:
(a) in respect of privately owned arable and non-arable
lands to be treated in the Project Area, the individual
beneficiary landholder shall contribute about fifteen percent of
the cost of labor and planting materials relating to such
treatment in respect of the beneficiary's land;
(b) in respect of arable and non-arable community lands,
vested in the Panchayats, to be treated in the Project Area, the
Panchayats shall contribute about ten percent of the cost of labor
relating to such treatment;


﻿- 10 -
(c) in respect of non-arable State forest land, the Project
States shall enter into written agreements with beneficiaries or
their representatives for the purpose of sharing: (i) the
responsibility for protecting the forest resources to be developed
under the Project, and (ii) the benefits resulting from such
development.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
f hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


