Report No. 1200b-IVC                                                       FILE  GOPY
Ivory Coast: Appraisal of
the Urban Development Project
November 15, 1976
Urban Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their officiai duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           -     CFA Franc (CFAP)
US$1.00                 -     CFAF 225
CFAF 1 million          -     US$4,444
Fiscal Year:  Borrower -      January 1 - December 31
SETU/
CCI/BNEC -     October 1 - September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)            -      3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       -      0.62 mile (mi)
1 squ1 re kilometer
(km )                -      0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
I metric ton (m ton)   -      2,204 pounde (lb)
1 hectare (ha)   2     -      2.47 acres
1 square meter (m )    -      10.76 square feet
1 liter (1)     3      -      0.26 US gallons
1 cubic meter (m )     -      264 US gallons



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
List of Abbreviations
ARSO      -         Autorité Régionale du Sud-Ouest
AURA      -         Atelier d'Urbanisme pour la Région d'Abidjan
BCEOM     -         Bureau Central d'Equipement d'Outre-Mer
BNEC      -         Banque Nationale pour l'Epargne et le Crédit
BNETD     -         Bureau National des Etudes Techniques de
Développement
BSIE      -         Budget Spécial d' Investissement et d'éeQuiDemPrt
CAA       -         Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE      -         Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique
CCI       -         Crédit de la Cote d'Ivoire
CET       -         Caisse d'Equipement des Terrains
CIDRA     -         Commission Interministérielle pour le
Développement de la Région d'Abidjan
DATAR     -         Direction de l'Amenagement du Territoire et
l'Action Régionale
DC        -         Direction de la Construction
DPP       -         Direction des Programmes Pluriannuels
DPW       -         Direction des Travaux Publics
DUA       -         Direction de l'Architecture et de l'Urbanisme
EECI      -         Energie Electrique de la Côte d'Ivoire
FNA       -         Fond National de l'Assainissement
FNH       -         Fond National de l'Hydraulique
GOIC      -         Government of the Ivory Coast
LEM       -         Lotissement a Equipement Minimum
MCH       -         Mother-Child Health
MCU       -         Ministère de la Construction et de l'Urbanisme
MPWT      -         Ministère des Travaux Publics et des Transports
OPEI      -         Office pour la Promotion des Entreprises
Industrielles
OSHE      -         Office pour le Soutien d'Habitat Economique
PMI       -         Protection Maternelle et Infantile
SADU      -         Service Autonome du Domaine Urbain
SAH       -         Service Autonome de l'Hydraulique Humaine
SETU      -         Société d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains
SICOGI    -         Société Ivoirienne de Construction et
Gestion Immobilière
SODECI    -         Société de Distribution d'Eau de la Cote d'Ivoire
SOGEFIHA  -         Société de Gestion Financière de l'Habitat
SOTRA     -         Société des Transports Abidjanais
USAID     -         United States Agency for International Development
This document hms à ruitctd distribution nd may be ueed by rocipients only in the performance
of thoir official duti. lIts contente may not otherwlu be diacloeed without Worid Bank authoriutton.






IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...... .................... . . . . . . .  .  i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .............................................o......    1
II.    BACKGROUND ........        ..................................       3
A.   Economic Setting ......         ....................           3
B.   The Urban Sector ...................        ............       3
C.   Abidjan ......................................................  5
D.   Development Issues and Project Rationale .......               7
III.    THE PROJECT ............................ ............               9
A.    Objectives ....... ...............                            9
B.   Detailed Features ..............................    10
IV.    COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND COST RECOVERY .........    16
A.    Cost Estimates           .................................    16
B.   Financing .........................                           18
C.   Cost Recovery ...............      ..     .................    20
V.   EXECUTION ........       .....................................    22
A.    Implementing Agencies .....         .....................    22
B.   Procurement .......        .............................    23
C.   Distribution of Lots, Beneficiaries and
Affordability ....... ......................................  23
D.   Disbursements ...         .................................   26
E.   Maintenance and Management   ........ *        ............    27
F.    Supervision and Monitoring  ........    .............    28
VI.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION . .................. o............    29
VII.    RECOMMENDATIONS .....................................    31
This report is based on the findings and recommendations of appraisal
missions in November - December, 1975 composed of Messrs. C. Delapierre
(Chief of Mission), J. Bloom, C. Rietveld, B. Veuthey and P. Watson,
and in March 1976, Messrs. Delapierre, Verdier, Veuthey and Bloom.
Messrs. M. Cohen and P. Midgley also assisted in the appraisal. Mr. A.
Votaw of USAID, Office of Housing, Abidjan, joined both missions in
appraisal of the shelter component of the project. Ms. Tager assisted
in preparation of this report.



-2-
TABLES
1.   Overall Cost of the Project
2.   Financing Plan
3.   Disbursements
ANNEXES
1.   Abidjan, Background Information
2.   Housing and Financial Institutions
3.   Transport Component, Detailed Costs, Design Standards and
Specifications
4.   Shelter Component, Detailed Costs, Design Standards and
Specifications
5.   Small Loans Component
6.   Technical Assistance
7.   Cost Recovery and Cash Flow
8.   Project Justification - Transport
9.   Project Justification - Shelter
CHAPTS
Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
M'inistry of Construction and Urban Development
SETU
ARSO
Project Implementation Schedule
PHOTOGRAPHS
Typical Conditions and Proposed Improvements
Aerial View of Five Sites
SKETCHES
Example of Existing Conditions (Abobo)
MAP S
Urbanization in the Ivory Coast                 No. 12092
Project - Elements - Location in Abidjan         "  12083
Urbanization of Abidjan                          "  12085
Traffic Improvement Measures, Plateau            "  12086
Public Transport Traffic Flows for 1973-80       "  12090
Abobo Gare Slum Upgrading Site                   "  12087
Indicative LEM-Type Layout                       "  12088
Indicative BNETD/BCEOM-Type Layout               "  12089
San Pedro, Location of Bardo Project             "  12091



IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CN)MCLUSIONS
i.        The main objectives of the proposed project reflect changes in
the Government's urban policy in shelter and transport.  They are to:  (a)
improve access to urban services for low-income groups, (b) support the in-
stitutional development required to implement the reoriented shelter and
transport programs, and (c) develop a planning and programming capability to
systematically re-examine urban sector priorities and define an appropriate
growth strategy and investment program for Abidjan under capital constraints.
ii.       The Ivory Coast, has had an impressive and sustained record of
economic growth of over 7% a year in real terms over the past 25 years. The
growth of the urban sector in general, and Abidjan in particular, has been one
of the most visible aspects of the Ivory Coast's economic development. Con-
certed efforts at directing growth away from Abidjan are under way but they are
not expected to affect significantly Abidjan's growth until the early 1980's at
the earliest. A realistic assessment of Abidjan's growth prospects indicates
that the city is likely to grow from 1.0 million in 1975 to some 1.65 million
by 1980, and to 2.2 million by 1985.
iii.      The strategy reflected in the project stems from a series of analyses
carried out by the Government in 1974 and 1975 under the comprehensive Abidjan
Urban Development Study financed by the Bank under the Second and Third Highway
Projects (Ln. 761-IVC and 837-IVC) and by French technical assistance grants.
At the same time, the USAID Office of Housing undertook an independent
examination of shelter sector problems and policies and the Caisse Centrale
pour la Cooperation Economique (CCCE) helped begin pilot efforts at slum
upgrading and site and services development, which now form a cornerstone
of shelter sector programs.  Institutional development concentrated on reform
of housing finance management through the setting up of the Banque Nationale
pour l'Epargne et le Credit (BNEC), to manage earmarked public funds and to
advise on and monitor Government guaranteed borrowings in the shelter sector,
and as a financial intermediary for housing loans. Government institutional
and policy changes aim at (a) reorientation of housing programs towards lower
income groups through lowering standards and costs of urban services, and (b)
reducing subsidies by cost recovery from direct beneficiaries. In the trans-
port sector, policies have also been redirected away from the provision of
high cost infrastructure towards improving the performance of the existing
system and favoring public transport.
iv.       The three main components of the proposed project are:
1.   Transport
(a) construction of the priority western section (8.6 km)
of the East-West Highway; and



- il -
(b) traffic management measures in the central business
district.
2.   Shelter
(a) a slum upgrading and site and services program for
about 220,000 inhabitants including primary schools,
health centers and community facilities on six sites,
totalling 316 ha in Abidjan and 60 ha in San Pedro;
(b)  a low-cost housing program in Abidjan;
(c) a line of credit for small loans for the purchase of
construction materials and acquisition of lots; and
(d) construction of two trunk sewers to serve the
Abidjan project sites and other neighborhoods.
3.   Technical Assistance
(a) support to the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
for the staffing of a Traffic Bureau;
(b) support to the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism
(i) to formulate project and program responses to
changing shelter sector policies; and (ii) to carry
out a ten-year development study and prepare a public
investment program for Abidjan; and
(c) support to the BNEC for staff development and training
for both the public fund management and financial inter-
mediary roles.
v.        Total project costs are estimated at US$122.3 million (US$97.9
million net of taxes), with the foreign exchange component of US$63 million
(51%). The proposed loans totalling US$44 million will finance 45% of total
cost net of taxes and 70% of the foreign exchange costs. USAID, through a
US$21 million Housing Guarantee Program, will finance jointly slum upgrading,
site and services, technical assistance, and in parallel the low-cost housing
program. Together the Bank and USAID will cover 66% of project costs net of
taxes, covering all the foreign exchange component and US$2 million of local
costs. The Bank funds will be lent to the Government and USAID funds will be
lent to BNEC under Government guarantees. The funds for the transport compo-
nent will be made available to the Ministry of Public Works and Transport,
which will be in charge of implementing this part of the project. The funds
for the shelter component will be channelled as follows: (a) through the BNEC
for the upgrading and site and services infrastructure, low cost housing pro-
gram and the line of credit for construction loans; (b) through the Ministry
of Construction and Urbanism for the schools and community facilities, and
(c) through the Fonds National d'Assainissement (FNA) for the trunk sewer. The
funds for technical assistance will be directly channelled to the agencies
concerned.



- iii -
vi.       Although cosL recovery mechanisms exist in the Ivory Coast, housing
programs have typically been heavily subsidized and costs not directly re-
covered.  In this project, in order to maximize the provision of improved
services to the majority of the population under conditions of limited re-
sources, the Government has agreed to a major program of direct cost recovery
from beneficiaries. This will be done through a combination of payments for
lot puirchasing and leasing, property taxes, sewerage, drainage, water and
electricity surcharges, and a betterment tax for the areas to be upgraded in
Abidjan. The program will ensure a flow of funds so that the project can be
replicated, while still allowing households with incomes as low as the 20th
percentile of the income distribution to afford to lease lots. Since many
households will sub-let parts of their lots, the project will also reach
some beneficiaries with lower incomes.
vii.      Procurement will follow Bank Guidelines for international com-
petitive bidding for all major contracts, and local competitive procedures
acceptable to the Bank for small facilities and infrastructure. Contracts
will be divided into components within the capacity of local contractors
(with grouping permitted to attract international competitors); domestic
manufacturers will be given a preference of 15% or the level of applicable
duty, whichever is less. US$350,000 for the foreign cost of detailed engi-
neering consultant services, for starting the Ten-Year Development Study,
and for the creation of the Traffic Bureau will be financed retroactively.
The Bank loans will be disbursed to cover 43% of civil works and 70% of
equipment for the transport component, 60% of infrastructure for the shelter
component, and 60% of consultant services for the technical assistance compo-
nent. For the site and services and slum upgrading programs and the technical
assistance to BNEC and the Ministry of Construction and Urban Development,
the Bank loans will be disbursed pari passu with the USAID Housing Guarantee
Program funds to each cover 30% of costs.
viii.     The economic rate of return on the various project components exceeds
30%.  The justification of the transport investment is based on an evaluation
of the first year rate of return which indicates that the minimum investment
proposed is justified and of high priority. Justification of the shelter com-
ponent is based on an evaluation of rental value increases that are expected
to accrue as a result of the project. The estimated weighted average economic
rate of return for all project components for which benefits have been quanti-
fied and which amount to 72% of total project costs is 43%.
ix.       The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$30 million
at the prevailing interest rate for a 20 year term including 4 years of grace
for principal, and a Third Window Loan of US$14 million on the standard Third
Window Loan terms of 25 years including 7 years of grace and at an interest
rate of 4% per annum less than the interest rate on the Bank loan.






IVORY COAST
APPRAISAL OF THE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Ivory Coast has requested a Bank loan to help
finance a project in Abidjan and San Pedro consisting of construction of a
priority urban highway, implementation of a short-term traffic improvement
program, a shelter program comprising site and services, slum upgrading, low
cost housing, and technical assistance for institutional development and long-
term urban planning and investment programming. The Government has also re-
quested USAID Housing Guarantee Program assistance for the shelter component.
The main objectives of the project are to finance transport and shelter in-
frastructure, within a policy framework of reorienting investment towards
lower cost housing and public transport, and to develop and strengthen the
capabilities of new and existing local institutions to respond to the changing
transport and shelter needs of one of the world's most rapidly growing urban
populations.
1.02      The proposed project supports the new thrust of Government policy
and programs in the transport and housing sectors. It will initiate a com-
prehensive package of traffic management measures to favor public transport
operations, and to dissuade private automobile usage; it would also relieve
a severe capacity shortage on the main highway axis leading out of the city
to the interior. It would demonstrate new approaches to upgrading of exist-
ing slum and squatter areas, and to the provision of minimal infrastructure
and services in new development areas, aimed at improving shelter and environ-
mental quality for lower income families who constitute the greater mass of
Abidjan's residents.  It would include institutional support for the Banque
Nationale pour l'Epargne et le Credit (BNEC), a housing bank set up in 1975
and now designated by the Government to manage and channel earmarked Govern-
ment housing funds and to advise on and monitor Government guaranteed external
borrowings for shelter programs undertaken by various Government and parasta-
tal agencies. It would support the development of the new Traffic Bureau
created to implement the proposed traffic management measures, and will
provide technical training for its staff.
1.03      The proposed project has evolved from the 1974-1975 Abidjan Urban
Development Study financed under the Second and Third Highway projects
(Ln.761-IVC and Ln.837-IVC) and carried out by the consultants BCEOM/BNETD
(France/Ivory Coast). The study was also partly financed by French techni-
cal assistance grants. Based on the results of this study, the Government
concluded that a near term development strategy through 1980 for metropolitan
Abidjan should consist of: (a) redirecting much of the planned development
in the Banco to available land in the existing built-up area, (b) upgrading
infrastructure in tie existLag built-up area to permit more intensive devel-
opment, and (c) encouraginT nTfw r e sLl;e:.AL dîiilopment closer to existing



- 2 -
employment centers. The area of Koumassi on the Ile de Petit Bassam, the
Adjame area on the Plateau and the rapidly-growing Abobo area to the north of
the Plateau, were selected to absorb Abidjan's rapid population growth (see
Map 12083). Beyond 1980, intensive development of the Banco could follow at
a pace that would permit closer integration of secondary and tertiary employ-
ment both within and near the Banco area, and that would be consistent with a
more gradual development of transport capacity on the main East-West corridor.
1.04      The Abidjan Study also analyzed current public housing policy and
programs and proposed a series of institutional and financial reforms in
the housing sector. These proposals were discussed with Bank project prep-
aration missions during late 1975. At the same time, the USAID Office of
Housing had independently arrived at similar conclusions with regard to
institutional reform. The French bilateral aid agency, Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE), the main external funding source for the
Government's housing programs prior to 1975, had also pressed for reforms
and new policy directions. CCCE has funded a pilot slum upgrading project
in the Bardo area of San Pedro and an experimental site and services scheme
in Abidjan; these initiatives form the bases for the main shelter components
in the proposed project.
1.05      The proposed project's orientation toward slum upgrading, site and
services and low-cost housing thus reflects the combined thinking of the
Government, the Bank, USAID, and CCCE on shelter sector policies and insti-
tutions. Political commitment for the proposed institutional change has
now been confirmed, and the Government has initiated a number of formal
actions in this regard (see paras. 2.18, 2.19, 2.21).
1.06      Implementation of the new approaches will require extensive technical
assistance to the executing, planning, programming, and budgeting agencies
responsible for metropolitan development. With respect to programming and
budgeting, technical assistance will be provided for a development study to
review investment priorities for the next decade under varying assumptions
regarding metropolitan Abidjan's development.
1.07      The project preparation was coordinated through the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport and the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising:
Messrs. C. Delapierre (Chief of Mission), J. Bloom, C. Rietveld, B. Veuthey,
and P. Watson, who visited Abidjan from November 19 to December 20, 1975. A
post-appraisal mission to review the new Government's decisions regarding
proposals for institutional change visited Abidjan from March 1-13, 1976.
Messrs. M. Cohen, B. Verdier, and P. Midgley also assisted in the appraisal.
Mr. A. Votaw of the USAID Office of Housing, Abidjan, joined both missions in
appraisal of the shelter component of the project.



- 3 -
II. BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting
2.01      Few countries in the world, developed or developing, can match
the economic record of the Ivory Coast, surpassing an average growth rate
of 7% a year in real terms over the past 25 years. 1/ GNP per capita stood
at US$450 in 1974. In mid-1976, the porulation was estimated at 6.7 mil-
lion, on a laVd area of some 333,000 km , and at an average density of only
21 persons/km . Cocoa, coffee, and timber are the pillars of the economy
accounting for about 75% of total exports.
2.02      The Government's development strategy has been to maximize economic
growth with increasing attention to income distribution. A liberal investment
code, availability of land and transport facilities, and political stability
attracted foreign production factors--capital, labor and technology -- to
realize the country's large economic potential. In part to encourage growth
outside of Abidjan, the Government is attempting to develop the economic
potential of the North and Southwest regions through major infrastructure and
industrial investment. It has also started a process of Ivorianization of the
factors of production to reduce its dependence on foreign elements, mobilize
internal savings, and increase the economic opportunities for its citizens.
B. The Urban Sector
Historical Perspective
2.03      One of the most visible consequences of the Ivory Coast's economic
development has been rapid urban growth. From 1955 to 1975, the urban popu-
lation grew from 0.3 to 2.2 million as the urban share of the national popula-
tion grew from 13 to 34 percent. 2/ Following the establishment of a French
colonial administration in the early 1900's, Abidjan and a number of towns
in the interior grew at a leisurely pace along the main transport axes and
as headquarters for the administrative units into which the country was
divided (Map 12092).
2.04      The opening of the Vridi Canal in 1950, and subsequent creation of
a deep water port, stimulated the growth of Abidjan as the major commercial
center of the country. As a result of Government development policies, the
growth of infrastructure, and an abundant supply of labor, Abidjan grew eight-
fold from a town of some 125,000 in 1955, to a modern metropolis of nearly
1/   See IBRD, Basic Economic Mission Report on the Ivory Coast, June 1976.
2/   "Urban" defined as settlements of over 4,000.  For greater detail see
Annex 1.



-4-
1 million in 1975, an average rate of some 11.5% a year. Other urban centers
were not far behind, growing at an average annual rate of about 9% during the
same period.
Migration, Employment, and Income
2.05      Massive rural-urban migration from both within the country and
neighboring West African countries has been the principal factor in this
growth of the urban population over the past 20 years. More recently, the
Sahelian drought has contributed to this migration. While much of this
migrant labor force has been absorbed in the primary sector in rural areas,
significant numbers have gone to the urban centers. The Government estimated
in 1975 that nearly one half of Abidjan's population and about 35% of the
labor force in the secondary and tertiary sectors was of African, but non-
Ivorian origin. The total urban labor force in the Ivory Coast was estimated
at 514,000 in 1973 out of a total working population of 1,016,000. Urban
unemployment was estimated at about 15%.
2.06      Recent estimates (1973) of urban income showed average African
wage levels in the formal and informal sectors at CFAF 26,500/month (US$120)
and CFAF 22,000/month (US$95) respectively. The median monthly income of
African families was about CFAF 37,500 (US$166). In 1976 it is estimated
to be about CFAF 45,000 (US$200). The minimum legal wage level for unskilled
labor of CFAF 19,000/month (US$84) (effective January 1, 1976) represented
the 20th percentile in Abidjan. 1/
2.07      The urban sector is expected to continue on its rapid growth path
for at least the next decade. Ambitious plans for rapid development imply con-
tinued reliance on foreign factors of production. While Government policies
on farm prices, agricultural diversification, and rural/regional development
seek to redirect growth from Abidjan to other urban centers and rural areas,
these efforts cannot be expected to reduce significantly the projected growth
of the capital in the short term. Extrapolating past trends and assuming
little change in official policy towards foreign African migrants, Abidjan
would reach a population of about 1.65 million by 1980, representing an annual
growth rate of 10.5%; it would reach 2.2 million by 1985, the slower growth
rate being due in part to the impact of changing labor supply conditions and
Government decentralization policies. These growth rates imply the addition
of around 100,000 persons per year until 1985. An almost parallel growth of
about 1 million should be expected in other urban centers. With the rural
population expected to grow by just under 1 million in the coming decade, the
share of the urban population in the national total will go from 34% in 1975
to about 42% in 1980, and 47% in 1985.
1/   These are estimated following a survey of expenditures, particularly
rents and housing related expenditures, of African families in
Abidjan carried out in 1973 by the BCEOM/BNETD consultants. The
average family had 1.33 wage earners; about 25% of the families re-
ceived rental incomes averaging CFAF 6,000/month (US$27).



C. Abidian
2.08       Situated on a topographic.all3  difficuilt coastal site, Abidjan
2              2
currently covers a total area of sone 261. km'   Some 28 km  were urbanized
by early 1963; the growth of the urbanized area has been swift; by 1973 it
2
was 51 km , with 57% in residential and 43% in other uses (Map 12085). Dur-
ing the same decade, the population grew from 290,000 to 790,000.  The average
net residential density grew from 210 pers./ha in 1963 to 270 pers./ha in
1973. Although low compared to many other African and Asian cities, there are
large density variations among the residential zones, ranging from 45 pers./ha
in high quality, modern residential neighborhoods to around 500-600 persons/ha
in the older, low/middle income areas, and to 1,000 pers./ha in newly settled
squatter areas (Map 12083). (See Annex 1 for details.)
Transport and Land Use
2.09      Abidjan's topographical features -- lagoons, islands, and penin-
sulas -- impose a substantial burden on the city's transport system. The
problen is exacerbated by the imbalanced location of employment and popula-
tion. Industrial employment is almost exclusively concentrated in the Port
area, in Marcory, and in the Vridi industrial zone to the southwest of the
Plateau. Commercial, banking, other tertiary activities, and Governnent
employnent are concentrated on the Plateau, Abidjan's modern central business
district. The rest of the agglomeration is largely residential, with lower-
income groups living far from employment centers. Transport axes meet and
cross in the central business district. Certain key movements, e.g., Banco
and Adjame to the Ile de Petit Bassami, are only possible by traveling through
the Plateau and across one of the two bridges, overloading a limited network
in the Plateau (whose roads serve as local distributors, cross town routes,
and parking lots) and contributing to heavy downtown congestion. Moreover,
little attention has been given to date to the possibilities of making better
use of ferries and rail facilities to complement the road based transport
system.  In the long term, a policy for the future growth of Abidjan will aim
at better integrating employment and population. In the short run, the
traffic management measures and critical infrastructure proposed under the
project will relieve existing conditions (Map 12086).
2.10      Critical to accommodating the growing transport requirements of
the city is the East-West Highway (Maps Nos. 12083 and 12090).  The section
of road known as the Route de Dabou serves several functions:  it is part
of the Ivory Coast trunk road system, carrying inter-city traffic and com-
mercial traffic (including very heavy logging trucks) to the port of Abidjan;
it is also part of the Abidjan urban road system, carrying commuters to
their jobs in Adjame, Plateau, Treichville, and Port Bouet; and it is the
only access road for Abidjan's major new development area - the Banco. It
is currently a two-lane road, except for the recent addition of a third
slow vehicle lane on the hill near the Agban junction. In M1ovember 1975,
this road was carrying (in the Banco-Abidjan direction), 17,719 vehicles per
day -- 55% cars, 20% buses, and 25% commercial vehicles. Of the cars, 66%



- 6 -
are urban traffie and these movements have doubled since 1973, as have the
number of bus trips observed. Even if the development of the Banco can
be deferred, traffic will continue to grow at 7-10% per annum, leading to
volumes that technically justify the construction of a four-lane highway
by 1980 as proposed in the project (Map No. 12090).
2.11      Traffic performance in the central area is quite unsatisfactory,
streets being congested for several hours each day. The custom of returning
home for lunch exacerbates the problem. The proposed traffic management
measures will extract the maximum capacity from the existing network devoting
capacity to the exclusive use of buses, creating one-way streets, coordinating
traffic signals, and improving traffic signs (Map No. 12086).
Housing and Urban Services
2.12      Abidjan has witnessed a housing boom in the past decade.  Between
1963 and 1973, housing stock increased by an average of 9% a year, from
63,000 to 149,000 units (Annex 1). However, the adoption of high standards,
regardless of the financial capacity of the urban population, excluded the
majority of those in need of shelter. The cheapest units built are afford-
able by only the top 50% of the population without subsidies. Even with the
present level of subsidies, the needs of the bottom 35% of the population
cannot be met.
2.13      Two significant features of Abidjan's housing and population patterns
affect project design: nearly 80% of all residents are renters or lessees;
secondly, non-Ivorians constitute nearly 50% of Abidjan's population and
nearly 80% of the target group below the median income level. Although
official policy does not deny access to public housing to foreigners nor
legally prevent foreign private home ownership, current practice forces
the migrant African to seek sub-let rental accommodation at distorted prices
and with poor accessibility to services; the resultant effects on the housing
market complicate the planning of future development.
2.14      According to 1973 data, only 50% of Abidjan's population had
reasonable access to water, either through a private connection or through
public standpipes. Almost half the population depends on private ground water
sources or on private vendors who charge five times more per liter than the
tariff of the public utility.
2.15      At the present time, only 20% of the Abidjan population use water-
borne sewerage and another 15% use private septic tanks. Almost 65% (650,000
persons in 1975) dispose of waste water and sewage in open pits or unlined
water courses. There is no official cess-pool emptying service in the city.
This is particularly serious because some high density neighborhoods are
susceptible to flooding and severe drainage problems each year. The need for
improved sewerage in Abidjan was recognized by a UNDP/WHO study in 1973. The
Bank's Sewerage and Drainage Project (Ln.1076-IVC) will contribute a substan-
tial portion of the total investment in this sector.



2.16      Competing demands to narrow the gap in existing services between
the secondary urban centers and Abidjan will ultimately restrict the avail-
ability of public funds for the city. This will imply a greater reliance on
the private sector and more appropriate pricing policies. The reduction of
existing service level disparities among the different neighborhoods will
require an extensive process of upgrading to reach the majority of the city's
residents. To meet the need at the lowest end of the income scale and to
reduce public investment will require a major reorientation towards minimal
servicing standards and smaller lot sizes in new development areas. A program
of iraproving services in existing areas will permit higher density development
in locations with better access to jobs, reducing new land requirements in the
coming years. The proposed mix of site and services and upgrading in the
project addresses this issue.
D. Development Issues and Project Rationale
2.17      As described above, the major development issue facing Abidjan
over the next 5-10 years is the location of urban development. The Abidjan
Urban Development Study put this issue in focus and presented to the Govern-
ment a series of development alternatives which weighed the merits of infill-
ing vs. expansion strategies. The alternatives considered ranged from rapid
development of the Banco, with low development costs and high transport infra-
struture requirements, to intensive development of the Koumassi area, with
easy access to jobs and low transport costs, but with high reclamation costs,
unknown technical feasibility, and limited capacity. As a result of discuss-
ions with Government on these alternatives, a strategy concentrating on in-
filling was developed involving selective intensification of land use in
existing built-up areas, upgrading of services, review of Master Plan land
uses to obtain closer relation of jobs and people, and a more gradual develop-
ment of new expansion zones to build up infrastructure capacity in line
with capital constraints.
2.18      Initial government proposals involved a 1976-1980 transport capital
expenditure program of about CFAF 25 billion (US$111 million). Following
discussions with Government, it was agreed that the implementation of a pack-
age of policy measures -- traffic management and preferential treatment for
public transport -- would allow a large proportion of the planned investment
to be postponed. Apart from the construction to reduced standards of the
priority western section of the East-West Highway, only the access highway
from the East-West Highway to the port would be of high priority. This re-
statement of investment priorities is expected to reduce capital requirements
by almost half or nearly CFAF 12 billion (US$53 million). Development of
ferry services and utilization of excess rail capacity to serve commuters
(both of which are under study) may lead to further reductions in both the
pressure on the road system and resulting investment demands. The Govern-
ment agreed that (a) the eastern extension to the East-West Highway will
not be constructed during the 1976-80 Plan period, and (b) other major
urban transport investments - roads, excepting the Voie de Degagement Ouest,



-8 -
bridges, rail facilities, subways, etc. - will be examined within the context
of the Ten-Year Development Study, and an investment program submitted for
review by the Bank before actual execution.
2.19      The physical components of the project have been developed in the
context of the above realignment of investment and development priorities and
involve certain institutional changes for their implementation.
2.20      For the shelter sector the main institutional change involves the
creation of the Banque Nationale pour l'Epargne et le Credit (BNEC) and the
dissolution of the Office pour le Soutien d'Habitat Economique (OSHE) with
the BNEC taking over all previous functions and attributes of the OSHE. The
new institution has three roles: (a) to manage all public funds through the
Fonds d'Habitat earmarked for the shelter sector, (b) to advise on all pro-
posed Government guaranteed external borrowings for financing of housing
projects by Government and parastatal agencies and to subsequently monitor
the progress of the proposed projects, and (c) to act as a financial inter-
mediary for housing loans. A satisfactory statutory structure for BNEC, a
statement of operating policies, and the rules governing the disposition of
ex-OSHE funds, has been completed and agreed with the Bank. Legal measures
for the formal dissolution of OSHE are a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan. The adoption of a final statement of operating policies by
BNEC's Board of Directors is a condition of disbursement of the funds allo-
cated to the shelter component (Annex 2).
2.21      The housing policies described in 2.13, together with high costs,
a low level of cost recovery, and management difficulties, resulted in a
financial operating status characterized by recurrent negative cash flows
for SOGEFIHA. This represents a level of debt service liability that con-
stitutes a continuing drain on public tax revenues. The Government has
prepared a plan for restructuring SOGEFIHA's debt and has agreed to imple-
menting on lines satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 2).
2.22      In the transport sector, the principal institutional measure will
be the creation of a Traffic Bureau which will (a) study methods of limiting
the use of private cars in congested areas, such as parking restrictions,
parking charges, incentives to car-pools, area licensing, (b) design and
execute traffic improvement measures, and (c) provide overall coordination
of urban transport modes and policies.
2.23      The important policy re-orientation represented by this project
will require substantial technical assistance to develop and strengthen the
agencies involved and to implement the proposed measures at the technical
level. In particular, for the shelter component of the project, a Technical
Coordinator in the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism has been nominated
by the Government and a monitoring capacity will be established to provide
feedback and policy guidance.



- 9 -
III.  THE PROJECT
A.  Ob- i-Ct ives
3.01      The main objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to finance transport and shelter infrastructure programs
in support of new Government policies to improve access
to urban services for low-inccme groups;
(b) to provide technical assistance to strengthen the
institutions charged with implementing these programs;
and
(c) to provide on-going planning and programming capability,
to permit evaluation of investment plans and priorities.
The Bank/AID/CCCE/Government dialogue on urban policies and programs has
resulted in a package of actions that is broader in scope than that included
in the project. The key complementary elements are the expansion and diversi-
fication of the bus fleet, the proposed introduction of commuter rail and
ferry services, and the CCCE provision of credit to small scale artisans to
create employment in the informal sector.
I.   Transport
3.02      The project comprises:
(a) enhancement of road capacity for public transport
operations through construction of a bus-way (2.7 km)
and reserved bus lanes (1.7 km) in the central business
area, and implementation of traffic improvements includ-
ing creation of one-way streets and installation of
integrated traffic signals, signs, and road markings; and
(b) addition of highway capacity in the metropolitan area
through construction of the priority section of the
East-West Highway (8.6 km), to improve arterial and
trunk connections to the interior of the country.
Il. Shelter
3.03      The project comprises the following physical measures:
(a)  a slun upgrading and site and services program serving
about 222,000 people on six sites, totalling 316 ha
in Abidjan and 60 ha in San Pedro;
(b) a low cost housing program in Abidjan;



- 10 -
(c) a line of credit for small loans to project beneficiaries
for lot acquisition and the purchase of construction
materials; and
(d) construction of two trunk sewers to serve the project
sites and other neighborhoods.
III.      Technical Assistance
3.04      Technical assistance will be provided to:
(a) the Ministry of Public Works and Transport for estab-
lishment of the Traffic Bureau to (i) design and
execute an implementation program for traffic improve-
ment; (ii) coordinate urban transport planning; and
(iii) study and recommend methods for limiting the use
of private cars in congested areas;
(b)  the Ministry of Construction and Urban Development and
its land development agency SETU for supervision, coor-
dination, and monitoring of the shelter component and
for carrying out and supervising the Ten-Year Develop-
ment study; and
(c) BNEC for management development, definition of opera-
tional procedures and policies, and training of its
staff.
B. Detailed Features
I.   Transport
3.05      East-West Highway:  The priority western section of the East-West
Highway totals 8.6 km from the northern expressway to the Agban interchange
(Map No. 12083). Design standards are detailed in Annex 3. The proposed
construction involves a dual carriageway, two grade-separated interchanges
(at Agban and Banco Nord), and at-grade intersections at Niangon (near the
industrial zone) and Yopougon (at the main entrance to the Banco area).
Relocation and reconstruction of some sections of existing roads and a rail-
way overpass are also included. Consultant services (about 120 man-months)
are required for construction supervision. The Ministry of Public Works has
already selected the consultants BCEOM/BNETD and the National Soils Labora-
tory. The advisory services include a training component for recent grad-
uates of the Public Works School.
3.06      Central Area Traffic Improvements:  The proposed traffic management
measures will extract the maximum capacity from the existing system and will
devote a portion of the capacity to the exclusive use of buses. Critical
north-south and east-west axes have been identified and a one-way street



- il -
system has been defined to increase traffic speeds on these axes and reduce
delays due to turning movements. The system of traffic lights will also be
improved to control junctions that currently become blocked and to synchronize
traffic lights which will increase speeds and reduce delays. Warning and
information signs will be improved to make drivers more aware and facilitate
traffic flows; road markings (e.g. for lanes) will be improved to promote
better driver discipline and increase the effective capacity of the streets
(Hap No. 12086).
Il. Shelter
3.07      The sites for the shelter component of the proposed project
have been selected according to the following criteria:
(a) proximity to formal and informal sector employment
opportunities, and potential for development of
small-scale enterprise activities; and
(b) accessibility to current or proposed primary infra-
structure networks, including transport, water,
sewerage, electricity, and drainage, and to social
services, including health and education.
In addition, the income level of the existing population was considered in
the selection of areas to be upgraded and of the target population for the
site and services and low cost housing areas.
3.08      The four sites to be upgraded in Abidjan total 211 ha currently
occupied by 16,400 households on 3,610 lots (see Aerial Photography). The
site to be upgraded in San Pedro totals 60 hectares (5,800 households). It
has been agreed that this component will only be started upon satisfactory
completion of the CCCE-financed experimental first phase. Loan funds for this
component will not be disbursed until this condition has been satisfied. Two
sites in Abidjan totalling 105 hectares will be used for the development of
the site and services component. They will accommodate 8,250 households. The
shelter program consists of providing water supply, sewerage, surface water
drainage, streets, footpaths, lighting, and community facilities. Credit
facilities for lot acquisition and building materials will also be available.
Sewerage and Drainage Infrastructure
3.09       The feasibility study of sewerage and drainage in Abidjan (see
para 2.16) demonstrated that a pit latrine or cesspool system will not
support a density greater than 100 inh./ha. under local environmental
conditions. Given that the expected density on project sites will
average 400 inh./ha., and that the smallest site is 20 ha., a centralized
sewerage network, integrated into the primary Abidjan network, was adopted.



- 12 -
3.10      Trunk Sewers:  The sewage disposal network on the Abobo site
requires the construction of a trunk sewer 9.7 km long with a diameter
ranging from 600-900 mm, and a pumping station.  The sewer will serve the
whole Abobo urban development area as well as the existing residential
areas of Williamsville and Deux Plateaux and will serve about 200,000
inhabitants. It will connect into the east Plateau trunk sewer financed
under the Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project (Map No. 12083) (details
in Annex 4). A 2 km 0 350 rmm trunk sewer (plus two pumping stations) will
serve the Koumassi area as well as the existing adjacent neighborhoods
(Prodomo and Sopim). It will have an outfall into the Ebrie Lagoon until
the main trunk sewer to the ocean outfall is constructed in the early 1980's.
3.11      Community Facilities:  Funds will be provided for 264 primary
school classrooms for about 12,000 pupils, as a complement to the Second
Education Project (Loan 1125-IVC) which focuses on primarv teacher training
and vocational education.
3.12      Funds are also included for the construction of three health cen-
ters, five urban retail markets, two community centers, a public laundry
facility and ten playgrounds. Standard furniture and equipment for community
facilities will be provided under the project. The Government has agreed that
the Ministries, Municipalities, and other agencies concerned will staff and
maintain the facilities and make satisfactory budgetary provisions for cover-
ing the allocable site development and annual operating costs.
3.13      Site and Services:  Two basic types of serviced lots will be
provided: (i) the LEM  (2,700 lots) ranging from 100 m 2to 150 mt2 (1ap No.
12088'; (ii) the BNTEJD/BCEOM types (115 lots) whose sizes are 128 m (Y2),
192 m (TI) and 200 m (Ul) (Map No. 12089). The gross density for both types
will be about 40 units per hectare. These lots were selected from twelve
studied according to the following criteria: economical layout, social
habits, political acceptability, promotion of ownership, and accommodation
of renters (see Annex 4).
Characteristics of Project Lots
No. of Lots    Dimension       Area    No. Inhabit/       No. Families/
Lot Type    Provided          (m)         (m2)         Lot               Lot
LEI            2,700       8 x 12.5       1500           12               2.2
Y2               375       8 x 16         128             12              2.2
T1               375       8 x 24         192             15              2.7
tJ1              375      10 x 20         200             15              2.7



- 13 -
Water and e]ectricity connections and meters will be installed by the public
utility companies SODECI and EECI upon request of the user at a cost of
CFAF 8,500 and CFAF 9,000 (US$38 and 40 respectively). The financing of
these connections is not included in 0vle project. Only lots with water
connections would be permitted to opt for individual sewerage connections,
which would be financed under the project. Street lighting will be installed
along major access roads and at main traffic points. The project will provide
serviced sites whose monthly lease pavments range from CFAF 2,500 (US$11) for
a 100 m  lot only, and CFAF 5,600 (US$25) fo0  a 100 mn  lot with a  one-room
core unit, to CFAF 5,800 (US$26) for a 200 m lot. Details are given in
Annexes 4 and 5. These sites would reach households at the 20th percentile
(para. 4.10) of the incorme distribution.
3.14      Upgrading:  The upgrading will induce a process of more inten-
sive development over a period estimated between 5 and 10 years. The fore-
cast density at final development is assumed between 550 and 800 inhabitants
per hectare, or a population of about 220,000 (an increase of about 60%
in ten years). This is comparable to population figures in the stable low
and middle income areas such as Adjame and Treichville. An example of the
upgrading program - Abobo - is shown in Map No. 12087.
3.15      Low-Cost Housing Program:  This component will be entirely
financed under the USAID Housing Guarantee Program.  1860 units at Marcory
and at Koumassi N.E. will be built corresponding to the "very economical" type
of unit.  This program will provide accommodation for 10,000 people between  2
the 35th and the 8Oth percentiles. The rnits have an average surface of 40 m
and cost about CFAF 19,250 (US$86) per m . They will be managed and rented by
SICOGI for an average of CFAF 8,000 (US$36) per month.
3.16      In connection with the above components, consulting services will
be required for: detailed engineering for all infrastructure including the
trunk sewers and architectural and detailed engineering for community facil-
ities. A short-term contract for a health facility design specialist is
also required. The consultants will also prepare standard sketch designs,
draft tender documents and master lists of construction materials, furniture
and equipment. In order to avoid delays, SETU has already awarded the con-
tract for detailed engineering of the Koumassi N.E. site to consultants BNETD,
with financing provided out of budget allocations. The project would include
funds to finance retroactively the foreign exchange costs of the Abobo Gare
and Abobo Nord detailed engineering studies. SETU has selected consultants
BCEOM/BNETD who carried out the preliminarv engineering work for the former
site and SCET IVOIRE for the latter study. Draft contracts were reviewed by
Bank and USAID and approved in October 1976.
3.17      Employment Promotion:  In the site and services program, 12 ha will
be set aside for shopkeepers, artisans and small entrepreneurs. Lot sizes
will vary between 400 m2 and 1000 m  and will be located along the main
streets and scattered throughout the site areas. The Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) is discussing with the Government an experi-
mental program to help finance small business activities in the informal



- 14 -
sector and with expected loans generally not exceeding CFAF 1 million or
US$4,500 in order to complement the small-scale enterprise project financed
by the Bank (Ln. 1162-IVC). The selected entrepreneurs would acquire the
lots set apart in the project sites. Although financial assistance to small
entrepreneurs is not provided under the project, the Government agreed to
execute the experimental small-scale enterprise component and to take appro-
priate measures to assure the required funding should Caisse Centrale funding
not materialize.
3.18      Credit Line for Construction/Material Loans:  Credit will be pro-
vided to owners in upgrading areas and purchasers and lessees of serviced
sites. Loans will be made by Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire (CCI) and BNEC
subject to their normal credit standards. Beneficiaries will be limited
to those eligible to purchase or lease lots under the criteria detailed in
para. 5.04. Average individual sub-loans are estimated to be CFAF 140,000
(US$625) for construction materials for lessees in site and services areas,
CFAF 180,000 (US$800) for owners in upgrading areas, and CFAF 350,000
(US$1,466) for construction materials for purchasers of serviced sites.
A combined loan for lot purchasing and building materials is expected to
amount to CFAF 690,000 (US$3,022). An onlending interest rate of at least
4 percentage points above the cost of funds would cover the administrative
costs and provide an adequate margin on these relatively high-risk loans;
based on the anticipated blend costs of Bank, USAID and local funds, this
rate is expected to be about 13%. Maximum terms of 10 years on construction
materials loans and 20 years on combined lot acquisition and material loans
are expected to permit eligible borrowers to repay these loans within the
normal housing expenditures of about 25% of monthly income. Some 2,350
sub-loans for construction materials are expected amounting to CFAF 450
million (US$2 million). Details are given in Annex 5.
II. Technical Assistance
3.19      Technical assistance will be provided to support development of
existing or newly created institutions and for urban planning for the Abidjan
region (see details in Annex 6). As the needed expertise is not readily
available locally, it is expected that the majority of technical assistance
services will be provided by expatriates.
3.20      Ministry of Public Works and Transport.  The project traffic man-
agement components in the Plateau represent the first steps in a program of
traffic management for the whole of Abidjan. The initial components will be
coordinated and executed by the Traffic Bureau that will be set up as part of
the project. The Traffic Bureau will have the responsibility for developing
and implementing a city-wide program of traffic improvements. The Traffic
Bureau will require consultant assistance in its formative years. Funds are
provided for three experts for two years (65 man-months) to assist in execu-
tion of the traffic improvements and for training of Ivorian counterparts.
Job descriptions are summarized in Annex 6. Agreement was reached on the
organization and work program of the Traffic Bureau and Terms of Reference
for the consultants.



- 15 -
3.21      Ministry of Construction and Urbanism (MCU).  The Government has
requested technical assistance to the Ministry and to SETU to implement and
monitor the proposed project and help prepare future projects. Financing
of the foreign costs of six experts for about two years (125 man-months)
will be provided. The tasks of these experts include assisting the Project
Technical Coordinator in the overall supervision of shelter component of the
project; training of planning technicians; monitoring of the project compo-
nents; and computerization of the data bank of the Land Administration Agency
(SADU). Job descriptions are summarized in Annex 6. This component will be
co-financed with USAID.  The Government has agreed on a work program and on
the Terms of Reference for the proposed technical assistance. Consultant
selection is now underway.
3.22      The Government has also requested Bank assistance to the MCU to
carry out a Ten-Year Development Study for the Abidjan region in order to
prepare a medium-term investment program and resolve conflicting sectoral
demands.  This Study would review current urban development policies and
financial resources, outline development options for Abidjan for the next
decade, assist the Government in selecting a preferred strategy in the tight
development objectives and financial resource constraints and define a ten-
year investment program needed to implement it. Terms of Reference have
been prepared and agreed with the Government ministries concerned. The
project would provide funds for about 120 man-months of consultant services.
The MCU as the responsible Ministry has appointed local consultants (BNETD)
to prepare the data base for the study prior to appointment of study consul-
tants. An inter-ministerial Steering Committee chaired by the MCU has been
set up and an experienced expatriate Director is being hired to assist it
in supervising the work of the consultants who are now being selected. The
BNETD will also provide staff assistance to the Steering Committee during
the course of the Study and will prepare position and issue papers on the
progress of the study under the guidance of the expatriate Director. This
arrangement will ensure that the Study will be appropriately supervised and
that the Government will reap the full benefits of the consultant services
financed under the project.
3.23      Banque Nationale pour l'Epargne et le Credit (BNEC).  Technical
assistance is necessary to strengthen management, help define and implement
operational policies and procedures and assist in staff development for all
three aspects of BNEC's operations. The project provides funds for services
of up to four experts for up to three years each. The Government and BNEC
have agreed that at least one expert will be employed for the Fonds
d' Habitat and one to assist in developing its Housing Bank operations.
In order to assist the BNEC Director during the difficult start up period,
two advisers to assist on financial and technical matters have already been
recruited on terms and conditions that have been judged satisfactory by he
Bank and USAID. Bank funds would finance retroactively jointly with USAID
funds the foreign exchange costs of these advisers who have been in place
since September 15, 1976. BNEC is currently actively seeking suitable ex-
perienced candidates for the Housing Bank and the Fonds d'Habitat operations.
A summary of job descriptions is given in Annex 6.



- 16 -
IV.  COSTS ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND COST RECOVERY
A. Cost Estimates
4.01       The estimated total cost of the project including taxes is
CFAF 27.5 billion (US$122.3 million). Foreign exchange costs (51%) amount
to CFAF 14.2 billion (US$63.0 million). Taxes and customs duties amount
to CFAF 5.5 billion (US$24.4 million). Base cost estimates are in 1976
prices. The cost estimates are summarized below; for details, see Table 1,
Annexes 3 and 4.



- tqge 17 -
ABIDJAN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
(BASED ON JUNE 1976 PRICES)
IN CFAF MILLION                             IN US $ MILLION
LOCAL     LOCAL                  TOTAL      LOCAL      LOCAL                  TOTAI       PERCENIAGE
TAXES     COST      FOREIGN      -----      TAXES      COST      FOREIGN      ----     FOREIGN/IOTAL
IRANSPORT
EAST-WEST HIGHWAY
-SITE PREPARATION               185        306        370         861        .82      1.36       1.65        3.83          43.0
-MATERIALS                      196       323        391         910        .87       1,44       1.74        4.05          43.0
-CONSTRUCTION                  1312      2166       2623        6101       5.83       9.63      11.66       27.12          43.0
-CONST. SLIF'ERVISION            95        142       237         474        .42        .63       1.05        2.10          50.0
SUB-TOTAL                   [788      2937       3621        8346       7.94      13.06      16.10       37.10          43.0
rRAFFIC IMPROVEMENT
-CIVIL WORKS                     85        140        169         394        .38       .62        .75        1.75          43.0
-EO4IJlPMENT                     34         17        118         169        .15       .08        .53         .76          70.0
SUB-rOTAt                    119        157       28Z         563        .53        .70       1.28        2.51         5S.0
FOVAL--TRANSPORT                 1907       3094      3908        8909       8.47      13.76      17.38       39.61          44.0
SHELTER
SLUM UPGRADING
-LANI COMPENSATION               26        104        -           130        .12       .46        -           .58           -
-PRIMARY INFRA.                 115        115        345         575       .51        .51       1.53        2.55          60.0
-SECON. INFRA.          -       737        737       2210        3684      3.27       3.27       9.82       16.36          60.0
-DET ENG INFRASTR.               64         32        224         320       .28        .14       [.00        1.42          70.0
-COM.FACILITTES                 135        169        371         674       .60        .75       1.65        3.00          55.0
-TFr. ENG. COM. FAC.             12          6         42          60        .05       .03        .19         .27          70.0
SUB-TOTAL                   1089       1163      3192        5443       4.83       5.16      14.19       24.18          59.0
SITES AND SERVICES
-LAND COMPENSATION                33        132       -            165       .15        .59        -           .74           -
-SECON. INFRA.                   257        257        771        1285      1.14       1.14       3.43        5.71          60.0
-DET. ENG.INFRASTR.               10          5         34          49        .04        .02       .15         .21          69.0
-COM.FACILITIES                  129        161        354         644        .57  '    .72       1.57        2.86          55.0
-DET.ENG.COM.FAC.                 il          6         40          57        .05       .03        .18         .26          70.0
SUB-TOTAL                    440        561      1199        2200       1.95       2.50       5.33        9.78          55.0
LOW COST HOUSING                   450        900       1350        2700       2.00      4.00       6.00       12.00          50.0
TRUNh SEWERS                       144        144        433         722        .64        .64      1.93        3.21          60.0
SMALL LOANS                        -          225        225         450        -         1.00      1.00        2.00          50.0
TOTAL--SHELTER                   2123       2993       6399       11515       9.42     13.30      28.45       51.17          56.0
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
-TRAFFIC BUREAU                   34         34        103         172        .15        .15       .46         .76          60.0
-MIN.CONST. URBANISM              65         65        195         325        .29       .29        .87        [.45          60.0
-10 YEAR DEV.STUDY                57         42        184         283        .25       .19        .82        1.26          65.0
-BNEC                             45         34        146         225        .20        .15       .65        1.00          65.0
TOTAL--TECH ASSISTANCE            201        175        628        1005        .89        .78      2.80        4.47          62.0
TOTAL BASE COST                  4231       6262      10935       21429.    18.78      27.84      48.63       95.25          51.0
CONTINGENCIES
-PHYSICAL CONTIN.                386        491        989        1t66       1.71      2.18       4.40        8.29          53.0
-PRICE CONTIN.                   874       1113       2241        4228      3.88       4.95       9.96       18.79          53.0
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES             1260       1604       3230        6094      5.59       7.13      14.36       27.08          53.0
GRAND TOTAL                  5491       7666      14165      27S23      24.37      34.97      62.99      122.33          51.0



- 18 -
4.02      Estimates for the major project components were based on:
East-West Highway Construction        Evaluation of bids received
December 10, 1975
East-West Highway Supply of           Evaluation of bids received
Aggregates                               February 24, 1976
Traffic Improvements
- Civil Works                        Detailed Engineering Completed
in June 1976
- Equipment                          Detailed Engineering Completed
in June 1976
Primary Infrastructure Shelter        Preliminary Engineering
Component including Trunk
Sewers
Secondary/Tertiary Infrastructure
- Upgrading Program                  Design in Pilot areas
Consultant Services -                 Draft Contracts under review
Construction supervision
Consultant Services - Other           Mission Estimates based on comparable
Technical Assistance                 costs on other jobs in Ivory Coast
4.03      The base cost estimates set out in Table 9 were first increased by
10% to cover physical contingencies, and the total increased to cover price
contingencies using the inflation factors as set out in Table 13 of Annex 4.
However, no allowances for price or physical contingencies were made for the
USAID guaranteed low-cost housing program; this is consistent with current
practice in regard to USAID Housing Guarantee Programs of this type. On the
whole, the contingency provisions account for about 25% of the total project
cost (excluding the low cost housing program).
B. Financing
4.04      About 36% of the total estimated project cost (45% of total cost
net of tax) or 70% of the foreign exchange cost will be financed out of the
proposed Bank loans consisting of a loan of US$30 million at the current
Bank interest rate, to be repaid over 20 years, including a grace period
of 4 years and a Third Window Loan of US$14 million on standard Third Window
Loan terms of 25 years including a grace period of 7 years, and at an inter-
est rate of 4% per annum less than the interest rate on the Bank loan.



- 19 -
FINANCING PLAN
(in US$ millions)
Total/1      GOIC          TOTAL                   % USAID
Project Components           Cost   BSIE  BNEC  FNA  GOIC   IBRD   USAID  + IBRD
I.    Transport             50.3   29.9   -        -   29.9    20.4    -         41
II.   Shelter
Slum Upgrading    34.5    4.3  10.1   -   14.4    12.5   7.6            58
Sites & Services  13.5    2.8   3.2   -    6.0          5.1   2.4       56
Low Cost Housing  12.0        -    2.0   -    2.0        -   10.0       83
Trunk Sewers         4.3     -      -   1.7   1.7       2.6    -        60
Small Loans          2.0     -    1.0   -    1.0        1.0    -        50
Sub Total             63.3    7.1  16.3  1.7  25.1    21.3   2.0          62
III. Technical
Assistance           5.7    1.8   0.5   -    2.3        2.4   1.0       60
TOTAL           122.3   38.8  16.8  1.7  57.3    44.0   21.0    53
/1   All cost figures include contingencies.
4.05       Financial Arrangements.  The Bank's borrower will be the Government.
Funds for the transport component will be passed on to the Ministry of Public
Works and Transport. The funds for the shelter component will be channelled
as follows: (a) through the BNEC for the upgrading and site and services
infrastructure, low cost housing program and the line of credit for con-
struction loans; (b) through the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism for
the schools and community facilities, and (c) through the Fonds National
d'Assainissement (FNA) for the trunk sewer. The funds for technical assis-
tance will be directly channelled to the agencies concerned. USAID guaran-
tee funds would be lent directly to BNEC under Government guarantee. Coun-
terpart funds for the transport component plus local costs of technical
assistance would come from Government's capital budget (BSIE). The shelter
component counterpart funds will be provided by:
(a) the capital budget (BSIE) for financing on-site roads,
community facilities and relocation/compensation;
(b) the fiscal resources earmarked for low-cost housing
(BNEC/Fonds d'Habitat) for the local costs of on-site,
primary, secondary and tertiary infrastructure;
(c) the Fonds National d'Assainissement (FNA) for construc-
tion of the trunk sewers; and
(d) BNEC and CCI's resources for the small loans program.



- 20 -
4.06      Shelter Component Financial Flows.  SETU will acquire title to the
property to be serviced from the Government and proceed to create the service
infrastructure using contractors. BNEC will advance the funds to SETU for
these works on its normal short-term lending terms. Upon completion of the
lots, 30% will be sold to individuals at a price including the cost of ser-
vicing, the capitalized interest due by SETU to the BNEC, and SETU's over-
head fee. The individuals will obtain title from SETU and seek (if necessary)
mortgage financing, either from the BNEC, or from other banking or traditional
sources. The funds thus acquired will be paid to SETU, which will repay its
advance from BNEC which will, in turn, use these funds to finance the mort-
gage loans to lot purchasers. Seventy percent of the lots will be trans-
ferred, with their titles, to SICOGI who will assume SETU's obligation to
BNEC and will also pay SETU's interest accrued during construction and its
management and overhead cost. SICOGI will then grant 20-year leases to in-
dividuals.  For the San Pedro component, ARSO owns the land and will service
it. Funds for payments to contractors will be advanced by BNEC. ARSO will
grant 49-year leases. Lease payments to SICOGI and ARSO will serve to repay
advances from BNEC. The upgrading component will be executed by SETU as
agent for Government which will incur the financial obligation for repay-
ment. Costs will be recovered through the betterment tax and the property
tax. USAID funds will be lent to BNEC, on-lent to SICOGI for the low-cost
housing component, and treated as above for the rest of the shelter compo-
nent.
4.07      The trunk sewer construction will be executed by SETU using con-
tractors, whose bills it will pass to FNA for payment. Cost recovery of
this element will be through the 5% property tax surcharge and the water
tariff surcharge. CCI and BNEC will provide credit for construction mate-
rials and lot purchase in the upgrading and site and services areas (para.
3.18). Bank funds will be channelled through BNEC combined with local re-
sources, and onlent by CCI and BNEC. Thus, BNEC will serve both as a housing
bank with its autonomous savings division on its own account, carrying the
credit risk on subloans, and as the Government's agent managing all public
funds flowing to the shelter component.
C. Cost Recovery
4.08      Transport:  All transport component costs will be recovered through
road user charges.
4.09      Shelter:  During the life of the project, approximately 70% of the
shelter component costs will be recovered -- 75% from direct charges on bene-
ficiaries (i.e., lease and purchase payments and the betterment tax) and 25%
from specific taxes and tariffs (e.g., water charges, sewerage surcharges).
The remaining 30% will be recovered from property taxes. With the excep-
tion of the betterment tax, mechanisms for collecting these payments and
taxes already exist. Under existing enabling legislation the betterment



- 21 -
tax will permit the Government to recover 50% of increases in property
values that result from public investments in special areas declared
"d'utilite publique." As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loans, the Government has agreed to éxecute the appropriate legal instru-
ments to define the scope of the tax and make it operational. The alloca-
tion of costs to different components and the appropriate recovery mechanisms
are as follows:
Investment Cost Recovery of the Shelter Component
Source
Component             (in US$ million)       of Recovery
1. Slum Upgrading
(i) Abidjan
Primary Infrastructure           -
-  Roads                   0.46         -  Road user charges
-  Sewerage                0.70         -  Supplement to water tariff
-  Drainage                2.26         -  Supplement to Property Tax
-  Electricity              .24         -  Surcharge on electricity rates
TOTAL PRIMARY              3.66
Secondary Infrastructure
-  Roads                   6.30   )
-  Sewerage                2.60   )    -  Betterment tax
-  Water Supply            1.20   )        and property tax
-  Surface Water Drainage 5.20   )
-  Electricity             0.50
TOTAL SECONDARY/TERTIARY 15.80
(ii) San Pedro
-  Roads                   2.40   )
-  Sewerage                1.50   )
-  Water Supply            0.50   )    -  Payments on leases
-  Surface Water Drainage 1.30   )
-  Electricity             1.20   )
-  Connections             0.70   )
TOTAL                      7.60
2. Sites and Services
- Secondary Infra-
structure            5.80        -  Payments on leases
and sales
-  Tertiary                2.00
TOTAL                      7.80
3. Low Cost Housing               10.00        -  Rental payments
TOTAL                     44.86



- 22 -
Cost Recovery Effectiveness
4.10      The following factors indicate that cost recovery is likely to be
effective:
(a) CCI, BNEC, will follow normal procedures for credit
evaluation and loan recovery to limit defaults on
loans;
(b) examination of past tax effort shows that property
tax collections are usually more regular and sys-
tematic in low-income areas which indicates that
property tax and betterment tax collection will be
efficient; and
(c)  both SICOGI and ARSO have experience in managing rental
properties, and lease payments will be set at a level
sufficient to cover financial, management, and mainte-
nance costs as well as to provide adequate reserves to
cover non-payments.
The Government has agreed to re-examine the current property tax systems and
determine the need for new measures to finance long-term urban infrastructure
development in Abidjan. This review will be carried out under the scope of
the Ten-Year Development Study to be financed under the project.
V. EXECUTION
A. Implementing Agencies
5.01      The Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MTPT), the Ministry of
Construction and Urbanism (MCU), and BNEC will have primary responsibility for
the execution of the project. The Ministry of Public Works and Transport will
be responsible for execution and supervision of the transport and trunk sewer
components. The Ministry of Construction and Urbanism will be responsible for
part of the shelter component in Abidjan. Infrastructure provision will be
executed through SETU's Direction Technique. The Ministry's Directorate of
Construction will be responsible for the construction of schools, health
centers, markets and community centers. The design of the buildings will be
carried out by consultants (para. 3.16). The Ministry will also be responsi-
ble for the Ten-Year Development Study to be carried out by consultants (para.
3.22).  SICOGI will be the executing agency for the low-cost housing program,
with SETU responsible for the infrastructure works. The Southwest Region
Development Authority (ARSO), through its Directorate of Construction, will
be the executing agency for the Bardo component. BNEC's Savings Division,
and the Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire (Annexes 2 and 5) will administer the line
of credit for small loans. Project implementation will take four years; the
implementation schedule is shown in Chart 1.



- 23 -
B. Procurement
5.02      Procurement for the East-West Highway has been divided into two
separate contracts: one for construction (US$27 million) and one for supply
of aggregates (US$ 4 million). In order to avoid delays of over a year in
starting the works because of seasonal factors, both contracts have already
been awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Guidelines. Contracts for civil works and supply of equipment: (i)
for traffic improvements on the Plateau (US$ 2 million), (ii) for the two
trunk sewers (US$3.2 million), (iii) for primary and secondary infrastructure
for the shelter component (US$9.8 million), and (iv) for equipment and furni-
ture for community facilities (US$1 million) will also be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Contracts will be divided into small components in order to encourage bids
from Ivorian enterprises, but grouping of components will be permitted to allow
international competitors to bid.   In bid evaluation, domestic manufacturers
will be given a preference of 15% or the level of applicable duty, whichever
is less. Civil works contracts for the community facilities (US$5.2 million)
and tertiary infrastructure (US$1.5 million) will be awarded on the basis of
local competitive procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. These
contracts, which will be too small to attract overseas bidders, are within
the capacity of the local medium-size contractors. Small items costing less
than US$10,000 each and which would total not more than US$200,000, will be
purchased after solicitation of quotations from at least three suppliers.
Contracts for relocation of water pipes, electrical lines, and lighting
for the East-West Highway (US$2.6 million), which are not Bank-financed will
be directly awarded to the pertinent public utility companies (SODECI and
EECI).
5.03      Technical assistance contracts (US$4.5 million) will follow Bank
Guidelines. To ensure implementation on schedule, SETU has already selected
consultants for detailed engineering of two project sites, and has reviewed
and cleared draft contracts with the Bank and USAID. Up to US$350,000 to
cover the foreign costs of consultant services for detailed engineering, the
Ten-Year Development Study, and for initiation of the Traffic Bureau work
program would be financed retroactively.
C. Distribution of Lots, Beneficiaries and Affordability
5.04      Most of the land required for the project is owned by the Govern-
ment. After the lots have been serviced, the lots will be distributed as
follows:
(a) Site and Services Areas: Serviced lots will be leased or sold
with full ownership rights. Present distribution procedures
were established by Presidential Decree No. 338 (May 25, 1970).
The following allocation criteria will be introduced:



- 24 -
(i) for the leased lots (Lai) minimum household income
equal to the legal minimum wage (SMIG) which was
CFAF 19,000 per month as of January 1976;
(ii)  for the lots to be sold, minimum household income
equal to 7% of the cost of the lot, which corre-
sponds roughly to a monthly income of CFAF 26,500
in 1976;
(iii) for the leased lots (LEM) maximum household income
of two and a half times the SMIG (CFAF 47,500 per
month) - approximately equal to the median income
for Abidjan in 1976;
(iv)  for the lots to be sold maximum household income
equal to 12% of the cost of the lot which corre-
sponds to a monthly income of about CFAF 45,000
in 1976;
(v) only one project lot per household (except where
necessary to encourage occupation by artisans); and
(vi) priority for people who do not already own a lot
in Abidjan.
Cooperative ownership will be allowed and no restrictions on lot use will
be imposed. Shopkeepers and artisans who do not have a job in the formal
sector will not be excluded. The serviced LEM lots will be managed by
SICOGI and leased on 20 year terms. Minimum monthly payments for the lots
will amount to about CFAF 3,100 (US$15). The remaining lots will be sold
at a price averaging CFAF 415,000 (US$1,850). SETU has agreed in principle
to selling residential land along the Ebrie Lagoon in Koumassi (see Map No.
12083), at a price above the development cost to lower the costs to be re-
covered from other serviced lots in the project which can, therefore, be
sold or leased at below development costs. In the Bardo squatter area of
San Pedro, people have no property rights whatsoever at present, being
squatters on public domain. ARSO will provide long-term leases on 49-year
terms; monthly payments will amount to about CFAF 11,300 (US$50) for a ser-
viced lot. This is expected to be shared among four or five households
residing on each lot.
(b) Slum Upgrading Areas: Although the Government owns most of the
land, most occupiers have a temporary title. They have the right to convert
to a permanent title, but have generally not done so to avoid the registra-
tion fee. When the land has been upgraded, occupiers will become legal own-
ers by converting to a permanent title, and the Government has agreed to
waive or substantially lower the registration fee should this be an obstacle
to rapid granting of title. By becoming legal owners, the beneficiaries will
be subject to a betterment tax which will be used for cost recovery (see para
4.09).



- 25-
5.05      Affordability:  Monthly payments for the site and services lots
alone will vary from CFAF 2,500 (US$12) to CFAF 5,800 (US$26) per month.
To this must be added payments on the construction materials loans and
property taxes.  For an owner of a 100 m  lot (with no renters), the total
will amount to CFAF 6,300 (US$28). Assuming that 25% of income is spent
on housing, anyone with an income of CFAF 25,200 (US$112) can afford to
lease a lot. This income level represents about the 20th percentile of the
income distribution. The project will reach lower income beneficiaries
as well, since many owners will sublet part of their lots. It is estimated
that the actual payments by owners with renters could range from CFAF 3,150
(US$14) for the largest lot to CFAF 5,000 (US$22) for the smallest. These
payments correspond to monthly incomes of CFAF 12,400 (US$55) and CFAF 20,000
(US$89) (5th and 15th percentiles, respectively). Renters will also benefit.
They are expected to pay about CFAF 6,000 (US$27) per month. This means
that households with monthly incomes of CFAF 24,000 (US $107) (slightly
below the 20th percentile) will be able to afford to live on the project
site. The following table shows affordability for different types of lots;
details are given in Table 1, Annex 1.
% of Income Distribution (from top) Who Can Afford
(1976 costs and income)
Lot type              Owner Alone         Owner with Renter(s)            Renters
LEM  (100 m )            80                      86                        80
LEM (150 m2)             70                      85                        73
Y2  (128 m2)             65                      90                        66
Tl  (192 m2)             50                      95                        70
Ul  (200 m2)             50                      95                        71
The project will reach households just below the 20th percentile on the
income distribution without any subsidy. This is in contrast to previous
Government policy under which only households above the 50th percentile could
afford non-subsidized Government-produced housing.
5.06      Safeguards:  Two key problems plague housing development in Abidjan:
the need to reach low income households and the need to provide housing for
the 50% of the population that is non-Ivorian. In addition to the measures
described above, certain steps have been taken to protect the poor and the
non-Ivorians. In the slum upgrading component, the Government has agreed to



- 26 -
waive or substantially reduce the incidence of the registration fee and to
arrange for the betterment tax to be paid over a period of years. In addi-
tion, the value added to be recovered through the betterment tax will be
limited to the cost of infrastructure provided. This will prevent owners
from facing a heavy financial burden which might induce them to raise rents
and force out poorer tenants. In the site and services areas, no explicit
restrictions on non-Ivorians will be applied. Nevertheless, Ivorians will
continue to receive priority. The wide-spread practice of subletting the
serviced lots will still allow non-Ivorians to have access to project ben-
efits.
D. Disbursements
5.07      Disbursements will be made pro rata on the Bank and Third Window
loans on a 15:7 basis as follows:
(a) For items financed out of proceeds of the IBRD loans only:
(i)  43% of the total cost of the construction of the
East-West Highway, supply of aggregates and civil
works for traffic improvement in the center of
Abidjan;
(ii)  70% of the total cost of equipment for traffic
improvement in the center of Abidjan;
(iii) 60% of the total cost of primary infrastructure
(shelter component) and the two trunk sewers;
(iv)  60% of the total cost of consultant services for
construction supervision (East-West Highway),
detailed engineering for community facilities,
technical assistance for the Traffic Bureau, and
the Ten-Year Development Study;
(v)  50% of the sub-loan disbursements for construction
material loans; and
(vi)  55% of the total cost of civil works, material,
and equipment for community facilities.
(b)  For items co-financed with USAID:
(i)  30% of the total cost of civil works for on-site
secondary and tertiary infrastructure in the slum
upgrading and site and services areas;
(ii)  30% of the total cost of works of the Bardo project
component;



- 27 -
(iii) 30% of the total cost of detailed engineering for the
shelter component and of technical assistance to Ministry
of Construction and Urban Development and to BNEC.
For these items, USAID will also disburse 30% of total costs.
5.08      Savings in any category will be available for cost overruns in
any other category. However, in the event that the expenditure exceeds the
estimated cost of US$122.3 million, such excess will be met by the Govern-
ment. A schedule of estimated disbursements on the Bank loans appears in
Table No. 3.
E. Maintenance and Management
5.09      Upon project completion, the various project elements will be
managed and maintained as follows:
Agency Responsible for       Origin of Funds
Project Elements                 Maintenance and Management       or Credits
- East-West Highway             Ministry of Public Works       Current Budget
and main streets             through Directorate of          (road-user charges)
Routine Maintenance
- City streets and
traffic signalization,
drainage, community
centers and city             Municipality of Abidjan        Municipal Budgets
markets                       and Sous-Prefecture of
Bingerville
- Water supply, sewerage
and drainage                 SODECI (water utility)         Water/sewer rates
- Electricity                   EECI (Electricity             Electricity rates
utilities)
- Bardo                         ARSO                          Operating Budget
- Site and services lots         SICOGI                        Lease Payments
- Primary Schools               Ministry of Education         Current Budget
- Health Centers               Ministry of Health             Current Budget
These arrangements have been confirmed and agreement obtained that the Gov-
ernment will ensure adequate provision in the budgets of the appropriate
Ministries and Agencies to assume the maintenance and operating costs of
each facility upon its completion, as well as the allocable development
costs for construction of schools/community facilities.



- 28 -
F. Supervision and Monitoring
5.10      Supervision by Bank staff during the four-year implementation
period will require about 136 man-weeks (about 34 man-weeks/ year) and
will involve specialists in transport, shelter, sewerage, education, and DFC
activities. In addition, 20 man-weeks will be provided for supervision of
the Ten-Year Development Study.
5.11      Shelter Component Supervision.  As the shelter component com-
prises many different elements under a variety of executing agencies, some
form of coordination is required. This will be carried out by the Project
Technical Coordinator. The Director of the Cabinet of the Ministry of Con-
struction and Urbanism has been so designated. He will be responsible for
ensuring that each agency maintains the project implementation schedule and
will identify critical short-falls and delays in order that action may be
taken to resolve problems and avoid delays to the overall project.
5.12      A monitoring capability will be designed to ensure that data
essential to project execution are provided to project managers, and that
design and execution of future projects will benefit from the experience
of this project.
(a) Transport
Monitoring of the traffic on the East-West Highway and
monitoring of the traffic management measures will be
carried out by the Traffic Bureau. Indicators monitored
will include: changes in modal split; passenger
and vehicle flow at several control stations; service
levels; vehicle journey times along specified routes
by mode; fleet expansion by class of vehicle;
(b)  Shelter
Monitoring of the upgrading, site and services, and employment
generation of the project would be under the supervision of the
Directorate of Urbanism and Architecture within the Ministry
of Contruction and Urbanism. Sample surveys will be conducted
for comparison with the baseline data that would be compliled for
each site prior to project execution. Technical assistance for
monitoring is provided under the proposed project (para 3.21).
The monitoring program will review the adequacy and timeliness
of the management data collected (e.g. contract defaults, arrears
in rental/purchase payments).
5.13      It will also address the following specific issues:
(a)  Appropriateness of lot, layout and standard plan designs; effec-
tiveness of the materials loan program, self-help construction



- 29 -
and technical assistance; use of self-help vs. contract labor for
house completion; appropriateness of standards, including road,
footpath, water, sewer and community facilities.
(b)  Changes in family income and percentage of income spent on shel-
ter and other goods; changes in employment levels and patterns;
occupancy turnover in units and income class of new residents;
acceptance of land tenure arrangements and restrictions on property
transfers; effectiveness of arrangements for accommodating lowest
income families; demand for rental units; promotion of small con-
tracting business.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The key factors in managing the growth of Abidjan are a more effi-
cient land use strategy and a more realistic assessment of affordable stand-
ards. The project represents both of these elements. The extent of develop-
ment has been limited by concentrating on an infilling strategy to increase
densities within the existing urban fabric. This enables the Government to:
(a) postpone large-scale transport investments until the Ten-Year Development
Study has examined alternative development strategies and developed an invest-
ment program for the coming decade, (b) become engaged in housing activities,
such as site and services and slum-upgrading, aimed at lower income groups
than has been customary in Abidjan, and (c) undertake activities in the
transport field to make better use of infrastructure and to favor public
transport.
6.02      In general terms, benefits will result from the project as the
Government begins to assess multi-sectoral investment demands within the
framework of financial constraints and more closely planned development.
To a certain extent, this reassessment will result in reduced demands for
high-cost infrastructure as in the case of urban roads, where the deferment
of the rapid development of the Banco has led to a 50% reduction in road
investment in the next five years. Thus, scarce resources can be reallo-
cated to other higher priority uses. It should be noted, however, that
there will be some risks associated with the implementation of the project.
BNEC has not yet demonstrated its capacity to act as the central fiduciary
for all public resources devoted to housing and as a housing bank. The
mechanisms for channeling the benefits to the target group and at the same
time recovering costs from beneficiaries are not perfect and their effec-
tiveness can only be judged during implementation. These risks will be
limited by (a) building on a history of close collaboration with the Ivorian
Authorities during project preparation, (b) supplying considerable technical
assistance in areas which are critical to successful implementation, and
(c) designing a monitoring system to provide early warnings of implementa-
tion problems as a basis for corrective action.



- 30 -
Benefit-Cost Evaluation
6.03      In specific terms, the benefits and costs of the physical project
components have been analyzed and the project evaluated as follows:
Transport
6.04      For the East-West Highway, savings in operating costs and savings
in travel time for 1980 have been calculated as indicators of transport
component benefits by comparing traffic flow predictions with the project
to those in the "without the project" case. Comparing the 1980 estimated
benefits with the cost yields a "first year rate of return" of 48% when only
operating costs are considered, and 230% when travel time savings are added.
These rates of return indicate that the project is economically justified, of
high priority, and, in fact, overdue. In addition, it has been selected as
the minimum necessary investment over several more elaborate alternatives.
This being the case, full Economic Rates of Return (ERR) for the life of the
project have not been calculated, as the "without the project" case in the
post-1980 period would be completely unrealistic, resulting in meaningless
ERR's. However, as it is virtually certain that traffic flows will grow,
the first year rate of return represents a minimum measure of the project's
worth.
6.05      Fifty eight percent of all benefits and 65% of time savings are
realized by bus riders, indicating that the project benefits are channeled
towards the lower income groups. Full details of the evaluation are given
in Annex 8.
6.06      Analysis of the time savings resulting from the traffic improvements
yields a first year rate of return of 23%. This calculation includes, how-
ever, parking facilities, the cost of which is not included in the project.
If a modest modal shift from cars to buses could be achieved, the rate of
return would be 29%.
6.07      Shelter.  By modifying the land-use strategy, by reducing standards,
and by encouraging intensive development in inner-city neighborhoods, the
proposed project will lead to benefits for about 200,000 people, including
(a) creation of legal and secure land tenure; (b) improvements in health
standards brought about by provision of sewerage disposal facilities, piped
water, improved drainage, and health centers; (c) improved productivity,
due to health improvement and provision of schools and other community
facilities; and (d) employment creation - both permanent, through provision
of lots for local artisans, and temporary, through construction activities.
The project is designed to take advantage of the natural process of housing
formation in low-income areas, based on a tradition of self-help construction.
By developing sound cost recovery principles, the project will demonstrate
the replicability of the new approaches.
6.08      The quantification of the benefits from the shelter component
[s detailed in Annex 9. Two different approaches were used in the computa-
tion of the economic rate of return. One is based on imputed rental values,



- 31 -
the other on increases .n land values.  The resu1ts of these analyses are
consistent. The overall rate of return in both cases is above 30% and both
analyses show a higher rate of return for the site and services component
than for the slum upgrading component.
6.09       In summary, the economic justification of the project has been
established by determining that (a) the proposed project elements -- both
in transport and shelter -- are the best among Lhe alternatives studied,
and (b) the rates of return exceed the cpportunity cost of capital in the
Ivory Coast (estimated to be 12%). A weighted average economic return of
all project components for which benefits have been quantified and which
amount to 72% of total project costs, is estimated to be 43%.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Agreements on the following points were reached during negotia-
tions:
(a)  deferment of major urban transport infrastructure invest-
ments in the Abidjan region until completion of the Ten-
Year Development Study and review of an investment program
to be discussed with the Bank (para. 2.18);
(b)  role of the BNEC as (i) manager of the Fonds d'Habitat;
(ii) adviser on all proposed Government guaranteed
external borrowings in the shelter sector and monitor
of progress on projects financed through such guaran-
teed borrowings; (iii) financial intermediary of housing
loans (para. 2.20);
(c)  BNEC operational policies including:   (i) minimum liquidity
requirements; (ii) interest rate charges and financial
controls to maintain real value of BNEC'S capital with
adequate provisions for losses;
(d)  a plan for restructuring SOGEFIHA's debt (para. 2.21);
(e)  provision of credit to small scale enterprise (para. 3.17);
(f)  etmployment of consultants and terms of reference for con-
sultant services (paras. 3.20, 3.2!, 3.22, and 3.23);
(g)  satisfactory cost recovery arrangements including issuance
of the necessary legal instruments to render operational
the betterment tax decree of 1930 (para. 4.07, 4.10);
(h)  lot allocation criteria and sale/lease/rental arrange-
ments including prompt issuance of legal title where
applicable and reduction of incidence or waiver of



- 32 -
registration fees where such is deemed necessary
to maintain affordability of project by low income
families (paras. 5.04, 5.05, 5.06);
(i)  arrangements for adequate maintenance and operation
of project facilities (para. 5.09).
7.02      The following are retained as special conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  the execution of the Third Window Loan Agreement and
the Project Agreements on behalf of BNEC, CCI, SETU
and ARSO and SICOGI, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(b)  USAID has been duly authorized to issue its guarantee(s)
of repayment of the accounts (which, in aggregate, shall
not be less than US$121 million) to be borrowed by BNEC
under the investor loan agreement;
(c)  the legal measures required to render operational the
cost revenue arrangements and lot allocation criteria
referred to in para. 7.01(g) and (h) have been taken
to the Bank's satisfaction; and
(d)  the legal measures required to dissolve OSHE have been
taken and ratified by all necessary corporate and gov-
ernmental action.
7.03      In addition, the following additional conditions would apply prior
to disbursement of funds:
(a) for the shelter component of the project:
(i)  satisfactory issuance by the BENEC's Board of
Directors of the Statement of Operating Policies;
(ii) hiring of the expert for tlhe BNEC Fonds d'Habitat;
(iii) satisfaction of all conditions pertaining to dis-
bursement of AID funds under the Investor Loan
Agreement;
(iv) satisfactory execution of the BNEC subsidiary Loan
Agreement, SETU Financing Contract, CCI Loan Contract
BNEC Special Arrangement.



- 33 -
(b) for the Bardo component of the project, agreement
on a detailed program as provided under Section 2,01
of the ARSO Project Agreement and satisfactory
execution of the ARSO Loan Contract;
(b) for the Trunk Sewer component of the project, satisfaction
of the Fonds Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
(c) for the transport component of the project, (i) the
establishment of the Traffic Bureau and (il) the
appointment of two experts to assist it.
7.04      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$30 million
at the prevailing interest rate for a 20-year term including 4 years of
grace for principal, and a Third Window Loan of US$14 million on the
standard Third Window Loan terms of 25 years including 7 years of grace
and at an interest rate of 4% per annum less than the interest rate on the
Bank loan.






Table 1
I . 'L 1 ,t  I  ,    `    $    1   '1''   1  il  II
(CFAF MILLION-BAUD ON JUNE 1976 PRICES)
l9_    *    *       sIW       am        19r       arn       I         lm        19"        1"O
TRANSPORT                           1-8CN                 L-1       2-M2      1-UN      2.-M      1-EM    2-SEM        1-SEM     2-SEH     TOTAL.
-EAST WEST HIGHWAY                      40      655       1637      1953      1498      1177       910       -         -         -        7870
-TRAFFIC IMFROVEMENT                   -         -         150       200       213       -         -         -         -         -         563
-SUPERVISION EW HWY                     40        si t       5        85        85        85        13       -         -         -         4/4
-CONTINGENCIES                           9       106       358       555       550       445       376       -         _         -        2399
TOTAL                               89       842      2230      2793      2346       1707     1299             -              -       11306
SHELTER
_   _E L T   
--FRIMARY INFRASTRUCTURE              -         -          -         121      11        135       137       -         -         -         574
-CONTINGENClES                        -         -         -          38        72        65         77       -         -         -         252
TOTAL                              -         -         -         159       253       200       214        -                             826
-SLCOND' TERT. lNFlRAST.               -          62       355       717      1824      1276       735       -         -         -        4969
-CONrINGENCIES                        -          il        86       229       724        606       412       -                   -        2068
TOTAL                              -          73       441       945      2548      1881      1147        -         -                  7'035
STUDIES(INFRA.>                        10        75       105        89        47        27        16       -         _                   369
-CONTINtENCIES                          1        12        22        21         14        il         S                 -                     6
TUTAL                               il        S8       127       110        61        37         21       -         -                   45F
UMMUN1TY FAC1LI TrES                -         -         -         -           53       243       583       440       -                   t 19
LONTIN5ENCtLi                        -         -         -          -          19       112       326       286       -'43
-     - -     - - - -             - - - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ , __ - - -  _ _-_ _-_
TOTAL                              -         -         -         -          72       355       909        725                 -        20hL
-SrULIIES (COM.FAC.)                   14        34        21         15         7         7        il         7                           116
-CONTlNtiENCIES                          2         5         4         3         1         1         4         3       --        -          23
TOTAL                               15        39        25         18         8         9        15        il       --        -         140
11W COSI HOLJIit                    -         -         900        900       900      --                             -         -        2700
7F11dAGE                            -           8         15      169       404        126                 -              -
iNGÎt,NClE                       - L                   3        47       1 i9       51                                                I41
il ''1  -   9        18      216        543       176       -         _                             962
'MOIj LLJANS                         -         -          -          45        70        80       110        95        50       -         450
1PL Lt1CA 11N                        -            8       44          6        79        70        44        44       -         -         295
GkANI, rOJI0L                       26       217      1555      2399      4534      2809      2460        875        50       -       14925
Ti C11N1CAL ASCiNI/jOCE
BASL CO5                          -          37       238       271       158        129       109        62       -         -        1004
-CONTINGENCIES                        -            6        47        66        47        44        43        28       -         -         201
TOTAL                              -          43       285       337       205        173       152        90       -         -        L285
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 115      1102      4070      5529      7085      4689      3912        965        50       -       27517



Table 2
ABIDJAN UREAN DEVEDOPMENT PROJECT
FioanciEg Pl-n
(in US$ milîioe)
PROJECT COIPONENTS           ESTIMATED TOTAL      of             GOIC                                         _         EXTERNAL SOURCES_
COST (1ncl1di.g   vhich                            TOTAL GOIC     b                                                 IBRD +    % IBRD
.ootin.ene..S)   t.e..    BSIE   BNEC   FNA                     GOIC    IBRD    7, IBRD      LSAID     % USALD      LTSAID    + USAIED
I. TRANSPORT
A. EAST-WESIT HIhWAY
Site Prepration                    4.6              1.0    4.6      -        -       4.6       100.0       -         -                                -          -
Materiala                           5.1             1.1     2.9     -        -        2.9       57.0      2.2      43.0         -         -          2.2       43.0
Coostrootion                       34.7             7.5   19.8       -       -       19.8       57.0    14.9       43.0         -         -         14.9       43.0
*   Conotructîon supervision        2.6            0.5     1.0      _       _         1.0       40.0      1,6      60.0        _         _           1.6       60.0
SUB-TOTAL                         47.0             10.1   28.3       -       -       28.3       60.2    18.7       39.8         -         -         18.7
B. TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENTS
Civil -orks                         2.3           '0,5      1.3      -       -        1.3       57.0      1.0      43.0         -         -          1.0       43.0
Eq.ip.eot                           1,0             0.2    0.3       -      _        0.3        30.0    0.7        70.0         -         -          0.7       70.0
SUB-TOTAL                          3.3             0.7     1.6      -       -        1.6       49.2      1.7      S1.8          _         _          1.7       51.8
TOTAL TRANSPORT                   50.3            10.8   29.9       _       _       29.9        59.4    20.4       40.6         -         -         20.4
Il. SHELTER
A. SLUM UPGRADING
Land CoopevOotLon                  0.6             0.1     0.6      -       -        0.6       100.0                 -         -                      -          -
Peîoory Infrastructure             3.7              0.7     1.5      -       -        1.5       40.0      2.2      60.0              -               2.2       60.0
*SecondarylTertiory                 23.5            4,7      -      9.4       -       9.4        40.0      7.1      30.0        7.0      30.0        14.1       60.0
Infrastructure
*Detailed Oogtneercng                1.8            0.4      -      0.7       -       0.7        40.0      0.5      30.0        0.6      30.0         1.1       60.0
(Infrastructure)
ComsUn,ity EacOlit,eo              4.6             0.9     2.1      -                 2.1       45.0      2.5      55.0         -         -          2.5       55.0
Detailed Engio.er-ng                0.3             0,1   0.1       -                 0.1       40,0    0.2        6 0.0                            ..2        60..
(CoesDunity Facilities)
SUB-TOTAL                         34.5             6.9    4.3   10.1         -      14.4       41.7      12.5      36.2        7.6      22.1        20.1       58.3
B. SITES & SERVICES
Land Cop.pensation                 0.7             0.1    0.7       -       -        0.7       100.0       -         -          -         -           -          -
*Seco-darylTerti-ry                  7.7             1.6      -     3.1      _         3.1       40.0      2.3      30.0        2.3      30.0         4.7       60.0
Infras tructure
ODetailed Engineering               0.3             0.1      -      0.1      _        0.1       40.0      0.1       30.0        0.1      30.0         0.2       60.0
(Infrastructure)
Comnunitv Facilities               4.5             0,9      2.0     -       -        2.0       45.0       2.5      55.0         _         -          2.5       55.0
DeEO,led EngineerIng               0.3              0.1    0.1       -      _        0.1       40.0      0.2       60.0         -         -          0.2       60.0
(CoonluncEv Facilities)
SU[,-TOTAL                        13.5             2.7     2.8    3.2       _        6.0       44.1      5.1      38.2         2.4      17.7         7.6       55.9
**C. LOW COST HOUSING                   12.0             2.0     -      2.0      -        2.0        16.7       -         -        10.0      83.3        10.0       83.3
D. TRUNC< SEWERS                      4.3              0.9      -      -      1.7        1.7      40.0       2.6      60.0         -         -          2.6       60.0
E. SMALL LOANS                        2.0              -       -      1.0      -        1.0       50.0      1.0       50.0        -          -          1.0       50.0
TOTAL SHELTER                     66.3            12.5    7.1   16.3       1.7      25.1       37.8     21.3      32.1        20.0      30.1        4|.3       62.2
Ill. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
.Tafflc Bureau                     1.0             0.2    0.4       -       -        0.4       40.0      0.6      60.0         -         -          0.6       60.0
*Ministry Cons tructon              1.9             0.4    0.8       -       -        0.8       40.0      0.5      30.0        0.6      30.0         1.1       60.0
& Orbanc g=
BNEC                                1.3             0.2      -      0.5      -        0.5       40.0      0.4      30.0        0.4      30.0         0.8       60.0
Ministry Pi-n (10 Year              1.5            0,3    0,6       _       _        0.6       40.0      0.9      60.0                   -          0.9       60,0
S tudy)
TOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE         5.7             1.1     1.S    0.5       -        2.3       40.0      2.4      42.4        1,0      17.6         3.4       60.0
GRAND TOTAL                      122,3            24.4   38.8   16.5    1.7         57.3       46.8    44.0       36.0       21.0      17.2        65.0       53.2
* Jointly fin.nced -<th USAID
1* ParalleS fEn.ncc-g by USAID



06/11/76
ABIDJAN IJRRAN rF:vFL OPMENT FROJECT
ESTIMATErI O3H1:il11F 0F DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ MILLION)
AMOUNT DISBURSED IN QUARTER        % DISBURSED IN QUARTER        CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS                %CUMULATIVE
NOT      JOINTLY               NOT       JOINTLY               NOT       JOINTLY               NOT      JOINTLY
JOINTLY   FINANCED             JOINTLY   FINANCED              JOINTLY   FINANCED              JOINTLY   FINANCED
FINANCED  WITH USAID  TOTAL  FINANCED  WITH USAID  TOTAL  FINANCED  WITH USAID  TOTAL  FINANCED  WITH USAID   TOTAL
QUARTER ENDING
JUNE 30,1977          .9          .1      1.0       2.7         1.1        2.3       .9          .1       1.0       2.7          1.1        2.3
SE"P  30.1977         .7          .1       .8       2.3         1.0        2.0      1.6          .2       1.8       5.0          2.1        4.3
DEC  31,1977        2.3           .4      2.7       7.0         4.1        6.3      3.9           .6      4.5      12.0          6.2       10.6
MAR  31,1978        2.3           .4      2.7       7.0         4.1        6.3      6.2         1.0       7.2      19.0         10.3       16.9
JUNE 30,1978        3.1           .8      3.9       9.3         7.2        8.7      9.3         1.8      11.1      28.3         17.5       25.6
SEPT 30,1978        3.1           .8      3.9       9.3         7.3        8.8    12.4          2.6      15.0      37.6        24.8        34.4
DEC  31,1978        3.7          1.8      5.5      11.2        16.6       12.5    16.1          4.4      20.5      48.8         41.4       46.9
MAR  31,1979        3.7         1.8       5.5      11.1        16.7       12.6    19.8          6.2      26.0      59.9         58.1       59.5
JUNE 30,1979        2.8         1.4       4.2       8.4        12.4        9.4    22.6          7.6      30.2      68.3         70.5       68.9
SEPT 30,1979        2.8         1.4       4.2       8.4        12.5        9.4    25.4          9.0      34.4      76.7         83.0       78.3
DEC  31,1979        2.8           .9      3.7       8.6         8.0        8.4    28.2          9.9      38.1      85.3         91.0       86.7
MAR  31,1980        2.8           .9      3.7       8.5         7.9        6.4    31.0         10.8      41.8      93.8         98.9       95.1
JUNE 30,1990        1.0           .1      1.1       3.1           .6       2.5    32.0         10.9      42.9      96.9         99.5       97.6
SEPT 30,1980        1.0           .1      1.1       3.1           .5       2.4    33.0         11.0      44.0    100.0         100.0      100.0
TOTAL           33.0        11.0      44.0    100.0        100.0      100.0



ANNEX 1
Page 1
IVORY COAST
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ABIDJAN, BACKGROUND INFORMATION
The Site
1.        Abidjan is the administrative capital of the Ivory Coast and
the largest industrial and commercial center of the country. The city
2
has a population of 1 million and covers a total area of some 261 km .  The
importance of the city can be explained by the quality of the harbor located
in the lagoon which was linked to the sea by a canal in July 1950, and by the
railroad to Upper Volta built between 1903 and 1954. The site itself can be
divided into the following three distinct areas, (UIap No. 12083):
(a) the coast line between the Ebrie Lagoon and the Atlantic
Ocean, with an industrial area near the harbor and a
tourist complex under development which will extend along
the coast to the international airport;
(b) the lagoon area, comprising two main islands, Petit
Bassam Island which includes the Port, its industrial
and commercial complex, and, adjacent to the Port, the
low-income/traditional African suburb of Treichville;
and the Boulay Island, a recreational area;
(c) the mainland, comprising the commercial and business
district of the city (Plateau), the low-income/traditional
African suburb of Adjame, the high income residential
suburb of Cocody to the East, the new development
(Banco) zone to the west and the rapidly growing low
income suburb of Abobo to the north.
2.        The city is expanding in the Banco area to the west and around Abobo
to the north, both areas presenting topographical conditions favorable to
large scale urban development. The topography to the east is characterized by
frequent hills and valleys which limit expansion to low density residential
development and recreational facilities. The Banco Forest - a national reserve
- has restricted development to the north-west, and the fact that the Plateau
is on a peninsula separated from the coast area and Petit Bassam Island, has
resulted in increasing congestion on the transport links between these areas.



ANNEX 1
Page  2
Population
3.        In 1928 the:population of Abidjan was estimated at 5,000; the
estimation for 1939 was 22,000, and by 1955, 125,000. From 1955 to 1975
Abidjan grew rapidly to one million people, -- almost 15% of the Ivory Coast's
total and 41% of its urban population.
URBAN SHARE OF THE NATIONAL POPULATION
Abidjan as
Total         Urban         Percent      Abidjan         Percent of
Year        Population   Population         Urban      Population       Total Urban
1955          2,662,200       346,000       13.0        125,000             36.1
1965         4,302,500        946,000       21.8        340,000             35.9
1970         5,125,000    1,435,000         28.0       590,000              41.1
1973         5,879,500    1,830,500         31.1       811,000              44.3
1975         6,445,000    2,200,000         34.1     1,000,000              45.4
Between 1965-75, the rate of growth was 11.5% per year of which 7.8% corres-
ponded to migration, the remaining 3.7% being the natural increase.  The
Ministry of Planning has made estimates of urban population growth up to 1990
that suggest that, regardless of any changes in Government policy, there will
be a continuous and rapid growth in Abidjan for the next decade. About
two-thirds of this growth will be rural-urban migrants, many of whom come from
outside the Ivory Coast, notably from Upper Volta, Mali, Niger and Ghana. In
contrast to earlier patterns of male migration, an increasing proportion of
this migrant flow will consist of households with women and children, who tend
to stay in Abidjan. About half of the city's population is currently made up
of foreign Africans, the majority of whom come for a period of 5 to 15 years.
The following table shows the forecast annual migration foreseen by the
Ministry of Planning.



ANNEX 1
Page  3
ANNUAL MIGRATION TO ABIDJAN
Ivory Coast              Foreign
Migrants              Migrants          Total
1975-80            33,000                  15,000          48,000
1981-85            30,000                   5,000          35,000
4.        Even under the most optimistic demographic projections, it is not
expected that Abidjan's growth rate will drop below 7.3% per year for 1976-80
and is realistically expected to remain around 10% up to 1985.
Projected population in Millions
Abidjan               Nation
High             Low
1975                           1.0
1980                   1.650            1.450         7.975
1985                   2.455            1.940         9.745
1990                   3.370            2.515        11.840
The demand for urban investment in the project was calculated according
to the low hypothesis.
5.        The population of Abidjan comprises Ivorians, non-Ivorian Africans
and non-Africans, a structure which is also reflected in the employment,
salaries or income distribution and in rents. In 1963, about 33% of the
population living in Abidjan was non-Ivorian corresponding to 41% of the
household consumption. In 1971, 52.5% of employment or 67.5% of the salaries
were in the hands of foreigners. In 1974, 43% of households were foreign.
This structure is also evident in the geographical distribution of housing
according to ethnic groups. While the wealthiest Ivorians and non-African
foreigners live in high-standard residential areas (Cocody), the non-Ivorian
Africans form the bulk of squatters living in the poorest housing areas.
About 25% live in precarious sanitary conditions in slums. However, this
population cannot be considered as economically marginal because they work
hard, are poorly paid and pay high rents which are not justified by the
quality of housing provided.
Housing
6.        The BCEOM/BNETD report differentiates five main groups of housing
types:



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Average      Quantity
/1             %               %        density         of        Population
Strata         of population    of Surface  in inh/ha        houses         1973
A High
standard           3.7             24          45          10.000        29,000
B Evolutive         43.7             30.1       500          65.000       345,000
C Collective        24.8             22.3       330          30.500       195,000
D Traditional        3.7              3.5       300          37.000        30,000
E Squattered        24.1             20.1       420          39.800       190,000
TOTAL         100%            100%        270        182.300       789,000
/1   SEMA Rousing Classification System:
Strata A - High-quality, modern apartment buildings and private
dwellings
Strata B - Modern apartment buildings and row houses constructed
as part of public housing corporation projects
Strata C - Housing in courtyards or concessions, improved over time
Strata D - Housing on new lots legally marked by the Government
Strata E - Traditional housing on either illegally occupied land
or traditional villages.
From 1963 to 1973, the distribution between the strata has not changed signif-
icantly except for traditional housing, a reduction from 8.3% to 3.5% in the
proportion of land area devoted to traditional housing, and the development of
the Governmnent collective program which now concerns almost one-fourth of the
population compared to one-sixth ten years ago.
7.        Globally, Abidjan covered an urbanized area of 2,790 ha in 1963 of
which 48.8% was allocated to housing and 5,112 ha in 1973 of which 57.4%
was housing. The change in the proportion between housing and other facili-
ties is due to the fact that land was already reserved in 1963 for community
facilities. The average density was 180 pers/ha in 1963 and 270 pers/ha
in 1973; this is relatively low. The evolution of density was different
according to housing strata:
(a)  strata with high standard or evolutive residential characteristics
did not change density;
(b)  strata corresponding to collective housing financed by the Govern-
ment reached immediately the maximum density;



ANNEX 1
Page 5
(c) dynamic strata which are developing spontaneously accord-
ing to their areal environment and the whole city have now
a higher density than ten years ago. For instance, in
Koumassi "campement" a density of 1,000 inh/ha was observed
while the average density in squattered area is about
400/500 inh/ha.
8.         The implementation of the shelter component of the proposed project
will induce densification of existing areas such as Adjame, Pelieuville,
Marcory and Abobo. Other areas in Abidjan will be densified when upgraded
in order to reduce the distance between residence and employment areas. The
table below shows the initial and expected density of project sites.
Present       Present      Future         Future
Area ha       Pop.        Density      Density    Population
Abobo-Gare               112       45,000         400           700         71,000
Adjame                    42       20,000         476           800         33,000
Port Bouet II             40       12,000         300           600         24,000
Pelieuville               19        8,000         420           600         11,500
Bardo, San Pedro          60       20,000         330           330         20,000
Koumassi N.E.             70       32,000         460           650         45,500
Abobo Nord                35       16,000         460           550         19,250
Subtotal           378      153,000          405          590        224,200
Koumassi N.E. (SICOGI,
USAID)   20        6,200          310          350          7,000
Marcory (SICOGI, USAID) 13          3,800         300           350          4,550
TOTAL              411      163,000          400          570        235,750
9.         The growth of housing of all types in Abidjan has been a major
achievement of both the public and private sector. From 1963 to 1973, the
total housing stock increased from 63,000 to 149,000, or about 8,600 per
year. The population increase during this period, however, was some 520,250
persons or approximately six persons for each of the 86,000 units. Squatter
housing increased from 17,000 to 43,300 units and the squatter population grew
from 68,110 to 218,800. While the proportion of squatters in the city's
population did not grow appreciably, only from 27 to 29.1%, the absolute
number grew substantially.  Abobo-Gare, a largely squatter neighborhood north
of the central city, grew from 15,000 in 1970 to 160,000 by 1975.
10.       The two housing corporations controlled by the public sector,
SICOGI and SOGEFIHA, are expected to construct some 7,850 units per year.
Five thousand of this total are low-cost or very low-cost units, which rent
for an average of CFAF 10,000 and 7,000 respectively.   An additional 2,000
units for lease-purchase will be built, at substantially higher monthly



ANNEX 1
Page 6
charges. These projected programs represent a continuation of present pro-
grams and will require foreign financing. If each unit houses a family of
about five persons, the present Abidjan average, then these programs will meet
the needs of some 35,000 persons, or 35% of the annual demand for shelter.
Within the public sector program, however, it should be noted that the monthly
charges of the units to be provided in 1976 with subsidized infrastructure are
too costly for 30% of the population and for about 50% with non-subsidized
infrastructure.
11.       Current housing policy and programs, even with large subsidies,
would result in a large unsatisfied demand to be taken care of by the private
sector. The absolute deficit in projected housing stock is compounded by an
inappropriate mix in the types of units provided. While BCEOM/BNETD projects
a large increase in the potential demand for Strata B housing, this does
not necessarily imply that such units will be provided at economic cost. If
the present subsidy to SICOGI units - for some as high as 30% - is necessary
to satisfy demand at that level, then it is clear that the mix of housing
being provided is mistakenly biased toward expensive units. It would be more
reasonable to build LEMs, or "Lotissement evolutif" at less than half the
cost.
Households
12.       A household was defined in the BCEOM/BNETD study as a unit made
up of several persons living under the same roof and, more important, having
meals together. Therefore, this statistical unit is not identical to the
housing unit since several households can live under the same roof or on the
same lots. The 1973 household composition is as follows:
% of
Working                Working
Population    Person    Household    Popul.        Total       Popul.
African
High
standard     23,000         5.75       4,000        1.50        6,000       26.1
Others        737,000        5.46     135,000         1.34     180,000       24.4
Sub-Total  760,000        5.46      139,000        1.34      186,000       24.5
Non-African    29,000         2.90       10,000        1.20      12,000       41.4
Total       789,000       5.30      149,000        1.33      198,000       25.1



ANNEX 1
Page 7
The average size of an African household is 5.46 which corresponds not only
to the usual father/mother and children family unit but also to the African
concept of the extended family which integrates in a household, sisters,
brothers and cousins who often reside with the eldest's family members on a
permanent basis. The percentage of active household members is relatively
constant around 25%. Percentages below this correspond to traditional housing
and those above to collective housing. Higher percentages are also found in
squatter areas which indicates people living in these areas are not at all
marginal and may well be able to pay the Government for the provision of urban
services.
Employment
13.       According to the 1973-74 Bank/ILO study of employment in the Ivory
Coast, urban unemployment reached 115,000 in 1970. From 1965 to 1970, the
labor force in Abidjan increased by 60%, but employment grew by only 40%.
Urban unemployment in Abidjan therefore grew from 9 to 20% from 1965 to 1970.
Unlike other West African cities, however, there was not a substantial in-
crease in informal sector employment. Increasing Ivorianization in the
private sector has opened up new jobs, but many of these are at higher levels
of qualifications. The basic problem remains the continuing influx of foreign
Africans who are willing to accept low wages and are thus able to obtain jobs
more easily than Ivory Coast nationals. The 1980 projection shows a slight
reduction in this imbalance. The table below summarizes job location for
1973 and 1980. Investment in other urban centers will attract some of the
potential Abidjan-bound migrants to these centers, but are not expected to
attract the unemployed already in the capital.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Job Location, Informal and Formal Sectors
1973                           1980
Informai      Formal  Total    Informal        Formal  Total
Center:
- Plateau (A) -         )
- Adjame (B)  -         (        38.0       24.0    62.0          57.0       29.0    86.0
- Attiecoube (C) -    )
- Williamsville (D) - (
Ile de Petit Bassam:
- Treichville and       )
Port-              (
- Marcory -             )        47.0       46.0    93.0          60.0       65.0   125.0
- Koumassi: zone 1,   (
zone 4C-          )
Vridi - Port Bouet                  6.0        6.0    12.0           15.0        8.0    23.0
Cocody - 2 Plateaux                 6.0        7.0    13.0            7.0       23.0    30.0
Banco                               8.0        3.0    11.0          28.0        46.0    74.0
Abobo                               2.0        6.0      8.0           5.0       26.0    31.0
TOTAL                  107.0       92.0   199.0         172.0       197.0   369.0
Income of African Households
14.        The most recent investigation regarding the income of African
households was carried out in 1963. Adjustments have been made by BCEOM/BNETD
for the purpose of the Abidjan Urban Development Study, assuming that the
distribution of household income has not changed between 1963 and 1973. It
was then possible to obtain an estimate of the 1973 income distribution of
the African population of Abidjan from which the following information was
defined:



ANNEX 1
Page 9
1973 Income & Population Proportions
% population      % cumulative          % income              % cumulative
9.2                9.2               3.4                       3.4
10.4               19.6               4.9                       8.3
9.5               29.1               5.0                      13.3
10.2               39.3               6.0                      19.3
14.2               53.5               9.1                      28.4
12.6               66.1               8.8                      37.2
12.8               78.9              10.5                      47.7
21.1              100.0              52.3                     100.0
In 1973, four-fifths of the population were in households with monthly
incomes between CFAF 13,000 and CFAF 104,000 (US$222). The median income
was CFAF 36,770 (US$163). The average income was CFAF 50,000.
15.       The following table presents an approximate distribution of house-
hold income for Abidjan and possible rental effort, based on a maximum of
25% of monthly income:
Rental Effort by Income Level, Abidjan 1973
Maximum Rent
Monthly Income              (Based on 25% of        Percentage of
(CFAF)                     Income)              the Population    Cumulative
Less than 10,000          Less than  2,500                 5.1             5.1
10,001 -  15,000           2,500  -  3,750                 7.9            13.0
15,001 -  20,000           3,750  -  5,000                 6.0            21.0
20,001 -  25,000            5,000  -  6,250               14.0            35.0
25,001 -  30,000            6,250  -  7,500                5.0            40.0
30,001 -  35,000            7,500  -  8,750                4.0            49.0
35,001 -  40,000            8,750  - 10,000                5.5            54.5
40,001 -  45,000           10,000  - 11,250                5.5            60.0
45,001 -  50,000           11,250  - 12,500                5.0            65.0
50,001 -  75,000          12,500  - 18,750                 6.0            81.0
75,001 - 100,000          18,750  - 25,000                 4.5            89.5
More than 100,000         More than 25,000                10.5           100.0
The total amount of rents paid in Abidjan was about CFAF 680 million in
1973 corresponding to an effort averaging 16% of the total income of renters
which was less than in 1963 (18%).



ANNEX 1
Page 10
Demand for- lieus.i
16.        In view of the high annual increase in the Abidjan population as
well as the increasing demand for housing of a higher quality than many
households presently enjoy, the total demand for housing in the city is very
large.  Studies by BCEOM/BNETD demonstrated that, w.th aïmual increases in
income and population, there would be a shitt in the demand from mere shelter,
as found in squatter settlements, towards higher quality units. At the
present time, some 30% of the population live in squatter settlements. For
the period 1973-1980, this shift to higher quality units may involve as many
as 300,000 persons. The problein of satisfying demand, therefore, involves
both providing shelter for new city residents and for the large proportion of
the population presently living in standards of housing below what they could
afford.
Affordability
17.       The table below shows that public sector programs provide units
in insufficient quantities at costs unaffordable by a sustantial proportion of
the population.
.Affordability.cf Housing Types (Abidjan, 1973)
Avverage
Monthly          Unaffordable
Strata         Rent            by (percent)                lyp
(CFAF)
A         33,000                90       High quality
B         14,000                60       (SICOGI-SOGEFIHA) economic housing
7,000               40       Very economic housing
7,900               45       Site and Services - SETU
C         5,600                 21      Site and Services - private
4,200                13      LEM /1 - Site and services
D          5,000                21      Traditional housing
5,300                25      Solid Construction
E          2,600                 5      Shacks
/1   Does not include housing construction.
18.       The absolute deficit in projected housing stock is compounded
by an inappropriate mix in the types of units provided in public sector
programs. Under present legislation, housing standards have been established
whichl must be met if projects are to benefit from OSHE-subsidized infra-
structure. These standards which apply to all aspects of construction have



ANNEX I
Page 11
led to the establishment of a rigid cost structure for housing from CFAF 5
million for units in strata A to CFAF 400,000 for units in strata C - a
twelvefold difference. This has resulted in Government subsidies being
provided for the construction of a single housing unit at CFAF 5 million when
the same level of subsidy could have been directed to the construction of
twelve units in strata C at CFAF 400,000. If the standards in Strata C were
lowered, then even more units could be built for the same cost. Inevitably,
if cheaper units were built then the demand for housing could be satisfied
more effectively. The basic problem of design standards and construction cost
minima can be overcome by reducing such standards and encouraging self-help
construction to provide housing units more in line with incomes Ln Abidjan.
Demand for Water Supply
19.       Despite the fact that Abidjan accounted for 80% of all urban water
consumption in the Ivory Coast, only 50% of the city's population in 1973
had reasonable access to water, defined as either service through a private
connection (taking an average of Il persons per connection) or service through
public standpipes at 15 liters per capita per day (lpcd) which is considered
a minimum reasonable quantity. The severity of this situation becomes evident
when it is realized that in 1973, less than 2% of all water consumption
came from public standpipes. The lack of standpipes in the city is partly due
to the policy of the Government to suppress standpipes in order to encour-
age people to connect to piped water. This forces almost half the population
to obtain water from either private vendors or private ground-water sources.
Water from private vendors costs five times more per liter than the tariff of
the public utility. This situation will worsen significantly by 1980 unless
more standpipes are made available in high density neighborhoods.
Demand for Sewerage
20.       The need for improved sewerage and drainage in Abidjan was recom-
mended by a WHO/UNDP study in 1973. In 1974 it was estimated that only 20%
of the Abidjan population uses water borne sewerage. Another 15% use private
septic tanks. This should have improved due to the large housing construction
projects executed in 1974 and 1975 and which include water borne sewerage for
all units. But it is reasonable to assume that still half of Abidjan's
population disposes of waste water and sewage in open pits or unlined water
courses. The Bank's first Sewerage and Drainage Project (Loan No. 1076) is
establishing a sound organizational framework, for the long term development
of the sewerage and drainage sector. The first elements, financed under the
Bank's project, of a 10-year sewerage and drainage master plan, are now under
construction. The project also includes the studies for the next phase, and
for which a second project is expected to be appraised in 1977.
Land Use
21.       Following studies made in the 1960's, the Government decided to
develop Abidjan along an east-west axis to create a balance between housing
and employment areas by the development of industrial areas linked with
port activities along the lagoon avoiding the western bank of the Vridi



ANNEX 1
Page 12
canal which would be expensive to cross. However, this development option
involves major new transport infrastructure. The results of the first
phase of the BCEOM/BNETD study which were available in mid-1974 demonstrated
that the strategy of a rapid development of the Banco area to the west of the
present agglomeration would have required very heavy investments in transport
infrastructure in order to provide satisfactory liaison between the Banco,
with a potential population of 600,000 plus by 1980, and the rest of the
metropolitan area where the employment was centered.   As a result of dis-
cussions with Bank missions, the Government accepted that the development
strategy for metropolitan Abidjan in the short run i.e. during the next five
years, would need to consist of redirecting much of the planned development in
the Banco to available land in the existing built-up area. The implications
of the modified short-term strategy for the metropolitan area were primarily
the reduction in the size and scope of planned infrastructure along the east-
west highway axis and a total re-thinking of existing housing programs to
include slum upgrading and site and services development.
Investment Program in the Transport Sector
22.       The Government program in the transport sector of Abidjan for the
period 1974-80 amounted originally to about CFAF 32 billion. This included
the East-West Highway (western and eastern sections), the Banco bridge and
the Abobo highway, and the long-distance bus terminal. Important investment
allocations were also foreseen for the urgent rehabilitation of existing
primary streets and upgrading of local streets. The Government decision
to slow down the development of the Banco will allow the construction of
the Banco bridge to be postponed for some years and reduce the design
standards of the East-West Highway from six to four lanes. Following the
BCEOM/BNETD study, the western section of the East-West Highway was considered
a first priority, the eastern part being postponed. However, the lagoon
western highway has a high priority and construction will probably start after
the first section of the East-West Highway has been completed, if funds are
available.



LOT AFFORDABILITY (1976 costs and income)
-D,ATA,, AFFORDABILITY per top % 3
Cost/     Rent    Rent for         -               for
Area/     No.              Cost/house  house for  eor owner.owner   Rent           for     owner       for
Lot      Inhab%     Cost/  for owner   owner with only    w±th        for         owner     with    renter(s)
(m2)     Lot        Lot    alone        renter     2/  .   rentei's)  Rentenl)W  alone    renter
LEM 100 m2    100       lu        2OU        30        600                  5                    75        85         50
LEM 150 m2    150       12        347        300       600        8.1       h.4       7.3        70        87         73
Y2            128       12         376       300       600        9.0       4.9       8.0        65        86         66
Tl            192       15         500       400       900       12.2       3.1       7.7        48        95         70
U1            200       15        484        400       900       12         3.1        7.6       50        95         71
.:!  1976 coste in GFAF 000's
/ Lott 13% - 20 years; house 9% - 10 year-
i with 25% of household income per lot and house payments
> Rent includes payment of lot and house and property tax but not utilities



MONTHLY UOUSING BDMGET FOR SERVICED LOTS (1976 COSTS IN OAPF 000 s)
LEI4 (125 nt2)~                            11~~~-~    1 (200 m2)   ' -~-~
Owner with                                Owner with
ITME                             Owner alone   one renter      Renter       Owner alone  two rentera    Rentera
Cost of lot (infrast.)             278             27U                        484           484
Coat a! house                      300  /          600                        400           900
Charge for the lot                   3.3  /          3.3                        5.8 2         5.8
Charge for the house                 3.l             6.2                       à4.1           9.3
Snb-total                6.4             9.5                         9.9          15.1
Property taxes (13% of RV)            .8 W           1.3 y                      1.3 /         2.0 21
Registration tee  /                  -                                           .8           1.2
Total charge                         7.2            10.8         5.4           12.0          18.3           6.1
Benetit (25%)                                                     1.3                                       1.5
Total rent                           7.2                         6.7           12                           7.6
Revenue from rent                                    6.7           -                         15.2
Rent per owner                       7.2             4.1,          -                          3.1
Utilitiesa
-Water                      .5              .5          .5             .5            .5            *5
- Electricity              1.0            1.0          1.0            1.0           1.0           1.0
- Drainage tax             <_5                          .2             .1.8                        .4
Sub-total                 1.8            2.0          1.7            2.0          2.3            1.9
Rent + Utilities                     9.0             6.1          8.4          14             5.3           9.5
Y   Two roons                                                            RV   10000
At 13%, twenty years                                              / RVW  10000
S/ 20% down, the remaaning at 13% for 10 years                        / Registration fee is 10% of lot + house
Rental Value (RV) - 60b0                                             value
5% of Rv                                                         / R   15000
ie   Registration fee is waived for SIGOGI
1o!!



MHNTHLY HOUSIMG BUDGET FOR UPGRADED ARRAS
(1976 ¢08tS in CFlF OOOts)
ABOBO aARE 1/                        PORT BOUET Il 2/
Owner
Owner       Renters        Owner alone  with one renter   Renter 1/
Coat of infrastructure
per plot                           1.088                           357           357
Estimated present rent                 30            5                             10               5
Additimnal oharge to the
owner due to the upgrading
programa
1. property taxes 3/                  4                               .ô8
2.  betterment tax                    14.9                           1.6           1.6
Sub-total           8.9           1.3             2.4            2.9             1.4
Total rent                        6.3             2.4                           6.4
Other charge for the owner             18 5/                                        4.5 2/
Total ownerts charges                  26.j                                         7.4
Revenue from rent                      37.8                                         6.4
Ownerts rent/benet.                    10.9                           2.4            1
Utilitiest
Wster                         .5           .5              .5             .5              .5
Eleotricity                  1.0          1.0              1.0           1.0             1.0
Drainage tax                  .3                                          .3              .3
Sub-total            TS1                          T1. 57&          e            57
Rent + utilities                        9.1 g        8.1              4.2           2.8             8.2
y  Lot area - 500 -2                 '-5    mort1zatIoen o  the house; zUuu at Y% - zu years
Painily/plot - 6.7                                V/ Profit
ç  Lot area - 150 m2                                   7/  Rentai value - 6,00o
Family/plot"  2.                                  Y/ Rental value - 10,000
y  Sum of 4 different taxes                            J  Amortization of house; 500,000 at 9% - 20 years
- 13,5% of rental value
/ Recovery 1/2 cost of sec.
infra. at 9% - 20 years



ANNEX 2
Page 1
IVORY COAST
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HOUSING AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
1.        There are seven relevant housing and housing finance institutions
in the Ivory Coast: two public housing corporations (SOGEFIHA and SICOGI),
a public land development agency (SETU), a public housing fund (OSHE), the
Government's debt management agency (CAA), the multipurpose development bank
(CCI), and the newly-created savings and credit bank (BNEC). Their respec-
tive roles are described in this Annex.
Societe de Gestion Financiere de l'Habitat (SOGEFIHA)
2.        Created in 1963, SOGEFIHA is a public corporation under the con-
trol of the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Having built some 17,600 units
by mid-1975, SOGEFIHA continues to manage some 14,900 units in Abidjan and
almost 2,000 in the rest of the country; some 5,600 additional units were
programmed for 1976. SOGEFIHA's financial position is unsound. On a capi-
tal base of slightly over CFAF 1.1 billion (US$4.9 million) and grants and
endowments of CFAF 5.1 billion (US$22.7 million), SOGEFIHA had total assets
of CFAF 48.6 billion (US$216.0 million) at September 1975; it had amassed a
Government guaranteed term debt which more than doubled between 1973 and 1975
to CFAF 36.8 billion (US$163 million) while short-term debt grew to five times
capital, largely as a result of advances from the Caisse Autonome d'Amor-
tissement (CAA) needed to cover debt service falling due. This position
results primarily from financing its rental properties on suppliers' credits
of 5-8 year generally and rarely more than 12 year terms. It is unable to
rent the units on terms sufficient to cover its debt service alone, without
even considering operating costs. Moreover, poor control of construction
costs (again partly a result of supplier financing, and inherently more
expensive technology) as well as relatively poor rental collection performance
has left SOGEFIHA with a large shortfall in its cash flow. This gap reached
CFAF 2.1 billion (US$9.3 million) in 1974 and is estimated to have been CFAF
400 million (US$1.8 million) in 1975, but as grace periods on its loans
expire, debt service of CFAF 4.2 billion (US$18.6 million) in 1975 will
almost double to CFAF 7.4 billion (US$32.9 million) in 1976 and fall slowly
thereafter, averaging CFAF 6.4 billion (US$28 million) annually over the
next five years; consequently, preliminary estimates indicate a shortfall
of CFAF 3-4 billion (US$13-18 million) per year through 1981. Management
changed with the naming of a new Director-General in August, 1974. The
new management has begun facing up to the inherited problems while, ini-
tially, continuing previous policies - albeit at a slower pace. New fi-
nancial systems are being installed and personnel hired who have identified
the most immediate needs of the agency and solutions to be implemented.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        The first necessity regarding SOGEFIHA was to establish a plan
to extricate it from the financial difficulties due to past operations.
A draft rehabilitation plan, approved by the Minister of Finance, was dis-
cussed at negotiations.  Its main operational features are:  (i) immediate
increases in payments on Governiment's installment-purchase units and in
rents on private rental units, with further increases in future; (ii) bill-
ing of construction supervision costs to projects under construction and
of maintenance costs to tenants; (iii) selling rather than renting existing
and future commercial and higher-priced residential properties. These re-
sources should not only improve SOGEFIHA's cash flow but also lead to more
economic pricing of its units, reflecting construction and financing costs.
Similar measures will be imposed on SOGEFIHA's future programs, seeking
to reduce the deficit inherent in the supplier-financed programs of some
4,000 units to which it is contractually committed. In addition, alternative
technical designs, marketing outlets and financing will be investigated to
the same end. Direetly to address SOGEFIHA's current financial difficulties,
the following measures will be implemented:  (i) BNEC will lend at long-
term some CFAF 19 billion to SOGEFIHA between 1976 and 1978; (ii) CAA will
lend at medium-term about CFAF 9 billion over the same period; (iii) Govern-
ment will sextuple the existing equity capital base, subscribing CFAF 5 bil-
lion over 5 years; and, (iv) Governnent will refinance the short-term advances
from CAA, consolidating them into a medium-term loan. This plan has now been
finalized and the Governnent has agreed to implement it. Future operations
will depend, then, on provision of financing on adequate terms, introduction
of procurement and construction procedures which will help to minimize costs
and adoption of pricing policies which reflect construction and financing
costs.  As such reforms are implemented, SOGEFIHA could continue to play an
important role in middle-income urban housing, as well as rural housing.
Societe Ivoirienne de Construction et de Gestion Immobiliere (SICOGI)
4.        SICOGI has existed as such since 1965, resulting from the merger
of two earlier agencies. While Government is the majority shareholder, the
CCCE and other Ivorian and French institutions hold an aggregate 44% of the
capital. At the end of 1974, SICOGI had built some 23,600 units, of which
18,000 were still under management, some 95% being rental units in Abidjan.
As the conduit for CCCE money and the object of extensive technical assistance,
SICOGI has been able to resist the pressures to which SOGEFIHA succumbed;
consequently, SICOGI remains a sound institution, almost completely Ivorianized
both in management and finance. With very concessional CCCE money (3-1/2% per
annum, 20 years), SICOGI has been able to price its units so as to recover
full cost and has maintained good controls over its operations. With the
phasing-out of CCCE funds, SICOGI is seeking to diversify the income mix of
its operations and to find new funding sources. It is increasingly emphasizing
lease-purchase for high-income units while undertaking low-income rental
projects such as the USAID-financed component of the project.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Societe d'Equipements Urbains (SETU)
5.        SETU was set up as a public corporation in 1973 under the supervi-
sion (tutelle) of the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism to execute
almost all urban infrastructure programs. In 1974 the Government made SETU
also responsible for the development of urban sewerage and drainage in the
Ivory Coast including the Bank financed Sewerage Project Loan Number 1076.
This activity is executed under the supervision of MPWT. Its housing activ-
ities comprise works for SICOGI, SOGEFIHA, and some 110 private clients,
ranging from very rich to medium/low-income, who account for two-thirds of its
business.  SETU fully recovers costs from its clients but has had to finance
the private ones on terms of two to three years at 15-20% per annum; under the
proposed project, this task would fall to BNEC. The SETU is a well-managed
organization with good technical and cost control and planning systems.
Office pour le Soutien de l'Habitat Economique (OSHE)
6.        An autonomous agency of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, OSHE
lias received earmarked tax revenues rising from CFAF 1.3 billion (US$5.8 mil-
lion) in 1969 to CFAF 2.1 billion (US$9.3 million) in 1974; an increase in
a tax on salaries brought 1975 revenues to some CFAF 5 billion (US$22.2 mil-
lion). Over 70% of these funds has been disbursed as infrastructure develop-
ment grants to SOGEFIHA and SICOGI low-income housing projects with most of
the remainder going for long-term, non-amortizing convertible loans to these
housing companies; less than 10% of the total has served to roll-over medium-
term (5-year) local loans into 15 year loans to these companies. In addition
to a part-time Secretary-General, OSHE has a Board that appears to be kept
poorly informed and a staff of two, incapable of controlling expenditures. In
1969 when Government ordered a reduction in all rents, OSHE assumed debt
service on a number of SICOGI loans presumably at the insistence of CCCE.
In 1975, CFAF 1.0 billion (US$4.4 million) of OSHE's funds paid Government's
subscription to the capital of BNEC at the order of the Minister of Finance,
while at least CFAF 700 million (US$3.1 million) has been spent to pay part of
SOGEFIHA's debt service.
7.        The need for reforms was recognized by a Goverument working party
established in 1974 which recommended reorganization of OSHE as the sole
fiduciary for external housing finance, with the tax revenues going to
lighten the debt service load.  Following subsequent discussions of the
merits and demerits of such an arrangement the Governnent has now decided
to merge OSHE functions into the BNEC (see para. 21). The funds will be
managed by BNEC for the account of Government. Operational criteria will be
modified to permit financing of owner-occupied as well as rental housing to
allow these monies to serve as the counterpart for the upgrading and site and
services components of the proposed project and thus to be redistributed to a
lower income clientele. Moreover, these fiscal receipts will no longer be
disbursed as grants but appropriate cost recovery mechanisms, such as those
described in Annex 7 and incorporated in the project design, will be included
in all programs.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA)
Created in 1959, the CAA serves as fiscal agent for all external
loans, either to Government or guaranteed by it, as well as for domestic
public borrowings; the former includes Bank, other multi-lateral, bilateral
aid and export credits and the latter includes many both official and pri-
vate loans to parastatal and private borrowers. CAA also provides redis-
count facilities to the Ivorian banking system for certain short- and
medium term loans, complementing those available from the Central Bank.
CAA's role in the housing sector comprises its guarantee of CCCE loans to
SICOGI, its guarantee of suppliers' credits to SOGEFIHA, and acting as
depository for both housing corporations and formerly OSHE.  During 1974 and
1975, in addition, CAA advanced over CFAF 9.7 billion (US$44.3 million) to
SOGEFIHA to cover its debt service falling due. The CAA will be a key factor
in the financial restructuring of SOGEFIHA in coordination with BNEC's manage-
ment of the former OSHE monies.
Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire (CCI)
9.        A majority Government-owned, multi-purpose development bank, CCI
is serving as financial intermediary for two Bank projects, viz. the Tour-
ism Development and Small-Scale Enterprise (SSE) Projects. CCI is a well-
run, financially sound bank. Its housing activities have been limited to
medium-term loans to SICOGI and 5-10 year mortgages to a rather high-income
clientele. A related aspect of its business has been over 10,000 small
loans per year, exceeding CFAF 1.5 billion (US$6.7 million) annually in
total, for household purchases including construction materials, on terms
of 12-20 months at effective rates up to 20%; these loans were generally
extended only to salaried employees. Under the integrated SSE project, in
cooperation with an Ivorian technical assistance agency, OPEI, CCI would
support artisans borrowing at least CFAF 1 million (US$4,500) to establish or
expand their business.
10.       Under the proposed project, CCI would, along with BNEC, extend
credit to lessees and purchasers of the serviced sites as well as occupants
of upgraded areas for purchases of construction materials, as outlined in
Annex 5. CCI will also likely continue to be an important source of medium
term construction working capital for SICOGI and perhaps even for SETU.
Banque Nationale pour l'Epargne et le Credit (BNEC)
11.       In connection with its two housing projects in the Ivory Coast,
USAID has been urging the creation of a savings and loan institution for
several years. With technical assistance from the National Savings and Loan
League (U.S.), a savings and loan department was set up within SOGEFIHA which
began operations in 1974; these activities were spun off to form the initial
portfolio of operations of the BNEC.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
12.       BNEC was officially created by Decree of June 23, 1975 and has
been operating on an ad hoc basis since then. Under the joint supervision
of the Ministers of Finance and Plan, its statutes give it very broad com-
petence. Its capital of CFAF 1.0 billion (US$4.4 million) is wholly held
by Government and paid in from OSHE monies.
13.       Board, Management and Staff.  A Board of 10 members, including
representatives of the relevant ministries, the legislature, public financial
institutions and the Central Bank, has been named.
14.       The Director-General is named by the two supervising Ministers.
At present an adviser of the Minister of Finance is serving as temporary
Director-General. The Deputy Director-General and Directors of the Technical
Department and the Departments of Credit, Savings, Finance and Administration
have been named and are serving provisionally. All seem well-trained, reasonably
experienced in related fields and competent. However, as proposed under the
project, technical assistance will be necessary both to strengthen management
and train new professional staff. The support staff currently numbers about
20 and no problems are anticipated in recruiting additional people as operations
grow.
15.       Policies and Procedures.  BNEC will, of course, be subject to
Ivorian banking legislation governing aspects such as minimum capital and
fiduciary responsibility as well as Central Bank regulation which is quite
extensive. The bank's charter defines its activities as the financing of
infrastructure for low-income housing, financing of the public housing cor-
porations, encouragement of savings, granting of short-, medium- and long-
term loans for all types of housing and, finally, management of public
funds for housing finance.
16.       A Policy Statement ("Reglement Interieur") governing operations for
the bank's own account was drafted with assistance from USAID and subsequently
modified to take account of the comments of the appraisal mission. It is to
be formally adopted by the first Board meeting; this approval is a condition
of disbursement of Bank and USAID funds for the shelter component. Policies
substantially conform to those normally sought in Bank-supported development
finance institutions with appropriate modifications for the particular activi-
ties of BNEC. Notably, the statement covers: (i) minimum liquidity require-
ments; (ii) a policy of charging prices and controlling expenses so as to
maintain the real value of the bank's capital while establishing adequate
provisions for losses; (iii) a maximum exposure to any one client of 20% of
the bank's unimpaired capital plus reserves with a more restrictive maximum of
CFAF 10 million to any individual, in line with Central Bank guidelines; and
(iv) a maximum debt/equity ratio which should suffice for the start-up period.
The negotiated project agreement between the Bank and BNEC fixes a maximum
3.5:1 total debt (including deposits) to equity ratio for operations for its
own account.
17.       USAID's technical assistance also included drafting of an oper-
ating manual which covers banking window procedures and controls. Elabora-
tion of lending procedures and criteria is still required and continues
during the current formative period.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
18.       Operations.  BNEC inherited some lending activities from its pre-
decessor, the Savings and Loan Department of SOGEFIHA. It manages the ser-
vicing of 455 individual mortgages arising from USAID's Williamsville proj-
ect; the total initial amount was over CFAF 640 million (US$2.8 million).
As of June 30, 1975, with the portfolio about one year old, arrears over
three months were about 4% of payments due. In addition, the bank manages
59 rental units in the same project which it plans eventually to sell.
Planned operations include loans to individuals for the construction,
improvement or purchase of low- and middle-income housing, financing of
the operations of the public housing corporations and financing of sec-
ondary infrastructure for low-income housing projects.
19.       Resources and Financial Situation.  BNEC's initial capital of
CFAF 1.0 billion is its primary initial resource. In addition, BNEC is
expected to receive (for its own account) external loans, such as the
proposed IBRD/USAID loans, relating to the credit line for construction
material loans. BNEC will have access to the Central Bank's rediscount
facilities for short- (up to 2 years) and medium-term (up to 10 years) re-
sources; most of the bank's operations will qualify for the "preferential"
discount rate of 5.5% p.a. BNEC has also inherited the savings deposit
business started under SOGEFIHA. Although legally empowered to pay
slightly higher rates than commercial banks may offer on deposits, BNEC
has maintained parallel rates. With the initial motive of saving down
payments for the purchase of SOGEFIHA units, some 1,300 depositors had amassed
CFAF 208 million (US$1 million) as of March 31, 1975; although the average
balance was about CFAF 160,000 (US$700), over 60% of the accounts were less
than CFAF 50,000 (US$225).  BNEC will also manage, for Governnent's account,
the funds formerly run by OSHE (see para. 22 below).
20.       Accounts of BNEC are not available during this start-up period.
The Policy Statement commits and the Central Bank requires the bank to
maintain appropriate accounts; the statement also commits and the Loan
Agreement would require annual independent audits.
21.       Management of Ex-OSHE.  OSHE will be merged into BNEC, permitting
the bank to serve effectively as the central fiduciary for housing finance.
Tax revenues received, estimated at about CFAF 5.5 billion in 1976 and growing
at about 10.5% annually, will finance land preparation and infrastructure for
low-income housing programs as well as subsidization and consolidation of
borrowings of the public housing corporations (primarily the refinancing of
SOGEFIHA's debt burden in early years). Putting these operations on a sound
financial and organizational footing, BNEC will manage these funds for the
account and at the risk of Government. Legal dissolution of OSHE is a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the Loans. A draft policy statement governing BNEC's
management of the ex-OSHE funds was agreed to negotiations; ratification is a
condition of disbursement. The negotiated project agreement fixes a minimum
debt service coverage ratio of 1.25:1.



ABIDJAN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Flow of IBRD and USAID Funds
Part of prolect as descrrbed
in Loan Agreement:
1-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   A Transport
/_   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   _-  ---    C(a) Tech Ass,st Transport
-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - - -           --  -  C(d) 10 y de. study
/    _       _  _  _  _  _  _  _ .   B~~~~~B(e ( Comm. Facd t et
GOVERNMENT OF                                                                                    -  -  -  -/                                     W)Cm.F.Ite
IVOFIY COAST//>/$   I/  -----                                                             -    _ -  -  -        C(b) Tech Ass,st MCOU
44                               20~~~~~~~~~_1 4  /  TTMC /                                  /
IBRD.                              CAA                _     L__ _    _ 6  
0.06
/    ~~~\       -  -  -; -  -  -                                            /            
, (   \   (0.6).
USA ID                                                       (06
----------                                                           2.6              -    -   -  FNA  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   - _ -   -   -   - _   C(c)   Tech    Assist   BNEC
US - Investor
13             ( 4                                                    --            - -           --         -- --   BU> Tmrunk Ser
0U4 Inese                          SETU 16                -  -  -  -SETU    ----                            B(a) Upgrading Abîdjan
.2\                                                                                                             BNEC  %~ _; ~t = B(a) S & S Abîdjan
(21 \                                                                                                                                                           (Lot "A" sol
_    Fonds d'Habitat (FH)  :                                                             14
Housing Bank                          C\
\(a) S & S Ab.djan
\  \   ~ ^   SICOGI                                                       (Lot "B' leased)
B(c) Low cost hous,ng
0. |                 (2.7)
|ACCIR|/SO<                                                 _           B(b) Upgrading San Pedro
oS                                                                                                        B(d) Housing Credit
Note Amounts in US$ mdlhon
USAID amounts in                                                                                                                                                               B )(d) Housing Credit
Loan       - 
Grant  -  -  -
Wor(d Bank-16479



ANNEX 3
Page 1
IVORY COAST
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TRANSPORT COMPONENT, DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS
East-West Highway
1.        The existing road has a two-lane roadway except in the section near
the Agban junction where a third climbing lane reserved for low speed vehicles
was built a few years ago. The daily traffic was estimated at about 14,000
vehicles per day in December 1973 and 19,000 vpd in November 1975 on the
basis of traffic counts. Seven hours per day, hourly traffic is over 1,200
vehicles corresponding to 2,185 pcu per hour which could be considered as
the maximum capacity for a two-lane road. The percentage of buses and trucks
was about 45.7 in 1975 compared to 51.9 in 1973. In conclusion, the existing
road is already highly congested. Revised traffic forecast on the priority
section is estimated by consultants BCEOM/BNETD at 45,500 pcu per day in
1978 corresponding to a morning peak hour traffic of about 4,900 pcu justi-
fying technically the design of a four-lane highway to be widened at a later
stage. Traffic growth rate is estimated between 7% and 10% per annum. Total
traffic is assumed between 117 and 152 million vehicles during the economic
life of the pavement (20 years) depending on traffic growth rates.
2.        Feasibility studies followed by detailed engineering designs were
carried out by Consultants BCEOM (France) associated with BNETD (Ivory Coast).
The National Soil Laboratory (LBTP) carried out soil investigations and tests.
Designs are based on agreements reached with the Ministry of Public Works and
Transport.
3.        The East-West Highway is a four-lane road with basic infrastructure
for six lanes. The EWH will be widened, by reducing the central reservation,
to a six-lane road if and when justified by traffic volumes. This will not
happen within the next five years. The alignment of the EWH has been chosen
within the corridor selected in the Master Plan for Abidjan carried out in
1969 in order to minimize the demolition of existing dwellings, ensure a good
service level for existing traffic during the construction period and avoid
the destruction of the Banco Forestry Reserve.
4.        Design standards are based on French regulations as far as express-
ways are concerned since local specifications do not exist. The design speed
is 80 km/h except in an interchange. Vertical and horizontal lay-outs as well
as transition curves (clothoide) have been designed accordingly. The cross-
over roads in the interchanges are one or two lanes with a minimum radius
varying from 55 m to 30 m.
5.        The standard cross section profile of the EWH is as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
pavement 2 x 2 lanes              2 x 2 x 3.5 m
central reservation                11.5 m
emergency lanes for stopping      2 x 3 m
shoulders (grass)             .   2 x 3 m
extra width along the two
edges of the pavement           2 x 1.5 m
The EWH will be connected with the existing road network and connecting
roads radiating from the EWH will generally have the same design standards as
existing roads, i.e. 7 m width with a 60 km/h design speed.
6.        Drainage structures have been dimensioned according to the maximum
ten-year expected rainfall which has an intensity of 225 mm/h. This figure is
based on a 28-year observation period. The average year rainfall is 2,125 mm
per annum in Abidjan. A rapid urbanization process was taken into account to
calculate water flow ratios. Protection of the EWH required the construction
of 35 culverts under the roadway and the channelization of about 6 km of
existing thalwegs.
7.        The project includes the construction of 15 bridges over and under
EWH. One, located at the Agban interchange, is to re-establish the existing
RAN railway line which has to be realigned on account of the new EWH alignment.
The bridges have been designed according to French construction standards and
most are in pre-stressed concrete. Difficulties in pile foundations could be
expected in the Banco Bay area and additional soil investigations will probably
be required to be carried out by the contractor during the project execution.
8.        The pavement of the expressway has been designed for a 13 T axle
load according to the Transport and Road Research Laboratory "road note"
and the AASHO interim guide. The intensity of the heavy traffic (between
3.6 and 4.7  4illion kips) on the low speed vehicle lane during the expected
economic life of the pavement (20 years) and the poor quality of road mate-
rials, especially crushed stones (Los Angeles ratio 25/30) require a flexi-
ble pavement designed as follows:
asphalt concrete              :    8 cm
binder                        :   12 cm
crushed stone 0/31.5              30 cm
sandy clay stabilized
with 4% cement              :   15 cm
Complementary studies initiated by the Bank demonstrated that reducing the
pavement thickness is uneconomical and technically risky except for the road
surfacing which will be carried out in two phases: 4 cm immediately and the



ANNEX 3
Page 3
additional 4 cm at a later stage and therefore considered as a maintenance
operation. Emergency lanes will have a more modest pavement.
9.        Safety strips, wire fences, horizontal and vertical road signs
and markings as well as traffic light signals will be established where
necessary.
Short-Term Program in the Plateau Area (See Map No. 12086)
10.       The project components will include:
-    an exclusive right-of-way bus facility (1,750 m)
to be constructed on the west carriageway of the
Avenue de la Republique, the Avenue Marchand, and
north to the Boulevard Garde. Bus-only lanes
will also be established on the Avenues Delafosse
and Franchet d'Esperey. The projects will include
improvements of 16 existing intersections strengthening
of existing pavements, reconstruction of sidewalks and
the central reservation of the Avenue de la Republique,
replanting of trees, construction of bus stops, road
markings and modifications to existing traffic lights.
This action will facilitate bus movements on the
north-south and east-west axes, improving services and
operating efficiency. Creation of one-way streets.
Boulevard Closel will be one-way southbound; Avenue de
la Republique (east carriageway) will be one-way
northbound; Avenues Delafosse and Franchet d'Esperey
will be made into an east-west one-way parallel system.
This action will improve traffic flow in general on the
north-south and east-west axes.
-    traffic signal improvements.  Traffic lights will
be coordinated on Avenue de la Republique and
Blvd. Closel, in order to facilitate axial move-
ments, and additional traffic lights will be in-
stalled at junctions that currently are frequently
blocked.
-    road signs and markings will be introduced through-
out the Plateau to promote better traffic discipline
and to increase effective capacity.



ANNEX 3
06/03/76
ABIDJAN UJRFDAN riEVEI Of,"MENT PROJECT
DEVAILEDI COST ESTIMATES
TRANSFORT COMPONENT
(CFAF MILLIUN--BASED ON JUNE 1976 PRICES)
1976      1976      1977      1977      1978      1978       1979      1979      1980       1980
1-SEM    2-SEM    1-SEM    2-SEM    1-SEM    2-SEM    1-SEM    2-SEM             1-SEM    2-SEM       TOTAL
EAST-WEST HIGHWAY
SITE PREPARATION                    40        200        31       -         -         -          -                              -         271
CONSTRUCTION                       -          375      1231      1284      1284      1070        856      --         -          -        6100
MATERIALS                                      80       241       214       214       107         54       -         -          -         910
RAN. CONNECTION                    -          -         135       135       -                    -         -                    -         270
LIGHTING                                     --         -         320       _         _                    -                              320
SUPERVISION EW HWY                  40        8s         85        85        85         85        13       -         -          -         474
TOTAL HIGHWAY                     80       736      1722      2038       1583      1262       923        -         _         _         S344
TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENT
CIVIL WORK                         -         -          105       140       149                  -         -         -          -         394
EQUIPMENT                          -45                             60        64       -          -1 _  _                                  169
TOTAL IMPROVEMENT                -                   150        200       213        -                                                  563
TOTAL BASE COST                    80       736      1872       2238      1795      t262        923                 - _                 8906
PHYS. CONTINGENCIES                   8        74       187       224       180        126        92       -                              891
PRICE CONTINGENClES                   1        32       171       331       370       319        284                 -          -        1508
GRAND TOTAL                       89       84?      2230       2792      2345      1707       1299       -          -         -       11304



ANNEX 4
Page 1
IVORY COAST
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SHELTER COMPONENT
A. Design Standards and Specifications
Land Use
1.        The project sites have the following land use:
Residen-       Community        Circu-        Open
SITES                   tial    %   Facilities  %   lation   %    Space  %  Total
ha              ha              ha            ha        ha
Abobo Gare              58.2    52    13.4        12    39.0    35       1.8   1   112
Adjame                  26.3    65       1.7       4    13.6    32       -           42
Port Bouet II           20.8    52       0.6       2    18.4    46       -           40
Pelieuville             12.3    65       0.8       4     5.5    29        .4   2    19
San Pedro Bardo         46.0    78       3.0       1    10.0    20       1.0   1    60
Koumassi N-E            35.0    52       9.0      15    21.0    32       3.0   1    68
Abobo Nord              17.5    52       4.5      15    11.5    32       1.5   1    34
Total:                216.1    58%    33.0        8%  119.0    32       7.7   2%  375
Since the project areas do not correspond to self-sufficient neighborhoods,
the figures given above are only indicative. One can nevertheless make the
following remarks: The net residential percentage is generally high; the
circulation area is on the high side (in existing neighborhoods the right-
of-way of secondary roads is often 25 m) and the area devoted to community
facilities is relatively small. Map No. 12087 shows the land use plan for the
Abobo-Gare site and Maps. Nos. 12088 and 12089 show indicative land use plans
for site and services area. Table 1 gives the population characteristics of
the sites.
Lot Options for Site and Services
2.         Site and services lots will be of two kinds:  the LEM type (lot
a equipement minimum) which is presently built in Abidjan by SETU on an
experimental basis (in 4 packages of 5 ha each integrated in low-middle
income public housing projects, see Map No. 12088); and the BCEOM/BNETD types
which have been designed by the consultants.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(I) LEM: (See Map No. 12088)
Lot options provided in the project are as follows:
2
100 m       8 m x 12.5 m    )
(
2
125 m       8 m x 15.6 m    )            2,700 lots
2                        (
150 m       8 m x 18.7 m    )
Only 30% of the lots have a direct vehicular access, the others will have
pedestrian access. This is satisfactory since these lots are for the lowest
income group of the target population of the project. Both roads and pedes-
trian ways will have V-shaped cross-sections and serve as storm drainage
collectors.
(II) BCEOM/BNETD types:
Lot options provided in the project are the following:
Type Ul:       200 m2 (10 m x 20 m) - 500 lots
Type Tl:       192 m2 (8 m x 24 m) - 500 lots
Type Y2:       128 m2 (8 m x 16 m) - 500 lots
All lots will have direct access to roads suitable for motor vehicles except
the Y2 type ones, the smallest, which are arranged around small squares.
3.         Since the LEM experiment has shown that people could build their
own sanitary core unit for half the contractor built price, each lot in the
site and services area will be provided with minimum lot services consist-
ing of a sewerage connection only. For their houses, people will choose
either a standard plan among 20 types being offered, or develop their own
plan, in which case they will have to get a building permit. This arrange-
ment will provide the owners/leaseholders with the possibility of building
the type of house they really desire and can afford.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Internal Roads and Pedestrian Facilities
4.        Both the upgraded areas and the areas for site and services will
be provided with a circulation network comprising pedestrian ways and
vehicular roads for buses and garbage collection trucks. Streets will have a
10 m to 30 m right-of-way with carriageways from 4 m to 10.5 m, with 2 or 2.7
m sidewalks. Due to the heavy rainfalls and the poor quality of the soil,
there are considerable erosion problems in the slum upgrading areas and
infilling and regravelling will be necessary. The steeper the slope, the
greater the erosion, and the more important the earthworks, mainly infilling
up to 50 cm thick for slopes over 2%. The laterite base will be 0.25 m thick
covered with a double surface treatment for the carriageway. The remaining
right-of-way will not be surfaced but only gravelled. Only roads necessary
for public transport and garbage collection trucks will be bituminized.
Whenever the slope is too steep on non-surfaced roads, a V-shaped bituminized
walkway of 2 m width will be provided with steps and water breaks. It will
also serve to collect drainage water and thus prevent erosion.
Water Supply
5.        The project will provide secondary and tertiary water distri-
bution systems in the project areas, which are not yet served. Only Port
Bouet II will need reinforcement of the primary feeder, which will be con-
structed in 1977-78 and financed out of the water sector's own resources.
The secondary and tertiary distribution system will follow the existing road
layout. Pipes are locally manufactured plastic (PVC) pipes in diameters from
6 53/63 to t 143.2/160. A t 53/63 diameter pipe is assumed to be able to
serve 60 house connections. The cost of a house connection of e 15 mm, in-
cluding the water meter, amounts to CFAF 7,000-10,000 (US$30-45) including
costs of a faucet connection at the edge of the lot. This cost is subsidized
by the Fonds National d'Hydraulique Humaine (FNH).  The water tariffs ar3 cur-
rently CFAF 80/m for the first 5 m3/month of consumption and CFAF 119/m
thereafter.
Surface Water Drainage
6.        Because Abidjan has torrential rainfall, storm water drainage is
expensive. In cases where insufficient attention is given to this in
design of the street layout and the drainage system, damage can be extensive.
In flat areas such as Koumassi damage is caused by flooding and, in areas with
steep slopes as Pelieuville, by erosion. Storm water drainage for Abidjan is
handled by a combination of open ditches and a sub-surface piped network. The
design is based on a 5-year storm frequency for the drainage network in
general, while keeping a 20-25 year storm frequency for critical works, such
as bridges etc. The runoff coefficients vary according to slope, surface and
sub-surface conditions, from 0.95 for paved streets with slopes over 6% to 0.35
for non-paved streets with slopes 0.5% and 0.10 for gardens.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Sewerage
7.        The project will include a complete secondary and tertiary sewerage
disposal system. In addition, the Abobo and Koumassi areas will need con-
struction of trunk sewers, while Adjame will be served by the East Plateau
sewer, which will be constructed in 1977-78 under the Bank-financed   Abidjan
Sewerage and Drainage project. The Port Bouet II sewerage system will be
connected to the existing trunk sewer of the Banco Industrial zone. Pelieuville
is situated on the west side of the Plateau area, for which the construction
of a trunk sewer is planned for the early or mid-eighties. Therefore as a
temporary measure the Pelieuville primary sewer will end at the Banco Lagoon.
8.        The minimum diameter of a tertiary sewer line is e 200 mm with a
minimum slope of 0.5%, while the house connections are made of q 100 mm pipe
with a minimum slope of 0.3%. These standards have been set for the
whole Abidjan system, on the basis of experience of the sewerage system
operator SODECI, which has had major problems in the maintenance of A 150 mm
laterals. At present all sewer pipes up to a diameter of e 300 mm are made of
PVC. Pipes will be placed under the sidewalks. Houses will be connected to
concrete manholes constructed at an average distance of 50 m. The designs for
the project are based on a per capita water consumption of 75-100 1/day with
an 80% return to the sewerage system and peak flow factor of about 2.  The
pipes are dimensioned to accept 80% of their capacity at peakflow.
Electricity and Street Lighting
9.        Except for Port Bouet Il, Pelieuville and Bardo, the areas to be
upgraded have already a medium voltage power grid and about 60% of the lots
are connected. In Port Bouet II, EECI will install the medium and low-voltage
power grid. Cost estimates include the lines and civil works for the trans-
formers. The transformers themselves will be supplied and paid for by the
electricity company (EECI) and are not included in the project. In
Pelieuville, cost estimates include the upgrading and extension of the power
grid (new lines and some new poles). For the site and services areas, EECI
will construct the medium and low voltage power grid. For the transformers,
the same arrangement has been adopted. Each lot or family will be provided
with a metered connection upon request (at a cost of CFAF 9,000).
Primary Schools
10.       In agreement with the Planning Department of the Ministry of Edu-
cation, the calculations of primary school requirements are based on the
following assumptions:



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(a)  School age population (7 - 12 years):   11% of total population
(b)  Scholarization rate:                       80% of (a)
(c)  repeating or over-aged pupils:             10% of (b)
(d)  private school pupils                      22% of (a)/(b)
(e)  maximum number of pupils per class:        45
These figures have to be rounded since the smallest school included in
the project is 12 classrooms. There is only one shift per classroom per
day.
11.       Cost estimates are based on June 1976 prices for similar con-
struction by contractors. The following buiding specifications are similar
to those of existing low-cost primary schools recently built in the Abidjan
area whieh are adequately adapted to local conditions and require very little
maintenance:
-    reinforced concrete foundations;
-    concrete block walls, plastered only externally;
-    transversal ventilation ensured by concrete clautra on one
side and wooden louvers on the other;
-    wooden doors;
-    concrete floors;
-    aluminum roofs on timber framing;
-    plywood ceilings.
The cost of furniture and equipment is estimated to be about 15% of the
total cost. See details and accommodation schedules in Tables 2, 3, and 4.
Health Centers:
12.       There will be three types of facilities provided:
-    3 dispensaries (450 m  each);
-    2 maternity centers (665 m  including a 30 bed ward);
-    .2 PMI/MCH (Protection Maternelle et Infantile Mother Child Health)
(585 m each).
There are standard plans for all those facilities.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Cost Health Centers
(CFAF million)
Facility      Number          Building cost/unit    Equipment/unit   Total
Maternity         2                     35                 5              80
PMI               2                     22                 4              52
Dispensary        3                     25                 5              90
TOTAL           7                     -                  -             222
Market Facilities
13.       Local market facilities will consist of simple covered structures
on a concrete floor, which are estimated to cost CFAF 15,000/m , and will
include drainage, water supply, public toilets and garbage facilities.
The following are included in the project:
Cost
Sites                       Covered Area                    (CFAF million)
Abobo Gare                    6,500 m2                            100
Port Bouet II                  1,000 m2                            15
Le Bardo                       1,000 m2                            15
Koumassi N.E.                 3,200 m2                             50
Abobo Nord                     1,000 mn                            15
Total                   12,700 m2                           195
B.  Description and Detailed Costs of Project Sites
Aboho Gare
14.       Situated 10 km north of the city center, on the road to Adzope and
Ghana, Abobo is already the third largest city of Ivory Coast with a popula-
tion of about 160,000. Abobo is linked to Abidjan by the railway line and a
new expressway under construction, and has experienced a very rapid growth due
to influx of migrants and the relocation of the "deguerpis" (those forced out
of other areas). The economic importance of Abobo will undoubtedly increase
with the development of new industrial areas, the relocation of the central
workshop of the railway (RAN), and the building of the Abidjan wholesale
market.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
15.       The project site (112 ha) is the center of Abobo which developed
around the railway station and the road from Abidjan (see Aerial Photography
at the end of the report). It includes the central market and the commercial
area as well as the social center of Abobo (community facilities). The site
is adjacent to a USAID middle-income SOGEFIHA housing program completed in
1975 and the first slum upgrading program of the SETU (Abobo Gendarmerie).
16.       The existing population is 45,000 with a density of 400 pers/ha.
There are 8,100 families on the 1,200 lots of the site. There is no de-
tailed socio-economic survey of the area. The following estimates are based
on a BCEOM/BNETD sample survey done for Abidjan in 1973 and on a 1975 survey
of the adjacent neighborhood Abobo Gendarmerie (the slum upgrading program of
the SETU). About 80% of the inhabitants are renters while 11% are owners.
The median monthly income of owners is about CFAF 50,000. The actual invest-
ment per lot averages CFAF 2,000,000, and the monthly average rental income
between CFAF 30,000 and 40,000 for a completed lot. The 1973 average house-
hold income was estimated at CFAF 41,000 on the basis of 1.5 jobs per house-
hold and the median household income at CFAF 26,000 per month. The average
surface of a lot is 500 m  and there are 7 dwellings per lot with 5.3 persons
per dwelling. Only a few lot around the market are occuped by more than one
story buildings.
17.       The road to Abidjan and to Adzope is bituminized.  Other streets are
gravelled and severely eroded due to lack of maintenance and poor design, in
particular with regard to drainage facilities. Neither storm water drainage
channels nor sewers exist. Only the northern part of the site is connected
with the water supply network. Street lighting is inadequate. Existing
community facilities cover about 10.7 ha with a further 2.7 ha reserved for
extension.
Central Market Extension   26,500 m
2
Central Bus station           9,800 m
Maternity, Dispensary        16,800 m
PTT: (Post Office)            4,200 m
EECI:  (Electricity)          9,600 m
Primary Schools              23,600 m
Religious Facilities         16,800 m
107,300 m  - or 10.7 ha



ANNEA 4
Page 8
18.       The following primary infrastructure is included [n the project:
(a) paving of the road on the northern edge of the site;
(b) construction of surface water drainage collectors
necessary to drain two small basins within the site;
and
(c) construction of sewer necessary to transport the
sewerage to the trunk sewer connecting with the East
Plateau main collectors.
The Abobo area contains several small drainage basins without natural dis-
charges, except for underground seepage. With the development of this area
the runoff will increase in volume and concentration and it would be necessary
to construct a large drain 6-7 m deep to ensure nearly instantaneous evacua-
tion. To avoid the high costs of such facility use will be made of storm
water retention ponds at the low points of the drainage basins. A small
diameter drain will evacuate the water from these ponds to a nearby natural
water course over a period of a couple of hours or days, depending on the
rainfall intensity.
19.       The Abobo area is experiencing development at a faster rate than
that foreseen during the first Abidjan Sewerage Project in which the con-
struction of trunk sewers for Abobo was not planned until the 1980's. The
main collector of the Plateau area, which will end in Adjame, will be con-
structed during 1976-1977 and it is designed with sufficient capacity for
sewerage discharge from the Abobo area. Two solutions for Abobo were
considered:
(a) A temporary solution proposed by BCEOM consisted of piping
the sewerage about 1 km to a stabilization pond, after which
the treated waste would flow free through natural drainage
course to the lagoon of Aghien.
(b) The alternative and permanent solution would be the construc-
tion of a collector of 6 km q 900 mûm (including two pumping
stations) connecting the Abobo area sewerage network to
the East Plateau collector.
The Ministry of Plan, responsible for potable water supply, objected to the
first solution due to the risk of polluting the Aghien Lagoon which is being
considered as a future water supply source for Abidjan.  A UNDP/WHO study of
Abidjan water sources will be carried out during 1976-1977, and only after
this study becomes available can a definite conclusion be drawn. In view of
present uncertainties as to the use of the Abidjan Lagoon a permanent solution
with no risk of pollution is preferable. The upgrading of the area requires
an immediate solution and the construction of the collector cannot await a
Second Sewerage Project since the project will not be ready for appraisal



ANNEX 4
Page 9
before 1977. In addition, the permanent solution would integrate well with
the overall development of the sewerage system. For these reasons, and after
an evaluation of the costs/benefits of the two solutions, the permanent
solution was chosen and is to be financed under the project.
20.       Given the central location of the site within the Abobo area,
certain community facilities under the proposed project will serve the entire
area. This is so in the case of the improvements to the existing market. The
secondary and tertiary infrastructure will be provided, including bituminiza-
tion of streets around the market and the commercial area and of a network
suitable for buses and garbage collection (see picture at the end of the
report). No new health facility will be provided given the recent construction
of a health center within the site. The project includes the construction of
72 primary classrooms (one 36-class school and three 12-class schools), a
small community center (500 m ) and 9 playgrounds.
Adjame
21.       Located at the northern part of the Plateau, Adjame is one of the
oldest neighborhoods of the city. The project site is composed of two parts:
Adjame-Nord-Est (24.6 ha) and Adjame-Fraternite (17.3 ha) separated by a
main street. The site is bordered by a Child Center and middle-income SICOGI
apartment buildings (see picture at the end of the report). This is the most
urbanized and developed site of the project with excellent access to every
part of the city. Adjame will be the first neighborhood to be connected with
the trunk sewers financed under the Bank's First Abidjan Sewerage Project.
Water supply and street lighting already exist. However, the internal street
network is inadequate for buses and garbage collection.
22.       There are some 20,000 persons living in the 580 lots of the site with
a density of 500 pers/ha. There are an average 5.8 persons per household and
34.5 persons per lot. The monthly median household income has been estimated
at about CFAF 45,000.  Most lots of Adjame NE are 400 m  while the layout of
2
Adjame Fraternite is less regular with an average lot of 500 m . A few
multi-storey buildings are on lots along the major streets. There are many
shops along the Boulevard General de Gaulle on the northern edge of the site.
There are only a few existing community facilities:
Administration (Labor Office)    :   6,600 m2
Religious Facilities              : 5,000 m
Private Schools                   :   2,100 m2
Administrative Reserve            :   3,000 m
Total                        :  16,700 m
A block of 14 lots totalling about 5,000 m  has been earmarked for a future
primary school.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
23.       The project consists of paving of streets to be used for public
transport and garbage collection; the upgrading and reconstruction, where
necessary, of surface water drainage and sewerage facilities, a 24 classroom
primary school and one playground. No health center will be provided given
the proximity of the Institut de la Sante Publique. A future increase in
density of up to 800 pers/ha is expected once the upgrading works are completed.
Port Bouet II
24.       This is the least developed and poorest site in the project.
Located on the northwestern part of the Banco plateau, this site was opened
for the families forcibly removed from a squatter settlement situated along
the road to the airport to give place to a public housing project. At first
isolated in the middle of the pineapple fields without infrastructure, commu-
nity facilities and transport facilities, the recent SICOGI and SOGEFIHA
housing developments and the Northern Banco industrial area developed by SETU
are now close to the site (see picture at the end of the report). The site is
less than one km south of the west end of the East-West Highway financed under
this project. Thus, in the very near future, the site will be connected to
roads, and primary water and sewerage lines. The development of land nearby
has transformed this supposedly temporary settlement into a permanent one that
is presently larger than that originally conceived.
25.       There are some 212,000 persons living in the 1,400 lots of the
site. Each lot is 150 m and the density is 300 pers/ha with 8.6 pers/lot.
The monthly median household income has been estimated at about CFAF 27,000.
The site layout is a straightforward grid pattern, there are no paved streets,
no channelled surface water drainage and no sewers within the site; only three
communal standpipes serve the whole population. There are practically no
community facilities:
School (project)                 5,000 m2
Cinema                       :      270 m
Market (open air)                1,000 m
Total                   :   6,270 m2
26.       Under the project, streets will be regravelled (see picture at the
end of the report). Open water drainage, sewers and street lighting will be
provided. Each lot will have water and sewerage connection. Very little
primary infrastructure will be necessary to connect the site with the nearby
water main and the trunk sewer. A dispensary, 24 classrooms, a small market
and three playgrounds will also be provided under the project.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
Pelieuville
27.       Pelieuville is located at the northern part of the Plateau on the
west side of the Boulevard Carde (see picture at the end of the report). It is
a very busy as well as poor neighborhood. The project site (19 ha) concerns
the area to be upgraded; there is an additional 7.5 ha in very bad condition,
on a steep slope (15%) that the Government wants to rebuild completely.  This
is not included in the project. There are about 430 lots with an average lot
2
size of 285 m .  There are no channelled surface water drainage facilities, no
sewers, no bituminized roads and only about 10% of the lots are connected with
water supply. Half of the site is served by a sub-standard electricity
network. There is no street lighting. There are no community facilities
except for the market (7,200 m ) and a few private schools.  A 4,200 m  site
(part of the additional 7.5 ha) has been earmarked for a new primary school.
There are about 4.4 household/lot and 4.2 pers./household. The monthly median
household income has been estimated at CFAF 27,000.
28.       The project consists of:
-    reconstruction of all streets, with bituminiza-
tion of those streets necessary for public transport,
garbage collection and market activities, and con-
struction of pedestrian paths on the rest;
-    construction of channelled surface water drainage
and sewer network;
-    upgrading and construction of the water supply
network;
-    street lighting;
-    construction of 12 classrooms;
-    one wash-house;
-    market improvement.
No health facility is included given the proximity of the Institut de Sante
Publique.
Bardo, San Pedro
29.       One of the most important elements of the Government policy to
redirect urban growth away from Abidjan was the creation of the growth pole
of San Pedro in 1970. As the public housing tenements built by SOGEFIHA
in San Pedro were too expensive (average rent per month: CFAF 8,000), most



ANNEX 4
Page 12
migrant workers squatted in the Bardo which soon became a city of 30,000
inhabitants (see Map No. 12091). Having decided not to bulldoze this slum (in
which there is an estimated investment of CFAF 1.5 million, the Government has
asked the CCCE (French Aid) to help prepare and finance an experimental slum
upgrading project. The project has been prepared by CCCE, ARSO (Autorite
Regionale du Sud-Ouest) and BNETD for the whole area and CCCE is partially
financing a first phase of 32 ha for a total cost of CFAF 750 million.
30.       The Bank-financed project will consist of provision of basic
services including water supply, sewerage, surface water drainage, roads,
footpaths, street lighting for the area whose upgrading is not financed by
CCCE, i.e., 60 ha comprising about 20,000 persons. No primary infrastructure
will be necessary. Twenty-four classrooms, a small market, a community
center, and three playgrounds are also included in the project.
Koumassi-Nord-Est
31.       This site was chosen mainly for its proximity to formal and informal
job opportunities and for its favorable topography (see picture at the end of
the report). Situated in the north-eastern peninsula of the island of Petit-
Bassam where a majority of the employment of the Abidjan area is concentrated,
the 70 ha site is part of a 150 ha development scheme done by SETU. This
development scheme will include:
-    50 ha of site and services;
-    19.3 ha of high income residential housing;
-    5.6 ha of "lotissements evolutifs" (400 m  lots);
-    19 ha of very low-income  SICOGI housing (with USAID
financing);
-    4.5 ha of traditional villages;
-    28.4 ha of community facilities and open space;
-    4 ha for a tourism program;
-    17.6 ha of primary and secondary roads.



ANNEX 4
Page 13
32.       This peninsula is adjacent to industrial and commercial estates
and medium-income housing developments (SOGEFIHA, SOPIM).  The site is not
presently inhabited except for the north-western parts with two small vil-
lages. Road access to the peninsula is possible through secondary streets
serving existing housing developments. In the near future, two new roads
will link the area to the major street network.
33.       The project consists of:
-    32 ha of LEM type site and services:  1,800 lots
(from 100 m2 to 150 m2 ;
-    18 ha of BNETD type site and services:  250 Ul type
(10 m x 20 m); 250 Tl type (8 m x 24 m); 250 Y2 type
(8 m x 16 m);
-    community facilities including 72 primary classrooms;
one health center with one PMI (MCH) - one dispensary;
one maternity;
-    one community center with a sportsground.
The heal.h center and the community center will not only serve the popu-
lation cf the site and services area but also the surrounding areas. The
primary schools will be able to serve the needs of the population of the
whole site.
34.       Several solutions were examined for the disposal of sewerage.
In agreement with the DDA (Direction du Drainage et de l'Assainissement)/SETU,
it is proposed to build a 2 km collector (S 350 mm) which would serve the
whole peninsula and the existing neighboring developments (PRODOMO, SOPIM) and
which will be financed pro rata the surface of the different project sites.
Abobo Nord
35.       This site is also part of a SETU development scheme which includes
both slum upgrading and site and services. The site is adjacent to the
Abobo Gare slum upgrading program. Presently vacant, the 35 ha site will
consist of: 16 ha of LEM type site and services (900 lots) and 9 ha of
BCEOM/BNETD type site and services; 125 Ul type (10 m x 20 m); 125 Tl type (8
m x 24 m); 125 Y2 type (8 m x 16 m).  Community facilities will include 36
primary schools and one health center comprising one dispensary, one maternity
and one PMI (MCH). The health center will complement the existing one in the
slum upgrading project site and will serve the whole population of the Abobo
area (about 160,000 persons in 1976).



Annex h
Table 1
Characteristics ot Project Sites
Average    Number     Number
Area                Denuity       o!         of
(ha)    Poulation  per  ha    Lots        Families
A. URgrading                    ,
Abobo Gare                  112       45,000       450       1,200       8,100
ÂdJamé                       40       20,000       500         580      3,500
Port Bouet II                40        12,000      300       1,400      2,900
Pelieuville                  h9 8.000              420          30       1.goo
Sub-Total AbidJaui        211       85,000       400       3,610      16,400
Bardo, San Pedro             60       20,000       330      (i,hOo)     5800
Sub-Total                 271      105,000       390       5,010     22,200
(Upgrading)               Umm      mu             M        .     ,,     IM
B. Sites and Services
Komassi N.E.                 70       32,000       450       2,550      5,500
Abobo Nord                   35        16.000      450       1,275      2,750
Sub-Total.                105       48,ooo       450       3,825      8,250
(Sites & Services)       -Um        mmmu --     --         t---- Mm
C. Low-Cost Housina
Koumassi N.E.                20        6,200       310       1,100      1,100
Marcory                      13         3,800      300         760         760
Sub-Total                  33       10,000       300       1,860      1,860
(L<w-Coet H    8ousing)    m         mmm        mum
TOTAL                 409      163,000       405      10,695     32,310



PRINURY CLASSROOIS NEEDED
Theoretical Number of
Repeating    Private                Number of   Clasarooms
School Age  In School   + Pupils       Schools                Classrooms   included
Total Pop    PoP (11%)   Pop (80%)      (10%)       (22%)       Total      45p/cl.    in project
Abobo Gare             45,000       5,200        4,160        400        1,000        3,560        80           72
Adjam4                 20,000       2,200        1,760        180          427        1,513        34           24 j/
Port Bouet II          12,000       1,320        1,056        100          256          900        20           24
Pelieuville             8,000         880          704         70           170         604         13          12
Bardo, San Pedro       20,000        1,650 o     1,320        130          319        1,131         25          24
Koumassi N.E.          32,000       3,520        2,800        280          677        2,400        53           72 
Abobo Nord             16,000        1,760       1,408        140         1,550       1,200         27          36 J/
TOTAL                                                                                                    264
/ Only 24 classrooms are provided under the project given the high number of private schools in the neighborhood
/ The sachool age population has been estimated at about 8% in Bardo
/ The number of classrooms provlded takes into account the population of the SETU development in which the
Bank-financed project is integrated
'i.



S5HEDULE OF îiCCOGODATICNS FOR PRIMARY SCIIOOLS
Accomodation Unit                    Accomodation requirements                                     Estimated costs based on June 1976  prices, CFAF '000
number of   net area   total net   total gross            Building    Site Dev.    Furniture         Sub-total   Prof. fees         TOTAL
units         m2       area m2          area m2                          15%                                         10%
A.  12 classroom  unit
classrooms (45)              12           64         768
workshop (45)                 1           80          80            1021
toilet                        1           40          40            (15%)
Adm: principal off.               1            16
adm. office                  1            8
faculty room                 1           36          84m            105
health room                  1            8                        (25%)
storage                      1           12
toilets                      1            4
TOTAL                                               972            1126            27.024        4.053           4.000          36.203        3.620        39.823
B. 18 classroom unit
classrooms (45)              18           64        1152
workshop (60)                 1          120         120            1532
toilet                       60           60          60            (15%)
Adm: principal off.               1            16
adm. office                  1            8
facultv room                 1           50         104             130
health room                  1           10
storage                      1           16
toilets                      1            4
TOTAI,                                             1436            1662            39.888        5.983           6.000          51.871        5.187         57.056
C. 24 classroom unit
classrooms (45)              24           64        1536
workshop (45)                 2           80          160           2042
toilet                        1           80          80            (15%)
Adm: principal off.               1            28
adm. office                  1            8
faculty room                 1           60         132             165
health room                  1           12                        (25°/)
storage                      1           20
toilets                      1            4
TOTAL                                               1908           2207            52.968         7.945          8.000          68.913        6.891         75.8C



Costs estimates of primary schools based on June 197> prices in CFAF million
Cost Estimates
Site                    Type of school                 No. of        No, of                                                     Prof. fees                            Contingencies 1/
12 cl.   18 cl.    24 cl.         schouls    classrooms         Building       Site dev.    furniture         (studies)    total base cost             (x 1.5)          TOTAL COST
Abobo Gare                 4         _           1             5           72               160             24            26              21               231
Adjame                     _    -                1             1           24                40              6             6               5                 57
Port Bouet II              2          -          -             2           24                56              8             8               7                 79
Pelieuville                I          _          -             1           12                28              4             4               4                 40
Bardo, San Pedro           2          -          -             2            24               54              8             6               7                 75
Koumassi N-E               -         4           -             4            72              160             24            26              21               231
Abobo Nord                 I          -          1             2            36               80             12            12              10               114
TOTALS           10         4           3             17         264               578             86            88              75               827                   413               1240
y Indicative average; physical (107) and price.



-HI TE , ClMi l lNF NIl                                                                                                                     ANNET   4
'71p1Te,-
ABOBO GARE
LCFAF MILLION-BASED ON JUNE 1976 PRICES)
INFRASTRUCTURE                         1976       1976       1977       1977       1978       19/8       1979      1979       1980        19HO
______________                         1-SEM      2-SES      1-SEM     2-SEM      1-SEM      2--SES     1-SE       2-SES      1-1EH       , SFM      [OTAL
PRIMARY NETWORiK
-ROADS                                 -          -          -           14         21         ?T         14        -          -                      70
-SURF. WATER DRAINAGE                  -          --         -           36         54         S4         36        -                                180
-SEWERAGE                              -          -          -      __              23         23    1___                      -                      76
BASE COST                           -          -          -           65         98         98         65       -                                326
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                -          -          -            7         10         10          7                                          34
FRICE CONTINGENCIES                   -          -                      14         29         37         30        -                                110
TOTAL                               -          -                      86        137        14'       102         -                               470
SECÔNI., TERT. NETWORF
-EARTHWORS, ROADS                     -          -                      84        125        125         84        -                                419
-SURF. WATES D1RAINAGE`                                      -           96        144        144         96        -                               480
-WATER SUPPLY                          -                                 25         38         38         25                                         126
-SEWERAGE                                         -          -           36         54         54         36                                         TITI,
-ELECTRICITY                                      -          -            3          4          4          3                   -                      14
BASE COST                                      -         -          244        365        36S        244                                        l ?t1i
F'HYSILCAL CONI INGENClIE:L                      -          -           24         37         37         _,4    I  2
PRICE COLNTINGENCIES                             -          -           54        108        137        il?        _                                4
TOTAL                                          -         -          321        S10        938        380                                        l '33
TOTAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                      -         408        647        68 3       4R2
SiTUEITEsT INFRATTRUCETL-REI
SUTDIES                                           36         19        -
-CONTROt                                                                  7          T         T
B-ASE COS1                                      36         19          7         il         il
F'HYSICAL CONTINGE NC[ES                           4          2          1          t          E          L
FRICE CONTINliENCIES                                          2          1          2          3
TOTAL                              -          4"         23          9         14         il ,           l
SUP TOTAL  *INFROA+TTUr,IES)                    42         23       417        662        6S9F       4'"
r'OMFIJN1 TY FACIl IT516
Ffil^y7li    lLAI' 5
S(UfILriSTi                           -          -                                                       >          92                               '
EEÙIITEF¶F8-                                                               -           -                 37        13i
17116                                                                                                TO         104c IOIl(
FIEAL TH CE:N lL F';
DUAI OrS TNY F
-EÙUJTFHF NT                           -          --                               -
T3TAL
M10ET9                                -                                                                             SO
rLAYGROIJN                                -                                      -          -            6                                           <5
COMHUNITY CENTFR                                 -          -                     -                      IS         15        -
BASE COLr                                                                                             1 -  -  --  L74  174                       34G
PHYSICAL CONTINGFNCTES                           -          -                     -          -           E?         17        -          -           34
PRICE CONFIINENCIFS                              -          -                     -          -           80         96        -                     L76
TOTAL COMMTINTTY EAU                -          -          -                                          2-77.      2E? '
3TUCIIES(COM.FAC. '
-SrUDIES                               -           14          7                   -                                                                  2 -  21
-CONTRE-                                                     -3                                                       3                                6
BASE COST                           -           14          7                   --         -            3          3       -                       27
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                -             1          I       -          -          -
FRICE CONTINrENCIES                    '            I          T       -          _                        I         I        -                       4
TOTAL                               -           16          9        -                     -            5          5       -           -           35
SUB-TOTAL (COMM.+STU2IES)           -           16          9        -          -          -          277       292        -                     594
LAND COIMPENSATION                      _                                                                              488
GRANRD TOTAL                        -           57         32        417        662        698        813        336       -                    3015
DOES NOT ADD TO TOTAL DUE TO ROUNDIN,



ANNEX 4
ADJAMn                                                       Table 6
(CFAF MILLION-EASED ON JUNE 1976 PRICES)
INFRASTRUCTURE                         1970       1976       1977       1977       1970       1970       1979       1979       1980       1980
NFRiSTRUCTURE-                        1-«M       2-SEM      1-8CM      2-a        I-S        2-8CM      1-SEM      2-SSII    1-SEM      2-SEM      TOTAL
F'RIMARY NETWORh
-SEWERAGE                              -          -         -             2          2       -                                                        4
BASE COST                           -         -          -                       2 2      -          -         -          -           -            4
F'HYSICAL CINTINGENCIES               -          -         -          -
F'RICE CONTINGENCIES                  -          -         -          -             t       -          -          -          -          -            1
TnOTAL                              -         -          -            :'         2      --          -          -          -          -            4
SECOND,TERT. NETWORN
-EARrHWORK, ROADS                      -          -         -          136        136       2-72
SURF. WATER DRAINAGE                  -          -         -           79         79        -          -          -          -         -           158
-SEWERAGE                              -          -         -           37         37             -          -          -               -            74
-ELECTRICITY                           -          -          -            3          3       -          -          -          -          -            6
RASE COST                           -         -          -          2S4        254        -          -         -                      -         T05
F'HYS. CONTINGENCIES                  -          -         -            25        25        -          -          -          -          -           50
FRICF CONTINGENCIFS                        -               -           56         75        -          -          -          -                     131
TO'AL                                         -          -          335        355        -          -         -                                690
TOTAL INFRASTRUCTURE                -         --         -          337        357       -          --         -          -                     694
STUDIES(INFRA. i
STUDlES                                           12         12       -          -          -          -          -          -          -          24
CONTROL                                          -         -             3         3        -          -          -                     -            6
BASE COST                           -          12         12          3          3        -          -         -          -          -           30
F'HYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                            1                             -                     -?
FRICE CONTINGENCIES                   -            1          1       -             I       -          _          _         -                        3
TOTAL                              -           14         15          4          4       -          -          -          -                      37
OUB-TOTAL (INFRA+STUDIES1           -           14        1S        341        361        -         -          -          -          -31
COMMUNITY FACII ITIES
FSRIMARY SCHOOLS
-1B1ULOING NO                                               -          -           23         23       -          -          -          -           46
COUUIPMENT                                                                         3          3                                                     6
TOTAL                                         -          -          -           26         26       -          -                     -           5?
HEAL-TH CENTERS
-BU ILDING-                                      -          _          __
-FOUIF'EN)                                   -          -                    -          -       L
TOTAL
F1ARKETS                              -          -         -          -          -
PLAYOROUNDS                           -          -               --                I          1                  -          -2
BASE COST                          -          -          -          -           27         27                  -                    -           54
F'HYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               -          -         -          -            3          3        -         --                                 6
F'RICE CONTINGENCIES                  -    -               -          -                      10       -          -          -          -           18
TOTAL COMM1UNITY FAC.              -          -          -          -           37        39        -          -          -         -           76
STUDIES (COM.FAC,)
-STLIDIES                                                   -                       2        -         -4
-CONTROL                                                                               2-  -           -          -
RASE COST                          -          -          -            2          2          1       -          -
PHYSICAL  CONTINGENCIES               -         -          -          -          -          -         -
F'RICE CONTINGENCIES                                                  -               -          -               -          -
TOTAL                                                    -            2          3         1        -         -          -          -            6
SUIB-TOTAL  (COMN.+STUDIES)        -          -          -            2         40        40        -          -         -          -           82
-[ ART' LOS L NSÀTIION                 -          -         -          -            S          8       -          -          --16
GRAND TOTAL                        -           14         15       343        408         47        - _    _                        -          827
DOES NOT ADD TO TOTAL DUE TO ROUNDING



&M81X 4
ADIODMN <SEAN DEVELOPMENT PRIJECT                                                 T.bl- 7
DETAILED COST ESTINATES
PELIEUVILLE
(CFAF MILLION-BAsED ON JUNE 1976 PRICES)
1976      1976       1977       1977       1978       1979       1979      2979       199         9 IY80
1-SEM     2-SEM      1-SEN      2-SEn      1-SEM     2-SEn      1-SEN      2-SEM      1-SEM      2-SEM      TOTAL
INFRASTRSUCTURE
PRIMAFY
SURF. WATFR DRAINAGE                    -                                 40         60                  -                                           100
SEMERADE                                -          -          -           12         17                  -                     -          -
IhFITRUITY                                                    _ -          2          3        -         -                             _          _
PASE cosI                                  -               -           54         H         - -        -                    -                     135
NHysirAL TONTINGENcIES                         -                            5                   -         -             -                              13
FRIRE  CEONIINGENC1ES                   -          -                      12         24       -                      _
10181                                 -          -         -           71        113                             -          -                     194
SUCONEI, rE r. NEriORN
EARTHiWO1U ,  DO-DS                                                      57        8a              -                          -                     141
s,U). wAIfEs DRAINAGE                   -          -          -           28         43       -          -          -                     -            1
MATER 511FF1 Y                          -          -          -                      1'x      -          -          -          -?
srwr RAIE                              -          -                      18         2'       -          -          -          -                      1=
IlIcI hicilY                            -          -          -            7                                                                          la -  _  -  _  -G
PAIE  LOST                            -          -                    120         i         -          - F300
-Iy,5IECAL    J ONTINSFNCIES                  -               -           t2         ID       -                                                       30
F IC  COI TTNGENCIFS                    -          -                                 54             -          -                                      80
TOTAL                                 -         -                     15Y        252             -               -                     -          411
1oT81  I[FAS FRFUCTURE                -         -          -          230        365        -                                                        .
STI,['IFS INFEA  I
Ii[I'I[s                                -           14          7       -          -          -          -         -           -                     21
t } M I O L                               _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   ~~~~~~~~~~~2 35
CTrJJLT[                  -         -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -- - ----  ....      --   -     --  --     --  --    -    - -   -  ---      - -- -
.0S1 TnsI                             -           14         7          2          3        -         _          _                                 26
r[Vil  T f AI rU0NTIlNI,F NT1ES         -            I          I        -                    ---                              --
If i   1l)NTINGENSIES                   -          _                 I                        _ -                  _                                  3
,2IAL                                 -           16         9          3          4        -2
SUE, [A1  TINFEA+S>TU~IES)            -           16          9       233        370        -62
OMMUINITT FY211 [OIES
F51M050 CIHOOLS
1'I, JIING                              -          -          -                      lé.       1         -          -          -                     32
-EO0IFTMNT                                         -          -          -            '                          ---  -        -         -             4
,OTAL                                 -         -          -                      18         18       -          -          -          -           36
IHEALTH SENIORS
-BUILDING
-EOUIPMENT
TOTAL                             -- --      -  -      -- --      -- --      -- --      -- --      --  --      ----     -             -- -      - - -
-MANfGETS
-CONMUNITY CENTER                        -          -          -         -             R         8        -         -          -          -           16
ASE COST                              -         -          -          -           26         26       -          -          -          -           52
FHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                  -          -          -         -             3         3        -         -          -          -            A
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                     -          -         -          -                       6        -         -          -          -           i
TOTAL COMMUNITY FAC.                  -         -                                 33         34       -          --         -         -            P
STUDIES SCOM,FAc,)
-STUDIES                                 -            2          1        -         -          -          -          -         -          -            3
-CONTROL                                 -          -         -          -             I         I        -         -          -          -            2
BASE COST                             -            2          1       -            1          I       -          -          -          -            3
P YsICAL CONTIN6ENCIES                  -          -          -         -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                     -          -          -         -          -          -          -
TOTAL                                 -            2          1       -            I          I        -         -          -         -S
SUH-TOTAL  COMM,.+STUDIES>            -            2         1        -           34         35       -          -         -          -           72
LAMNOCaMPENSATION                       -          -          -          -           13         13       -          _         _          _           26
GRAND  TOTL                           -           29        10        233        416         48       -                               -          726
DOES NOT ADD TO TOTAL DUE TO rMINDINO



ANNEX 4
PORT SIIIJFT I J                                                    Table
C  JE AF M LLI JIN -ItOI [I ON  [[rIE 1 'ê PRIE F 
INIFÀ/ISTRISICU8E                       1976       1976       1977       171 ?197              1979       1979        _197      19F80      1980
1S9 2SEN       1-SEN      2-E        1-u        2-SE       1 SF9     2SF2I       ISF9       -E         TOTAL
PRIMARY NETWORK
-SURF. WATER DRAINAGE                     -          -          -          -          -           26         SO       -          -          -            76
-ELECTRICITY                              -          -          -          -                      il         22        -          -          -           33
BASE COST                                        -          -          -          -           37         72        -          -                     109
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   -          -          -          -          -            4          7        -          -          -           il
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                           -                -          -                      14         33        _       _ _         _7
TOTAL                                 --         -          -          -          -           54        112         -                    -          166
SECOND, TERT, NFTWDOR
--EARTHWORKN  ROADS                       -          -          -          -                      56        109                              -          165
-SURF. WATER DRAINAGF                     -          -          -          -                      39         75                                         114
-WATER SUPELS                                        -          -          -          -           15         30                   -                      45
-SEWERAGE                                           3- -7                                                    72       -     -               -          109
-ELECTRICITY                                         -                     -          -           14         26        -          -          -           40
BASE COST                                              -               -          -          161        313              -               -          474
FHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   -          -          -          -                      16         31                  -          --           47
FRICE CONTINLENIIES                      -          -          -          -          -           62        145       -                                205
TOTAL                                 -          -          -           -         -          238        4B9              -          -                '/
TOTAL INFRASTRIICTURE                 -                     -          -          -          29:        6to        -                     -LIF
STUDIES( INFRA.)
--S rUDIES                                -          -          -           1 B                                                                          ?7
CONTROL                                                                                           2          5 _
BhASE COST                                                              18           9                    534
PHYSILAL CONTINGENCIES                              -                       2          I        -         -           -                                  3
PRICF CONTINOENSIES                      -          -                       3          2          1          t
TOTAL                                             -3 -                  2Z          1           3         6        -          -          -           44
SUB -TO)TAL IINFRA.+STUDIES           -                     -           2 _                  29_        603  9             __   _    _            =?
cI`MMUNITY F4CIL I 1IES
RIMNARY SCHOOLS
-BUILDING                                 -          -                                           -           32         32        -                      64
--EQUIPMENT                                    -          -                      -         -                  4          4        -          -            B
_ - - -    - - - -    - - - -               - - - -    - - - -    - - - - _-  - - - --__ _ _ _ _ _               _ _ _ _ _ _ _               _ _ _ _ _ __         
TOTAL                                 -          -          -                     -          -           36         36        -                      72
HEALTEl CENTERS
-BUILDING                                      -          -                -          -          -           13         13        -          -           26
-EIUIFMENT                                                                             -         -                       I 
TOTAL                                 -          -          -               -                -           15         12        -          -           30
-MARKETS                                                                              -                       B          S        -                      16
-PLAYGROUNDS                                    -         -          -                -          -                                -          -            4
-COMMUNITY CENTER                         -          -          -         -          -           -          -         -
B45E COST    ~~~~~~~~~~----          ----       ----    ------   ------   ------   ------   -----                 ------    ------    -----
BASE CSOT                             -                                                      -60                    60        --120
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                   -          -          -                -            6          6       -           _           12
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                           -          -                -          -          -           27         33       -          -            60
TOTAL COMMUNITY FPAC.                       -          -          -               -          -           93         99        -          -          191
STUDIES (COM.FACA)
-STUDIES                                  -          -          -            7          4        -          -                     -         -            1
-CONTROL                                        -         -                                     -                        I                                2
BARE COST                              -         _          _                        4       _1                       I                              13
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   -          -          -            1        -          -          -         -          -          -             1
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                      -          -          -            t          1        -          -         -          -          -
TOTAL                                            -          -             9          5       -             1          I       -          -           16
SUB-TOTAL (COMM.+STUDIES)             -          -          -             9         5        -           94         99        -          -          207
GRAND TOTAL                                      -          -           32          17       295        701         99        -                    1144
DOES NOT ADO TO TOTAL DUE TO ROUNDING



IEZ E4-ICI BAANNSX 4
Table 9
I0FAF M0li0N--BASE0 lN JUNF  1976 PR ICFg)
lNFRASTILIr:TINT                         19Zh        I 976      t /7       1??7        19-        19S I F    I i79 -    5 19       19i90      1 91.0
1  FM      Jsr         - 1- i       F          I Plt1  . -LL t     I -,Fm       SF M        I!;F M  :-9m         noFIAl
PRIMARY NF IWDIRF
-EARTHWORh. RD                                                   -                     - R-                              -
-SEWERAGE
-FLEtTRf ITY
BASE COST
FFIHYfICAL CONTINtF-NCIES                 -                      -                                           _          _                      _
FRTCF CONT0 [NIENCtIE S                                         --
TtTAL                                                                               -
SECOND, TF RT. NF-TWORK
-I-ARTHWORK, ROhlEi                        -                                  19        191        114         57        -           -          -          381
-SURF . WATER  FiRAI NAGE                                                     10        1 02        61          31       -           -          -          204
-WArFR SIIFFL Y                                                                4         40         24         12        -           -0
-SEWERAGE                                                                     12        lti        71         36                         -                238
-ELECTRICITY                                          -           -            9                    51 F4      27        -                                3180
-CONNECITIONS                                         -          -                                  7 30    1_  _                _          _              100
BASE COSI                                                                 59        597        355         178        -                     -         1184
FHYSICAL CONTINoENcIrs                              --           -            h.         9         36         18        -                      -          119
PRICE CONTINGENCIL-                                                          13 7       7         t33    __2 _         _-                                 404
TOTAL                                                        -            /1        S:'Z       1,2.;      277         -                     -         1705
IOThL INFRASTRUCTUJRF                                         -           7S        r:7        523        277                                         /OS
STUDIFS INr-RA,)
-SF00500s                                  -                       ,'6       5-6       -           --         -          -           - ---2
- C0ON I  O                                                       -            S                     _l _l   _        _  _-                                            2 7
BASE C0ST                                                      56         57          14         11          4        -                                139
PHYSICAL CONIINOENOIES                                             6          6          S          1        --                    --                      14
FR1CE CONTINOENCIES                       -          -             6          8          3        _        _            -                  _ _             20
TOTAL                                   -         -            ,7         - 1        18         1i           6        -          -          -          173
SU0-TOFAL  (TNF-RAfSrLJDOIES                       -           67        149        845        935        283         -          -                    1879
COMMUNITY FACILITIFS
FRI5M01rY SCHOOLS
BRIFLD[Nr-                                                                                         31         31        -          _                       6?
-FQUIFPMENT                                                      -                     -             3          3                   -                        6
1 OITAL                                                                                           4         34       --         --                      6F1
HEALTH CE NTEkRS
--ruTL DING
I 011051 N1                               -          -          --                                           -___
IOTAL                                                        -
MAhRET!                                        -                 -         -                                   a S      -          -                       16
-FLAYOROUND9                                                                -          --            2                   -          -                        4
-COMMIJNI1Y CFN1ER                                                          --          -            n          8        -          -                       16
RA5E t,OST                                                                                      5           Of        -          -          -          3F0
IH iCILAL  CONTINGFENCIES                 -          -                                 _            S          5                         -                 10
FRItE CONTINGENCIFS                       -          -                      -          -           19         23        -          -           -           42
TOTAL l:lMMUFNJTY FAC,                 -           -         -                                  74         79        -           -          --         153
STU'DIE9,COM.FAC. I
--CUINTROI                                 --          -          -                                   1          1       -
--07   F  OST                              -                        4          4                   -          -                                               8
-HY5ICAL CONTINGENCIFS                    -          -
IRICE CONTINOENCTF                                  -                        t             -          -          -                            , _          I
I OTAL                                            -             ,          S                      t          1       -           -          -           1 ?
0118-llUrAI  107195. *srFOI'F-                    -             -,         r,                    '           80      -          -          -          16S
-  ,Pr C'DOPlI ii As il   nri
(GRAND TOTAL                           -                       72        1 54       H4F        61()       363         --                              2044
DOFS NOT ADD TO  TOTAL DIJL IO RlJIJNDING



0S/18/76                                                                                                                                AMOA X 4
ABIrIJAN IJRbAN PEVELOF'MRNT PROJFCT                                            Table 10
DETAILEFl COST  S1 IMATES
K OUMASSI
(CFAF MILLION-EIASEF, ON JIJNE 1976 FR12651
1976      1976      1977      1977       1978      1978      1979       1979      1980      19BO
1-SE                1-S                  1-SE      2-         -SF       2-SFM     t- SL9    2 SEM    TOTAL
INFRASTRUCTURE
SECOND, TERT. NETWORK
-EARTHWORK,  ROADS                      -          31       175                   57       175        -         -                              4311
-SURF  WATER DRAINAGE                               a S      48        -          15        48        -         -                              119
-WATER SUPPLY                           -           6        32        -          10        32        -         -                               80
-SEWERAGE                               -          il        62        -          20        62        -         -                              15
-ELECTRICITY                            -           7        38                   12        38        -         -                               95
BASE COST                                       62       355       -          11]       355       -         -          -         -         887
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                 -           6        3F                   12        35        -         -         -          -          BB
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                   -                     51       -           34       133       -          -         -                    2?-
TOTAL                               -           il        86       -           46       168       -                                         311
TOTAL INFRASTRUCTURE                -           73       441       -          16L       521       -                                       10'28
STUDIES (INFRA)
-STUDIES                                 10        10       -          -         -         -          -         -                               20
-CONTROL                                -           1                              2  -13
BASE COSI                            10         10         S       -            2         5       -                    -                     32
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   1         1          t      --         -            I      -          -         -                      4
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                    -           1         1                                                                                  4 -  -  -  -  -  4
TOTAL                                il         12         6       -            2         8       -          -         -                    39
SUB-TOTAL (INFRA.+STUDIES)            11        85       447       -          143       531       -          -                            1237
COMMUNITY FACILITIES
PRIMARY SCHOOLS
-BUILDING                                         -         -          -         --        -           9?        92       -          -         184
-EOUIPMENT                              -         -         -          -         -          -          13        13       -          -          26
TOTAL                               -          -         -         -               -              105        105                 -         210
HEALTH CENTERS
-BUILDINO G                                       -         -                                          48        4B       -                     96
-EOUIPRENT                              -         -         -          --                               7       _                               14
TOTAL                               -                                                               ,         55                           110
-MARKETS                                -         -         -          -         -                     25        25                  -          50
-PLAYGROUNDS                            -         -                                  -  -  -            6         6       -         -1 
-COMMUNITY CENTER                       -         --        -                    -                     1         15 1               -           30
BASE COST                           -          -                                                  206       206        -                   412
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                2-         -         -         -                               21         21                 -           42
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                   -          -         -                                         9         113       -         - ___
TOTAL COMMUNITY FAC.                -          -         -          -         -         -         321       33'?      --         -         650
STUI0IES(COM.FAC. )
-STUDIES                                 14        14                             -                                       -         -            B
-CONTROL                                -         - 3                                      -                              -                      6
BASE COST                            14         14       -                                          3          3                             34
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   1         t       -                                                   -2
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                1       -                              - _                    2                              4
TOTAL                                15         16       -          -         -                     S                                       42
SUA--TOTAL (COMM.+STUDIES)    1_                16       -                                        326        3402                          722
-LAND COM1 ENSArION                     -           f        44        -          14         44                 -                    -t10
GRAND TOTAL                          26        109       491                  17 120    575       32<       34'                           2050
DOES NOT ADD TO TOTAL DUE TO ROlJNDING



ANqNEX 4
A18180 NORI                                                  Table 11.
(CFAF MILI-ItN--BASFD ON JUNE 1976 F'RICEFS)
INFRASTRUCTURE                           1976        9 76      1 977      197/       J8798      1978       i y 2      19/9       198J0      1 Q110
----------------               1 -Sk R    2-liEM     [-qLR      ,-qER     t  -il-M   2  1111     1  3m     2-,;M      1-1398     I  1       ltJîA[
SECONE', TERT, NETWORN
-EARTHW4ORK, ROArS                                   -                      22        1 75        22        -          -                                2 1 
-SURF. WATER ErRAINAO9-Ë                                                               40          6        -                                             0
--WATER SUPPLY                            -                                  4         32          4        --                                           40
-SEWERAOE                                                             S~-E             62          8        - ~       --78
-ELECTRICITY                              --                               --                    --
BASE COST                                        -          -40                   318         40                                                    398
PHYSICAL CONTINr,ENCTES                  -                     -4                     32          A                                                     40
F'RICE CONTINOE-NCIES                    -          --9                               94         t),                  --                               1
TOTAL                                  -          --13                            1.26         19        -158
TOTAL INFRASTRUCTURF                                                     52       444          5"                                                   55-
STUDIES ( INF-RA)
-STUDIES                                  -3                      6          1        -          -          ----1(1
-CONTROL                                  -                                   1         51                  -                     .-7
BASE COST                              -3                      6          2          5          1                                                    t   7
F'HYSICÀL CONTINOENCIES                  -1                               -                                -                                -
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                      -.         -1                    -1                                                                             2   - 
TOTAL                                  -3                      7          27                    1                                                    20
SUD-TOTAL (INFRA.t-STUDIIES)                        3          7        54        450         59        -           --                               73
COMMUNIrY tFACILITIES
PRIMIARY SCHOOt-S
-BUILDINO                                 -                                                        5         37        --9'2
-EQUIPMENT                                -                                .-7                                S-                                         12
TOTAL                                  -                    -621                                         42        -104
HEALTH CENTERS
-BUILDING                                                                                         58         39        --97
-EQUIPMENT                                                                                        ci --       5        ---13
TOTAL                                  -          -          --66                                        44        --1.10
-MARKETS                                  -                     --                                            6        -                                 15
-PLAYOROUNDS                              -          -                                             2          1        -3
-COMMUNITY CENr~ER                        - 
BASE COST                                         -                                            39         93       -                                232
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                                                           14          9                   --23
F'RICE CONTTNGENCIFS                     -                                           -52                    43                   -                      95
TOTAL COMMUNITY FAC.                              -                                -22                  145                   -                     350
STUDIES (COM.FAC.)
--STUDIES                                 -                       9          2                              --                                           16
-CONTROL                                                                    -         -4                      3        -                     -7
BASE COST                                          5          9          2                     4         3                              -23
OHIYSICAL CONrVINGENCIES                                         1        -          --                                           
P'RICE CONTINGENC1ES                                              t                               1          i        -                                  3
TOTAL                                  -                      )2                                6          4       --2
SUB-TOTAL (COMMRR,+TtJr[IFS)                        5         il          ?                  211        149        --3713
JANDI Ct18PN     (IN                     --6                                          44          6       ---                                          56
GRAND TOTAL                            -9                     lIt        62       49 4       26         149                   -          -         100
00E5 8OT ADOi rO IOlAL hIUE TO R008D1N0



TRUNK SEWERAGE
(CFAF MILLION-BASED ON JUNE 1976 PRICES)
ANNEX 4
Table 12
O1Y76     1976       1977      1977       1978      1973       1979       19/9      1980       1980
1-SEM     2--SEM     1-SEM         -SLEM  1-SEM     2-SEM      1-SEM      2-SEM     1-SEM      2-iEM      luA L
PUMPING STATION AND COLLECTOR                                           --- -    -----
-LJIV 11 WOR_                                                            24         16                                                            40
-É1QIJJf'MENT                                                 _          16         i L7
rOIAL NIL1MAiSiI                     -                                39        2                        -                          --65
ArOBO NOR[1
PUMPING STATION AND COLLECTOR
-CVlL WLORN                              -         -         -K          60        1 81       60                             -         --         301
-FQUIfMEN7                              --                   -           60        181        60             -               -                    301
_   _   _   _   _   _  _    _  _  _- _ _-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-  _  _    _ - - _ __-- -_ __-    _ _ _ 
TorAL hBOD[I                                    -         --         1?0       361        120             -              -          -          601
rOIAL AZ38DO-(UM,                              --                    160       387        120       -                                         667
[H 1-1fI C AL SONT rNtiFNC  1l -                                        16         39         12                                                  67
F COiNTINOENFlS                    -         -          -          ?8         95         37                                                 160
Serl-  L            -i O                        -                    204       521        169                                                  894
3TUOj F S
-srULlEis                                            8        11S         3                  -                               -         -           ?6
- CONOL-                                                                  7         17          5                                               _  29
AS/E C5ST                             -           8        15         10         17         5                   -5
FPYS[rAL CONTTNtlENCTES                             t          2          1         2          t            -                                      7
F: R1E CONITNOENCIES                    -         -            1         1          3          1       -                    -         -            6
su  10o113AL                                     9        la    _     2        22          7                                                   68
TOTAL 801SF COST                                  B        15        169       404        126        -         -          -         -          72?
FINYSI CAL CONTIN(if NCTF-!i1                                  2        17         40         13       -         -          -         -           73
P RICE CONTINOENCIES                              -            1        30         98        38             -          -               -         167
OhAND  IlIAL                         -            9        1SF       2l6       543        176       -          _                               962
DUES NOr AIDD TO TOIAL DUE 10 ROUNDIINO



ANNEX 4
Table 13
Inflation Rate Factors
June 1976
-end 1976       1977      1978       1979      1980
TRANSPORT
- East-West Highway 1/           1.04        1.09       1.09      1.09      1.09
- Traffic improvement
. Equipment 2/             1.05        1.08       1.08      1.08      1.07
. Civil works 2/            1.07       1.12       1.12      1.12      1.10
- Traffic Bureau                 1.05        1.08       1.08      1.08      1.07
SHELTER
- Equipment 2/                   1.05        1.08       1.08      1.08      1.07
- Civil works 2/                 1.07        1.12       1.12      1.12      1.10
- Studies and Control            1.05        1.08       1.08      1.08      1.07
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   0.05       0.08        1.08      1.08      1.07
1/   Based on actual price formula as shown in the awarded contracts
2/   Bank Guidelines



d   ;!  |   } ],  F Q   §   E fi l i   h               i  Fietr    -o    i r 
*.,~~- I- f *t      E()E()E(3DE!(3%e)E())E()
s.;-~- ~ ~~~-~ ?_____
t X



AM111`11111111lilli(           Plan  no. 2
t~~~~~~~~~~ j(fsUr>a
_ Périmétre d'étude
Voies revêtujes
L        toutes es autres seont nton re tues
mois carrossables
L     Alignemients comneéciaux
Q Ecole~~ve \
Direction àépci-rtementole cki travail
C)(ainnexe A~djome
Réserve administrative(nonaffectée>
Eglise évangéliste
Ecole nouvelle Ivoirienne
Privée et Secondaire)
*c de la c          rrtructain d'oeuvre
Hotel `Libert
Siège sociail du journal
O"le sportif Ivoirien"'
r                     ~~~~~~~Eglise Baptiste 
commercial lOBA
...*<..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ousprmie rv



;1t"'.,'..        '          -`sI  "
n s             a `   b\                                                                                                 --a __\;` 
\  i           10 - | S              ggt I .  b  t  4
!~~~~ -    X   'Y                                                                                    s    - 
o     -                         -II -    - 
-  -.     X 



ANKEZ >4
I
(
.eee* ** *   e.    * * * e.
e
e                                                                        e
e                                                                               e
e
e                                                                                           e
e                                                                                                  e
e
e                                                                                                           e
e                                                                                                                 e
e                                                                                                                  e
e
e
e
e
e
e                                                                                                                       e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
*
o
e
*                                                                                                                                                                a
e
e
e
e
*                                                                                                                                                                s.
e
e
e
e
e
I                                                    e
j'
I                                          e
e
e
e
e
e                                                       e
e
e
e                                                     e
*                                                  e
e
e



I       I          i       liii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------



__ __ _ __ __ _ --  X   !NN I X
V                                               1-
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
J,~~~~~~~~~~~~~ïl



ANNEX 5
Page 1
IVORY COAST
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SMALL LOANS COMPONENT
1.        As part of the shelter component of the project, credit will be made
available for the purchase of construction materials in areas to be upgraded
and on serviced sites, as well as for the purchase of lots. Loans will be
made by Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire (CCI) and the Banque Nationale pour l'Epargne
et le Credit (BNEC); for CCI, this is merely an extension of its ongoing
operations while, for BNEC, this will be a part of its start-up activity.
Financing will be provided by: (a) US$1.0 million from the proposed Bank
loan: (b) CFAF 195 million (US$0.86 million) from rediscount facilities at the
Central Bank; and (c) payments from lot purchasers which would actually
represent reflows on Bank/USAID financing of the secondary infrastructure,
amounting to some CFAF 192 million (US$0.85 million). Consequently, approxi-
mately two-thirds will be financed by the Bank and USAID, with one-third by
the Central Bank.
2.        Beneficiaries.  Sub-borrowers will be owners of lots in areas to
be upgraded, purchasers of lots in site and services areas, and lessees of
serviced lots. Income limits are set in line with the lot allocation criteria
established for the project which should fix a minimum household income at
least equal to the legal minimum wage while the maximum would be two and
one-half times that amount; at present, these limits would limit eligibility to
those households earning between CFAF 19,000 and 47,500 per month (US$84 -
211). The average household income of credit applicants is expected to be
between CFAF 30,000 and 40,000 monthly. In the areas to be upgraded, it is
anticipated that about one-third of the owners will exceed the maximum and,
hence, be ineligible; in all areas, it is expected that some 20% of the
eligible population will not seek credit but will finance their housing
through traditional and family sources.
3.        Sub-loan amounts.  In areas to be upgraded, owners would borrow
to purchase construction materials to build additional housing and to improve
existing construction. As the average present value of built up property is
estimated at CFAF 2 million (US$8,888), the owners' existing equity stake is
substantial and 90% financing would be provided for new investments. It
is expected that lot owners will invest, on average, about 10% of the exist-
ing value of the property; hence, the average investment is expected to
be CFAF 200,000 (US$889) and the average sub-loan CFAF 180,000 (US$800).
4.        Approximately 30% of the serviced sites are expected to be pur-
chased. Purchasers could finance both the lot acquisition and construction
materials from the credit facility in one combined loan; financing would be
available for up to 85% of the total, requiring a 15% down payment, plus the
value of construction labor, so-called "sweat equity." As the average lot
cost is estimated at CFAF 415,000 (US$1,844) and the materials needed to
construct a basic two-room dwelling are estimated at CFAF 385,000 (US$1,711),
total average investment per lot would be CFAF 800,000 (US$3,555) and the
average sub-loan CFAF 680,000 (US$3,022).



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        The remaining 70% of the serviced lots will be leased for
20 years from SICOGI; lessees will borrow for the purchase of construc-
tion materials and 85% financing will be provided. Average investment
per lot of CFAF 165,000 (US$733) is expected to build an initial one-room
dwelling; hence, the average sub-loan is estimated at CFAF 140,000 (US$622).
6.        Sub-loan terms.  Individual sub-loan terms will be fixed by the
onlending bank in accordance with the income of the individual sub-borrower.
The objective will be to set loan payments at 15-25% of monthly income,
with a maximum under Ivorian law of 33% of monthly income for loan payments
for all debts. As detailed in the attached Table 1, it is expected that
owners in areas to be upgraded and lessees of serviced sites will be able to
repay their loans in 3 to 10 years. Hence, maximum terms of 10 years will be
set. Lot purchasers are expected to be able to repay within 12 to 20 years
and the latter will be set as a maximum term. To ensure access of credit
to low income beneficiaries, minimum terms of 2 and 7 years, respectively, will
also be fixed.
7.        Onlending interest rate.  The interest rate will be set at 4 percentage
points over the costs of funds, expected to result in a rate of 13% p.a. on
all sub-loans. This is the maximum allowable under Central Bank regulations
and is substantially below estimated alternative informal credit costs. With
two-thirds of the financing from the Bank and USAID at approximately 8% p.a.
and one-third provided by the Central Bank at 5.5%, the weighted average cost
of funds to the onlending banks is about 8%. It is expected that, given the
large number of sub-loans and the geographical dispersion of borrowers, the
costs of administration will amount to about 2% of this spread. The remaining
2% will approximately cover the default risk of this rather high-risk lending
to a relatively poor clientele which is unused to borrowing.
8.        Procedures.  Once they have converted to a permanent title (in the
case of owners in areas to be upgraded), or once they had been allotted a site
(in the case of purchases or lessees in site and services areas), applicants
will seek credit from either bank, at their own option. The onlending bank
will evaluate the applicant's income and his credit status, review his plans,
and set appropriate loan terms. Given credit approval, the applicant will
begin to make monthly payments approximately equal to his projected debt
service payments into a savings account to provide his down payment. The
loan will become effective upon accumulation of the required down payment.
As detailed in Table 1, construction materials borrowers will need about 3
months and lot purchasers about 12 months to build up the required down payment
during which time infrastructure work on the sites will be in progress. With
the additional loan evaluation, construction supervision and collection work,
it is expected that each of the two onlending banks will need to add 3-4 staff
members.
9.        Total credit demand.  Based on the assumptions given above as
to sub-loan size and the number of lots to be completed under the project,
some 2,350 individual sub-loans are expected for a total amount of CFAF
612 million (US$2.72 million) (details in Table 2).



AVERAGE DEBT SERVICE BURDEN
Upgradinig areas          Sites and Services              Sites and Services
Owners                     Purchnsers                       Lessees
Construction materials      Lot purchase + const. mats.       Construction materials
Average subloan                   180,000                       680,000                        1ho, 000
Txerln (years)             3         5      iô             12     15         20           3        5         7        10
Monthly payinent
a 13% P.*. 3/  606N            4100    2700           9350   8600       8000        4700      3200     2550      2090
Tax or lease payînent-   3300-   3300    3300              -     -                     4150      4150      41 î      .4150
Totpl monthly housing
pnyment               9365     7h00    6000           9350   8600        8000       8850      7350      6700     62h0
Average household
monthly income                40,000                           35,000                        30 000
Housing pyament as %
of household income    23        18       15            27      25          23        30        25        22        21
Down payinent                    20,000                          120,000                        25,000
Months needed to
accimul1ate down pay-ment
depositing housing pay-
ment in savings account  2        3        3             12     13        îl6          3         3         4         4
All figures in CFAF except where noted.
1/ B,etterment tax estimated to recover 50% of cost over 20 years; lease estimated at 12% infinite lease
DFCD May 14, 1976



LOAN DEMAND FORECAST
Upgrading areas             Sites and Services             Sites and services
Owners                     Purchasers                      Lessees
Construction materials   Lot purchase + const. mats.    Construction materials
Average investnlent'
Construction materials (CFAF)       200,000                         385,000                      1655000
Lot                     (CFAF)         -                            L15,000                          _
Total                (CFAF)      200,000                         800,000                      165,000
Financing                                90%                             85%                           85 
Average loan                (CFAF)     180,000                         680,000                       140,000
Numiber of Lots.1/                      1800                              570                          1330
t eligible and
seeking credit                        45%                             80%                          80%
NumWlr Df lonns                          82`                             460                           1065
M)TAL credit               (CFAF million)
Construction materials   "              10                            150                           150
Lot purchase     1.       "        -                                  162
Total                                150                           312                           150
DFCD May 14, 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1
IVORY COAST
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        The technical assistance component required to ensure a
satisfactory implementation and monitoring of the project comprises:
Traffic Bureau                     65 man-months
Ministry of Construction
& Urban Development          125 man-months
BNEC                              120 man-months
Ten-year Development Study       120 man-months
Costs have been estimated at US$9,500 per month, including: consultants
fees and overhead ($6,500) local allowances ($1,050), travel ($370) and
taxes ($1,580).
A. Traffic Management
Traffic Bureau
2.        The Traffic Bureau is to be set up within the Ministry of Public
Works and Transport with the objective to study and execute programs designed
to improve the operation of existing transport infrastructure and plan more
efficiently for improvements to that infrastructure. The Bureau will address
itself to the complete range of transport users - car drivers and passengers,
bus riders, taxi-riders, cyclists and pedestrians - as well as to the full
range of urban transport modes including rail and ferries The Terms of
Reference specifically call for the Bureau to be responsible for:
(a)   reconnaissance and diagnosis of the operating
problems of transport infrastructure in the whole
urban area;
(b)   development of traffic regulation concepts and
techniques within a policy framework of favoring
public transport and dissuading the inefficient and
obstructive tise of private cars;
(c)   planning, programming, and executing policies and
system improvements; and
(d)   management and supervision of the systems developed.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
3.         Two experts - public transport and traffie engineering-wil.l he hired
initially to define tlue Bureau's work prograri in detail. On thie basis of
their recommendations the Bureau wi]l become fully operational six montlbs
after the project begins. To carry out the above tasks the Traffic Bureau
will require the following experts.
Public Transp ort Adviser
4.         lie shall have professional experience in public transport operations
specifically dealing with scheduling, routing, fares, finance, and management.
Part of his professional career shall have been spent in developing countries.
He shall be fluent in French. Jlis assignment shall he for two years. lie
shall advise MPWT on:
(a)  the investigation, review and analysis of the operation
of public transport services, inclniding scheduling,
routing and fare structures;
(b)  the compiling of records, reports, and information on public
transport operations, including the adoption of standardized
iccounrting and reporting procedures hy SOTRA;
(c) the provision of advisory services to public transport
operators on management, fleet maintenance, training,
accouinting, and stnlci atlier matters for which advice may
be rqtiqested; and
(d) thee conduct of short courses on puiblic transport operations
for rMinistry staff and public transport operators.
He shall also assist lIPWT on:
(a)  the economic analyses of public tranlsport operations;
(b)  the development of plans, policies, criteria and programs
to provide a satisfactory level of public transport services;
(c)  tlue administration of transport planning, anid the coordination
oi transport planning and other planning in the urban sector, and
the administration of the Bureau;
(d)  the regulation of transport operations, the development of
Licensing procedures and criteria, and the enforcement of
policies and regulations; and
(e) tlhe monitoring of the progress of project implementation,
and preparation of progress reports for Government and the Bank.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Senior Adviser on Traffie Management
5.        He shall have an engineering degree with additional qualifications
ln transportation/traffic engineering and with a minimum of five years
experience in highway planning and traffic management and have had experience
in the application of computers to urban road network analysis. He shall be
fluent in French. He shall advise and assist the Traffic Management Bureau
for two years on all aspects of transportation/traffic engineering including:
(a) the analysis and evaluation of transport networks with
the help of computers;
(b) the execution of urban transport studies;
(c) measures to encourage public transport;
(d) area road pricing, and other measures to encourage
economy in the use of road space;
(e) policies and control measures relating to the operation
and enforcement of on- and off-street car parking;
(f) the monitoring of traffic volumes, composition and
speeds, the occupancy of vehicles, and other key
indicators of effective traffie management; and
(g)  the promotion of traffic safety measures and the
measurement of the incidence of accidents to road
users.
Two Advisers on Traffic Engineering Implementation
6.        They shall be professionally qualified as traffic and/or civil
engineers with at least five years practical experience of the implementation
of traffic engineering measures in cities. They shall be fluent in French.
The assignment shall be for two years.
7.        They shall advise and assist the Traffic Management Bureau in the
design and implementation of junction improvements, priority schemes for
high occupancy vehicles, and other traffie engineering measures. They
will be called upon to train Bureau staff by practical example and by
implementing measures themselves.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
B. Ministry of Construction and Urban Development (MCU)
Civil Engineer for Building to the Directorate of Construction of MCU
8.        He shall have a degree in civil engineering for buildings.  Part
of his professional career shall have been spent in developing countries.
He shall be fluent in French. The assignment shall be for two years. He
shall coordinate his work with the Architect attached to the DUA in charge
of the design of the community facilities. He shall assist and advise the
Director of the Directorate of Construction of MCU on the construction of
the community facilities included in the project, in particular:
(a) the preparation of the project implementation schedule and
the coordination of the implementation aspects of the
construction, furnishing and equipping of the project
installations;
(b) with the Architect at DUA the preparation of briefing documents
(the architect's brief) - and of briefed documents for any
other specialists required (e.g. health facility specialist) -
ensuring that norms, standards, and specifications reflect
economy and functional design;
(c) with the Architect at DUA the review of architectural drawings
to ensure that space provisions and specifications are inter-
preted correctly so as to minimize changes during construction
and after acceptance and approval of bids;
(d) preparation of furniture lists and bid documents and review
of specifications;
(e) preparation of model bid documents for the calling of construction
and furniture bids;
(f) grouping goods to be procured, so as to permit bulk procurement
consistent with sound technical and procurement practices;
(g) drafting bid notices, other standard documents for inviting bids
and Model Bid Documents and determining the method to be used for
obtaining bids in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits";
(h) establishing procedures and criteria for the evaluation of bids
and evaluating bids received for goods required for the Project.;
(i) inspecting and receiving goods, to ensure that correct quantities
are received, to the correct specifications;



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(j) arranging for the safe custody and the proper delivery of goods
to the Project institutions and installation, in accordance
with the target dates in the implementation schedule;
(k) monitoring and evaluating progress including site visits;
(1)  inspection of completed buildings with the architects prepara-
tory to their delivery to the authorities and supervise the
preparation of final certificates for payment due on completion;
(m) training of counterpart;
(n) helping in preparation of second project; and
(o) preparation of periodic progress reports for the Government and
the Bank.
One Architect, and One Planner to the Directorate of Architecture and
Urban Planning (MCU)
9.        They shall have a degree in architecture, and urban planning
respectively and experience with cities in developing countries. They shall
be fluent in French. The assignnents shall be for two years. They shall
assist the Director of the Directorate of Architecture and Urban Planning.
They will inter alia:
-    be responsible for the monitoring of the shelter component
of the project;
-    help prepare legislation on that subject;
-    identify and prepare future upgrading and site and services
projects;
-    train counterparts and give lectures to technicians of MCU;
-    assist DUA staff in day-to-day operations;
-    participate in the preparation of periodic progress reports for
the Government and the Bank/IDA.
The Architect will, inter alia:
(a) prepare the project implementation schedule and ensure that
implementation aspects of the construction, furnishing, and
equipping of the Project institutions are properly coordinated;
(b) prepare briefing documents on the basis of the accomodation schedule
or the specifications mentioned in the appraisal report (the
architect's brief) for project buildings and briefed documents
for the health facility specialist, ensuring that norms, standards,
and specifications reflect economy and functional design;



ANNEX 6
Page 6
(c) arrange for and assemble all information relating to site
conditions for Project institutions;
(d) prepare architectural drawings ensuring that space provisions
and specifications are such as to minimize changes during
construction and after acceptance and approval of bids;
(e) prepare standard plans for community facility buildings, primary
schools, health centers, markets, community centers and provide
the Ten-Year Development Study team with information regarding the
community facilities;
(f) with the engineer at the Directorate of Construction ensure that
contractors are meeting performance standards, as reflected in the
specifications;
(g) assist the engineer at the Directorate of Construction to take all
steps required to ensure that proper furniture lists and bid docu-
ments are prepared and that furniture selected or designed for the
Project institutions is appropriate and constructed to specifications;
(h) assist the engineer at the Directorate of Construction for the
preparation of Model Bid Documents for the calling of construction
and furniture bids; and
(i) inspect completed buildings with the engineer at the Directorate
of Construction preparatory to their delivery to the authorities
and supervise the preparation of final certificates for payment
due on completion.
Two Technical Advisers to the Service Autonome du Domaine Urbain (SADU)
-    An engineer-manager in charge of the processing of the
applications for lots and properties;
-    An engineer-programmer in charge of the management of the
computerization of the urban data bank.
They shall be fluent in French. The assignment shall be for two years. Their
duties shall be, inter alia:
-    to prepare new files from the data provided by the applicants;
-    to update the files;
-    to set up the computerization of the files;
-    to process the applications according to the selection criteria;
-    to train their counterparts.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
One Municipal Engineer to SETU
10.       He shall have a degree in civil engineering and experience in
financial analysis and land development works. Part of his professional
career shall have been spent in cities of developing countries. He shall
be fluent in French. The assignment shall be for two years. He shall
assist the Director of the General Urban Infrastructure Development. His
main functions will consist of:
-    selection of consultants and specialists, the approval of
their terms of reference and administration of their
contracts;
-    arrangements for briefing consultants and specialists;
-    reviewing and approving of all reports, plans, specifications
and other material related to the Project;
-    necessary arrangement for the calls for bids, evaluation of
bids, and awarding of contracts relating to the Project;
-    grouping goods to be procured, so as to permit bulk procurement
consistent with sound technical and procurement practices;
-    drafting bid notices, other standard documents for inviting
bids and Model Bid Documents and determining the method to be
used for obtaining bids in accordance with the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits";
-    establishing procedures and criteria for the evaluation of
bids and evaluating bids received for goods required for the
Project;
-    inspecting and receiving goods to ensure that correct quantities
are received to the correct specifications;
-    arranging for the safe custody and the proper delivery of
goods to the Project institutions and installation, in accordance
with the target dates in the implementation schedules;
-    coordination and integration of all project activities with the
relevant ministries, authorities, and agencies, and with the Bank;
-    maintenance of project accounts and timely preparation of interim
evaluations and financial statements;
-    planning, programming and arranging for the preparation of a
project implementation schedule and monitoring to ensure that
works are on schedule and meeting established performance
standards;



ANNEX 6
Page 8
necessary arrangements for the acquisition of any sites required;
effective supervision of construction works;
coordinating and helping the planner at MCU in charge of the
monitoring of the project;
helping prepare second project;
train counterparts; and
preparation of periodic progress reports for the Government and
the Bank.
C. Banque Nationale pour l'Epargne et le Credit
i1.       All technical assistance personnel should have a minimum of five
years experience in project analysis and management in a development, invest-
ment or commercial bank mainly oriented toward housing credit. They shall be
fluent in French. The assignment shall be for up to three years. They shall
advise and assist in the following respective areas:
(a) Adviser to the Finance Director:
(i)  financial strategy and policy for the Fonds d'Habitat as well
as BNEC's banking operations;
(ii)  resource planning;
(iii)  internal management, management information and control
systems;
(iv)  fostering sound relationships with local and foreign financial
institutions;
(v)  supporting Credit and Technical Departments project evaluations,
especially of projects receiving financing from the Fonds d'Habitat;
and
(vi)  training of the Finance Department staff.
(b) Technical Director:
(i) creation and staffing of a Technical Department, including training
of a successor;
(ii) project promotion and liaison with entrepreneurs and housing
financial institutions;



ANNEX 6
Page 9
(iii) detailed technical study of financing requests presented to
the Fonds d'Habitat as well as by individuals to BNEC;
(iv)  supervision of the exectuion of works financed by the
Fonds d'Habitat and by BNEC and coordination with the
Finance and/or Credit Departments for disbursements
during execution;
(v) establishment of appropriate documentation of construction
methods and material.
(c) Adviser to the Credit Director:
(i) design and implementation of procedures for appraisal,
Board presentation, commitment, procurement, disbursement
and supervision of loans; and
(ii) training of the Credit Department staff.
(d) Adviser to the Savings Director:
(i) defining savings promotion strategy and policy;
(ii)  internal administration and control of savings accounts;
(iii) fostering sound relationships with other local savings
and credit institutions;
(iv)  training of Savings Department staff.
C. Ten-Year Development Study
Synthesis of Terms of Reference
12.       The objective of this study is to establish a coherent program
of public investments (transport, housing, sanitation, etc.) for the Ten-
Year period (1976-1985). This is to provide a medium-term planning phase
to link the long-run Master Plan and the short-run Five Year Plans.
13.       The study will be made up of three phases.  The first will set
out a comparison of the foreseeable evolution of both requirements for public
expenditures and available resources. Tasks in this phase will synthesize
existing socio-demographic data; map potential development and redevelopment
areas; detail the costs of developing differing types of land, synthesize
existing and planned programs and projects; revise growth forecasts for
Abidjan; document development policy statements; analyze present levels of
urban services; and analyze potential resource availability. This data will



ANNEX 6
Page 10
form the basis for the production of an investment balance sheet for the
ten-year period. The second phase will set out a range of potential de-
velopment programs, taking into account existing commitments, financial
constraints, and development objectives. These programs will be evaluated
in cooperation with the Ivorian authorities to select a sub-set of probable
programs. Phase 3 will describe these programs in detail, including the
timing of investments, and the detailed options will be evaluated. Based
on this evaluation a detailed ten-year investment program will be produced.



ANNEX 6
Page il
TE'CHNICÀL. ASSISTANCE
(C FAF Ml I - 1_lON FJASFrI ON JU.NE 1 976 PR ICE~S)
1976      1976       1977       1.977     :1978       1978       1979      1979       1980       1980
i--SEM    2--SEM     1-SEM      2 -S EM    1--SEM     2-SEM      1-SEM     2-SEM      1-SEM      2-SEM      TOTAL
-TRAFFIC BUREAUJ                                      12        31.        43         43         31         12-                            -           172
--TECH.ASST.BNEC                                                37         38         37         38         37         38        -.225
-TECH.ASST.MCU                            -50                              70         60         60         60         24        -324
Y EAR DEV.STUDY                                    25        120        120         18.                                                             283
BASE COST                                         37        238        271.       Ise       129       .109         62        -                    1004
FPHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                               4        24         27         16         13         il          6                  -           101
F'RICE CONTINGENCIES                                  2        2.4        39         31         31         3 2        22-                             181
SUB-TOTAL                                          6         47         66         47        44         43         28        --281
TOTAL                                 --43                  285        337       205        173        152         90                             1285
IIOES NOT ADD TO TOTAL DUE TO ROUNDINO



ANNEX 7
Page 1
IVORY COAST
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COST RECOVERY AND CASH FLOW
A. Cost Recovery
Subproject                      Cost                Recovery Sources
(in billion CFAF)
- TRANSPORT
East-West Highway and
improvement of the Plateau           11.200              -General tax revenue
and road user charges
- SHELTER
Abidjan -Slum Upgrading-
(including studies)
-Streets                         .110             -Road user charges
-Sewerage                        .150             -Sewerage tax included
in water price
-Water drainage                  .540             -Drainage tax
-Electricity                     .060             -Electricity tariff
surcharge
-Secondary and tertiary                           -Owners, through property
infrastructure                3.960              taxes and enforcement of
betterment taxes.
-Sites and services
(including studies)
LEM                           1.100            -Leaseholds
New Plots                      .490            -Monthly payments by
households
-Relocation                     .310             -General tax revenue
-Community facilities          2.130             -General tax revenue
(including studies)
-Credit line                    .500             -Monthly payments by
beneficiaries
San Pedro-Le Bardo                      1.730             -Leaseholds
- TRUNK SEWER
.980            -Investment tax and
sewerage tax
- LOW-COST HOUSING                        2.700             -Rental payments
- TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    1.660             -General tax revenue
TOTAL   27.620



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Transport
1.        Since no toll will be levied on the users of the East-West  I1ghway,
the recovery of construction and maintenance costs will stem from general tax
revenues. Taxes levied on road users, and the receipts derived, (based on the
1972 data used in the "Road User Tax Study" dated August 1974) are summarized
below:
Road User Revenues: 1972
(CFAF million)
Specific to        Additional
Variable Taxes            Road Usage           Reven1ps          Total
Fuel                         9,507               692             10,199
Lubricants                      106               69                175
Tires                           539              546              1,085
Spare parts and
maintenance services        210            1,1w              ______
10,362            2,466             12,828
Fixed Taxes
Depreciation                   832             2,986              3,818
Insurance                       265               -                 265
Registration                    459               -                 45(
Fiscal stamps                   -                110                110
Licenses and Tax on profit       -               731                731
1,556           3,827               5,383
TOTAL                  11,918            6,293             18,211
Additional revenues include revenue on items not specifically related to
road usage, import duties and value added taxes on vehicles, tires, and
spare parts which are consumed over a period exceeding one year. In 1972, the
receipts from all these taxes exceeded expenditures on roads. According
to the most recent findings of the Basic Economic Mission, tax receipts
and current road maintenance and investment programs are now in balance.
B. Shelter
Slum Upgrading in Abidjan - Primary Infrastructure
2.        The construction cost of the main streets will be recovered
through road user taxes.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Sewerage and Drainage
3.        The construction cost of the primary sewerage and drainage network
will be recovered through the sewerage tax included in the water tariff and
the drainage tax included in the property tax, both taxes earmarked for the
FNA.
(a) Since July 1974, a uniform national water tariff system has
been adopted and a differential tariff has been set up. To extend the
benefits of piped water to the low-income population, a social tariff block of
about two-thirds of the national3tariff has been introduced. The social
tariff applies to the first 60 m consumed per year and allows a family of
five to six persons using about 25 liter per day per person each to benefit
from the lower water cost before coming under the higher normal tariff. In
addition, low-cost social water connections (about CFAF 9,000 compared with
the regular price connection which is about CFAF 42,000) have been introduced.
The difference between a social connection and the normal connection charge is
borne by all water consumers. The following table gives the tariff structure.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
SODECI WATER SUPPLY TARIFFS (as of January 1, 1976)
(in CFAF per m3 )
/1      /2      /3        /4   Public /5
CONSUMER CATEGORY          SODECI       FNH    FNA   Surtax       Hygiene       Total
Piped Water Supply
Social Block               56.8         18.2    -       4             1         80.0
(0-60 m 3/year)
Full Tariff                56.8         37.3   14.9    9              1        119.0
3
(61-18,000 m3/  ar)
lst Industrial Block       56.8        20.1   14.9    9               1       101.8
(18,001-500,000 m /year)
2nd Industrial Block       50.0          9.0    -       -             1         60.0
(over 500,000-
1,200,000 m /year)
3rd Industrial Block       39.0          5.0    -       -             1       45.0
(over 1,200,000 m /year)
Public Appliances          56.8          5.2     -      -             1        63.0
Industrial Users
(Deep Groundwater)
lst Block                   1.0       28.4      6       6.9           1       43.3
(0-1.2 M m /year)
2nd Block                    1.0       13.1     6       6.9           1        28.0
3
(over 1.2 M m /year)
(Shallow Groundwater)       1.0        6.8      5.5    6.4            1       20.7
/1   SODECI remuneration to cover its operating and maintenance costs of the
Abidjan water supply system.
/2   Fonds National de l'Hydraulique Humaine.
/3   Fonds National de l'Assainissement.
/4   Municipal surtax (Abidjan)
/5   National Campaign for Education in Public Hygiene.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
The yearly resources expected to accrue directly to the FNA will be about CFAF
13.0 million. The social connection tax will provide an additional CFAF 1.6
million. The remaining costs not recovered will be indirectly recovered
through general taxation. The yearly amount of these two taxes will be about
CFAF 12.1 million.
Drainage tax
(b)  A drainage tax equal to 5% of the rental value of a building is
levied on each owner and earmarked for the FNA. Assuming an average monthly
rental value of CFAF 15,000 per lot, the receipts of this tax will be CFAF 32
million per year.
Electricity
4.        The cost of the street lighting will be borne by the Municipality
and recovered indirectly through the tariff surcharge.
Secondary and Tertiary Infrastructures
5.        The cost of other infrastructure will be recovered through general
property taxes and a betterment tax. As these taxes can only be levied
on legal owners, applicants for lots must first legalize their tenure.
Four types of tenure exist within the area affected by the project: the
"allocation letter" ("lettre d'attribution"), the "dwelling permit ("permis
d'habiter), the "temporary title" ("concession provisioire") and the "perma-
nent title" ("concession definitive"). Only the last one makes the dweller
the legal owner of the land on which he is settled, and less than 10% of the
project beneficiaries fall into this category.
Property taxes
6.        Once a legal owner, the dweller will have to pay the current
property taxes. The rates and structure of the main taxes are as follows:
(i) A land tax on built-up property ("contribution fonciere des
proprietes baties") equal to 5% of the actual rental value;
(ii) A land tax on undeveloped property ("contribution fonciere des
proprietes non baties") equal to 2.5% of the actual rental
value;



ANNEX 7
Page 6
(iii)  A land tax on insufficiently-developed land ("surtaxe
fonciere sur les proprietes insuffisamment baties").
This land surtax is levied on the difference between
the market value and three fimes the gross rental value
when the difference is positive. The rate of tax is 4% for
the first two years, 5S for the third year and 6% for the
fourth and subsequent years;
(iv) A surcharge on the preceding taxes in favor of the munici-
palities equal to 20% of land taxes;
(v)  A municipal tax on built-up and undeveloped property
("taxes sur le revenu net des proprietes baties et non
baties") equal to 2.5% of the actual rental value;
(vi) A special contribution to the National Investment Fund
equal to 5% of the actual rental value.
Thus, in the project area, with an average monthly rental value of CFAF 15,000
per lot the monthly tax yield per lot will be:
- Land taxes (5%) (15,000)               =  CFAF   750
- Surtax (20%) (750)                     =  CFAF   150
- Municipal tax (2.5%) (15,000)          =  CFAF   375
- Special contribution (5%) (15,000)  =  CFAF   750
TOTAL                     CFAF 2,025
The annual receipts to the Government will be CFAF 87.5 million.
Betterment tax
7.        To recover the remaining part of the shelter component cost,
a betterment tax will be introduced by enforcing a Decree of November 25,
1930, which allows the Government to recover 50% of property value increase
resulting from public investments in areas declared "d'utilite publique".
The value to be recovered in the slum upgrading areas wil be assessed on a
lot by lot basis and the total value to be recovered will not exceed
the overall cost of the secondary and tertiary infrastructure; this is to
reduce the financial burden on the owners.
8.        Under these conditions, the total tax to be recovered will amount to
CFAF 1,330 million. As this tax will be levied over a 20-year period, (the
cost will be capitalized at a yearly discount rate of 9%). Thus the vearly
receipts will be about CFAF 155 million which represents an average charge per
lot of about CFAF 3,300 per month.
9.        The property taxes and the betterment tax will represent a financial
charge on the owner of about CFAF 5,300 per month. It is expected that he
will meet this extra cost by expanding his house in order to have more rooms
to rent.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
10.       The above financial charges (property taxes and betterment tax)
should be accompanied by the Government's waiving of the registration fee,
and substantially lengthening the payment period, to avoid an excessive
financial burden on owners who might then be obliged to force out low-income
renters.
Slum Upgrading in San Pedro
11.       The project cost will be recovered through lot lease payments
collected by ARSO. No information is available on the level of present rents.
It was assumed that the rent charged to the dweller would at least cover the
financial charges (9%), the management fees (3%) and the repayment of the
initial investment net of taxes (CFAF 1,680 million) over a twenty-year
period. Therefore the annual receipt from rents would be CFAF 225 million.
The lot rent would be CFAF 11,300 per month.
Site and Services
12.       Seventy percent of lots will be the property of SICOGI which will
lease them for a 20-year period to beneficiaries chosen by the allocation
committee composed of representatives of ministries. The price of a lot
averages CFAF 415,000. Assuming that the rent covers the management and
financial cost (management cost: 3%; interest: 9.5%) and the amortization of
the investment cost (excluding the land cost), the average monthly payment
will be about CFAF 4,150.
13.       Thirty percent of lots will be sold to beneficiaries chosen by the
allocation committee. According to the previous experiences of SETU, the
following pattern of payment can be expected: 10 to 15% of the beneficiaries
will pay cash; 25 to 30% will require credit over a 10-year period; 55 to 65%
will ask for a maximum credit period.
14.       For those who cannot pay cash, mortgage loans will be provided
by BNEC. The average cost of one unit will be about CFAF 415,000. Assuming
an interest rate of 13%, the monthly payment will be: for a ten-year period,
CFAF 6,194; for a twenty-year period, CFAF 4,700.
Land Compensation
15.       MCU will handle this question.  The relocation issue concerns
mainly Koumassi. Ninety-five percent of the land to be serviced belongs to
the Ministry of Agriculture ("Services de l'Elevage") and will be transferred
to the MCU. The two fishing villages on the project area will remain.
Community Facilities
16.       Construction costs for the community facilities will be recovered
through general tax revenue. However, expenditures incurred for markets



ANNEX 7
Page 8
will be recovered through a special ax levied by the municipality on the
sellers, averaging CFAF 8,000 per m of occupied area per annum yielding
about CFAF 100 million per year.
C. Trunk Sewer
17.       The cost of the trunk sewers will be recovered through the sewerage
and drainage taxes. Assuming water consumption of 25 liters per head and
38,250 inhabitants (10 per lot), the FNA receipts will be CFAF.75 million per
year. Other taxes will bring CFAF .8 million per year.
D.  Low Cost Housing
18.       SICOGI has presented a financial plan to USAID under which costs
are recovered through rents over a 25-year period. The rent charged by
SICOGI will range between about CFAF 5,500 and CFAF 13,500.
E. Technical Assistance
19.       The cost of technical assistance will be recovered through general
tax revenues.
F. Cash Flow
20.       The attached tentative project cash flow details the overall cost
recovery under the project. The incremental flows generated by the project
represent revenues to several entities, including Government, FNA, FNH,
SICOGI, BNEC and CCI. Any real surpluses will be available for further
primary infrastructure investments.



1976     1977      1978      1979      198o     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985-96
SOURCES
Government contribution:
BNEC Managed funds (exOSHE-'           68       956      1962      456                            -
BSIE                                    9       114       333      174        -         -
FNA                                     h        92       287                 -         -         -         -         -          -
Incremental tax revenues:
Property taxes                         -         1,9        79      107      107       107       107       107      107        107
Betterment tax                         -         23        109     155       155       155       155      155       155        155
Property income:
Housing rentals                        -        1-62      324      32        320       3         320      320       320        320
Sales                                                                         - 6  34  -         -         -         -          -
Lease nayments - Abidjan               -         41       122      122       122       122      129       122       122        122
Lease payments - San Pedro             -         67       202      202       202       202      202       202       202        202
Utilities charges
Drainage tax                           -         13        50       65        65       65        65        65        65        65
FNA Severage tax                       -          3         12      15        15        15       15        15        15         15
FNH - Water tax                        -          9        35       44        44        4        44        44        44        44
Electricity charges                    -         16        62       79        79        79       79        79        79         79
Loan disbursements
IBRD                                           ,35       2020 7O0             83
USAID                                   -        860     2090      550         -                                      -         -
BCEAO                                  -         19         65       o9       22        -         -         -        _
Small loans collections                  -         il         48       98      111       111       100        63       13         -
TOTAL SOURCES                        81      4140       8013      3216      1325    1220      1209      1172      1122       1109
Primary infrastructure                   -        159        453     218       -         -         -        -         -          -
Secondary & Tertiary
infrastructure                      172       1623      4527    1193        -
Low cost housing                         -      1,800        goo      -        -         -         -         -        -          -
Sewerage                                   9      234        725      -        -         -         -         -        -          -
Small loans                              -         35        150      215       50       -         -        -         -          -
Relocation                                 8       50        149       88      -         -         -         -        -          -
Property mianagement charges              -        24        119      143      1h3       143       1h3       143       143       143
Debt service
IeBRD                                  -         33        157     281       316       430      430       430       430        430
USAID                                   -        84        26t     380       405       486       486       h86      486        486
BCEAO                                  -          4         19       39       44        44        40        25        5
TOTAL USES                          189      4,046      7,460   2,557       960      1213      1209      1194     1174       1169
Surplus (Deficit)                     (108)        94        553     659       365       117       110        88       58         50
O Ezcluding commity facilitiesa and trumk seves



COST ALLOCATION (CFIAP million: uS$1 = CFAF 225)
TOTAL  COST                    Coats Not Recoverable From Plot Owners                              Costs Recoverable From Plot Owners
Relocation                              Relocation
SITES                                                      Primary Infrastructure   Community Facilities    Land for           Sec, & Tert. Infrast.       Land       Total  Recoverable
1976t.       1979         1976         1979         1976         1979      Comm  Fac.      1976          1979                      1976         1979
UPGRADING
Abobo Gare               2.120        3.015          329          476          375          594          88         1.306         1.856           -         1.306        1.856
Adjame                     617          827            4            4           60           82          16           538            731          -           538          731
Pelieuville                544          726          143          194           57           72          26           318           433           -           318          433
Port Bouet Il              750        1.144          116          175          133          207           -           501           762           -           501          762
Le Bardo                1.435         2.044            -            -          112          165           -         1.323         1.879           -         1.323        1.879
Sub-total         5.466        7.756          592          849           737       1.120          130         3.986         5.661          -         3.986         5.661
.ITES AND SERVICES
Koumassi                 1.475        2.050            -            -          446          702           -           919         1.237          110        1.029        1.347
Abobo-Nord                 726        1.008            -            -            -            -           -           415           573           56          471          629
Sub-total         2.201        3.058                                    446           702                     1.334         1.810         166        1.500         1.976
TOTAL         7.667       10.814          592          849        1.183        1.822         130         5.320         7.471          166        5.486        7.637
1976 COSTS TO BE RECOVERED
(CFAF 000's)
Total Cost
SITES                To Be Recovered       #  Ha          Cost/Ha          # lot           Cost/Lot        # m2/Lot       Cost/m2/Lot    #  Families    Cost/Family    Population           Cost/Inhab,
Abobo Gare               1.306.000 1/       112            11.600           1.200           1.088             500             2.2            8.100             161           45.000              29
Adjame                     538.000y         40            13.400             580             928             450             2.1            3.500             154            20.000             26
Pelieuville                318.000 1/        19            16.700             430             740             300             2.5            1.900             167             8.000            40
Port Bouet Il              501.200.y         40            12.500           1.400             357             150             2.4            2.900             172            12.000            41
Le Bardo                 1.323.000           60            22.000          (1.400)            945            (330)            2.8            5.800             228            20.000             66
Koumassi                 1.029.000           50            20.500           2.550             403             140             2.9            5.600             183            32.280             32
Abobo Nord                 471.000           25            18.800           1.275             370             140             2.6            2.800             168            16.150             29
or vhi.h 50% viii ba r»covrad thr.ugh the batteramt tax.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
IVORY COAST
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT JUSTIFICATION - TRANSPORT COMPONENT
1.        This economic evaluation is an attempt to determine an estimate
of the value of the transport components of the Urban Development Project
to the Abidjan region. Given the uncertainty of predicting streams of
benefits from transport projects, especially when policies regarding the
use of private motor vehicles are being questioned and modified as they
are in Abidjan, the methodology selected for this economic evaluation
was to calculate a First Year Rate of Return, that compares the benefits
expected in the first year of operation of the facility being evaluated
with the costs of its construction. In general, this method is best
suited to situations in which the benefits are expected to grow steadily
through time and in which the cost and benefit streams from the alternatives
being evaluated are expected to be broadly similar. As both transport compo-
nents of the project were evaluated against alternatives designed to produce
essentially the same results (i.e., similar benefit streams), it is considered
that this method is particularly applicable to the Abidjan appraisal.
2.        As the two components are quite different in scope--minimum infras-
tructure improvements compared with traffic engineering--they have been
evaluated separately.
Priority Section of the East-West Highway
Gosts
3.        The costs of building this section of the East-West Highway--site
preparation, construction, materials, railway connection, lighting, and control
of works--will be incurred as follows:
1976      1977      1978      1979     TOTAL
(Millions CFAF--June 1976 prices)
Including Taxes   816        3,761    2,845       923    8,345
Excluding Taxes   645        2,972    2,248       730    6,595
After the deduction of taxes, these costs were discounted to 1976 at a discount
rate of 12% (estimated to be the opportunity cost of capital in Abidjan) in
order to provide a comparable base for the economic evaluation. The present
value of the construction costs is CFAF 5,500 million (approximately US$ 24.5 m).



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        Maintenance costs which must be taken into account for the first
year of operation have been estimated at 5% of construction costs. This
covers annual costs for maintenance, lighting, traffic signal operation,
and policing. The costs for 1980 are CFAF 330 million.
Benefits
5.        Savings in vehicle operating costs due to higher speeds, which
reduce congestion, together with savings in the time spent travelling by users
of the transport system, are used as indicators of the benefits expected to
accrue to the public as a result of this project. They are, in effect, proxy
variables for more complex benefits, such as increases in mobility and acces-
sibility, that are, given current knowledge, unquantifiable in economic terms.
The major methodological problem in this exercise is assigning an economic
value to the time savings. As the objective of this exercise is to assess the
value of the project to the community, time savings have been valued at 30% of
the average wage rate. This proportion is derived from numerous studies
carried out world-wide, and the average wage-rate estimate is based on data
from the Five-Year Plans of the Ivorian Ministry of Planning. The average
wage-rate for 1980 is estimated to be CFAF 285 per hour, and the "value of
time" to be CFAF 95 per hour. As this procedure is not universally accepted,
sensitivity tests reported below show the effects on the first year rate of
return of assuming (a) a zero value of time and (b) a value that more correct-
ly reflects the distribution of income of system users.
6.        To put the estimates of the value of benefits on a comparable
basis with the cost estimates, the benefits for 1980, less the maintenance
costs, have been discounted to 1976 at 12%.
(in CFAF millions)
Savings in Operating Costs                4,757
Savings in Time                          16,662
Total Benefits (1980)                    21,419
Less Maintenance Costs (1980)               330
21,089
Present Value (1976)                     12,647
7.        It should be noted that this is a minimum estimate of benefits,
as several potentially important benefits--such as savings in operating
personnel and vehicle fleets for commercial and public transport, reductions
in vehicle pollution, and benefits to non-users who own property or walk
in areas affected by the highway--could not be quantified in economic terms
and, hence, have been excluded from the analysis. It has also been assumed
that the number of trips made with and without the new highway will be the
same; thus, important benefits to "generated" traffic have not been directly



ANNEX 8
Page 3
calculated. In addition, some benefits will accrue before 1980, as certain
sections of the highway, e.g., the Agban intersection, will be completed
earlier.
First Year Rate of Return
8.        The rate of return is calculated as:
Present Value (1976) of 1980 Benefits minus 1980 Maintenance Costs
Present Value (1976) of Construction Costs
The rate of return for the priority section of the East-West Highway is 230%.
Sensitivity Tests
9.        Given the difficulties inherent in estimating both costs and benefits,
and in assigning monetary values to the latter, two types of sensitivity analysis
have been carried out. The first shows the effect on the rate of return of
changing the value of time; the second shows the effect of overestimating benefits
or underestimating costs.
(a) Value of Time
10.       The first year rates of return were recalculated assuming (i) a zero
value of time and (ii) an "economic" value of time. The latter reflects the
fact that car drivers are generally willing and able to pay more for time
savings than public transport users. Using an estimate of the 1980 minimum
legal wage (SMIG) of CFAF 125 per hour (1976 prices), as the average wage
rate of public transport users, and maintaining the average wage rate of CFAF
285, this implies the following average wage rates and values of time:
Average Wage Rate        Value of Time
Private transport          CFAF 445               CFAF 133.5
Public transport           CFAF 125               CFAF  37.5
The rates of return based on these assumptions are:
(a)  zero value                        48%
(b)  "economic" value                 185%



ANNEX 8
Page 4
(b) Errors in Estimating Costs and Benefits
11.       The rates of return have elso been recalculated assuming different
levels of estimation error:
Benefits 1980 Overestimated by:
Rate of Return         Operating Costs         Operating Cost + Time Savings
(%)                0     10%   20%            0       10%        20%
Costs              0   48    43    38            230      207         183
Underestimated   10%  44    39    35             209      188         167
by:            20%  40    36    32            192      172         153
30%  37    34    29            177      159        141
This indicates that even under the worst assumptions -- a 20% overestimate of
benefits and a 30% underestimate of costs -- the project still produces a 141%
rate of return (29% with zero value of time).
Distribution of Benefits
12.       The distribution of savings in operating costs, given the relative
numbers of vehicles on the road, is expected to favor operators of private
vehicles. The evaluation confirms this, with 67% of such savings accruing
to private operators and 33% accruing to bus operators. However, operating
cost savings only represent 22% of the benefits quantified and 65% of the
savings in travel time are received by users of public transport (i.e.,
buses). This is a significant demonstration of the success of the project in
channelling benefits to lower income users. The sensitivity tests on the
value of time confirm this: when time is valued 3-1/2 times more highly for
car users relative to bus users, the overall benefits due to time savings
fall, indicating that the majority of the time saving benefits accrue to bus
riders rather than car users. Overall, considering both operating cost and
time savings, bus users receive 58% of the benefits resulting from the
project.
Traffic Improvements in the Central Area
Analys is
13.       The analysis calculates the time savings - both running and
standing - that are estimated to result from the project. Two assumptions
are made: one is that no private traffic restraint is achieved (Case A);
the second is that limited restraint is achieved through the introduction
of express mini-bus service.



ANNEX à
Page 5
Costs
14.       The project costs are (in CFAF millions):
Total      Excluding Taxes    1976 Present Value
1977       350            276.5                 243.3
1978       213            168.3                 130.3
In Case A, the complementary cost of car-parking facilities brings the 1976
present value to CFAF 979 million; in Case B, the cost of mini-buses raises
the 1976 present value to CFAF 800 million.
Benefits
15.       The time saved, both running and standing in traffic, is used as an
indicator of benefits to the project. The time was valued according to the
basic hypothesis set out above. The 1976 present value of 1980 benefits
is CFAF 234.54 million for Case A and CFAF 248.82 million for Case B.
Rates of Return
16.       The first year rates of return are:
Case A            23.96%
Case B            28.93%
if the complementary costs are excluded, the rates are:
Case A            62.77%
Case B            66.59%
Conclusions
17.       This analysis indicates that the traffic improvements will yield a
rate of return sufficient to justify the project. The benefits would increase
if more traffic restraint could be achieved.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
IVORY COAST
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT JUSTIFICATION - SHELTER COMPONENT
Economic Analysis
1.        Two different economic analyses have been performed.  One, based
on a land value increase approach, is explained here in detail; results are
also presented for the other which is based on an imputed rental value ap-
proaSh. The cost streams in the second analysis were computed using the border
value approach while in the first analysis the traditional shadow-pricing was
applied.
Project Costs
2.        The total shelter investment cost includes four components:
(a) main project infrastructure provision for the slum upgrading and site
and service areas and the opportunity cost of land. Annual costs of the main
project are shown in the detailed cost estimate tables. The operation costs
have been estimated at 6% of the total investment cost annually. Prior to
development, land has been priced at the market value to reflect opportunity
costs. The average cost of land within the slum upgrading area is CFAF 300
per square meter and CFAF 100 in the site and services area, (b) construction
of the trunk sewer and its running costs (6% of the Investment cost). Since
the trunk sewer will not only benefit the site and services area, 70% of
its cost were allocated to the project, (c) housing consolidation in the
slum upgrading area. Executing agencies estimate the costs at 10% of the
present value of the built-up property, representing an additional investment
of about CFAF 200 million. The scheduling of this investment over the project
implementation period is shown in the main project schedule; (d) credit for
construction by beneficiaries in the site and services area. To estimate
this cost, the income distribution among the beneficiaries was assumed to be
rectangular. Then it was assumed that 10% of the income of each income group
could be devoted to repay a construction loan with a five-year maturity period
and bearing a 12% interest rate. From this the maximum credit was derived.
It was assumed that beneficiaries would devote the maximum available to
construction. Table below gives estimates of construction costs:
Value of Construction
Percentage of      Value of Construction                Total Value of Construc-
Population       on plot (CFAF thousand)    Plots    tion (CFAF million)
0 - 20%                 200,000               780              156
21 - 40%                 250,000               780              195
41 - 60%                 300,000               780              234
61 - 80%                 400,000               780              312
81 - 100%                 500,000              780              390
TOTAL                             3,900             1,287



ANNEX 9
Page 2
3.        The total value of construction in the site and services area
corresponds to an average investment of CFAF 330,000 per lot i.e. two rooms.
Three percent of the investment will take place in 1976, 31% in 1977 and 33%
in 1978 and 1979 respectively, self-help labor costs are estimated at 4% of
the construction costs. The national average for completion of housing
construction is about three years.
4.        Cost streams were computed net of taxes and in June 1976 prices.
Labor costs were shadow-priced. The weighted rate of taxes for various
project components amounts to 20%. Labor costs account for 28% of the total
project cost and involve 85% skilled labor and 15% unskilled labor. Skilled
labor is taken at full cost, but unskilled labor is shadow-priced at .7% of its
full cost. The weighted shadow wage rate is equal to .955%. Foreign exchange
was not shadow-priced since fluctuations in the value of local currency
compensate for domestic price distortions. It is assumed that the project
life is 20 years and that the cost of land is recovered at the end of this
period. Cost streams are shown in Table II.
Project Benefits
5.        The measurement of economic benefits for the slum upgrading and site
and services components of the project is based upon estimates of increases
in property values brought about by the provision of infrastructure and other
services. This approach is subject to several qualifications, since certain
project benefits such as health-related benefits may be only imperfectly
reflected in property value. Nevertheless, it does provide a useful indicator
of the minimum economic value of project outputs.
6.        An estimate of land values was carried out by BCEOM.  A special
study conducted by the "Chambre de l'Industrie de Cote d'Ivoire" and dated
March 1973 supports the BCEOM results. Based on these findings, the costs
of land for the various project sites were estimated as:
Land value (CFAF/Square Meter) in June 1976 prices
Without Project      With Project
Upgrading
Abobo Care                              250                2,800
Adjame                                  750                 3,000
Port Bouet Il                           150                 1,000
Pelieuville                             650                3,000
Le Bardo                                100                   500
Sites and Services
Koumassi NE                             100                3,800
Abobo Nord                              100                 2,900
Commercial Lots                         100                4,000



COST AND BENEFIT
(CFAF million in June 1976 prices)
SLUM UPORADING                                         SITES AND SERVICES
Investment  Running                Housing              Invest ent   Running                 Housing
Cost       Cost    Land Cost   Consol.    Benefit       Cost 1/      Cost    Land Cost   Consol.    Benefit
1976            66          4        520          8                     110         6          53          11           10
1977           882         57          0         53         439         496        36           0         114          267
1978          2474       205           0         53        1247        1239        110          0         242          781
1979          1284        282          0         53        1566         455       137           0         351         1058
1980             o        282          0          °        2011                    137          0         239         1233
1981             o        282          0          0        2011                    137          0         129         1233
1982-1995        0        282          0          0        2011                    137          0           0         1233
1996           -520        0           0          0           0         -53         0           0           0            0
1/ Including the trunk sewer



ABIDJAN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A  MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS ANDWR
RS A                 TRANSPORTATION
DIRECTORATE CF             TRANSPORT                                           DEPARTMENTAL             UIO INFOR       UID ROAINSPECTRAFFOC
ISUPERVISED AGENCIESI| INPCONF                                               I
DIRECTOBATE    T       PLANNNG                                                                       ATDNRTANSORTRREULAES
PUBLERIC WRS  AOADSFT
C~~~~ I
DIRECTORATE OF               DIRECTORATE OF              AGENCY                        GENERAL                          CENTRAL DIRECTORATE             DIRECTORATE OF
ADMINISTRATION               PROFESSIONAL                FOR SEWERAGE                  DIRECTORATE                      OF ROAL  TRANSPORTS             CIVIL AERONAUTICS
AND FINANCE                  TRAINING                    AND GENERAL EF PUBLIC WORKS
_                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HYDRAULICS
DIRECT~~~~~ ~~ IT F IE.OAE      REGIONAL
OF STUDIES   CELLS FOR     WORKS FNORTH-    PERIODI,C ROAD          DIRIECTORATE OF
ANPRGAS       MAOWRK            BOUND              MANEACE               PU BLIC WORKS AND
EXPRESSWAY                              TRANSPORTATI ON
+~~~~~FAR                                                    F _RO                                         'J ,  .      M ~ K~,A 1.1OâÉ
LF  A .<";'eu.'0 "':' ': -'1 sE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PTR ~POTAV
WORId Bank-15938
*TecI,nocaî assistance srovicled



ABIDJAN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
| MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTIONAN     |
|TOWN PLANNING
|CABINET
SELF-GOVERNING AGENCY                   TECHNICAL ADVISERS                  SELF-GOVERNING
LFOR THE URBAN DOMAIN  |||AGENCY FOR CONTRACT|
DIRECTORATES
PINGOAND                          DIRECTORATE 0F                  DIRECTORATE 0F             DIRECTORATE OF            TECHNICAL CENTERS         DIRECTORATE
PARCHITECUR ANVDGCOSRUTO                                                                     ADMINISTRATIVE            FOR VOCATIONAL            0F ADMINISTRATIVE
PLARCHINGEANDT.U|RE                DIRECTORVEYING  OFONS-RUCTHOUSING                                                   TRAINING                  AND FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
URBAN PLANNING              REGIONAL DIRECTORATES          DIVISION OF STUDIES AND|
DIVISION                    OF TOWN PLANNING               PROGRAMS
AND ARCHITECTURE
ARCHITECTUA
DIVISION                                                           O F WORKS
DIVISION OF                                                 A T O          RURAL
BUILDING PERMITS                                             HOUSING DIVISION
LAND REGISTRATION                                           'Technical assistance pro iUed
m    BUREAU                                                                                                                                                 B
World Bank-15939



ABIDJAN URBAN DEVELOPMENT
SOCIETE D'EQUIPMENT DES TERRAINS URBANS (SETU)
| BOARD OF DIRECTORS I
GENERAL MANAGER
DEPARTMENTS
|  FINANE, ADMINISTRATION   llGENERAL URBAN                     ||SEWERAGE ANDl
|  AND PROGRAMMING          ||INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMET                       DRAINAGEl
ADMINISTRATION                           STUDIES                           STUDIES
l FINANCE                                                                VV ORSi    ORKSl
COMMERCIAL                          LAND USE SERVICES                  SUPERVISION 0F
SYSTEM-OPERT  N
4   PLANNING      l
*Technical assistance provided
World Bank-9195



ABIDJAN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICALAVSR                    CH-AIRMAN 0F THE BOR1NPCO   EEA
TECHNICAL ADVISERS
I        I                                          I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADMINISTRATIVE AND I
TECHNICAL DIRECTOR
DEPARTMENT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~FNNCA IDLRPARTENTR
|    TECHNICAL  |   | STUDY AND CONTROL                  F      E AND               ACCOUNTIN
DEPARTMENT          DEPARTMENT                           ADMINISTRATIVE             DEPT.                  PERSONNEL DEPT.
PA  T                                     D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPT
WORK DEPT.             INFORMATION
DEPT.
CONSTRUCTION
DEPT.                   PLANNING DEPT|
AGRICULTURAL          DEPT. FOR
DEPT.                 GENERAL STUDIES
|  REGIONAL DIRECTORATEW                                                            1
"R                  R                 DR3                 DR4                DR
L TAIII~~~~~~~~~~ CIUIGLO                                              I
L-                     ~~~~~~~~Wo,id Bc-k- i5940



C hA r T
I OPcrAs r.
HUM A   HURBAN MEVLMOPrENT pRrO 0r
MJEC . £lILEMEVTAI Pr SON tOuEr
R19 7                                      1977                        _197                                                       19 79
Prolont ElenLonts                           Go,ver 2Peur       Ochars                              2          3          4           H          2          3         4                      2         3          4                     2        3         2.
St  In.ntnert_                                                                                                                                                                                      ___
CeHnarta' nene oflE biHaul<nMPn                                                     _
t ecatTeunenbi't sitiol                   DPV              Cuflta^ctur                                     _
cens tnettion                             DPk              CentracrLoe                                                a                                 a 
_______________________________ _         DPW ECED H             /BNETD                                             -  - -    - - -  - _  -     --                                                       -
2.  _Trpft  toff ov_efls                        MPffT
- Coteau of craffif                        DATAR/DPW         Tan-k
tD*rcrofrein of T09/ 
appettinrnm of aanerta.s
dCret-ll n d  nanertn                                       RErfENT ,
biddig                                    DPBW                                                              -
evltion/rfo=crrrets.nsnened               Traf tic                                                                _ _
Bureau
coretruetton                                                Contracetra                                                                      _ 
sap.rrif tou                                               Contracter.                                               _ _ _ _                __   _       _       _ _         _
- fonrt br t,toeamenn
atudi..                                    l              Contracter.                                           -x  .._ ._z                -| ..a  _-. _ ___*
ifl_ertaffen of =rro,,ted
acasure                                                    Contractera                                                                                            -           -          -          -          -          -         -        -         - =-_
(b> Sh.1ttr
atrtk*_r TotTNr/RCTTD                                   Con*u1 tante                                                                      -                _         e_"_"        - __  a     
fnfra.rrue.ur.                            MCU/SETI         BECEDM/YNETD                          cas         c      5l           **fl   * _*                                   a
*neho'lS                                  MCU              ConSul t*fltt         |wB_-»=
eth-e r-nfty fant(tctea                   MCD              Cenou1 rantecnrc_
2. At'1_-
tnfraatacta                               4MCU 'SETU      Consu ... nt.cn.nc.                                                                              . .
adIeu' a                                  CMC             ConSul tantHceflnétrot._                                                                            _     _ 
t3frPertcRour                                TtCiM'C3ME       Cen.u'nmtcentconrac o                           |                                  c     _ _  a _. _ -  g _. - _  a
.eTeools                                 MCU               Oeuau'r.nt Heencran te                                                                                                           _     ws    _       _   
erbar counfry f.nlfltcta                 fMCU              Conaul tant           ____                                                                                            _-BB_                rr___ 
tnfr.tfleturfU                            TOMCU/SETM   Bn    ETD                                              ....
ahrbeoI                                   MCU              Ceemul aentTcnerct ta_nt                                                                     _ -__          _       _   
042.e ro_  Ltp  fantTittea                 MCL              CordErtalct^=sconctret._ w                                                                  __ _         _     
5. fardem
tofrastrueturs        A       r      i      N               CuJnault n.eroncrau t.S_ __ _      
arttotg                                   ARBO              Cotnut fant terntract.ww                                                                           "|_|_e           _"_ _    
:h«e co_uartt  fclttnfs                    ARSO-A_ _
6.oo                                                                        .                                                                  _ . ..                                                      .
tnfr.ttuuroef                             MCMCMCU/SETU             S        NET D. - . _.    a -.. . . . .         _
actorta                                   MCU              Censu' tantlnennntr^t                                                                                                __       __        _    _     _ _           _        __
41.02 f4                                   MCU              ConSul cant/tontrn.nt.                                                                                      _      __       _Xu_             *      _ =  
0441er ri'_oitc  fantiaitr                 MCM              Concu tantîcentnacc.
7.  Àbet-' Nord 
tersttaatrnrce                             BCII/SRMC        Cenacîrte tcec=nact.                         ,o,   -__w .                 _.   - _ _t        _        
achostas                                  MCUM         |   C ensul c.nrt/'ntra t .                                                                                                         _
elth-    -CU    j                                   C        onUul tant Htuerrm_c_
othsn Ctoeeity fa-iliTt-                  ncu          I   C....ul tt rntat                                                                                                        . . 
LEC!Edd
Àorefrt enlt cf Consul tant.Xzj 
8ionfosrstiott SurevsP
Bi dd_                                                         _
Con rects et  r=o ttc_ _ _                                                       
_.__,                                                                                                   f         t                _                        _            _U=t=nt_ t
( r)   T se b r ti e a   A s st st a t t r-               -   r  -    - a
2. Efç RÇMEF/RNEC                                            Bsnk/USADL_
3.  tO *o r  *lotas  studv                 XCV
o755aerCttOs of TifR                   MCU               Rak|
Drlsr   tudi..                                    S NE'M                                                     -*_*_*_   -                        
astsenstt  of rOsant f. rt             ?T-          1 w
-..etio sf atudy                          -              Co..ult-tnts.                                                                                                      * - -  --  -  - -    -  - -  -_* -  _*- - -






EXISTING CONDITIONS IN ABOBO GARE
PAR ENTS
1 WIFE    2 WIFE
RENTED SHOP
Hf NTED SHOP       r ~         H              ç                 r         OWNER   E       OWNER       _          -     ..
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PRNS_ _ }PARENTS °                                                             RErL
R EN TAL S
PARENTS                              .
EROTHERS-
* _   _  1   ._  .  z    -XEBROTHER'S SHOP
r                        ~~~~~~~OWNER                                                O IINER    rENANT
,*   20m                                               |                  20m
TENANTS
LEGEND.
Ejr  n r COVERED SPACE            *   KITCHEN SPOT
SHOPH  STREET                                                                                                 z   STORAGE
I  AWATER STORAGE             C    MEETING
*     SHOWER                   A   EATING
-, O    A.C.                       TABLE
|   t    l   {     [       l       l      F~~~TENANTSSCL
SCALE
0         5         10         15m
_ _,Ed Eank-15942






AMIAL VI&W 0F THE ABOBO-.GAR  PROJECT SITE (MARKET AUI cOMMMJITY FACIELITIES)
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -;                                             j i:
- S
_iX~~~ -   t 
P O RT  - O UE  I
AERIAL VIEW OF THE PORT BOUET II PROJECT SITE (40 HA) IN THE MIDDLE OF THE BANCO.






ADlJAME
AERIAL VIEW OF THE ADJAME PROJECT SITE (DENSITY OF ABOUT 500 INHAB./HA). ADJAME
LIBERTE IS ON THE LEFT, IN BETWEEN THE SICOGI TEEMENT BUILDINGS.
P E L I             T0U V I L L E
AERIAL VIEW OF THE PECIEUVILLE PROJECT AREA. DENSITY OF ABOUT 420 INHA. H .






.    ...... ... . ..... . .t,,  
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X    ; 
; |   A  3 S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;  i'  '
J  .;,       






LU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
ir             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
d                                    Vvt D 
o~~~~~~~~~~ A                                       J






ABOBO GARE
&- - .v_           r'                       r*
C_ _>=~~~~~~~~______________
s , :! Æ -   .  .  _ -                .
Existing conditions
Proposed improvements






ADJAME
.44 ''              ,_, 
- . -.  ,
Existing conditions
Proposed improvements






PORT BOUETI[
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*j ,,-*-a
*~~~~~Pooe impro'ment






e   g  ;, >_%- ,:,;r.1,                                   t,     ,gg  
:a  :s                                 0   fJ                              ,, ,,_                        S  v~: :7~






IBRD 12083
APRIL 1976
o                                                                                            IVORY COAST
o       I       2        3       .1      s        ô       7        8    %
C ILOMETERS                                                                                                                               *D
r l XILO M   E     T      E      R     S             S            \ i  2 , ,°ox 1  1j                                                                Abidjan  Urbon  Development Project
MILES '                                                                                                           LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
PROPOSED PROJECT
Priority section Of East-West highway
Exclusive bus [erles
!iSites and services erecis
,r*                                                    ,_i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Upgradung arecs
Trunk sewers
A|BDuAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
-Ex soirg trunC sewers
  - - Proposed trunk sewers
EXIST IN G
Major roads a T       Mjor ro/sds painred, not under project
a n c O                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railway
----Abidjan muni cipal boundaary
N a t i o p  c,                                                                 '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pare or forest boundoiries
~Urbanîzed careais, 1973
A ./|   »°t°    \PspucIation per hectare, 1973,
|.   P a r k                                                                                         lej;)'More thon * 0 000
* 00-1lOC0
200-600
100- 200
Less than 100
Emp[oyment per hectaire, 1973:
S  More than 500
O ~~~~~sdc .Es~~~~~~~~~o,,                                                                                                              * ~~~~4-250-500
__                                                                                                  * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25 -250
s SOPOJG                             <gt I               4Xr`'DEL~. \\ z:~                                                         Lessthan [25Lsn
`u'` 0 ` t`§i t   L                                                                         <                                                                               s
At eoei. M.- m hà/   eo'oof d 
s)A                               :          4E
,.'                                                                                                                                                            GO   7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  uQs                                                                                                          
[3[o  .sJoôo~~ 05v,ot v,i reS  rer do                                                                                                                                I             y






[BRD 12085
APRIL 1976
r,  !  2   3  4  5       o       7           A                                                                                               IVORY   COAST
3KLOMERS                  4                                                                                               Abodion  Urban  Development Project
MILES                                                                                                                    URBANIZATION PROGRESSION
-'Urbcn areas In 1958.
ABOBO                                                             Populaton: 170,000
Additional orecas urbanized by 1966.
Population: 370,000
Addition cl -re as ur banized   by   1973.
Population: 850,000
Maijor rocuds
Ruiilway
----Abidjan municipal boundairy
.      Park or forest boundaries
l              8  ~~~a n C °                        io/
N a t i ro n aI/                                Abobo 
P a r k                             f
YO                                         XEU PLT=U
Y;
j,PiATEAU 
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y                                                                   RIHIL ~    MARCORY
7~ ~ ~~~~~',
Abdi ~ ~  ~           ~            ~           ~           ~           ~           ~           
.......... ..~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ur-uut
F'  :~~~~~~~~~~~~~F  îv ~         ~         s Aror 






IBRD 12086
APRIL 1976
IVORY COAST
Abidjon Urbon Development Project
TRAFFIC IMPROVEMENT MEASURES
Existing:                               Proposed project:
Major roods and accesses                Exclusive bus lanes
Other roods                       *    Traffic lights
S     Traffic lights                       Planned roods and interchanges
not included in project
0                      0.5                      1//                                             
KILO  METER
MILE
1Je  ECHANGEUR e
ECHANGEUR                                                                                      DE L' INDENIE 
D 'ATTIECOUBE
DU BANCO
\'z        AV.                              ,tuss-i   - ILouvertu r 
NI
I 2,t   '  \\\                     Av. du Dr Jomol\
2 { ^;- .S             0\          s                .-               -                  
ACCES R      S,N.                          \                                  '
.   -  .  .- I \\      \     ~~~~Av Terr s on  , e   Fou.aère,    
--  \ `1      0    [= É~ Av.                 \.
ABIDJAN                   I                     Av. Fran het     E     y
ABOBO             ---- Municipal
k -            ~~~~boundary                                                            o
r                  ~~~- Roads
o           v,
k    KILOMETERS 
BANCO                                                                s.
Area oPONT
TECvLEMARCORY                                                                                                     DE JAU  






IBRD 12090
APRIL 1976
o      I      2      3      4       5      t         7    si )86A                                                                                IVORY  COAST
' '          C ILOMETERS 5 t"    i- 4                                                                                 Abidjan  Urban Development Project
MIIES                                                      .                                                        ' , .. jé<-S,^^E PUBLIC TRANSPORT
,|, ioo A                  PASSENGER TRAFFIC FLOW PER 24 HOURS
1974-1980
Passerger traffic flow per 24 hours;
/ '            -\ - .          ,,   UN        r        > > &19S O, estimated
'-   E3 Screen lires
Major roads
-.-----Railwoy
i/ /                                                                                               - -     '' -Abidjan municiprl boundary
B°     o                                                                          - -        Park or forest boundraries
40%. |,     g  \Urbanizud oreas, 1973
\\   N o f i o n o I]Aoo                          \
r                                                         oJ
170~ ~   ~ ~ ~~1 2004* ,7o t,SI 59
IEIIB,0           V d f,,, ,I n
VORY-COAS'
COAST        ç                              Vricd
'Abj,s dr,el                                                             '






IBRD 12087
IVORY  COAST                                     APRIL 1976
Abidjan Urbon Development Project
lii  10                      200    300ABOBO GARE UPGRADING PROJECT
0  200    400  ~600          800      1000                      xsn   lt
FE E,  ~Mouffl Existinq bituminized rodds
Pooe     tuinlzed roads
Exsii   ctrsupply lines, (dianneters ln maillimeters)
Prps-  trsupply lines,(diarneters in millimeters)
M     Prpsdfr   ydrdnts
Prpsdswr lines,(diamneters in millimeters)
---Propoed stormdrains
APROBet           ABIDJAN
BANcO \P~E   oo
VRI
`'1  '
'I)T                        -






,--I -BO*BO  ABIDJAN                                                   IVORY  COAST
Abidjan Urban Development Project
R..ds                                                        SITES AND SERVICES
Indicative Layout, Type LEM
EEProjecf boundary
BANOCODY                                        XLA,TEII  LEM  type Iots
BANCO     \ef o                                                                                       Surfaiced roods
MAVRCOR                                                       .     Cs,.''    Pedestrion paths
TR ICHVLLL       K    S5ttjEU                                                  Water supply lines,(diameters in millimeters)
M      Fire hydrant
*     Sewer lines,(diameters in millimeters)
*  Sewer moanholes
~~~  ORIDI  I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sanitory cores
Surface water runoff channels
Ij\s L                                                                          . Community facilities
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SIN
O       2         a        un        8o       101
o             ee0          200            300 






IBRD 1208Y
APRIL 1976
IVORY COAST
Abidjon Urbon Development Project
SITES AND SERVICES
Indicative Layout, Type BCEOM/BNETD
-,7
.........4 -                        - ..
METERS                                                             F w T t
- - - - MuicplCEMBTI                         I         t           l
1   1 . ~~~-4I                                                    1-'l4-1, ;H1 I ,r
.. ABOO                    M -b.unciy                       W        .     ines,(dianeters in millimeters)
j  T - `|11S-«ilil-2Roods
{  0 20Fire hydraCnts
t  ~ ~~~~~~~ JLOaETERS                                                              FE
Valves
Sewer lines,(diameters in mi limeters)
-    Sewer moiholes
I BAtCO    \ \ PL.ATEA 9                                              AK | | - -- Underground drainage collectors
TR   HVI «  Â          Av   t                  *    Collector manholes
Turfed open ditches for storm water drainage
-4----    Direction of slope






LBRD 12091
~~~~~~  z                                                                                                                APRIL 1976~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARL17
-io MALI ,\,n  $   UPPEh   g                     {      Lj                                    tToSoubro                                               IVORY  COAST
rVOLTA                                                                                                                                  SAN   PEDRO
GUINEA2    K     o/hoeo '                                                                                                                              Location of Bardo Pro ject
s )   IVORY   COAST                                                                                                                                      PBrdo  Pcroect Are
;XJ OMen  orou.k. ,                                                           ``NA               L                   Port rJreo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or Ue
A <                                                                                                                                                            Brdo Proroot Aoordo P,oct Arec  ............
Ab,dpr                                                                             F               <Q ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T-oist crocs
c .  .    .        .                                                           /                         -wtr,                                             ProposeS rosSe c rocS improPeme nt
00,  1-o, \1e b,,                                                                                                                                            I 5nd
horldO,,O,,0,,Nolf,LNON                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
O            0.
/ ~     ~         ~         ~         \ -                          B e(\
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; -y';'L. T1v;.I>>lTTg,,b-I                                                                                                               ï -
'r,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ï
f/s 0  /  \  /  <4  :                                                                             PORT
`X;!;: : i--;;- 2 us  1; 5.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
\   -    - tS T   !grS\ >s        &EE~~~~~~~~~~~    ~         ~       ~ ~~ ~ '1,,`     - \   



