Document of
VILE COPY                        The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1892-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON TWO
PROPOSEI) LOANS
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR AN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 23, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                              CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                                    CFAF 225
CFAF 1 million                             US$4,444
FISCAL YEAR
Borrower:                                  January 1 - December 31
BNEC/CCI/SETU:                             October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ARSO      Autorite Regionale du Sud-Ouest
BCEOM     Bureau Central d'Equipement d'Outre-Mer
BNEC      Banque Nationale pour l'Epargne et le Credit
BNETD     Bureau National des Etudes Techniques de Developpement
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CCI       Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire
FNA       Fonds National de l'Assainissement
OSHE      Office pour le Soutien d'Habitat Economique
SETU      Societe d'Equipement des Terrains Urbains
SICOGI    Societe Ivoirienne de Construction et
Gestion Immobiliere
SOGEFIHA  Societe de Gestion Financiere de 1'Habitat
USAID     United States Agency for International Development



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON TWO PROPOSED LOANS
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR AN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
loans to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$44 million
to help finance a project to construct urban transport and shelter infra-
structure in Abidjan and San Pedro and to strengthen the planning and imple-
mentation capacity of various urban sector institutions. A Bank loan equiv-
alent to US$30 million would have a term of 20 years, including 4 years of
grace, with interest at 8.7 percent per annum. A second loan equivalent
to US$14 million would be made on standard Third Window terms of 25 years,
including 7 years of grace, with interest at 4.7 percent per annum. US$16.2
million for the shelter component of the loans would be onlent on the same
terms as the standard Bank loan in part to the Banque Nationale pour l'Epargne
et le Credit (BNEC), and in part to the Fonds National de l'Assainissement
(FNA). The USAID Office of Housing would provide co-financing for the
project in the form of a loan under the Housing Guarantee Program amounting
to US$21 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The Report No. 296-IVC "Current Economic Situation and Prospects
of the Ivory Coast" was circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1974.
A basic economic mission visited the country in June-July 1975, and its
principal findings and conclusions are discussed below. Annex I provides
basic country data.
Past Performance
3.        Throughout the 1960's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at a high
annual rate of about 8.3 percent; however, during 1971-75, economic growth
slowed to an average of 5.6 percent per annum partly because of the effects
of adverse climatic conditions in the early years of the period and the
impact of worldwide recession, and partly for structural reasons. In 1975,
per capita income reached US$501, one of the highest in Africa. The good
overall performance of the Ivorian economy over the last 15 years has resulted
from a combination of the following factors: (i) good agricultural potential
and early identification by the Ivorian community of the best opportunities
for developing this potential; (ii) liberal government policies vis-a-vis pri-
vate capital inflows as well as importation of foreign labor and managerial
talent; and (iii) generally adequate public finance performance and avail-
ability of external aid.
4.        Although the country has sizable mineral deposits which may become
commercially exploitable in the early 1980's, the contribution of the mining
sector to economic growth has so far been negligible. On the other hand,



favorable ecological conditions in the southern region have given Ivory Coast
a clear comparative advantage in the cultivation of tree crops (particularly
cocoa and coffee) for exports, and in the exploitation of its timber resources.
From the early years of its independence, the efforts of the Government and
the agricultural community were concentrated on the agricultural and forestry
sector. Large investments were made in transport infrastructure to open up
new forestry and agricultural areas, and in agricultural research programs.
Price and other incentives were introduced to which a dynamic small-holder
sub-sector responded well. Government-owned large-scale plantations with
outgrower components were developed for oil and coconut palm. Rapid growth
has been achieved in the production of cotton, pineapple, palm and coconut
oil, cocoa and coffee, for the last two of which, Ivory Coast is now the
third largest producer in the world.
5.        Another important contributing factor to the country's economic
growth has been the Government's open-door policy towards foreign private
investment and foreign labor at all skill levels. The prevailing political
stability, combined with the free transferability of profits and capital,
created an aura of confidence abroad which provided access to foreign capital.
However, the necessary technical skills to assure the planned development were
lacking in the country, and the Ivorian community appears to have accepted and
welcomed the wide variety of foreign managerial and technical assistance which
rapid growth required. A member of the franc area and a strong supporter of
monetary and economic cooperation, the Ivory Coast has always been willing to
welcome new regional institutions; it joined the Economic Community of West
African States (ECOWAS), and has recently helped promote the CIMAO project,
which is the first regional industrial undertaking involving both French- and
English-speaking countries in West Africa. An important feature of this
cooperation with neighboring countries, which has been beneficial to all
parties concerned, is the large influx of unskilled labor from less well-
endowed Sahelian countries, particularly Upper Volta and Mali. In 1975, the
foreign population (mainly non-Ivorian Africans) was estimated at 2 million,
i.e. close to 30 percent of the country's total of 6.7 million inhabitants.
6.        The success of the Ivorian economy is further attributable to
generally sound Government policies regarding public finance and external
aid.  The public sector generated savings which, after debt service, fi-
nanced about 50 percent of the public investment program in the 1960-70
period. At the same time, the country was able to mobilize considerable
financial assistance from abroad, so that by the end of 1975, total external
public debt stood at US$1.5 billion.
Recent Development Problems
7.        Despite the good economic performance of the Ivorian economy over
recent years, there are several development problems to be faced in the
future. The country needs to diversify its economic base, improve income
distribution and increase the participation of Ivorian nationals in the
management of its economy. As regards diversification, current Government
policies are directed with some success to protecting the export-oriented
economy against fluctuations in world market prices, and to promoting more



- 3 -
balanced regional development. Agriculture remains the most important sector,
but the share of manufacturing in GDP has increased from 4 percent in 1960 to
12 percent in 1974. Within agriculture, the production of new crops such as
bananas, pineapples, rubber, cotton, coconut and palm oil has been developed,
resulting in a decline of the share of cocoa and coffee in agricultural
exports from 72 percent in 1960 to 44 percent in 1974. As part of a more
balanced regional development policy, large infrastructure investments are
under way in the Southwest in an effort to develop access to that poten-
tially rich region.
8.        Better income-earning opportunities are being provided for the
population in poor rural areas in the North following the identification
and cultivation of improved varieties of cotton, and the promotion of ox-
drawn methods of farming. Income distribution is being further improved by
increases in agricultural producer prices, implementation of wage policies
which favor the urban poor, and execution of regional investment programs.
As a result, income inequality has diminished in recent years, with the
poorest 40 percent of the population currently receiving about 20 percent of
total income.
9.        Progress in "Ivorianization" of capital and labor remains limited.
While agriculture is almost entirely in Ivorian hands, foreign ownership is
still important in forestry, industry, and modern commerce. However, education
and training are given high priority in the allocation of Government resources;
the employment potential of the informal sector is increasingly recognized
and the Government is sponsoring a variety of programs designed to promote
the development of small-scale industrial and commercial enterprises.
10.       These new directions of Ivorian economic policies are, however,
being implemented at some cost. The development of new products, new sectors,
and new regions is more expensive with decreasing returns on investments. For
example, agricultural diversification is being extended to crops with lower
comparative advantages: forest reserves may be depleted in ten to fifteen
years unless costly reforestation programs are started; the best opportunities
for import substitution in industrial development are becoming exhausted;
heavy infrastructure and productive investments in the potentially rich but
sparsely populated Southwest yield initially low returns; large programs to
improve living conditions in the North and other poor rural areas involve
long gestation periods; and finally the direct and indirect costs of foreign
production factors are increasing. Thus terms of trade are deteriorating.
The terms and conditions of external public debt are also hardening with the
grant element of public foreign capital declining from 29 percent in 1969 to
16 percent in 1974.
Prospects
11.       In spite of these problems, medium- and long-term prospects
of the Ivorian economy remain favorable and an annual rate of growth of
about 6 percent is a feasible objective, provided the Government becomes
more selective in determining investment priorities and continues to
improve mobilization of domestic and external resources.



12.       The economy has considerable potential for further develop-
ment of traditional export crops. Moreover, after large initial invest-
ments have been made, output of new products and development of new regions
will start to yield substantial benefits, and can later be expanded at
reasonable economic cost. The Government is planning to review the system
of protection and tax holidays which has encouraged some marginal import-
substitution industries, and there is scope for expansion of export-oriented
processing of local raw materials. Finally, many aspects of the country's
policies of income distribution (preference for the family-size farm, programs
to increase agricultural productivity, in the North, promotion of the informal
sector and of small-scale industrial and commercial enterprises) are fully
compatible with sustained economic growth.
13.       A new Five-Year Development Plan (1976-80), which is under pre-
paration, was discussed with the June 1975 Bank economic mission. The
program as presently conceived aims at doing almost everything at the same
time, providing for further increases in production in the developed regions,
agricultural development in poor savannah areas, accelerating the opening-up
of the Southwest, diversifying production in agriculture and industry, imple-
menting large iron-ore mining and paper pulp projects, and improving the
quantity and quality of services in rural and urban areas, etc. Preliminary
cost estimates indicate that implementation of the proposed program would
involve an unrealistic increase in the level of investment from 23 percent
of GDP during 1971-75 to about 40 percent during 1976-80. The Government is
now reviewing the Plan in an effort to adapt it to the expected level of
domestic and external resources. The Bank's economic mission estimated that
if investments were held to about 25 percent of GDP, a satisfactory annual
growth rate of about 6 percent in real terms could result. Assuming a pro-
portion of public investments equivalent to 60 percent of the total, this
would mean a public investment program of about $800 million a year in
current terms for the next five years. This proportion of public investment
to total investment would stabilize the upward trend of recent years. Both
the foreign and local private sectors in Ivory Coast react well to price
and market incentives. Public investment in productive sectors where these
incentives could be utilized, should be limited.
14.       Even a scaled-down public investment program as proposed above
would still be difficult to finance. A pre-requisite to success would be
an improvement in domestic savings. The savings performance of the public
sector has been affected in the last several years by higher producer prices
and increased expenditures on social programs. However, net public savings
after debt service which financed only 35 percent of public investment during
1973-75, could again increase to about 40 percent, assuming an increase in the
tax burden from 19 to 20 percent of GDP, a slower rise in Government current
expenditures, and an improved savings ratio of public enterprises.
15.       The country has a high absorptive capacity, and the public sector
is able to mobilize a substantial inflow of foreign capital. External financ-
ing of public investment amounted to US$235 million in 1974 and US$352 million
in 1975. An annual average of US$450 million over the next five years is
considered realistic. Assuming that about 40 percent of future inflows of



- 5 -
foreign capital continue to be financed by Government aid agencies and by
bilateral and multilateral donors, the debt service ratio would rise from 10
percent in 1975 to the high but manageable level of 17 percent in the early
1980's.
16.       The balance of payments situation was affected by the increase in
oil prices and the recent recession of the world economy. The net oil import
bill increased from US$15 million (3 percent of commodity imports) in 1972
to US$90 million (7.5 percent of commodity imports) in 1975. However, the
economy reacted well to these circumstances, thereby demonstrating its
resilience. In 1974, higher export earnings more than offset increased
import outlays resulting in a balance of payments surplus of US$88 million.
A 1975 deficit of US$150 million was due primarily to deteriorating terms of
trade and low timber exports caused by a continuing slump in the European
construction industry; to help meet this deficit, the country made drawings of
US$13 million from the 1975 IMF Oil Facility, and US$33 million from the IMF
Compensatory Financing Scheme. However, favorable prices for coffee and cocoa,
together with an improved timber market, led to a rapid build-up of gross
reserves from US$18 million in September 1975 to US$136 million in February
1976 falling again to US$70 million in July. Pressures on the balance of
payments remain, as the deficit on the services account will continue to
exceed the surplus on the trade account. To maintain a sound balance of
payments position, the country will need substantial external capital inflows,
which are expected to materialize.
17.       Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of
1975, 21 percent was provided by governments, 24 percent by international
organizations (of which 70 percent by the Bank Group), and 28 percent by
private banks and bond issues, while 27 percent came in the form of sup-
pliers' credits. The capital not supplied by international organizations
came mainly from four countries; France (33 percent), USA (21 percent),
Italy (8 percent), and Germany (4 percent). France and the European Com-
munities remain the principal source of development assistance in grant
form, accounting for about 6 percent of the flow of foreign assistance to
the public sector.
18.       The Ivory Coast is considered eligible for Bank lending on Third
Window terms according to the following criteria:
(a) Per Capita Income: in 1975 the Ivory Coast per capita
income was US$501 ($340 in 1972);
(b) Performance: From 1971-75 the Ivory Coast maintained a
growth rate of 5.6 percent per annum, thereby showing a
decline from the average of 8 percent maintained through
the 1960's. This slowing down was due partly to the
impact of worldwide recession. The prospects for medium-
and long-term growth are favorable. The next Five-Year
Development Plan will continue to give emphasis to re-
gional development, expanding employment opportunities
for skilled Ivorians and improving income distribution.



(c) Creditworthiness: in view of its good potential, its
responsible economic management, and the expected increase
in export earnings, the Ivory Coast is creditworthy for
substantial additional borrowing from the Bank. However,
to permit the implementation of the Government's develop-
ment policy, and the maintenance of a high level of
investment, while at the same time keeping debt service
within manageable limits, it is desirable that some part
of the required foreign capital should be made available
on concessionary terms.
(d) Access to External Sources of Financing: although the
Ivory Coast is likely to continue to have access to
external sources of financing, the availability of coun-
terpart domestic resources is diminishing. Over the past
ten years the percentage of public investment financed by
public savings has dropped from about 50 percent to 35
percent. In the circumstances the need is to select more
carefully the priorities to be met in the investment
program. More emphasis should be given to improving the
implementation of existing programs rather than encourag-
ing the proliferation of new activities.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
19.       Since 1968 the Bank's lending to the Ivory Coast has expanded
rapidly and now includes twenty-three loans totaling US$264.3 million and an
IDA credit of US$7.5 million. Eleven of these twenty-four operations have
been for agriculture covering the development of cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil
palm and coconut plantations. There were five road projects. The remaining
eight loans were for education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and
drainage system, tourism development, small- and medium-scale enterprises and
a regional cement project. IFC's small participation in the Banque Ivoirienne
de Developpement Industriel (US$204,000) was increased in 1974 by a 50 percent
stock dividend; IFC's Board recently approved a 10 percent equity investment,
equivalent to about US$910,000, in Etablissement R. Gonfreville (ERG), the
largest textile plant in the country.    Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank Group operations as of October 31, 1976 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
20.       The main thrust of the Bank lending program will continue to be
in the agricultural sector with an emphasis on regional growth and income
distribution effect. A fourth oil palm and coconut project in the Southwest
was appraised earlier this year and a second rubber and first livestock
development projects are under consideration for the same region. A follow-up
project to the Cotton Areas Rural Developmnt Project in the north is also
under preparation.



- 7 -
21.       The Bank will continue also to place emphasis on the strengthening
of the country's major transport axes and linking the agricultural areas to
the nation's urban centers and ports. The five road projects financed thus
far total US$94.3 million. The first was completed in December 1974 with
final costs within appraised estimates. The second project was satisfactorily
completed in September 1975, after an initial delay caused by alignment
modification and subsequent poor work organization. The Third and Fourth
Highway Projects incurred substantial cost overruns which the Government is
expected to cover; otherwise execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The
Fifth Highway Project will substantially complete the primary road network of
the country thus allowing a shift in emphasis for Bank lending to secondary
and feeder roads. The Bank was also closely associated, as executing agency,
with the 1969 UNDP Transport Survey of the Ivory Coast, which has served as a
basis for determining future priorities among transport investments. A Feeder
Road Project is under preparation. A railway project, focusing on the improve-
ment of a priority section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou rail line, renewal of
Abidjan-Ouagadougou rolling stock, technical assistance and training, has just
been appraised. While the Bank is expected to continue to play a major role
in the transport sector, financing will increasingly be shared with other aid
donors.
22.       The education system of the Ivory Coast has not provided the country
with an adequate supply of skilled manpower. The Bank is closely associated
with the Goverrunent's efforts to modernize the education system, in particular
at the secondary and vocational levels. Both the Bank's two projects thus
far have been directed to these ends. Preparation of a third project is
included in the second.
23.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project approved in 1975 will
cover the first phase of a ten-year Government program to improve sanitation
in Abidjan. The Ten-Year Study proposed under this urban development project
would form the basis for the future investment program in this sector. Earlier
this year the Bank appraised a water supply project for secondary centers.
24.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management in
the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing high
priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this policy
the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises and a
loan financing medium-scale industrial development. These two projects
emerged from a 1971 Bank Study of private enterprise in West Africa. Follow-up
projects in both areas are envisaged. In June 1976 the Bank extended a loan
to the Ivory Coast in support of the CIMAO Project, which is being sponsored
jointly by the Governments of Ghana, Ivory Coast and Togo to utilize limestone
deposits in Togo for the production of clinker for the cement market of the
three countries.
25.       Bank Group lending to the Ivory Coast, which has averaged about
US$35 million per year in the past eight years, is expected to increase
substantially over the next several years. The Bank Group's share of the
Ivory Coast's external debt which, at the end of 1975, stood at approximately



10 percent (including undisbursed), is likely to remain at about that level
in the next ten-year period. The Bank Group's share of total debt service is
at present 4.5 percent and is expected to go up to about 8.0 percent in the
early 1980's.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR IN THE IVORY COAST
26.       Urbanization is a rather new phenomenon in the Ivory Coast.     Few
urban centers or even large villages existed before 1900 when, following the
establishment of a territorial capital by French colonial authorities,
Abidjan and several towns in the interior grew at a leisurely pace along
the main transport axes and as headquarters for the administrative units
into which the country was divided.
27.       Rapid urban growth evolved as a consequence of the Ivory Coast's
economic development over the past 20 years. After the opening of the
Vridi Canal in 1950, permitting the creation of a deep water port at Abidjan,
the city became a major commercial center. As a result of Government develop-
ment policies and the availability of infrastructure and labor, Abidjan grew
eightfold from a town of some 125,000 in 1955, to a modern metropolis of
nearly 1 million in 1975, an average rate of some 11.5 percent a year. From
1955 to 1975, the urban population grew from 0.3 to 2.2 million, as the urban
share of the national population grew from 13 to 34 percent. Other urban cen-
ters grew during the same period at an average annual rate of about 9 percent.
28.       Massive rural-urban migration both from within the Ivory Coast and
from neighboring countries, recently exacerbated by the Sahelian drought, has
been the principal factor in this growth of the urban population. While much
of the migrant labor force has been absorbed by the primary sector in the
rural areas, a significant number has gone to the urban centers. The Govern-
ment estimated in 1975 that half of Abidjan's population were Africans of
non-Ivorian origin. In 1973 the total urban labor force in the Ivory Coast
was estimated at about 500,000 out of a total working population of 1 million.
Unemployment was estimated at about 15 percent.
29.       Rapid urban growth, particularly that of Abidjan, is expected
to continue during the next decade. While Government regional development
policies, through farm pricing, agricultural diversification, and rural
development, seek to redirect growth from Abidjan to other urban centers
and rural areas, these efforts cannot be expected to reduce significantly
the projected growth of the capital in the short term. It is therefore
estimated that Abidjan will reach a population of about 1.65 million by
1980 (an annual growth rate of 10.5 percent) and 2.2 million by 1985 (repre-
senting a lower growth rate from 1980 due to Government policies). An almost
parallel growth by about 1 million is expected in the other urban centers.
The share of the urban population in the total population is expected to rise
from 34 percent in 1975 to about 42 percent in 1980 and 47 percent in 1985.



- 9 -
30.       As a result of this rapid growth, the Ivorian authorities have been
faced with increasing demands for urban services and employment. The share
of public investment in urban development has increased in recent years,
reflecting the Government's intention to establish a modern urban infra-
structural base. While these investments have had immediate returns in
terms of the growth of towns, especially Abidjan, they have not fully met
the service needs of the population, in particular those of low-income
groups. The basic policy issues facing Abidjan over the next 5-10 years
concern the location and nature of urban development to satisfy the growing
needs for urban services in ways which are affordable by the mass of the
population. An Abidjan Urban Development Study financed by the Bank under
previous highway projects has focused on these issues.
31.       Abidjan has witnessed a housing boom in the past decade.    Between
1963 and 1973, housing stock grew by an average of 9 percent per annum, from
63,000 to 149,000 units (about two thirds financed by the private sector).
However, because of the high standards of the units built, they exceed the
financial capacity of half of the urban population who cannot afford them
without subsidies. Consequently a large number of the people, about 30
percent of the urban population, live in squatter settlements with poor
services. While it appears to be inevitable that a small proportion of the
poorest people will continue to live in such conditions, the Abidjan Urban
Development Study indicates that if the increasing demand for inexpensive
housing units were satisfied, this proportion would diminish to 10 percent in
1980 and 4.7 percent in 1985. However, present Government projections indicate
that it will be difficult to rely on the public sector to provide sufficient
housing in the next decade, even if the targets of the public housing institu-
tions of 7,850 new units per annum, including 5,000 low cost units, could be
met. The closing of the housing gap will depend on a reorientation of public
housing, fully utilizing existing quarters, recovering cost from beneficiaries,
and stimulating existing beneficiaries in higher income groups to provide for
their own housing. The Government has recognized the need for these changes
which are reflected in the three elements of the shelter component of the
proposed project: slum upgrading, site and services and low-cost housing.
32.       To reflect this policy reorientation several changes are being
introduced in the institutional framework of the shelter sector. The
main institutions concerned are two public housing institutions (SOGEFIHA
and SICOGI), a public land development agency (SETU), a multipurpose
development bank (CCI), and a newly-created housing bank, Banque Nationale
pour l'Epargne et le Credit (BNEC). Formerly all government funds earmarked
for the shelter sector were channeled through the Office pour le Soutein de
l'Habitat Economique (OSHE). OSHE will be dissolved and its role assumed by
the new housing bank -- BNEC. The new institution has three roles: (a)
to manage all public funds earmarked for the shelter sector through a Fonds
d'Habitat set up for this purpose, (b) to advise on all proposed Government-
guaranteed external borrowings for financing of housing projects by Government
and parastatal agencies and to monitor the progress of these projects, and (c)
to act as a financial intermediary for housing loans. A satisfactory statutory
structure for BNEC, a statement of operating policies, and the rules governing



- 10 -
the dispositicn of ex-OSHE funds, has been completed and agreed with the Bank
(Section 3.01 and Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement with BNEC). Legal mea-
sures for the formal dissolution of OSHE are a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan (Sections 1.02(k) and 6.01(c) of the Loan Agreement*); BNEC's
role in managing and monitoring public resources for the shelter sector has
been agreed with Government (Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement). The adoption
of a final statement of operating policies by BNEC's Board of Directors is a
condition of disbursement of the funds allocated to the shelter component
(Schedule 1, para. 4(b) (iv) of the Loan Agreement). This statement includes
provisions governing the financial policies of the public housing agencies
supported by BNEC (such as SOGEFIHA and SICOGI) as well as minimum criteria of
affordability and cost recovery. The lack of such controls in the past has
created an unmanageably heavy debt burden for SOGEFIHA. An acceptable plan
for consolidating its financial position has been adopted by SOGEFIHA and the
Government as guarantor of its debt. An understanding has also been reached
on BNEC's key staff, which would be supported by technical assistance under
the project (Section 2.01(d) of the Project Agreement with BNEC and Section
3.06(a) of the Loan Agreement); employment of an expert to assist in managing
the Fonds d'Habitat would be a condition of disbursement of the shelter
component of the loan (Schedule 1, Para. 4(b)(ii) of the Loan Agreement).
33.       BNEC's credit facilities are complemented by a housing loan program
of the Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire (CCI), the channel for two previous Bank
loans for small-scale enterprises and tourism. CCI has also been charged with
a pilot program of small loans to artisans and small entrepreneurs, which has
been designed and will be financed by the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) in order to stimulate informal sector employment in the
project areas. Assurances concerning the satisfactory undertaking of this
program have been obtained from the Government (Section 3.09 of the Loan
Agreement).
34.       An improvement in the services and reduction of costs will also
be required in respect of water supply, sewerage and drainage in order to
reach the lower end of the income scale despite limited public resources.
According to 1973 data, only 50 percent of Abidjan's population had reason-
able access to water, i.e. service through either private connections or
public standpipes. Almost half of the population depends on private ground
water sources or on vendors who charge five times more than the tariff of the
public utility. Waterborne sewerage is presently used by 20 percent of the
Abidjan population; another 15 percent use septic tanks. In 1975 almost
650,000 persons disposed of waste water and sewerage in open pits or unlined
water courses. There is no official cesspool emptying service in the city.
This is particularly serious because some high density neighborhoods are sus-
ceptible to flooding and severe drainage problems each year. The Bank's
Sewerage and Drainage Project is already contributing a substantial portion
of the necessary investment in this sector.
*    The term "Loan Agreement" refers to the draft Loan Agreement for the
standard Bank loan.



- 11 -
35.       Abidjan's topographical features -- lagoons, islands, and
peninsulas -- impose a substantial burden on the city's transport system.
The problem is exacerbated by the imbalanced location of employment popula-
tion, with lower-income groups living far from employment centers. Transport
axes meet and cross in the central business district on the Plateau, over-
loading a limited network and contributing to heavy downtown congestion. In
the long term, a policy for future growth of Abidjan will aim at better inte-
grating employment and population; Government has decided to postpone a large
new housing development on the Banco which would have required massive trans-
port infrastructure, in favor of improving services in already settled areas,
leading to higher density development in locations with better access to jobs
and thereby reducing new land requirements in the coming years. This will
permit a more gradual development of new expansion zones, with creation of
infrastructure capacity more in line with capital constraints.
36.       Based on these policies, initial urban transport investment plans
for 1976-1980 of about US$110 million have been scaled down to US$55 million.
Only the construction of the western section of the East-West Highway, which
would be included in the project, and the access road from the East-West
Highway to the port would be of high priority. All other major urban road
investments can be postponed until after 1980, and the Government has agreed
to undertake these only after consultation with the Bank in the light of the
results of the proposed Ten-Year Urban Development Study, which would be part
of the proposed project (Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement). In the meantime
a package of policy measures, including improved traffic management and
preferential treatment of public transport, would extract the maximum capacity
from the existing network.
37.       The proposed Traffic Bureau to be established under this project,
would be charged with designing and implementing these measures. It would
also assist in coordinating development of the various modes of urban transport,
including the expansion and diversification of the bus fleet, development of
ferries and boat service on the lagoons, and development of commuter rail
services along the existing railway tracks.
38.       The successful implementation of the proposed project, particularly
the strengthening of the shelter sector institutions, the experience gained
with the reoriented urban development policy and the results of the Ten-Year
Development Study, would form the basis of a possible second urban project.
It is anticipated that it would be largely directed towards urban development
outside Abidjan; the inclusion of the relatively small Bardo component in
San Pedro in the southwest of the country under the proposed project is a
first step in this direction.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project has evolved from a 1974-75 Abidjan Urban
Development Study carried out by the consultants BCEOM/BNETD (France/



- 12 -
Ivory Coast) and financed under the Bank's Second and Third Highway
Projects and with French technical assistance grants. The shelter sector
was also reviewed by the USAID Office of Housing in preparing its third
housing guarantee operation in the Ivory Coast. Project preparation has
involved several Bank missions including the appraisal mission in November/
December, 1975, which was joined by a representative of the USAID Office
of Housing. Negotiations for the loan took place in Washington from July 20
to 23, 1976. The Ivorian delegation was headed by Mr. Leon Naka, Director
General of the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA); and included represen-
tatives of the various entities involved in the project; officials of the
USAID Office of Housing joined the negotiations as observers.
Project Description
40.        The proposed project, which is described in detail in the report
entitled "Appraisal of the Abidjan Urban Development Project" (No. 1200-IVC,
dated November 15, 1976), being distributed separately, and summarized in
Annex III, would consist of the following three components:
(a) Transport:
(i)  construction of the priority western section (8.6 km)
of the East-West Highway; and
(ii) traffic management measures in the central business
district.
(b) Shelter:
(i) a slum upgrading and site and services program for
about 200,000 inhabitants in Abidjan and San Pedro;
(ii)  a low-cost housing program in Abidjan;
(iii)  a line of credit for small loans for the purchase of
construction materials and acquisition of lots; and
(iv)  construction of two trunk sewers to serve the
Abidjan project sites and other neighborhoods.
(c) Technical Assistance:
(i) support for the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
for the staffing of a Traffic Bureau;
(ii)  support for the Ministry of Construction and
Urbanism in formulating responses to changing
shelter sector policies, in carrying out a Ten-
Year Development Study and in preparing a public
investment program for Abidjan; and



- 13 -
(iii) support for BNEC for staff development and training.
The project would be carried out from 1977 through 1979, although some
preparatory work for the East-West Highway has already begun.
41.       The western section of the East-West Highway is of critical
importance for Abidjan's growing transport needs. It would comprise
8.6 km of a four-lane highway with two interchanges and two intersections
and is urgently required to accommodate the growing traffic (by 7-10
percent annually), which presently constitutes about 18,000 vehicles per
day. In the central business district the proposed traffic management
measures would extract the maximum capacity from the existing transport
network by devoting capacity to the exclusive use of buses, creating
one-way streets, coordinating traffic signals, and improving traffic
signs.
42.       The sites for the shelter component have been chosen for their
proximity to employment opportunities and primary infrastructure (see map).
The slum upgrading program in Abidjan would cover four sites totaling 211 ha
providing 3,610 lots for 16,400 households. The site to be upgraded in the
Bardo at San Pedro would affect 5,800 households; funds for the Bardo compo-
nent would only be disbursed upon satisfactory completion of the ongoing pilot
slum upgrading scheme in San Pedro (Schedule 1, para. 4(b)(viii)(2) of the
Loan Agreement). Upgrading would involve the provision of water, sewerage
and drainage, roads, and other community facilities to existing neighborhoods.
Two sites totaling 105 ha have been selected for the site and services com-
ponent. Under the low-cost housing component of the project, 1,860 units would
be built for some 10,000 people on two sites in Abidjan; this part of the
project has been prepared by the USAID Office of Housing. Credit for the
purchase of both construction material and serviced lots would be made avail-
able to project beneficiaries.
Project Cost and Financing
43.       Total project costs excluding taxes are estimated at US$97.9 million
(US$122.3 million inciading taxes), with a foreign exchange component of US$63
million, (64 percent). fhe proposed Bank loans of US$44 million would finance
45 percent of total costs net of taxes and 70 percent of the foreign exchange
costs. USAID, through a US$21 million Housing Guarantee program, would finance
jointly the slum upgrading and site and services program and technical assist-
ance and, in parallel, the low-cost housing program. Together the Bank and
USAID would cover 66 percent of project costs net of taxes, covering all the
foreign exchange component and US$2 million of local costs. The Bank funds
would be lent to the Government. BNEC would be the Borrower under the USAID
Housing Guarantee Program.
Flow of Funds and Implementation
44.       The project comprises elements to be carried out by a number of
Government agencies and independent institutions. Therefore, the loans would



- 14 -
be made to the Government and channeled to the various entities as follows
(see Annex IV):
i) Transport
The Bank funds for the transport component (US$20.4 million)
would be passed on to the Ministry of Public Works and Trans-
port, which would be in charge of implementing this part of
the project. Consultants for the supervision of the highway
construction and the traffic improvement measures, including
training of Ivorian counterparts, would be provided under the
project. Technical assistance would also be provided to the
Ministry for the creation of the Traffic Bureau.
ii) Shelter
Bank and USAID funds for the shelter sector (US$13.6 and
US$20.0 million, respectively) (other than the trunk sewers
and the community facilities) would be onlent at the same
terms as the standard Bank loan to the BNEC Fonds d'Habitat.
The funds for site and services and slum upgrading in
Abidjan would be onlent at the same terms to the public land
development agency, SETU, which would be in charge of
implementing these project components. SETU would transfer
the bulk of the site and services lots (about 70 percent) to
one of the public housing institutions, SICOGI, which would
assume SETU's debt service obligations to BNEC. They will
be met from lease payments by the people living in the
project area. About 30 percent of the serviced lots would
be sold by SETU to individuals, who could borrow for this
purpose from BNEC in its capacity as a housing bank, or from
CCI. SETU would pay BNEC the sales proceeds for these lots.
US$1 million of the loan would be relent (again on the same
terms as the standard Bank loan) to BNEC and CCI, for on-
lending to individuals with an interest rate of 13 percent,
on terms of up to 10 years for small loans for construction
materials, or for up to 20 years for the purchase of sites.
CCI, as the financial intermediary under two existing Bank
projects, the Small-Scale Enterprises and the Tourism projects,
is well-equipped for this program. BNEC would operate under
policies and procedures and with key staff satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 2.01 of Project Agreement with BNEC). The pro-
ject would provide for up to four experts to assist BNEC in its
initial operations. The funds for the Bardo upgrading program
in San Pedro would be relent at the same terms by BNEC to
the southwest regional development agency, ARSO, which would
be in charge of the program. ARSO would repay BNEC from
lease payments it would collect from beneficiaries. Similarly
the funds for low-cost housing would be onlent by BNEC to
SICOGI and would be recovered by the latter from lessees.



- 15 -
Trunk Sewers and Community Facilities
(iii)   The Bank funds for the two trunk sewers (US$2.6 million)
would be onlent, at the same terms as the standard Bank
loan, by the Government to the Fonds National d'Assainisse-
ment (FNA), which was created in connection with the Sewer-
age and Drainage Project. SETU would draw on these funds to
pay for the construction of the two trunk sewers. Bank funds
for community facilities (US$5.4 million) would be passed on
to the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism.
Technical Assistance
(iv) Bank and USAID funds (US$3.0 million) would be made avail-
able to the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism for six
experts to assist in the technical coordination of the
shelter component, training of planners, monitoring of the
project, and computerization of a data bank for the Land
Administration Agency. Project funds for a Ten-Year Urban
Development Study, designed to review urban policies,
objectives, and development options, and to prepare a public
investment program for the Abidjan Region over the next 10
years, would also be channeled to this Ministry. Coordina-
tion and monitoring of the various elements of the shelter
component would be carried out by a senior offical of
the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism who has recently
been appointed Project Technical Coordinator (Section
3.02(b) of the Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery and Beneficiaries
45.        The Government will recover development costs from beneficiaries.
All transport component costs will be recovered through road user charges.
Approximately 70 percent of the shelter component costs will be recovered
from direct charges (i.e. lease and purchase payments and betterment tax) and
specific taxes and tariffs (i.e. water and sewerage charges); the remaining 30
percent will be recovered from general property taxes. The only new measure
required is the activation of a betterment tax in the upgraded areas of Abidjan.
To make the betterment tax law operative, various rules and regulations would
have to be issued; this would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank's
loans (Section 6.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). Recovery under these mechanisms
would be made over an extended period of about 20 years to limit the financial
burden on the beneficiaries. It is estimated that households with a monthly
income of US$107 or more, (fewer than 20 percent of the working Abidjan popu-
lation earns less) would be able to afford the lots provided under the site
and services program. Existing lot allocation criteria for project sites have
been modified accordingly, to give access to these households and to restrict
the eligibility of households with monthly incomes exceeding the median in-
come for Abidjan (about US$210). Since many households sublet part of their
lots, the project will reach lower income beneficiaries as well. Cooperative
ownership would be allowed and there would be no discrimination against non-
Ivorians. For the slum upgrading component in Abidjan, Government would waive



- 16 -
a title registration fee and require present occupants to convert temporary
residency permits into permanent titles. The completion of the necessary legal
steps to effect these modifications of land allocation procedures would be
conditions of effectiveness (Sections 3.10(b) and 6.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).
It is recognized that these measures, while representing significant steps in
the right direction, cannot fully safeguard that the benefits of the project
would accrue to the low-income groups presently residing in the project areas;
a monitoring system to be established in the Ministry of Construction and
Urbanism would review continuously the effectiveness of these measures which
would permit the Ministry to take, if necessary, appropriate steps to protect
the target group.
Procurement
46.       As is the usual practice for major civil works in the Ivory Coast,
procurement for the East-West Highway has been divided into two separate
contracts: one for construction and one for supply of aggregates. In order to
avoid delays of over a year - which could have resulted from seasonal factors
- in starting the works, both contracts have already been awarded; contractors
were selected on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines. Contracts for civil works and supply of equipment
for traffic improvements, the two trunk sewers, primary and secondary infra-
structure for the shelter component, and equipment and furniture for community
facilities, would also be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Contracts would be divided
into small components in order to encourage bids from Ivorian enterprises, but
grouping of components would be permitted to attract international competition.
Domestic manufacturers would be given a preference of 15 percent or the level
of applicable duty, whichever is less, in bid comparison. Civil works con-
tracts for the community facilities and tertiary infrastructure would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive procedures, which are satisfactory
to the Bank. These contracts, which would be too small to attract overseas
bidders, would be within the capacity of local medium-size contractors. Small
items costing less than US$10,000 each and which would total not more than
US$100,000, would be purchased after solicitation of quotations from at least
three suppliers. Contracts for relocation of water pipes, electrical lines,
and lighting for the East-West Highway, which would not be Bank-financed,
would be directly awarded to the relevant public utility companies. Tech-
nical assistance contracts and selection of consultants would follow Bank
guidelines.
Disbursement
47.       The Bank loans would be disbursed on a pro-rata basis to cover
43 percent of costs of construction of the East-West Highway and civil works
for traffic improvements; 70 percent of cost of equipment for traffic improve-
ment; 60 percent of cost of trunk sewers, primary infrastructure for the
shelter component, and consultant services for construction supervision, and
technical assistance for the Traffic Bureau and the Ten-Year Development
Study; 50 percent of subloan disbursements for construction material and pur-
chase of sites; and 55 percent of cost of civil works for the community



- 17 -
facilities. For the site and services and slum upgrading components, the
loans would be disbursed pari passu with the USAID Housing Guarantee Loan,
with each covering 30 percent of costs. Funds for technical assistance to
the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism and to BNEC would be disbursed in
the same proportion. The low-cost housing program would be entirely financed
by USAID.
48.       It is proposed that US$350,000 for the foreign exchange costs of
consultant services for detailed engineering, for starting the Ten-Year
Development Study, and for initiation of the Traffic Bureau work program be
financed retroactively.
Benefits and Risks
49.        The project is designed to make possible a more efficient land
use strategy and a more realistic assessment of housing standards to be
adopted in Abidjan. It would ensure that other major transport investments
are viewed within the framework of the Ten-Year Development Study and that the
housing of lower household income groups is better catered to.
50.       The rate of return on the transport component, which accounts for
about 41 percent of project costs, calculated on the basis of estimated bene-
fits in 1980, the first year of full operation, would be 48 percent taking
into account savings in operating costs alone. Since traffic flows will in-
evitably grow, this rate of return represents a minimum estimate of the project
benefits. The project would lead to significant improvements in bus services
which would benefit the bus riders, who are mainly from lower income groups.
51.       The economic rate of return on the shelter component, which accounts
for about 55 percent of project costs, would be at least 30 percent. The
benefits would affect about 200,000 people by providing them with more secure
tenure and a better environment. There would, in addition, be benefits aris-
ing from the greater productivity of healthier people and the specific employ-
ment-creating elements of the project. The project is designed to take advant-
age of the process of self-help construction in lower-income group housing
areas. The cost recovery aspect should demonstrate that this approach is
effective.  A weighted average economic return of all project components for
which benefits have been quantified and which amount to 72 percent of total
project costs, is estimated to be 43 percent.
52.       The risks associated with the project center in part on the role of
BNEC, a new institution which must demonstrate its capacity to act as the key
financial institution for the shelter sector. Furthermore the betterment tax
is a new property tax which may prove difficult to recover fully. To deal
with these risks the project provides for technical assistance for BNEC (para.
44) and the use of a monitoring process (para. 45), which would identify the
problem areas promptly.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreements between the Republic of the Ivory Coast
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and the Autorite
pour I'Amenagement de la Region du Sud-Ouest, the Banque Nationale pour
l'Epargne et le Credit, the Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire, the Societe d'Equipe-
ment des Terrains Urbains and the Societe Ivoirienne de Construction et de
Gestion Immobiliere, respectively, the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and
the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loans are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
54.       Features of the Loan and Project Agreements of special interest
are decribed in paras. 32, 33 and 36, and Part IV of this report. The
following special conditions of effectiveness are included in the Loan
Agreement:
i)   the USAID guarantee of repayment of the amounts to be
borrowed by BNEC under the investor loan agreements
shall have become operative;
ii)   the Government shall issue all the necessary legal
instruments to dissolve OSHE, and to implement a better-
ment tax pursuant to the decree of 1930; and
iii)   the Government shall issue the necessary legal instruments
to supplement the decree of 1970 so that the allocation
criteria referred to in para. 46 are introduced.
55.        In addition, the Loan Agreement provides for the following special
conditions of disbursement:
i)   for the transport component (East-West Highway and Central
Area Traffic Improvements), the appointment of the two initial
experts required by the Traffic Bureau;
ii)   for the shelter component, the conditions precedent to the
disbursing of USAID cofinancing;
iii)   for the shelter component, the appointment of the expert
assigned to BNEC Fonds d'Habitat, adoption of BNEC's statement
of operating policies, and appointment of technical project
coordinator in MCU;
iv)   for the shelter component, satisfactory execution of the BNEC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, SETU Financing Contract, CCI Loan
Contract and the BNEC Special Arrangement;



- 19 -
v)   for the Bardo project, satisfactory completion of the experi-
mental first phase and the sub-loan agreement between BNEC
and ARSO; and
vi)   for the trunk sewers, satisfactory execution of the
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
the Fonds National de l'Hydraulique.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and with the established criteria for
Third Window loans.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
November 23, 1976






TABLE 3O4                                 o 4P
IVORY COAST         - SOCIAL E101CATORS DATA SHEET
LANO AREA (THOU KM21
- -----------                                    IVORY COAST                         REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL       332.0                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     .168.9                      1960       1970   ESTIMATE          TUNISIA       ManUIA     _gA,Ea _ ___
GNP PER CAPITA (US)I                     170.0     340.0      500.0              380.0       440.0      490.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            3.9        5.4       6.7                 5.0        10.4       14.5
PnPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       12.0       16.0      20.0                30.0       32.0       403.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          ..       30.0       33.0 k            67.0       291.0
VITAL STATISTICS
AVERAGE BIRTH RATE (/THOU)           46.0       46.1      45.6               44.7        42.2        28.0
AVERAGE DEATH RATE I/THOUI           26.4       23.3      20.6                16.9       12.9         6.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       138.0                                    1 ..  ..  125.0  40.8 4  18.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH CYRSI       35.9       41.0       43.5               51.6       56.7        68.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2        3.1        3.1                3.4        2.6 4       2.2
POPULATInN GROWTH RATE It)
TOTAL                                 2.4        34*4       4.3*               2.1 4      2.6         3.2
URBAN                                10.6 k      8.741     9.9                 3.0 4      3.0         4.0
UPBAN POPULATION It OF TOTAL)          21.8       28.0       34.3               40.1 4     26.8        61.0
AGf STRUCTURE IPERCENTI
0 Tn 14 YEARS                       42.?/4     42.5      43.1                46.3       441.4       40.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       53.1       54.8      5.0               S0.2        52.1        57.0
65 YEARS ANO OVER                     3.6        2.7       2.9                 3.5 LI     3.2 La      3.0
AGE DEPFNDENCY RATIO                    0-9        0.8        0.9                l.o         0 0.9 4    0.8
FCrINOMIC DFPFNDENCY RATIO.             1.1 d      0.9 4      1.0 4              1.8 4       1.6        t:1.2 
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMLIATIVE, THOU)           ..         ..        ..               112.2      222.2 4     979 4
USFRS tT OF MARRIED WOMENI             ..         ..        ..                12.0        8.0 L      44.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE ITHOUSAND)         1900.0     2600.0    2800.04             1300.0 &   2900.0 4    4600.04
LABOR rORCE IN AGRICULTURE (15         86.0       82.0       76.012             51.0       43.04
UNEMPLOYED It OF LABOR FORCE)            ..        6.0        8.0               12.0 a      6.0         4.0
INCCMf DISTRIBUTION
7 nF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST   5T OF HOUSEHOLDS           30.9                    ..                 ..       28.3
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS            51.8 9               50.0                  *-       56.0
LOWEST  201 CF HW1SfHOLDS             6.6         ..       9.0                  ..        3.5
LOWEST   401 OF HOUSEHOLDS           16.5          .      20.0                  .-       11.2
DISTRISU ION OF LANO OWNERSHIP
I IWNFP MY TOP 1OT OF OWNERS              ..        ..        ..                53.0 i
f IWNFD 8Y SMALLEST 10 OWNERS           ..         ..        ..                 0.5 L
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATInN PER PHYSICIAN            25480. 0 4L 15320.0   15760.0 4           5950.0           .     3170 0
POPULATrON PEP NURSING PERSON        2210.0 f3130.0 /      2700 0              730 0     1080.0      0230.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BEG              ..      850.0Ta    84.0.0             410.0 a    270.0 L    2980.
PEP CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES It OF REWUIRENENTSI         94.0      108.0     105.0 ft               .        93.0       111 0
PROTEIN IGRAMS PER DAY)              52.0       60.0      56.0 a              63.      0 &  49.0      6.0
-OF WHICH AIM*AL AND PULSE           ..       18.04        ..               14.0  5    20.0    4   31.0
OEATH PATE ((THaU# AgtS 1-4              ..         ..        ..                 1.5         3 5.5      3.0
EDUCATION
AOJUSTF' FNPOLLMENT RATIO
'PIMAAY SCHOOL                       46.0       76.0      81.0               107.0       890 f       98.0
SECONIARY SCHOnL                      2.O-      11.0      B15 OA              20.0       8 34 0      50.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0      13.0                13.0       13.0 4      12.0
VWWT1ONAL ENROLLMENT
It OF SECONDARY)                     13.0        7.0       6.0               34.0        3.04       16.0
ADULT LITEPACY RATE ITI                 9.04      20.0         ..                 .,        55.0
HOJUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGED              2.51                                     2.7         2.3         1.6
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPEO WATER (TO                        ..         ..        ..                60.0o      65.0        51 s.0Z
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
tS OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  1.0         ..                          24.0       43.0        94.o
RLtRAL DWFLL INGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY It)                     ..         ..         ..                 ..       30.04       88.0,
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS IPER THOU POP I         17.0      17.0       18.0 /4            77.0        41.0      103.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           3.0       10.0       I5.OjA             13.0        27.0        3.0
ELECTRICITY (XKW/YR PER CAPI           21.0      120.0      179.0              155.0       382 0 a    823.0
NEWSPRINT 4KG/YR PER CAP)                 0. 0.2              0.3                0.1         4.0         1.7
--                            -   --         -- _  _     __ ----- ---  ------                            -------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEXS I
Page 2 of 4s pages
NOES
Unless othe7is  Indicte..d, data for 1960 ref. ert  any year  be-t-e  1959 and 1961, for 1970 be inse.. 1968 and 1970, end for Mes  Recen  Estimat  be- -ee
Doe no lsigeation. population  gr-th rate is higher than the rate It natoai tn.eaa..
lie  Ospotlin. of Chin  (aia)  asbenseiTnd  satobet ncchnrybcaseo  is  ig  at  o  enchcupedathaniprnsihcoftegnth
ditibtc,is  ncesi  the di_rsfinsIon  o pedoctIo' and  nports, the dnnnan  ol  of epceIn itstooi  eeneec .. IIhihhin
of  .. d slc  -iccgs and the foe race of urban  -n,ployn-  desp Inoaru-a  .. sndu..
IVORY COuiT  1960  /a  1957-58,  lb  1955-65, "I  165, d A"irma  population only,  e 15-59 veer  a-d 60 and  -oen r-p-ct-ey,
if  1964,  is  Ratio of poipulation  under  15 and 60 and one  to lahor  force  15-59 years ;  /h  Populatio,  /  1963,
1-in lding ass let,, ant .ars . . Idn 0  and assi canto idoti-s,  /k  12-18 year  of age  11l  1956-57, dat- efrt
house.holds and ore for Arcn Poplto  inob - o Ier  of Abeogourco, Agb-nitle, Vi.ibokr  and Ran only.   -
1970  Ia  1965-70,  /b  tad0~ of  py -clouder  15 and 65 and oo  to tu  1obo-  forc,  10  G-nr- -e   only,  Id  1964-h6g
Ic  12-l8  --or  of  de
10iT kECETy ESTIMIATE  Ia  1971  lb  Racic of population under 15 and 65 and oe  to labor force aga 15-59  rat,  Ic  Labor forno
oge 15-59 Y-ar.,  Id  1912,  Is  Gloer- -en  hoapica  -a-blishe...tn  only,  If  1969-71 an-rge-
TUNISIA     1910  I  1956-66,  /b  1966,  I  Ratio of populatinn ondee  15 and 65 and .... to total  labor  forne,  Id  Cionrung 4.5 million
hanare  ofpriotelad, enciud g 2.0 nilli-n heotor-  in public o-n.raip, and 2.1 eillion h-ctana of  -ollctine  land,
le  eronn /in  oorraon  secien  nl,  f  Go-rbn-t hospital e-1blisihnst  only,  a 16-6 /b egsnd
~LAYSLA   1970 only /I   12-iS peer  of R sgeL ,  pJ-  loe  neigain  gr-eth rate in loaer  than rate 0f natural  in _e_n
tOluhild  1970  ~~~~/afee alayedla, --d Ge---oapaat frch, InOornnt only,  /d 1964-6b,  Ia 12-16 y-ar of age,
CHINA,dRP.OP  1970  /  1966,  /b  Rati  of PoPa1atinol under  I  end 65 ond  e to oal abr oce In Con-r-nen  only,  /d  Totalr1ra
R9, Noc. 0, /176
DFt INITIONS OP SOCILo TINDICATORS
Land area feb00 Inn2)                 poenloHio mr urgo Pe"o'  Popnia-eo dincdnd by orubhe of p_a-cjcin
Totl  Toalaorao  ara  omp iinglad aeaan  inlan   nenr.  aean  eal  rd -- or  a,  t Iie'  r"eriid  ore -ed
Agric. -.otrcn.or..r fariocrlae   ae   epert     or   doli ry  esne  ibramn   rnpne
permanentlI Y for -rPt.pctrn kuro h kitchengr- no ole Pelte par hortlhe  goolto - ie ynmbro optlhd
fat iea.                               ana~~~~"I  lai  in Pobltc end prinact  ge ra an ePe iai dbsitaI and
rhbtIitaeionnseo anl-e ocelg home and .e-blish-te for
CNP p-0 08.ei, (05) - INP pe aia ciae acretere  rce, pt~dilcdpneioca.
9a6o0eta bynnecncr Ion mehd( ol ako e19 73-75       etta e"'cI' of clre (5f r-n-enetal C-fnpoted frmerg
baa,e) ,  960, lIl  and 1975doca      eonno irni  f n.c food soppi-e ana ilable in nentype  apt p er da1y.
"oeoiaieo(id-yr. olce )-As of loly fi-o ic It nonovlble ,  reoediPod  rnsin 1n  oce  ndolriboftem  d, r qoie J-n
an-rge of toe end-yernentn  1960, 1970 .ed195tdata.-ner    fenat d b  P60 -iaa-d on -hysoloica. nedd fr- oralanloc
-  id-,-  p.po  t,    ian thelthconideigenrnnea  aprtr.hd   ireibte  ag Iad
-t.,.,                      o.         I.-'~  ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~iecio nso  oolarton, and aloing 10%. for  tan  at homeebod
menor 100 betarce)of toe area.Per --Piaoren of P-ccia (orAI Pen d y) Protin nomen ofpe
"Porolci density - `o koaeo of aecic. land  b-apnd0 hn o  atc e opyo fo e a,ntopl ffo odfeda
agrfooioa-lan I only."C-od                           a   Ioc re-rnno o l oatioetbloe1y050foet
fepaitb  SePnPnY eroolde  fo d.llnea7ln,n 0P60eeno  ea
Cud etacioclco                   proceco per day, and Ut graou of enimal an yoa pUoeDn of-ouc
po- Ppolation , cooyea  arteteaorgnedigf  oo  n 90  seal deIodfro   ao 2nl  ae _ pu fe in 1 g -a d per . day   o
fine-yea  ane-ag  endingtg52  for mast redent saCmt.190 d170  ofeahrt  /hdaeni7-5, etnprtonodi  g  rn
d .. h"I'   ...  -  1nnua  do-e-ato inac.ot  under. onger-f-4 r  . f to 1- Phtd -e in tho 3g gru,_  noggin. re  a_a_nj nao o
age. per thooandlin  birca                           mal-e-utPrt ..a.  f  dy-fi  ''-1,iIrdbyFOi.h.TidW11.,d y
at brth uauliyfin-year  --9,age  -ddin io190 1970 nod 19750or idcaid
deonopio coorin dgse ennroif-ewni ratiot                             - " eeary e phol -trilnoalagsn
epenlflo ferility racen  19a7  ieyaraeee  ndigt  90  o P" nuaitrlentaithanoesa  e 9c-it  Pnou  say  ofre  10
1970~ and il 197  fo  deelpngcanre-.                    o   some p-pil  ar-bid  or  bo  hi ofiia  Pcoo  age
Pocainonr ae(25.o - enrol -d-ponhnna ro  anno o ld-  u Dlah cod. enthlicgnt ral1-4rodryoh - _  Cdompute usaho
P P"laion roid aef/  ra Ci-pbned like growt rat oftoa  intooin prnd.gen.IhoetEa oecertann
popoafin,  dffeent,efn A--on o  orb - an are.n may offe .  -eenpaca   onfntonfrpy   f1  o  /yano  g.nrepne
h1 iity , of data  fnngoarreno reaae                          eer  iyeoldd
different def -itin  of-orb o  a-ean-.d. nay effe0r  197pe 0bit  of7 data  sEd..g. a ncodr  ln  , ntimtinanetanmyhapr
i0 toct eoo)-Chlrn/-Cyaa        origae19b   er) honatealenrollment Ift o sodsr)-Oataaiiaio
festly pannina-coeetorfne_i_aIbe. tIon) -Ena-oltEne 1abertof Rfmain
acoeproro of birh-control denine adeif _upcoo etoa  aml_enn ce on oeag)onrg nme o eootpr omi
planning prga ic eepte9ocpe7onnima wlig noba ares,doidJog eoIlod
fanilo elaanino-uner1 5D- of9marrie  -dIeel- Peron9-gsto merod  nAnI-pde a..t.actrnoa- ono-plhd p.toffl~  h
nann f hil-barng go(1-h pera C a eRPtrh-otcoldedce  Rokio -Idydsl-ta itotrnwae15 --Onoapi-d c-meet-na
toalmried fcoma  i  namelt ago-thp.  Iellng onfrban1and rsra         areas oleYon  nside  or outsid  piped
benlIiyn ofss to ricti                                           ity(d faldelns--Cmecoa      wlig
Tonl abr ore thnaad(- roancalyaetorpesos,inluin  wih lecroly n iolg_uates nter.n..ftoaldollng i
ermed foroen and ememyteyed but encindiog houseninen, etudents . nnc, .  urban and reral areas.~ ~ ~ ~
Uneplye (5  of laorfoc)  Ratiompon  rn ml ele sproo  Csamto
obo are eble aed~~~- -ibo  o aeajb.eno -ob an abomen day. lladoIets mere 1 fretenre1-alcye f eeveofrdai bed
romained ont of a job. end neohing oork fornpec iflod snininem period  oasis to genera  pobilc per t-Yacandcof pepnlbtiomy rfrdote
ntoCe.i- on ek a oth oprbebeoe eetie o o            olcomdrcieai enientna ad is. years -e regIstration of
difernt- sfnino - ofhnemld-oyed 1 and ) sec kof iat,-eg.,0-6 employ  raio11 eoswninefc, l -Idat  e  eneder  myoeh  enaa
Incomedistrbuciom- Perentag of '-- prina - ioon (odhicc6 b n kind)  nestingtlenyhnsgtproa e-cods mb_ateaitecat n
rEce.ino  yrbs  5-g, rices  2'h porIn20.  ndporec-t?,ofmiitryo io-s
doucehdl-a                                        Elctiic,fw/y stro-   enelcnsmpim f nosAd,   om
fiatrhoto of,!j land ganIshPe-P ti-onages ofland own -dbyesPtI, geer ip based0- on) producton dat.wtht a-lane frd oasesite
102I adP,e!,   0%o  ln  ooes                          grids boo s-lmfingtfo dmol te and d enpre  ofe__riy
"-.PI- of biIth-oot,.lKd   ""') -llwaciai Ck/y ea oa) -Pertipta -b-  I onaapHem n.klogam
PIealth-d                          o and ..   - f_i. boritoy   esImatd.fom - ,oIt.- prAu-iegm pine nen ip-r-ofnwsr
Pne,alate s rhsca  of Poplaio d-nided byn-tj_er ofpraccini
physIcianhquaidia from.  a                                              idirl shol a,unvesid-isel



ANNEX I
SCONOKIC ~~~~flI~~~~T  DATA ~Page 3 of 4 Page.
(Amount   inmllosof U.S. doflars)
Actual                         Projected               1965 -   1970 -    1970 -    1975 -    1965     1975     1980
NATIOKL ACCUNT'S1975if                 970      197 2       1973      4917TLO7            1970     1972      1975      1980
5-Year Averae at l        7- 1~91  Pices & Echang   Rates        Average AnuaGrowth Rates               sPreto          O
Gros   Domestic: Prmoduct1,4                   1,9       1,9         1,0       209      2,1          7.      6.        6.        60        183      106      138
Gisfrom Terms of Trade 9)         -80       -19       -57          -39                                              6.12  - 98108.3             -00.6    103,8
Gross Domestic Income                                                              12r7   l3W ?71 rs   98n  8.  5.     6.         5.      8nr3      n076     -U378
Import (mci. NFS)           ~~~~331    572       656          71 7     846    1,134        11.6    7.1       8.1        6.0      -34.1    -42.0    -43,3
Exports    '  (import capacity)        350       597       644         701       81&-   1,088       11.3     3.9       6.4       6.0        36,2     40.4     41.6
Resource Gap                         -fl          Li         7       --Th'     -=r      -''r                                       .         2l Mm-f-
Consumption Expenditures               753     1,138     1,309       1,429     1,664    2,147        8.6     7.2       7.9        5.2       77.7     82.5     82.0
Investment     '  (cio. stocks)       196       311       341         349       383      515        9.7     4.7       4.3       6.0        20.2     19.1     19.7
Domestic Savings                       216       336       329         332       353      470        9,3    -140       1,0       5.9        22.3     17.5     18.0
Nationial Savings                      169       266       244         248       269      350        9.5    - 4.2      0.2       5.4        17.4     13.3     13.4
MERCHANDISE TRADE                              Annual Data at Current PricesAsPretoTta
Imports                                                                                                                                    A   ecn      fTtI
Fuels and related matr,ials           13        18        29          40       132     230         6 .7    27.0     49.0      11.8         5.1      11.4     10.7
Other goods                          242       414       470         741     1.021  L_9JJ         11.3      6.6     1 9,6F    13.4        94.9      88.6     89.3
T.ortalMci.      mot     ef            5        3        499          781     1,153  2,141         11.1      7.5     21.5      13.2      100.      100.-(0   100.0
Maeagricu1Ltural products 
(exci. fuele)2/1                210       333       359         581        745  1,108          9 .7     5.8    17.5        8.3       73.7      57.3     46,
Other agricultural products
(exci. fuels)                    18        28        48           82       140    225          9.2    31,0     38.0      10.0         6.3      10.8      9.4
Fuels and related materials           -          3        14          19        51      64          -     115.0     78.0       4.6          -        3.9      2.7
Manfacturd goods                      25        63        77         121       241     628        20.0     10,5     31.0      21.1         8.8      18.5     26.1
Other goods32                         69        88           88       124    381         16.6     12.9     12.4      25. 2      11.2        9.5     15.8,
Total March. Exporra  o 7   285  -496      5~~~8-6    8g91     1.301  2,406         11.7      6.7    -217.3     13.1     -100.0o     -0-0.0   100.0
Merchandise Trade Indicc3                        1vrpe967-69 * 10
Export Price Index          ~~~78.310.         102.8       155.7     197.6   271.8       5.8     -1.0     13.6      6.6
ImPort Price Index                  100.2     108.7     129.         156       206    29.6         1.6      3.6     13.6      7.3
TExrms  VoflTrae Index               786.13      5.       79.3       100.0      96.1    92.9       4.1     -8.8      0.2    - 0. 7
Exports Volume Index      86.3    ~~~~113,4  135.2       170.9     196.6   287.0       5.6      9.2     11.6      6.3
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                Annual Data at tfll7 - 6 9 Prices and E~xchange Rates           Averag   A-ana   Groti Rates          As Percent of Total
Agriculture                          375      410        457         467       519     651         1.8      5.6      4.8      4.6        35.8      25.6    24,0
Industry end Milning                179       323       421          466       542    868         12.5     14.1     10.9      9.8        17.1      26.7    32.0
Service                             494       773       616          862       966  1,193          9.4      2.8      4.6      4.3        47.1      47.7    44.0
Total GDP                         1,048     5,506     1,694       1,795     2,027   2,712          7.5      6.0      6.1      6.0       100.0     100.0   100.0
PUBLIC FINANCEAsPretoGD
(C'entral Go-vernmen,t)AsPretoGD
Current Receipts                    213       301       363          386       436    624          7.2      9.8      8.2      7.0         20.3    21.5     23.0
Current ExPenditures                155       233       269          300       355    488          8.5      7 .5     8.5      7.0         14.8    17.5     18.0
Budlgetary Savings                   58        68        94           86        81     136         3.2     17.6      6.9      7.0          5.5     4.0      5.0
Other Public Sector                   24        56        45          48        50     108        18.5    -10.5    - 2.2     16.6          2.3     2.4      4.0
Public Sector Investment              90      171       204          229       263     361        13.7      9.2      9.0      6.6          8.5    13.0     13.3
CURRENT  EXPENDITURIE  DETAILS                   Actual         Prelim.    Est.     Proj.         DE A LSRA                                      en   1968lPon d  R
(As 1. Total Current Expend.)              1913     19 72      19 73     19 74    19 80        PUBLIC SECTOR                                Pln    97R7
EducatIon                     17.5    ~~~~~      ~~~      ~~~25.7  27. 2. 0 25.0  IINVESTMENTI PROGRAM                                         t of total
Other Social Services           ~~~10.2  10.5       10.3      10.5     10.5         -
Agri_culua     deeo3n 49                                         31
Publuluosta,llrbaneatiso  eec.   L2.8      7,0       12.0      12.0     12.0         Econoic infrastructure56c5
Other Economic Services                     8.5     12,4       11.8      12.0     12.0- Power 5f34                                            51         12       1
Administration and Defense                 36.7     24.6       22.9       24.0    25.0- Industry and Minking                     69                       6
other                                      14,,3    19.8       15.8      13.5     15.5- Transport and Telecom.                  221                      20
Total Current Expenditures                100.0    500,0      500.0     100.0    100.0            -Urban Development            137                      12
_____________________________________________________________________________ EducEducation dndCCulture                 1019
SELECTED INDICATORS                                                      H~~~~~~~~~~~~ealth and Social Develop.          53                  5
SELECTED INDICATORS                    ~~~~~~     ~~~1960-  1966-  1970-  1975 -    Adminiatratisn infrastructure                   46                  4
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)               1965        1971      1975     1970          Studies and Research                           13                ___
AeaeICOR                                           .        24-5      ri 7     3TW                                                      1,12310
Import Elasticity                                     .         1.33      1.33     1.00          FINANCING
1.rglncl Domestic Savings Rate                        .         0.23      0.03     0.20                Public Sector Savings                    557                 49.6
Marginal NationaLl Saviniga Rate                      .         0.21      0.01     0.14                Program aid counterpart
Poreign Project Aid                     566                  50.4
Total Financing                       1.123                 100.0
LABOR FORCE ANED                                  Total Labor Pores                                    Value Added Per Workr(        6-9Pie&Ra.ats
OUTPUT PER WORSER         ~~~~In Thousands      %of Total            19 65   12         In U.S.Dollars       Percent ofAerage             1965 -72
19 65       1%L2     12_        1W23      Growth Rate           1965       1972        1965       1972        Growth Rate
Agriculture                      1,623       1,797      85.7       82.4         1.5               231        254        41.7        32.7            1.4
Industry                          143          213       7.6        9.8         5.9             1,252      1,977       226.0      254.4            6.8
Service                            127         171       6.7        7.8         4.4             3,890      4,772       702.2       614.2           3.0
Total                           175f         =1T      TDU7O         TU7         rr-~ 3jLU J muo                                   -rurnt           so-
*not applicable          -nil orngigbei                                actual values instead of 3-year averages
not available          --less than half the                       2/ cocoa, coffee, wood.
smallest unit shos#n



Ns  g~,  n *R%s            F     s*W- 
S C I |E  S r2 N  M  .S r  ,> 9   Q  
I~~~ ~ ..  2.D ...                    e 
,      Q R ao CNI%X  W  SD ,1 ,~~~~~~~~~~~1 
FJ V IN  N o o o J  q q  0. 0 .  . . .  . . . ~ ~ ~
J n  H  U' rMEO eNi iO                    ,:
N N         H  n o a   o    <) o  > X~~~~~~1



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN IVC
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of October 31, 1976)
US$ Millions
Loan or                                                   (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower          Purpose          Bank     IDA      Undisbursed
Five         Loans  Fully Disbursed                    22.9
613-IVC      1969   SODEPALM          Oil Palm &        9.0                  0.2
Coconut
667-IVC      1970   Ivory Coast       Education        11.0                  0.8
667-2-IVC    1975   Ivory Coast       Education         2.2                  2.2
Suppl.
686-IVC      1970   Ivory Coast       Cocoa             5.3                  0.8
760-IVC      1971   SODEPALM          Oil Palm &        5.1                  0.4
Coconut
761-IVC      1971   Ivory Coast       Highways II      20.5                  0.2
837-IVC      1972   Ivory Coast       Highways III     17.5                  4.5
938-IVC      1973   SOCATCI           Rubber            8.4                  4.2
406-IVC      1973   Ivory Coast       Highways IV               7.5          5.4
981-IVC      1974   Ivory Coast       Telecom-         25.0                 24.8
munications
1036-IVC     1974   Ivory Coast       Oil Palm III      2.6                  0.7
1069-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast       Cocoa II         20.0                 19.8
1076-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast       Abidjan           9.0                  8.1
Sewerage
1077-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast       Cotton           31.0                 30.4
1124-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast       Tourism           9.7                  9.6
1125-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast       Education II      5.0                  4.4
1161-IVC     1975   Ivory Coast       Highways V       43.0                 43.0
1162-IVC     1975   CCI               DFC               5.6                  5.6
1177-IVC     1975   BIDI              DFC               8.0                  8.0
1297-IVC /L 1976    CIMAO             Industry          3.5                  3.5
TOTAL                                      264.3      7.5        176.6
of which has been repai.d             10.1      0.0
TOTAL now outstanding                      254.2      7.5
Amount-sold                      3.4
of which has been repaid    2.8         0.6
TOTAL now held by Bank & IDA                253.6     7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                           171.2     5.4        176.6
/L   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of October 31, 1976)
Year     Obligor                        Type of        Loan   US Dollars    Total
Business                Equity
1965     Banque Ivoirienne              Industrial       -      204,000   204,000
de Developpement             Development
Industriel                   Bank
Total gross commitments                         -      204,000   204,000
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                               -         -
Total commitments now
held by IFC                                  _       204,000   204.000



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Ln. Nos. 611, 613,    First Oil Palm and Coconut Projects:   Three loans for a
759 and 760           total of US$17.1 million of June 13, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1975. Second Oi.l Palm and Coconut Projects:
Two loans for a total of US$7.0 million of June 22, 1971;
Closing Dates: June 30, 1975, and November 30, 1977.
These projects are being implemented satisfactorily and are almost fully dis-
bursed. The oil mills financed in these projects processed about 220,000 tons
of frui,ts in 1974. The planting programs are proceeding well.
Ln. No. 667           First Education Project: US$11.0 million Loan of April 27,
1970; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1970; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Implementation of this project was slow, especially in the initial years. Thi,s
resulted from (i) delays in the decision-making process, especially for the
selection and appointment of consulting architects, (ii) the complexity of con-
sultations between international and bilateral donors on the specifications of
the Instructional Television Production Center, and (iii) uncertainties about
the project description which culminated in its renegotiation and amendment in
1971. The amendment consisted of (a) the reduction from 11 to 10 of the number
of educati,onal institutions to be constructed under the project, (b) the dele-
tion of Bank financing of capitalized interest except for the amount already
disbursed, and (c) reallocation of the proceeds of the loans to take account
of modified architectural standards. Since then, the project i.mplementation
has substantially improved, construction work for all project schools has been
completed and the schools have been in operation since October 1975. The tech-
nology i,nsti.tute at Abidjan was completed and has been in operation si.nce
October 1975. Construction of the ITV complex is expected to be completed in
August 1976. The Closing Date has been extended to June 30, 1977.
Ln. No. 667-2         Supplementary Financing for the First Education Project:
US$2.2 million Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date:
May 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
At apprai,sal of the First Education Project, the US dollar was worth 247 CFA
francs. When the project cost was recalculated i.n October 1971, the exchange
rate was US$1 = CFAF 277. Since then the dollar dropped substantially to
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Di-rectors regarding the
progress of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understandi,ng that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
about 225 CFA francs in January 1975. In the fall of 1974 the Government re-
quested supplementary financing to offset the increase in the project's dollar
cost due to currency realignments.
Ln. No. 686           Cocoa Project:  US$7.5 million Loan of June 5, 1970;
Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
The Cocoa Loan has been amended to reduce the number of hectares to be rehabil-
itated. Difficulties arose in supervising large numbers of farmers who used
project inputs to treat non-project cocoa. The Government agreed to substan-
tially reduce the size of the rehabilitation program. (See Memorandum to the
Executive Directors R73-74 of April 13, 1973.) The project was originally
scheduled to be completed in September 1976. However, with the signing of the
Second Cocoa Project (Ln. 1069-IVC), administration of the two has been com-
bined and an estimated 3,200 ha of cocoa plantings were transferred from the
first to the second project. Savings of US$2.2 million resulting from the
amendment (R73-74) and the merging of the two projects were cancelled at the
date of signature of the second project. Physical execution of the first
project is therefore considered to be completed.
Ln. No. 761           Second Highway Project:   US$20.5 million Loan of June 22,
1971; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1972; Closing Date:
November 30, 1975.
Execution of the project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975.     The
funds remaining under the loan are being used to finance the supplementary
urban studies for Abidjan, initiated under the Third Highway Project.
Ln. No. 837           Third Highway Project:   US$17.5 million Loan of June 23,
1972; Effectiveness Date: May 4, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977.
The maintenance and betterment programs are progressing satisfactorily. Con-
struction work for the pavement strengthening program started in March 1975;
contract amount is about 120 percent over appraisal estimates due to inflation
and modification of design standards.   The Government has agreed to finance all
overruns. Construction of the bridge and the urban development study for
Abidjan have been satisfactorily completed.
Cr. No. 406           Fourth Highway Project: US$7.5 million Credit of June 28,
1973; Effectiveness Date: May 8, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Construction works on the road started about one year behind schedule and
progress since then has been slower than expected. Project costs are about
70 percent above appraisal estimates due to inflation and adoption of higher
construction standards than originally envisaged. The Government will assume
financing of all cost overruns.   Construction of the N'zi River bridge and
the feeder road study have been satisfactorily completed.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Ln. No. 938           Rubber Plantation Project:   US$8.4 million Loan of
October 23, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Due to slow progress in the planting program and as a result of higher-than-
expected inflation, funds under this project will only cover plantation of
about 7,000 ha which is not expected to be completed before 1979 (the total
foreseen at appraisal was 13,500 ha). Co-lenders met in January 1976 to
decide on the continuation of the planting program. The Bank has agreed
to amend the Loan Agreement to reflect the reduced planting (Memorandum
to the Executive Directors R-76-240 of September 29, 1976).
Ln. No. 981           Telecommunications Project:   US$25.0 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Consultants have been selected and bids have been evaluated.
Ln. No. 1036          Third Oil Palm Project:  US$2.6 million Loan of July 31,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 29, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The planting program is under way. It is estimated that 12,000 ha of palm oil
estates will be established; the outgrowers program is progressing well.
Ln. No. 1069          Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
More than 50 percent of the total planting foreseen for the five-year project
period was completed in 1976. Block plantings have been laggi,ng behind
due to difficulties in infrastructure development.
Ln. No. 1076          Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:   US$9.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Although construction works have already started, project execution is expected
to be delayed by about one year due to delays in procurement decisions.
Ln. No. 1077          Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:   US$31.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Physical progress of the project under CIDT is in line with appraisal estimates
and overall performance of CIDT is satisfactory. As a result of overestimated
increase in demand for food crops, marketing of the crops has caused problems.
Although the village water supply and feeder road program was originally
delayed, appropriate measures have now been taken to implement both programs.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. No. 1124          Tourism Development Project:   US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The first two sub-projects (US$2.9 million and US$400,000) have been approved.
Ln. No. 1125          Second Education Project:   US$5.0 million Loan of June 11,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 9, 1975; Closing Date
June 30, 1979.
Good progress is being made in provision of technical assistance. The studies
of regional training needs, legislation for vocational training and management
of educational TV are under way; plans are well advanced for the preparation of
an inventory of secondary school facilities. The design of project institutions
is some twelve months behind schedule, but is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1161          Fifth Highway Project:   US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Construction of the Anyama-Agboville road and the pavement strengthening
program started at the beginning of 1976. Consultants have started the engi-
neering studies provided for under the project. UNDP was originally to finance
the updating of the transport survey but cannot do so due to lack of funds.
The Government has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to
include financing of the survey in this loan.
Ln. No. 1162          Small-Scale Enterprises Project:   US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date:   February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The first sub-projects are being prepared by Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire, the
project's financial intermediary, and are expected to be submitted to the Bank
shortly.
Ln. No. 1177          BIDI DFC Project:  US$8.0 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The first sub-projects are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1297 1/       CIMAO Project:  US$3.5 million Loan of June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The first region industrial venture in West Africa, co-financed by seven other
official aid agencies, is proceeding satisfactorily. Financing arrangements
are on schedule. Procurement procedures are also proceeding according to plans:
the most important lot - raw mills and kilns - has been awarded.
1/   Not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1
IVORY COAST
Urban Development Project
(Project Summary)
Borrower:             The Republic of the Ivory Coast.
Amounts:              Standard Loan:  US$30 million equivalent.
Third Window Loan: US$14 million equivalent.
Terms:                Standard Loan:  20 years, including 4 years' grace period,
with an interest rate of 8.7 percent per annum.
Third Window Loan: 25 years, including 7 years' grace
period, with an interest rate of 4.7 percent per annum.
Onlending Terms:      Loan funds for project components not to be implemented
by the Government itself, would be onlent by the Borrower
as follows (Annex IV):
(a) US$13.6 million to BNEC Fonds d'Habitat, on the
terms of the standard Bank loan, to be relent at
the same terms to:
(i)  SETU for site and services; to be repaid
promptly from proceeds of all lots sold by
SETU (about 30 percent) or by SICOGI for
lots transferred to it by SETU upon comple-
tion (about 70 percent);
(ii)  ARSO for upgrading in San Pedro; and
(iii)  CCI and BNEC Housing Bank for small housing
loans to individuals at an interest rate of
13 percent per annum, for up to 10 years
for construction materials, and up to
20 years for purchase of sites.
BNEC would advance US$7.1 million to SETU to
finance the upgrading program in Abidjan.
(b) US$2.6 million to the Fonds National d'Hydraulique,
on the terms of the standard Bank loan, to finance
construction of the two trunk sewers by SETU.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Project Description: The proposed project would be carried out from 1977 to
1979 and would consist of the following three components:
1.   Transport:
a.   consruction of the priority western section
(8.6 km) of the East-West Highway; and
b.   traffic management measures in the central
business district.
2.   Shelter:
a.   a slum upgrading and site and services program
for about 200,000 inhabitants to include primary
schools, health centers, and community facili-
ties on six sites totaling 312 ha in Abidjan and
60 ha in San Pedro;
b.   a low-cost housing program in Abidjan;
c.   a line of credit for small loans for the pur-
chase of construction materials and acquisition
of lots; and
d.   construction of two trunk sewers to serve the
Abidjan project sites and other neighborhoods.
3.   Technical Assistance:
a.   support to the Ministry of Public Works for the
staffing of a Traffic Bureau;
b.   support to the Ministry of Construction and
Urbanism to formulate project and program
responses to changing shelter sector policies,
and to carry out a Ten-Year Development Study
and develop a public investment program for
Abidjan; and
c.   support to the BNEC for staff development and
training.
The USAID Office of Housing is expected to provide co-
financing for the project in the form of a loan under
the Housing Guarantee Program amounting to US$21 million.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Estimated Cost:       (in US $millions)          Local                 Total
Cost    Foreign    (net-of-taxes)
Transport
- East-West Highway      13.06    16.10         29.16
- traffic improvement      .70     1.28          1.98
TOTAL                 13.76    17.38         31.14
Shelter
- slum upgrading          5.16    14.19         19.35
- sites and services      2.50     5.33          7.83
- low-cost housing        4.00     6.00         10.00
- trunk sewers             .64     1.93          2.57
- small loans             1.00     1.00          2.00
TOTAL                 13.30    28.45        41.75
Technical Assistance         .78     2.80          3.58
Contingencies               7.13    14.36         21.49
GRAND TOTAL                34.97    62.99         97.96
Financing Plan:                                  (in US$ million)
IBRD                             44.0
USAID                            21.0
Government                       57.3
122.3
The USAID Office of Housing is expected to provide co-
financing for the project in the form of a loan under
the Housing Guarantee Program amounting to US$21 mil-
lion.
Estimated
Disbursements:        Standard loan and Third Window loan to be disbursed pro rata
on the basis of 15:7 ratio:
(in US$ million)
FY77  FY78   FY79    FY80   FY81
Yearly                     1.0   10.1    19.1   12.7    1.1
Accumulated                1.0   11.1    30.2   42.9   44.0



ANNEX III
Page 4
Procurement
Arrangements:        As is the usual practice for major civil works in the
Ivory Coast, procurement for the East-West Highway has
been divided into two separate contracts, one for con-
struction and one for supply of aggregates. In order
to avoid delays of over a year, resulting from seasonal
factors, both contracts have already been awarded; con-
tractors were selected on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guide-
lines. Contracts for civil works and supply of equipment
for (i) traffic improvements on the Plateau, (ii) the two
trunk sewers, (iii) primary and secondary infrastructure
for the shelter component, and (iv) equipment and furniture
for community facilities would also be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines. Contracts would be divided
into small components in order to encourage bids from
Ivorian enterprises, but grouping of components would be
permitted to attract international competition. Domestic
manufacturers would be given a preference of 15 percent
or the level of applicable duty, whichever is less, when
comparing bids. Civil works contracts for the community
facilities and tertiary infrastructure would be awarded
on the basis of local competitive procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank. These contracts, which would
be too small to attract overseas bidders, would be within
the capacity of local medium-size contractors. Small
items costing less than US$10,000 each and totaling not
more than US$100,000 would be purchased after solicitation
of quotations from at least three suppliers. Contracts
for relocation of water pipes, electrical lines, and
lighting for the East-West Highway, which would not be
Bank financed, would be directly awarded to the relevant
public utility companies. Technical assistance contracts
and selection of consultants would follow Bank guidelines.
Retroactive
Financing:            US$350,000 for foreign cost of consultant services for
detailed engineering, for starting the Ten-Year Develop-
ment Study and for initiation of the Traffic Bureau work
program would be financed retroactively.



ANNEX III
Page 5
Consultants'
Services:            Consultants' services would be used to supervise construc-
tion works (165 man-months); to create a Traffic Bureau
within the Ministry of Public Works and to train staff
(65 man-months); to strengthen the Policy Planning Divi-
sion within the Ministry of Construction and Urbanism and
monitor the project (125 man-months); and to strengthen
the management, define operational procedures and assist
in staff development of BNEC (120 man-months).
Economic Rate
of Return:            The weighted average economic rate of return on all proj-
ect components for which benefits have been quantified
(amounting to 72 percent of total project costs) is about
43 percent.
Appraisal Report:    No. 1200-IVC, dated November 15, 1976.



ABIDJAN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Flow of I8RD and USAID Funds
Part of project as described
in Loan Agrrenr n:
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -     A Transport
/     _---------------------- - C(a) Tech Assist Transport
- - - - - - - - - - - - --     Cid) lO y. day. study
|  GOV ER NM ENT OF                                                        - - ------- /e-)---                -   t.1t C1m0. Facivties
r                  | ~~~~~~IVORIV COAST        2                                                                                          tlTc     si   C
/   /-) T -_                                           A - -  ssist MCU
44           2o__          0.64           ITPT
USI
- - - - - - - - -                    11 -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   ~~~~~~~~~- Cic)  Tech. Assist, BNEC
US - I nvesor2e
136                                                                       - - - -O    - - - ----          - ---      81)f Trunk Severs
SEU--- ----- -8(a) Upgrading Abidjan
8(a) S & S Abidjan
(21)                 (NCLot "A" sold)
_   Fonds d'Habitrtt (FH)                                               t 
Housing Bank  0             <                                    /ttl5h5Aop
8(al S & S Abidjan
\ \   -[   SICOGI  |                                      t(Lot "S" leasedl
B(c) Low cost housoing
<ci                                             ARSO Xtb) Upgrading San PedrO
Bid) Housing Credit
Note. Amouts in USS rnill,on
USAID arrountl
Loan ,



IBRD 12083
o)                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIL 1976
IVORY COAST
o     I     Z     3     4     0     a     7     9%rIOVCATtPI 9t
2         3        KLoMlEOE'                                                          Abidjon Urban Development Project
.ALES                                    <        Ab0LNC,d                       LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
PROPOSED PROJECT
-       Psority section of East-West nighway
*,*,  .,,.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~445-~........Exccus         e bus laines
-                         rs 7  to areas
,o                        -----Triun sewers
,   N ,, I S o n rs /   /* i fort5t A~                                   EestUiOOng peran seetrs  93
'  N'>            -                                     4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIJAN SEWERAGE PROJECT
i       AX i ,        /                                     r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xsting lOtruk ewr
f,  C N                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed trunk sewers
EXIST NG
\ijt                       @                        '>Major -oaos  Major roads pinee , sot ueder project
eans                                                               -,-o  Railway
A                                         -  -- b dies municipai bundaory
N  a  7 i o  a  a  /\I                                                      Park or forest boundaries
'K.                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~urbanized areas, 1973
AbeOo                                       PGDrapietiahouonph., Ir47 de ro r pE hIectore, 1973:
P a r k  ~ ~ ~  ~    orer0 More then 1000
0 600-1,000
/                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 200-600
100-200
I'                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Less thae 100
Em'pioyment per hectare, 1973.
0More than 500
V&N*~~                        K_                                        I                                      W                ~\
teoW ecLac Larifir.__        s.C   \                            N>,                                             250-500
K. 8          -        '                                    125-250
YOP000 ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~   ~   -r      I \                                                              00 
Th enAce, Ac,, c  en rt-4 no ue,                                       IIHt'E.                        U   c                ?*4i     E
ocef, eedersnnce en oceepw,ce fly rhe ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~i-Xd~rro 
WenidOcck ccd.eefdiiane~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
T,GLF                  O       GIE



