LOAN NUMBER 134T  IVC
LOAN NUMBER 1348 T-IVC
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AUTORITE POUR L 'AMENAGEMENT
DE LA REGION DU SUD-OUEST
Dated December 15, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank) and AUTORITE POUR L'AMENAGEMENT DE LA REGION DU
SUD-0UEST (hereinafter called ARSO).
WHEREAS (A) by an agreement (hereinafter called the First
Loan Agreement) of even date herewith between the Republic of the
Ivory Coast (hereinafter sometimes called the Borrower or the Ivory
Coast) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount (hereinafter called the First Loan) in various
currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), or
the terms and conditions set forth in the said First Loan Agreement,
but only on condition that ARSO agree to undertake such obligations
towards the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a second agreement (hereinafter called the Intermediate
Term Loan Agreement) of even date herewith between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
under the Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third Window established
by Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors of the Bank
an amount (hereinafter called the Intermediate Term Loan) equivalent
to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the said Intermediate Term Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that ARSO agree to undertake such obligations
towards the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(C) a portion of the proceeds of the loans provided for under
said loan agreements and required for the financing of Part B (b)
01


﻿-2-
of the Project will be made available to Banque Nationale pour
l'EPargne et le Cr4dit (hereinafter called BNEC) on the terms and
conditions set forth in the First Loan Agreement, the BNEC Project
Agreement and the ARSO Loan Contract; and
WHEREAS ARSO, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
said loan agreements with the Borrower and the BNEC Project Agree-
ment with BNEC, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
01


﻿ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, umless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the First Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.


﻿ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARSO shall carry out Part B (b) of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the First Loan Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admin-
istrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices;
it being -nderstood that ARSO shall commence to carry out such
Part of the Project only after agreement shall have been reached
between the Borrower and the Bank: (i) that the first phase of
Bardo Upgrading which is currently financed by Caisse Centrale de
Coopfration Econanique has been satisfactorily completed; and (ii)
on a detailed program for such Part of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required for
Part B (b) of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
First and Intermediate Term Loans shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
.Section 2.03. (a) ARSO undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the First and Intermediate Term Loans relent
to it by BNEC against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by ARSO to replace or repair such goods.
01


﻿4
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, ARSO shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the First
and Intermediate Term Loans relent to it by BNEC to be used exclu-
sively for Part B (b) of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) ARSO shall furnish to the Bank, for its
approval, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents, and construction and procurement sched-
ules for Part B (b) of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b) ARSO: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Part B (b) of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the First and Intermediate Term Loans relent to it by BNEC,
and to disclose the use thereof in Part B (b) of the Project; (ii)
shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of
this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facil-
ities and construction sites included in Part B (b) of the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning Part B (b) of the Project, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the First and Intermediate Term Loans so relent to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
o    ARSO shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment
of ARSO and any relevant records and documents.


﻿- 6 -
Section 2.05. ARSO shall enter into the ARSO Loan Contract and
duly perform all its obligations t.reunder. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ARSO shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the ARSO Loan Contract.
Section 2.06. (a) ARSO shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part
B (b) of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and the ARSO Loan Contract and other matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the First and Intermediate Term Loans.
(b) ARSO shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the progress of
Part B (b) of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the First and Intermediate Term Loans, or the performance by
ARSO of its obligations under this Agreement or the ARSO Loan Con-
tract.
Section 2.07. ARSO shall take, or propose to the Borrower to
take, all such action as shall be necessary to maintain all such
land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
installation, construction and operation of the facilities included
in Part B (b) of the Project, and shall promptly furnish to the
Bank, upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such
land and rights in respect of land are at all times available for
purposes related to Part B (b) of the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) ARSO undertakes, with respect to the lots
upgraded under Part B (b) of the Project, to follow leasing and


﻿operating policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, includ-
ing those set forth in Schedule 2 hereto, as such Schedule may be
modified from time to time by agreement among the Borrower, the
Bank and ARSO.
(b) Upon collection of the payments arising from the leasing
of such lots, ARSO shall promptly remit a portion of such payments
into the BNEC Fonds d'Habitat, as provided in the ARSO Loan Contract.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARSO
Section 3.01. (a) ARSO shall at all times maintain its cor-
porate existence and right to carry on its operations and shall
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges, concessions and franchises which are necessary
to, or useful in, the conduct of its business.
(b) ARSO shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment
and property, the equipment and property held on behalf of the Bor-
rower, public entities and local collectivities and the facilities
included in Part B (b) of the Project, and from time to time make
all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering, construction and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. ARSO shall at all times manage its affairs, plan
the future expansion of its operations and maintain its financial
position, all in accordance with appropriate business, urban devel-
opment, financial and public utility principles and practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 3.03. ARSO shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate public utility practice.


﻿-9-
Section 3.04. ARSO shall not lease (except as provided in
Section 2.08 hereof), transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient opera-
tion of the facilities included in Part B (b) of the Project.
Section 3.05. ARSO shall not undertake any activities which
would materially and adversely affect ARSO's carrying out of Part
B (b) of the Project.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. ARSO shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices, its operations and finan-
cial condition.
Section 4.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the pro-
visions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, ARSO shall maintain
or cause to be maintained separate accounts, following such ac-
counting practices as shall be required to reflect separately the
financial results of the implementation of, and the subsequent
leasing operations under, the Upgrading program under Part B (b)
of the Project.
Section 4.03. ARSO shall: (i) have such accounts and its
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) fur-
nish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than three months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
such accounts and its financial statements and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.04. The Bank and ARSO shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange view through their repre-
sentatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of ARSO, and ARSO shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the administration, operations and financial condition of ARSO.
Section 4.05. ARSO shall enable the Bank's representatives
to inspect the records referred to in Sections 4.01 and 4.02 here-
of and any relevant documents.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the First and Intermediate Term Loan Agree-
ments become effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of ARSO thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Intermediate Term Loan Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Bank shall promptly notify ARSO of
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the First or the Intermediate Term Loan Agree-
ment.


﻿-13-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For ARSO:                          Telex:
Autoritg pour 1'Amgnagement        ARSO 783
de la Rggion du Sud-0uest     Abidjan
B.P. 21058
Abidj an
Ivory Coast


﻿Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ARSO may be taken or executed by its
Pr6sident Directeur Gn6ral or such other person or persons as he
shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. ARSO shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evi-
dence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of ARSO, take any
action or execute any dociments required or permitted to be taken
or executed by ARSO pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿-15-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
AUTORITE POUR L'AMENAGEMENT
DE LA REGION DU SUD-OUEST
By /s/ T. N'Guetta Ahoua
Authorized Representative


﻿-16                                      0
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works included in Part B (b) of the
Project shall be procured in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.        (i) Bidders for the civil works pertaining to primary
and secondary infrastructure under Part B (b) of
the Project shall be prequalified as described
in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines; and
(ii) Civil works under Part B (b) of the Project and
the goods for such Part of the Project will be
divided into lots suitable to attract local
suppliers and contractors but grouping of such
lots will be permitted to allow foreign con-
tractors and suppliers to bid.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works and goods for community facilities of Part B (b)
of the Project will be advertised locally and procured in accor-
dance with local procedures acceptable to the Bank.


﻿-17-
2.   Goods required for Part B (b) of the Project (excluding those
for the comunity facilities) may be procured on the basis of quo-
tations obtained from at least three local suppliers, provided,
however, that the cost of individual contracts for such goods is
less than $10,000 equivalent (including taxes) and the total cost
thereof does not exceed $50,000 equivalent.
3.   If civil works pertaining to tertiary infrastructure under
Part B (b) of the Project are not grouped and awarded with those
pertaining to primary and secondary infrastructure under the same
Part of the Project, they may be advertised locally and procured
in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Bank.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods_ Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to ARSO of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Ivory Coast may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿- 18-
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
loved in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Ivory Coast if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of ARSO and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in the Ivory Coast equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods ,manufactured
in the Ivory Coast.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿-19-
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions   the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. ARSO shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to be fol-
loved, and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders,
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the rea-
sons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification, shall
be furnished by ARSO to the Bank for its comments before the ap-
plicants are notified of ARSO's decision, and ARSO shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿- 20                                      0
(a) Before bids are invited, ARSO shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the speci-
fications and other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and
shall make such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, ARSO shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award, and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
ARSO and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿-21-
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, ARSO
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ARSO and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿-22-
SCHEDULE 2
Leasing and Operating Policies
and Procedures
A.   Determination of Development Costs
The price of lots will be calculated on the basis of actually
incurred land development costs. Development costs shall be equal
to the total actually incurred costs of the following elements:
(a) land
(b) infrastructure works including earthworks, streets,
sewerage, drainage, water supply, electricity;
(c) studies and supervision;
(d) ARSO's related reasonable administrative expenses in-
cluding tax, not to exceed 5.75% of (a), (b) and (c);
and
(e) interest during construction and other related financial
costs as set forth in the ARSO Loan Contract.
B.   Allocation of Development Costs
Development costs shall be allocated to the transferable
area as detailed below. The transferable area shall include the
net area to be used for residential lots, schools, health centers,


﻿-23-
other community facilities, general administration, market and
other commercial uses and industry; the transferable area shall
exclude all open spaces and circulations (thoroughfares and park-
ing lots). Development costs of secondary and tertiary infrastructure
within a site shall be allocated to individual lots in a propor-
tion equal to that which the area of the lot bears to the total
transferable area of the site. Development costs of primary infra-
structure and community facilities shall not be allocated to the
lots developed under the Project.
C.   Pricing of Lots
All lots shall be leased or transferred at prices equal to
the development costs allocated to them.
D.   Lease,
(a) All leases shall have a term of 49 years. Lease payments
shall be set at a periodic amount sufficient to:
(i  recover the cost of the lots to ARSO as provided
above, such cost to be capitalized at a rate equal
to the interest payable on the First Loan (as pro-
vided in Section 2.06 of the First Loan Agreement)
over an indefinite time period;
(ii)  cover ARSO's reasonable related costs of adminis-
tration, management and maintenance; and


﻿-24-
(iii) constitute adequate reserves against uncollectible
payments and provide for contingencies.
(b) Lease contracts shall provide:
(i) a lessee may transfer a lease to another lessee
with the consent of ARSO, which consent shall not
be unreasonably withheld;
(ii) a lessee may secure a loan for purchase of construc-
tion materials and other home improvement purposes
and, in the event of a default, ARSO shall consent
to the transfer of the lease to another lessee, ac-
ceptable to the lender of such loan; and
(iii) a lessee may sublet portions of his lot, provided,
however, that the lessee continues to live on the
lot.
E.   Management
ARSO shall allow improvements and construction on the lots
according to plans of a lessee who has received a building perit
from MCU or from ARSO. ARSO shall provide adequate technical guid-
ance to lessees for such construction.
ARSO shall allow lessees to operate on the lots all lawful
comercial and artisanal activities which would not constitute a
public nuisance.


