                                         CONFORMED COPY


                                    CREDIT NUMBER 4871-LC




  Financing Agreement
  (Hurricane Tomas Emergency Recovery Project)



                    between


                 SAINT LUCIA


                      and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




               Dated June 3, 2011
                                                           CREDIT NUMBER 4871-LC


                            FINANCING AGREEMENT
        AGREEMENT dated June 3, 2011, entered into between SAINT LUCIA
(“Recipient?)    and    INTERNATIONAL            DEVELOPMENT            ASSOCIATION
(“Association?). The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to nine
        million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,700,000)
        (variously, “Credit? and “Financing?) to assist in financing the project described
        in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
        repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is Dollar.
                             ARTICLE III — PROJECT

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this
        end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
        Article IV of the General Conditions.

3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
        shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

                           ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION

4.01.   Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
        Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
        case later than eighteen (18) months after the approval by the Association of the
        Credit, which period will expire on September 10, 2012.

                 ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

5.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister responsible for
        finance.

5.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

        Prime Minister and Minister for Finance
        Office of the Prime Minister
        Greaham Louisy Administrative Building
        Waterfront, Castries
        Saint Lucia

        Facsimile:
        1-758-452-6700

5.03.   The Association’s Address is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable:                  Telex:                   Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                 248423 (MCI)             1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.


                                            2
        AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.



                      SAINT LUCIA



                      By /s/ Michael Louis
                                                        Authorized Representative



                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                      By /s/Françoise Clottes
                                                        Authorized Representative




                                        3
                                     SCHEDULE 1

                                   Project Description

       The objective of the Project is to support the recovery and reconstruction of the
Recipient in the aftermath of Hurricane Tomas.

        The Project consists of the following parts:

Part A: Support for Early Recovery

       Supporting the early recovery of the Recipient’s key economic sectors from the
impact of Hurricane Tomas, through the provision of goods, technical advisory services
and Emergency Operating Costs.

Part B: Institutional Strengthening and Hazard and Risk Analysis

        Strengthening the institutional capacity at the national level including, the
Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs and National Development (MoF), the Ministry of
Housing, Urban Renewal and Local Government (MoHULG), the Ministry of Physical
Development and Environment (MoPDE), and the NEMO to, inter alia: (a) evaluate and
integrate natural hazard and climate change risks reduction into national development
policy and decision making process using geo information; (b) carry out various risk
assessments and impact evaluation studies in highly affected areas and specific sectors;
and (c) review the National Disaster Management Plan and improving disaster
management capacity.

Part C: Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Damaged Critical Public Infrastructure

         Carrying out of selected reconstruction and rehabilitation activities of damaged
infrastructure in the Recipient’s transport, health and education sectors.

Part D: Project Management and Monitoring Support

         Strengthening and developing the institutional capacity of the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) for Project management and execution, including procurement,
financial management, monitoring and supervision of Project activities, through the
acquisition of goods, provision of technical advisory services, training, and operating
costs.




                                            4
                                     SCHEDULE 2

                                   Project Execution

Section I.      Implementation Arrangements

A.      Institutional Arrangements

1.      Project Coordination Unit

        The Recipient, through the Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs and National
        Development (MoF), shall maintain, throughout the implementation of the
        Project, a Project coordination unit (the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)) with
        composition, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Association, as set
        forth in Section I.A.2 immediately below and in the Operations Manual.

2.      (a)     Without limitation to the provisions of Section I.A.1 of this Schedule, the
                Recipient shall ensure that the PCU established within the MoF is
                maintained at all times during the implementation of the Project with
                staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association, for the purpose of
                ensuring the prompt and efficient overall coordination, monitoring,
                reporting, evaluation, communication, and overall guidance of Project
                activities, including the supervision of the participating ministries,
                departments and agencies (Participating MDAs) in the implementation of
                the Project.

        (b)     Without limitation to the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) immediately
                above, the PCU shall be responsible for: (i) overall planning,
                implementation, coordination, monitoring, evaluation, reporting and
                communication of the activities under the Project; and (ii) the technical,
                fiduciary (i.e., financial management and procurement), environmental
                safeguard compliance, and monitoring and evaluation aspects of the
                Project, all in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the
                Operations Manual.

3.      Participating MDAs

        (a)     Without limitation to the provisions of Section A.1 and A.2 of this
                Schedule, the Recipient shall ensure that the Ministry of Housing, Urban
                Renewal and Local Government (MoHULG), the Ministry of Physical
                Development and Environment (MoPDE) and NEMO are maintained at
                all times during the implementation of the Project with functions,
                staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association, for the purpose of
                ensuring the prompt and efficient implementation of Part B of the
                Project, in accordance with the Operations Manual.


                                            5
     (b)     Without limitation to provisions of Section A.1 and A.2 of this Schedule,
             the Recipient shall ensure that the Ministry of Education and Culture
             (MoE), the Ministry of Health, Wellness, Family Affairs, and National
             Mobilization, Human Services and Gender Relations (MoH), the
             Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport and Public Utilities
             (MCW), the Ministry of Housing, Urban Renewal and Local
             Government (MoHULG), are maintained at all times during the
             implementation of the Project with functions, staffing and resources
             satisfactory to the Association, for the purpose of ensuring the prompt
             and efficient implementation of Part C of the Project, in accordance with
             the Operations Manual.

     (c)     The Recipient shall ensure that the respective Participating MDAs
             referred to under subparagraphs (a) and (b) immediately above, provide
             as may be required, technical support to the PCU for the respective
             Project activities under their responsibility.

B.   Implementation Arrangements

1.   Operations Manual

     The Recipient shall, ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
     arrangements, procedures and guidelines set out in the Operations Manual
     (provided, however, that in case of any conflict between the arrangements and
     procedures set out in the Operations Manual and the provisions of this
     Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail) and, except as the
     Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to
     enforce any provision of the Operations Manual without the prior written
     agreement of the Association.

C.   Anti-Corruption

     The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
     provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

D.   Environmental and Social Safeguards

1.   Without limitation to the provisions of Section 4.01 (b) of the General Conditions
     (referring to the obligation of the Recipient to ensure the carrying out in
     conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, financial, economic,
     environmental and social standards and practices), the Recipient shall: (a)
     prepare, adopt and disclose, in form and substance satisfactory to the
     Association, the Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment
     Framework (ESSAF) and the Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF); and (b)
     ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the ESSAF and the RPF.


                                         6
        To this end, the Recipient shall, in a manner satisfactory to the Association take
        the following actions:

        (i)     prior to commencement of any works under said Part C of the Project:

                (A)      prepare, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association,
                        an environmental management plan or similar environmental
                        safeguard instrument, and/or a resettlement action plan, if
                        required;

                (B)     thereafter, except as otherwise agreed with the Association,
                        submit the said environmental management plan or similar
                        environmental safeguard instrument, and/or said resettlement
                        plan (as the case may be), to the Association for review and
                        approval;

                (C)     subsequently, adopt and disclose, in a manner acceptable to the
                        Association, said environmental management plan or similar
                        environmental safeguard instrument, and/or said resettlement
                        action plan (as the case may be); and

                (D)     immediately thereafter, implement said environmental
                        management plan or similar environmental safeguard instrument,
                        and/or resettlement action plan (as the case may be), all in
                        accordance with their terms and in a manner acceptable to the
                        Association; and

        (ii)    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree in writing, the Recipient
                shall not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, any
                provision of any environmental management plan or similar
                environmental safeguard document, or any resettlement plan.

Section II.     Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

1.      The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
        Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General
        Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Association. Each
        Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be
        furnished to the Association not later than forty five days after the end of the
        period covered by such report.




                                            7
2.      On or about the date eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date, the Recipient
        shall undertake in conjunction with the Association, the Participating MDAs, a
        comprehensive mid-term review of the Project during which it shall exchange
        views generally on all matters relating to the progress of the Project, the
        performance by the Recipient of its obligations under this Agreement and the
        performance by the Participating MDAs pursuant to the Operations Manual,
        having regard to the performance indicators referred to in paragraph 1
        immediately above.

B.      Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
        system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
        Conditions.

2.      The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project
        Report after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports
        for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the
        Association.

3.      The Recipient shall have the Project’s Financial Statements audited in
        accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
        Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
        the Recipient. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
        furnished to the Association not later than six months after the end of such
        period.

Section III.    Procurement

A.      General

1.      Goods and Works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be
        financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
        with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
        Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

2.      Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
        be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
        with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
        Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

3.      Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
        particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
        particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
        Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.


                                            8
B.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works

1.     International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
       2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
       of International Competitive Bidding.

2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works. The following
       methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for goods
       and works for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Limited
       International Bidding; (b) National Competitive Bidding; (c) Shopping; and (d)
       Direct Contracting.

C.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

1.     Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
       2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
       basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.

2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following
       methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for
       procurement of consultants’ services for those assignments which are specified in
       the Procurement Plan: (a) Quality Based Selection; (b) Selection under a Fixed
       Budget; (c) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications; (d) Least-Cost
       Selection; (e) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant
       Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants; (f) Sole Source
       Procedures for selection of firms; and (g) Sole Source Procedures for the
       Selection of Individual Consultants set forth in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant
       Guidelines.

D.     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions

1.     The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
       Association’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review
       by the Association.

2.     All terms of reference for consultants’ services, regardless of contract value, shall
       be subject to the Association’s prior review.

Section IV.    Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing

A.     General

1.     The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
       the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
       additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient


                                            9
        (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects? dated May
        2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to
        this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
        set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2.      The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
        financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category?), the allocations of the
        amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
        financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:



                                  Amount of the Credit       Percentage of Expenditures
                                        Allocated                   to be Financed
          Category                 (expressed in SDR)            (inclusive of Taxes)

 (1) Goods, consultants’                  970,000                         100%
     services and Emergency
     Operating Costs under
     Part A of the Project

 (2) Goods, works,
     consultants’ services,
     Training and Operating            8,730,000                          100%
     Costs under Parts B, C
     and D of the Project

 TOTAL                                 9,700,000


For the purpose of this Section IV.A.2:

(a)     the term “Training? means the cost associated with the training and workshops
        approved by the Association, for reasonable expenditures (other than
        expenditures for consultants’ services), including: (i) travel, room, board and per
        diem expenditures incurred by trainers and trainees in connection with their
        training; (ii) course fees; (iii) training facility rentals; and (iv) training material
        preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses; and

(b)     the term “Operating Costs? means the incremental expenses incurred on account
        of Project management, including office equipment and supplies, vehicle
        operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office
        administration costs, utilities, travel and per diem, excluding the salaries of the
        Recipient’s civil service.




                                             10
B.   Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section:

     (a)      no withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of this
             Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to
             exceed SDR 970,000 equivalent may be made for payments made prior
             to this date but on or after October 30, 2010, for Eligible Expenditures
             under Category (1); or

     (b)     under Category (1), unless the Recipient has presented to the Association,
             evidence satisfactory to the Association, indicating compliance with
             eligibility criteria established in the Operational Manual for financing of
             Eligible Expenditure under said Category (1).

2.   The Closing Date is March 31, 2014.




                                        11
                                   SCHEDULE 3

                                Repayment Schedule

               Date Payment Due                      Principal Amount of the Credit
                                                               repayable
                                                      (expressed as a percentage)*
On each June 15 and December 15:
commencing June 15, 2021 to and including                         1.25%
December 15, 2030
commencing June 15, 2031 to and including                         2.5%
December 15, 2045

* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of
the General Conditions.




                                          12
                                        APPENDIX

Definitions

1.     “Affected Person? means a person, or group of persons who, on account of the
       execution of Part C of the Project, experience direct adverse economic and social
       impacts caused by the involuntary taking of land resulting in: (a) relocation or
       loss or shelter; (b) loss of assets or access to assets, totally or partially; or (c) loss
       of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move
       to another location, and “Affected Persons? means more than one Affected
       Person.

2.     “Anti-Corruption Guidelines? means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
       Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
       Credits and Grants?, dated October 15, 2006, and revised in January 2011.

3.     “Category? means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
       this Agreement.

4.     “Consultant Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
       Consultants by World Bank Borrowers? published by the Bank in May 2004 and
       revised in October 2006 and May 2010.

5.     “Emergency Operating Costs? means the incremental expenses incurred by the
       Recipient for early recovery efforts arising as a result of the impact of the
       Hurricane Tomas including, inter alia, additional transportation costs (i.e.
       gasoline and use of other transportation), increased electricity bills for the public
       sector, staff overtime, and rental of light and heavy machinery (i.e. generators
       and equipment for removal of debris).

6.     “Environmental and Social Screening Assessment Framework? or “ESSAF?
       means the Recipient’s framework acceptable to the Association, setting forth the
       modalities for environmental and social screening and procedures/actions for the
       preparation and implementation of environmental assessments and management
       plans under Part C of the Project, and such term includes all schedules and annexes
       to the ESSAF.

7.     “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association
       General Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 31, 2010.

8.     “Hurricane Tomas? means the nineteenth named storm and twelfth hurricane of
       2010 Atlantic hurricane season, which impacted upon a number of the Eastern
       Caribbean Islands including the Recipient.




                                              13
9.    “Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport and Public Utilities? and
      “MCW? means the Recipient Ministry responsible for communications or any
      successor thereto.

10.   “Ministry of Education and Culture? and “MoE? means the Recipient Ministry
      responsible for education or any successor thereto.

11.   “Ministry of Finance, Economic and National Development? and “MoF? means
      the Recipient Ministry responsible for finance or any successor thereto.

12.   “Ministry of Health, Wellness, Family Affairs, and National Mobilization,
      Human Services and Gender Relations? and “MoH? means the Recipient
      Ministry responsible for health or any successor thereto.

13.   “Ministry of Housing, Urban Renewal and Local Government? and “MoHULG?
      means the Recipient Ministry responsible for housing or any successor thereto.

14.   “Ministry of Physical Development and Environment? and “MoPDE? means the
      Recipient Ministry responsible for environment or any successor thereto.

15.   “National Disaster Management Plan? means the Recipient’s plan for
      management of natural disasters contained in a document titled, “Saint Lucia
      National Emergency Management Plan? as authorized by the Recipient’s Cabinet
      on August 2, 2007, May 7, 2009 and September 2009, and revised in January
      2010.

16.   “NEMO? means the Recipient’s National Emergency Management Office
      established and operating pursuant to the Disaster Management Act (Act No. 30
      of 2006) of the laws of the Recipient, or any successor thereto.

17.   “Operations Manual? means the Recipient’s manual, in form and substance
      satisfactory to the Association, referred to in Section I.B.1 of Schedule 2 to this
      Agreement, and containing or referring to detailed arrangements and procedures
      for the implementation of the Project, including: (i) capacity building activities
      for sustained achievement of the Project’s objectives; (ii) disbursement and
      financial management; (iii) institutional administration, coordination and day-to-
      day execution of activities of the Project; (iv) monitoring, evaluation, reporting,
      information, education and communication; (v) procurement; and (vi) such other
      administrative, financial, technical and organizational arrangements and
      procedures as shall be required for the Project, as such manual may be amended
      and supplemented from time to time, with the prior written approval of the
      Association, and such term includes all schedules and annexes to said manual.




                                          14
18.   “Participating MDAs? means the Recipient’s ministries, departments and
      agencies participating in the Project, and specifically the MCW, the MoE, the
      MoHULG, MoH, MoPDE and NEMO, each separately having the responsibility
      for implementing specified activities under Parts B and C of the Project as set
      forth in Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

19.   “Project Coordination Unit? or “PCU? means the coordination unit within MoF,
      and referred to in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any
      successor thereto acceptable to the Association.

20.   “Procurement Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
      Loans and IDA Credits? published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
      October, 2006 and May 2010.

21.   “Procurement Plan? means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project,
      dated February 7, 2011, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
      Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
      updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

22.   “Resettlement Policy Framework? or “RPF? means the Recipient’s framework
      acceptable to the Association, setting forth the modalities for resettlement and
      compensation of Affected Persons, including guidelines for the preparation of the
      resettlement plans under the Project.




                                         15
