                                RP1186




     RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK


HURRICANE TOMAS EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
                Saint Lucia
Hurricane Tomas Emergency Recovery Project
      Resettlement Policy Framework
                     (Draft)

               March 21, 2011(v1)

              Revised July 2011 (v2)
Table of Contents

 1. Introduction and Objectives .................................................................................................4
 2. Description of the Project ....................................................................................................4
 3. Estimated Population Displacement .....................................................................................6
 4. World Bank Land/Asset Acquisition Policy (OP 4.12): Guiding Principles..........................6
 5. Legal Framework: Compensation Evaluation ......................................................................7
 6. Fit between the World Bank and the Borrowers laws ...........................................................9
 7. Criteria for selection of investment proposals .................................................................... 10
 8. Land Acquisition Screening Procedures............................................................................. 11
 9. Institutional Arrangements ................................................................................................ 11
 10. Sources of funding and estimated cost ............................................................................. 12
 11. Monitoring and follow-up activities ................................................................................. 12
 12. Information Disclosure and consultation .......................................................................... 13
 13. Capacity-Building and Monitoring of Safeguard Implementation .................................... 13
 14. Grievance Redress ........................................................................................................... 13
1. Introduction and Objectives


   1. The World Bank is providing a credit to the Government of Saint Lucia (GOSL) in the
      amount of US$15 million towards the Hurricane Tomas Emergency Recovery project.
      The project, which will support the Government s recovery and reconstruction efforts
      following the passage of Hurricane Tomas on October 30, 2010, will help finance post-
      hurricane rehabilitation activities in the health, education and infrastructure sectors
      throughout the island and strengthen disaster risk management capacity to lay the
      foundation for the longer-term sustainable strategy to improve the resilience,
      preparedness, and response capacity of Saint Lucia to natural hazards.

   2. The purpose of this Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) is to clarify resettlement
      principles, organizational arrangements, and design criteria to be applied to subprojects to
      be prepared during project implementation (see OP 4.12, paras. 26-28). Subproject
      resettlement plans consistent with the policy framework subsequently are submitted to
      the Bank for approval after specific planning information becomes available (see OP
      4.12, para. 29).

   3. The RPF will assist the PCU in i) screening all subprojects for land acquisition and
      physical and/or livelihood displacement resulting from such land acquisition; ii)
      identifying documentation and preparation requirements for compliance with World
      Bank Safeguards Policy. In the unlikely event that the project leads to land acquisition
      and/or resettlement, Abbreviated Resettlement Plans (ARPs) and/or Resettlement Action
      Plans (RAPs), as may be applicable, will be prepared for specific sub-projects in
      accordance with the project s RPF.

   4. The Resettlement Policy Framework will form part of the project s Operations Manual
      and is referenced in the project s Legal Agreements.


2. Description of the Project

   5. Project Objective.

      The objective of the Project is to support the recovery and reconstruction of the Recipient
      in the aftermath of Hurricane Tomas. Financing under this project is provided on an
      emergency basis to avoid the usual time lag between the end of the relief period and
      reconstruction.

   6. Project Components. Four components are proposed for the emergency recovery
      project, as follows:
   Component 1: Support for Early Recovery. This component would focus on
   supporting the early recovery of the Government s key economic sectors from the impact
   of Hurricane Tomas, through the provision of goods, technical advisory services and
   emergency operating costs. Emergency Operating Costs would include the incremental
   expenses incurred by the GOSL for early recovery efforts arising as a result of the impact
   of Hurricane Tomas, including, inter alia, additional transportation costs (i.e. gasoline
   and use of other transportation), increased electricity bills for the public sector, staff
   overtime and rental of light and heavy machinery (i.e. generators and equipment for
   removal of debris). Goods and services under this component would be financed
   retroactively and the eligibility of the expenditures will be determined based on review of
   satisfactory supporting documentation presented by the Government, including adherence
   to appropriate procurement practices where applicable.

   Component 2: Institutional Strengthening and Hazard and Risk Analysis. This
   component would include strengthening the institutional capacity at the national level,
   including the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Housing, Urban Renewal and Local
   Government, the Ministry of Physical Development and Environment and the National
   Emergency Management Organization to: i) evaluate and integrate natural hazard and
   climate change risk reduction into national development policy and decision-making
   processes using geo-referenced information; ii) carry out various risk assessments and
   impact evaluation studies in highly affected areas and specific sectors; and iii) review the
   National Disaster Management Plan and improve disaster management capacity.

   Component 3: Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Damaged Critical Public
   Infrastructure. This component would finance selected reconstruction and rehabilitation
   activities of damaged infrastructure in the Government s transport, health and education
   sector. Activities would include civil works, technical advisory services and goods
   required for the rehabilitation of the damaged infrastructure. Civil works would be
   executed to ensure that target structures are resilient to future adverse natural events,
   thereby reducing their vulnerability to disasters.

   Component 4: Project Management and Monitoring Support. While the project will
   be implemented by the same PCU currently implementing the Bank-financed Second
   Disaster Management Project, OECS Skills for Inclusive Growth Project and Enhancing
   Public Service Performance Project, additional resources will be needed to tackle the
   current emergency and increased workload in project management. This component
   would strengthen and develop the institutional capacity of the Project Coordination Unit
   for project execution, including procurement, financial management, and accounting,
   engineering oversight and supervision of Project activities, through the acquisition of
   goods, provision of technical advisory services, training and operating costs.



7. Project Implementation. Implementation and supervision of the proposed emergency
   project will be the responsibility of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) under the
   purview of the Ministry of Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs and National
   Development.
3. Estimated Population Displacement


   8. It is not expected / anticipated that this project would require acquisition of    private
      property or resettlement/displacement of persons. In most cases, the works relate to the
      reconstruction, repair and rehabilitation of existing structures. However, it is two new
      constructions have been indentified under the project, namely: the Dennery hospital and
      the Dennery infant school. Both facilities are expected to be relocated and constructed on
      currently unoccupied public lands already identified by the government. Therefore, the
      Involuntary Resettlement Policy (OP 4.12) is triggered as a precaution, and to allow
      flexibility in the activities financed. And this Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) has
      been prepared to outline the process to be undertaken by the GOSL.


4. World Bank Land/Asset Acquisition Policy (OP 4.12): Guiding Principles


   9. The World Bank s Policy, 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement, will guide the social safeguards
      (land acquisition and involuntary resettlement) planning and compliance during
      implementation of sub-projects. As sub-projects are identified and proposed for financing
      both prior to and during the project implementation period, screening for potential land
      acquisition / resettlement will be conducted and the necessary mitigation and
      management measures in keeping with the agreed RFP will be developed.

   10. In the event that a sub-project resulting from Bank-assisted investment projects to address
       direct economic and social impacts entails land acquisition , and are caused by the
       involuntary taking of land resulting in the loss of assets, the Borrower must implement
       measures to ensure that the affected persons are:

      (i) informed about their options and rights pertaining to resettlement;
      (ii) consulted on, offered choices among, and provided with technically and economically
      feasible resettlement alternatives;
      (iii) provided prompt and effective compensation at full replacement cost for losses of
      assets attributable directly to the project.

   11. Full replacement cost is the method of valuation of assets that helps determine the
      amount sufficient to replace lost assets and cover transaction costs. In applying this
      method of valuation, depreciation of structure and assets should not be taken into
      account. For losses that cannot easily be valued or compensated for in monetary terms
      (e.g. access to public services, customers and supplies; or to fishing grazing or forest
      areas), attempts are made to establish access to equivalent and culturally acceptable
      resources and earning opportunities. Should the the laws of Saint Lucia not be in keeping
      with the World Bank s standards of compensation for full replacement cost, then
      compensation under domestic law would be supplemented by additional measures
          necessary to meet the replacement cost standard. Such additional assistance is distinct
          from resettlement assistance to be provided.


5. Legal Framework: Compensation Evaluation

1.              Saint Lucia s Legal Framework: Land Acquisition, Compensation Evaluation


     12. The Laws of Saint Lucia include a Land Acquisition Act established in 1946. The
         mentioned Act provides a very detailed account of the procedures enforced by the
         Government of Saint Lucia in matters pertaining to the acquisition of land for public
         purposes.


Notification and Due Procedure:
          Acquisition of Land


                (1) If the Governor General considers that any land should be acquired for a public
                    purpose1 he or she may cause a declaration to that effect to be made in the
                    manner provided by this section and the declaration shall be conclusive evidence
                    that the land to which it relates is required for a public purpose.


                (2) Every declaration shall be published in 2 ordinary issues of the Gazette and
                    copies thereof shall be posted on one of the building (if any) on the land or
                    exhibited at suitable places in the locality in which the land or exhibited at
                    suitable places in the locality in which the land is situated, and in the declaration
                    shall be specified the following particulars in relation to the land which is to be
                    acquired-


                              (a) the parish or district in which the land is situated;
                              (b) a description of the land, giving the approximate area and such other
                                  particulars as are necessary to identify the land;
                              (c) in cases where a plan has been prepared, the place where, and the time
                                  when, a plan of the land can be inspected;
                              (d) the public purpose for which the land is required.


                (3) Upon the second publication of the declaration in the Gazette as aforesaid the
                    land shall vest absolutely in the Crown.

1
  The Act sets forth the following definition: For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared that the expression public purpose in this Act
shall include the purpose of fulfilling any obligation of the Government, or of Her Majesty s Government in the United Kingdom, under any
treaty or agreement made by the Government or by Her Majesty s Government, as the case may be, with the Government of any other country,
territory or place, ad any purpose pertaining or ancillary thereto.
          (4) This section does not prevent the acquisition of lands for public purposes by
              private treaty.


Negotiations with Landowners:


      Authorised Officer to Treat with Landowner:


          (1) As soon as any declaration has been published in accordance with the provisions
              of section 3, the authorized officer shall without delay, enter into negotiations (or
              further negotiations) for the purchase of the land to which the declaration relates
              upon reasonable terms and conditions, and by voluntary agreement with the
              owner of the land.
          (2) It is not necessary for the authorized officer to await the publication of the
              declaration before he or she endeavors to ascertain from the owner the terms and
              conditions on which he or she is willing to sell his or her land, but no
              negotiations or agreement is considered to be concluded unless and until the
              conditions of sale and acquisition have been approved in writing by the Governor
              General.


Compensation evaluation:
Rules for Assessment of Compensation
      Subject to the provisions of this Act the following rules shall apply to the assessment and
      award of compensation by a Board for the compulsory acquisition of land-
          (1) The value of the land shall, subject as hereinafter provided, be taken to be the
              amount which the land, in its condition at the time of acquisition, if sold in the
              open market by a willing seller, might have been expected to have realized at a
              date 12 months prior to the date of the second publication in the Gazette of the
              declaration under section 3.


          (2) However, this rule shall not affect the assessment of compensation for any
              damage sustained by the person interested by reason of severance, or by reason
              of the acquisition injuriously affecting his or her other property or his or her
              earnings, or for disturbance, or any other matter not directly based on the value
              of the land;
          Interest
        The Board, in awarding compensation may add thereto interest at the rate of 6% per year
        calculated from the date upon which the authorized officer entered into possession of the
        land acquired until the date of the payment of the compensation awarded by the Board.


2.      Practical application and enforcement of Land Acquisition Act


     13. In the context of the Saint Lucia Disaster Management Project II a Land Acquisition and
         Involuntary Resettlement Report was prepared. The Surveys and Mapping Department
         of the Government (Ministry of Physical Development) provided additional and very
         useful information regarding the practical application and enforcement of the national
         laws. The following points were of particular pertinence to the purpose of understanding
         the practice of land acquisition in Saint Lucia, and therefore its degree of compliance
         with World Bank policy: The Ministry of Physical Development has confirmed the
         following:


        §       Market Value - Calculation of compensation is based on market value; In
                determining market value the sale of property of similar characteristics with up to
                one year is used.
        §       Valuation System Property valuations are very flexible and arealways in favor
                the land owner. in determining the valuation of propert location, number of
                dependencies and size of land are taken into consideration
        §       Interest - Should the payment to the affected landowner be delayed 6% interest is
                paid. This is substantially above interest rates paid by commercial banks.
        §       Procedural delays There may be delays of undertaking the procedural outlined
                in the legislation for example after the general elections as the decisions have to
                be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Notifications of the intent to acquire
                private property can only be published after approval of the Cabinet of Ministers.
                Payment is delivered upon completion of works - Advanced payment has
                exceptionally been paid through private treaty if strongly requested, however it is
                not very common.


6. Fit between the World Bank and the Borrowers laws

     14. Saint Lucian compliance with OP 4.12 has not been met. The national legal
         framework
         provides the Government of St. Lucia with instruments that entitle bearers of assets with
         rights of notification and fair compensation, which are compatible with the Bank s
         involuntary resettlement policy. A court case precedent as well as interviews with
         different persons involved in the process (again in the context of the Saint Lucia Disaster
         Management Project II), also offer some evidence to the fact that the customary
         application of this legal framework has usually favored land owners (in terms of
         negotiated compensation) vis-à-vis the State. Nevertheless, the project does not comply
         with OP 4.12 for two reasons.
   15. First, the chronology of events permitted under the Land Acquisition Act does not
       correspond with the timing of activities accepted by the Bank. According to World Bank
       policy, the land owners/occupants must be compensated before the works take place,
       while the Land Acquisition Act of Saint Lucia allows this payment to take place after the
       completion of the works. It is therefore fundamentally important that this order be
       reversed in order to proceed. Hence, affected landowners must be compensated before
       any works can commence.

   16. Second, the project s strictly legalistic reliance on the State s authority and ability to
       acquire land as long as it is in accordance with the Land Acquisition Ordinance has
       apparently resulted in the responsible parties neglecting to engage with the affected land
       owners as legitimate stakeholders through a transparent communication strategy.
       Therefore, compliance with Bank policy will depend on (i) the Government s
       commitment to a transparent communication strategy based on the information and
       validation processes set out in Section 4 and including a clear grievance mechanism for
       the affected persons to voice their concerns


7. Criteria for selection of investment proposals

   17. Rehabilitation investment proposals should demonstrate that they are technically and
       financially viable, economically efficient, environmentally and socially sound and
       manageable within the project life time, with sufficient institutional capacity in place to
       implement and operate/maintain. The proposals will undergo rapid technical, financial,
       social, and environmental analysis prior to inclusion into the project. In general, the
       investment proposals should demonstrate the following:


      ·   Proposed rehabilitation activities should be directly related to hurricane Tomas
          impacts;
      ·   Proposed activity should be a priority, and focus on critical infrastructure for the
          country s rapid recovery from the hurricane;
      ·   Investments should be (realistically) completed within the 3-year project life; so
          implementation readiness should be demonstrated, such that status of investment
          preparation should be at least at feasibility stage and costs are estimated with
          reasonable accuracy;
      ·   To the extent possible, proposed activities should have minimal environmental and
          social safeguards issues: including avoidance of land acquisition, resettlement, etc.
          where feasible to ensure the project will be executed within the project life.
      ·   In the event that land acquisition becomes necessary the subject document will guide
          implementation.
      ·   Consultation and disclosure requirements will be simplified to meet the requirements
          of this Emergency Operation (Hurricane Tomas Emergency Recovery Project). This
          RPF will be disclosed in the sector ministries involved with implementation of the
          project and other public places in Saint Lucia and in the World Bank InfoShop.
  18. A preliminary list of civil work activities to be financed under the project has been
      identified, which comply with the selection criteria listed above.



8. Land Acquisition Screening Procedures


  19. Screening for land acquisition will be done in accordance with the following steps:
         1. Sponsoring agency screens the preliminarily selected sub-projects for potential
             social safeguard impacts (land acquisition) and determination of safeguards
             documents required according to Saint Lucia legislation (Act and Regulations)
             and the World Bank policies.
         2. If land acquisition is required then subproject resettlement plans consistent with
             the policy framework are developed and submitted to the Bank for approval after
             specific planning information becomes available (see OP 4.12, para. 29).
         3. Review of Safeguards screening by World Bank.
         4. Preparation of safeguard documents (resettlement plan), consultation and
             disclosure;
         5. Review and clearance of the safeguard documents within the Government and the
             Bank.
         6. Implementation of agreed actions; and supervision, monitoring and evaluation
             The sponsoring agency makes a determination concerning whether the project in
             question is likely to entail land acquisition



9. Institutional Arrangements


  20. The PCU shall serve as the coordinating agency for the approval of all subproject
      activities to be completed under this project. Prior to the submission of small works
      activities for funding consideration, the issuing agency (agency requesting the work) shall
      screen the subprojects to assess whether or not land acquisition is entailed. The PCU shall
      forward these findings to the Ministry of Physical Development (Head of the Physical
      Planning) for review and concurrence.

  21. Once this review is completed, the PCU shall then incorporate these findings and
      requirements into the final approval document for submission and review by appropriate
      program managers. The results of this process shall become a permanent part of the
      works approval package and the sub-project resettlement action plan (RAP) shall be
      incorporated in any tender produced by the program.


  22. Supervision for compliance with the terms of the contract shall rest with the issuing
      agency.
   23. In the event that a Resettlement Action Plan is required the following institutions will be
       responsible for its implementation and monitoring

      ·      Ministry of Physical Development: Surveys and Mapping Units, Physical Planning
             Section, Commissioner of Crown Lands, Registrar of Lands
      ·      Ministry of Social Transformation: Community Development Officer
      ·      PCU : Project Coordinator
      ·      Technical Unit of the applicable Implementing Agency (Ministry of
             Communications, Works, Transport and Public Utilities, Ministry of Education and
             Ministry of Health)

   24. The PCU will ensure that all project activities adhere to the requirements of the RPF, and
       that designated social specialists/community officers are appointed for overseeing the
       implementation and monitoring of the framework. A focal person will be appointed for
       oversight on required clearances and studies. The World Bank task team will include a
       social specialist to facilitate the implementation of the RPF and to provide approval of
       resettlement/studies/plans requiring clearance by the World Bank.


10. Sources of funding and estimated cost


   25. The cost of acquisition and associated administrative and logistical costs will be provided
       for by the Ministry of Physical Development in its Budget submissions since Land
       Acquisitions form part of the Planning program of the Ministry. The exact costs will be
       determined according to the Land Acquisition Act, and payments must be made before
       the works begin.


11. Monitoring and follow-up activities

   26. The following (land acquisition timetable) table should be completed to specify the
       necessary activities, dates by which they should be accomplished, allotted budget and
       entity responsible for implementation. Activities will include: stakeholder consultations,
       identification of land/asset acquisition impacts, surveys of lands, calculation of payment
       compensation, disclosure of relevant information, definition of compensation and
       payment etc.


Activities             Dates    Budget    Responsible institution/human resources assigned
  27. The PCU will be responsible for following up and ensuring that all activities are
      completed. Minutes will be kept of all meetings held and will be sent to all parties via e-
      mail.


12. Information Disclosure and consultation


  28. This RPF will be shared with concerned communities, nongovernmental organizations
      and development partners. It will be disclosed in-country by the Project Coordination
      Unit and will also be made available at the World Bank s InfoShop. Relevant subproject-
      specific safeguard documents/mitigation plans prepared subsequently will also be
      disclosed. Stakeholders should be periodically consulted and kept informed about any
      land acquisition-related information during design and implementation stages


  29. Any feasibility and detailed design studies financed by this operation will also adhere to
     World Bank safeguards policies relating to consultation and disclosure.


13. Capacity-Building and Monitoring of Safeguard Implementation

  30. As part of the capacity-building to be provided for implementation of the proposed
      project, the Safeguards Focal Points and relevant staff of the concerned Ministries will
      also receive training in the RPF s application.

  31. During supervision of this project the World Bank will assess the implementation of the
      RPF, and recommend additional strengthening if required.


14. Grievance Redress


  32. A grievance redress mechanism for the project is necessary for addressing legitimate
      concerns of affected individuals and groups who may consider themselves deprived of
      appropriate treatment under the project. The mechanism will be developed by the PCU
      and would include (i) a recording and reporting system, including grievances filed both
      verbally and in writing, (ii) designated staff with responsibility at various levels of
      governments, and (iii) a time frame to address the filed grievances. This mechanism will
      be detailed in the sub-project safeguards documents. The functioning of the grievance
      redress mechanism will be regularly monitored and evaluated by the PCU during project
      implementation.
