                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR00003341



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-48710)



                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.7 MILLION
                         (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO

                                    SAINT LUCIA

                                        FOR A

            HURRICANE TOMAS EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT

                                    March 27, 2015




Social, Urban, Rural, and Resilience Global Practice
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective March 27, 2015)

                   Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar
                             EC$1.00 = US$0.37
                            US$ 1.00 = EC$2.70

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31


CCRIF     Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility
CDB       Caribbean Development Bank
DMP II    Second Disaster Management Project
DVRP      Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project
ECLAC     United Nation’s Economic Commission for Latin America and the
          Caribbean
EMF       Environnent Management Framework
EMP       Environnent Management Plan
ERDMP     Emergency Recovery Disaster Management Project
ERL       Emergency Recovery Loan
ESSAF     Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework
EU        European Union
FM        Financial Management
FDI       Foreign Direct Investment
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GoSL      Government of Saint Lucia
GRM       Grievance Redress Mechanism
HTERP     Hurricane Tomas Emergency Recovery Project
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
IFR       Interim Financial Report
IPR       Internal Procurement Review
JICA      Japanese International Cooperation Agency
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
MoE       Ministry of Education and Culture
MoF       Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs and National Development
MoH       Ministry of Health, Wellness, Family Affairs, National Mobilization,
          Human Services and Gender Relations
MoIPS&T   Ministry of Infrastructure, Port Services and Transport
MoPD      Ministry of Physical Development, Housing and Urban Renewal
MTR       Mid-Term Review
N/A       Not Applicable
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NEMO      National Emergency Management Organization
NSDC    National Skills and Development Center
OECS    Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
OM      Operations Manual
OP/BP   Operational Policy/Bank Procedure
ORAF    Operational Risk Assessment Framework
PAHO    Pan American Health Organization
PCC     Project Coordination Committee
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PDO     Project Development Objective
PPCR    Pilot Program for Climate Resilience
RPS     Regional Partnership Strategy
SDR     Special Drawing Rates
TBD     To Be Determined




                       Vice President:   Jorge Familiar
                     Country Director:   Sophie Sirtaine
                      Sector Manager:    Anna Wellenstein
                 Project Team Leader:    Tiguist Fisseha
                    ICR Team Leader:     Ali Alwahti
                                         SAINT LUCIA
                            Hurricane Tomas Emergency Recovery Project



                                                      CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 24
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 25
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 28
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 29
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 30
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 40
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 43
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 46
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 47
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 48
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 59
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 60
Annex 10. MAP…………………………………………………………….……………62
Annex 11. Photographs of Sites………………………………………………………....63
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Saint Lucia Hurricane
Country:                St. Lucia               Project Name:             Tomas Emergency
                                                                          Recovery Loan
Project ID:             P125205                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-48710
ICR Date:               03/24/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:                 SAINT LUCIA
Original Total
                        XDR 9.70M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 8.53M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 9.70M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs and National Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/12/2010     Effectiveness:             08/30/2011        08/30/2011
                                                                                  10/09/2013
Appraisal:            12/13/2010     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  03/27/2014
Approval:             03/10/2011     Mid-term Review:           04/01/2013        05/06/2013
                                     Closing:                   03/31/2014        09/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     10                  10
General education sector                                              20                  20
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 15                  15
Health                                                                15                  15
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                              40                  40


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                           80                  80
Other urban development                                               20                  20

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Jorge Familiar Calderon              Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Sophie Sirtaine                      Francoise Clottes
Practice
                           Anna Wellenstein                     Guang Zhe Chen
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Tiguist Fisseha                      Niels B. Holm-Nielsen
ICR Team Leader:           Ali Alwahti
ICR Primary Author:        Ali Alwahti

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to support the recovery and reconstruction of the Recipient
in the aftermath of Hurricane Tomas.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
no revision

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target       Completion or
                                               documents)           Values        Target Years
                Number of people with access to rebuilt and rehabilitated safe, selected basic
Indicator 1 :
                services (transport, education, health) affected by Hurricane Tomas.
                Total No. of daily users TBD                    24,645         35,141

                Students                   10,000              5,127           6,080
Value
quantitative or
                Hospital and health center TBD                 145             145
Qualitative)
                patients

                Bridge users                 TBD                 19,373          28,916
Date achieved 03/10/2011                     03/11/2011          10/09/2013      09/30/2014
                Targets met. Bois D'Orange bridge was operational 2 months after closing,
Comments
                adding 27,416 daily users. The PP reported baseline of 10,000 for students, but
(incl. %
                indicator actually refers to zero baselines for all categories. Targets were revised
achievement)
                in October 2013
                Improved national and local risk management and risk reduction systems and
                abilities for future natural hazards through studies and assessments, the review of
Indicator 2 :
                the National Disaster Management Plan, and capacity building for Government
                staff.
Value
quantitative or 0                            2                                   1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/10/2011                     03/11/2011                          09/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target not met. Indicator target not revised.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                           Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                              approval                       Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                            documents)                       Target Years
                Number of staff from the Ministry of Physical Developments and NEMO trained
Indicator 1 :
                in GIS analysis tools
Value
(quantitative   0                           TBD                24              18
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/10/2011                    03/11/2011         10/09/2013      09/30/2014
Comments
(in
                  Target partially met.
cl. %
achievement)
                  Number of studies and assessments undertaken, including the review of the
Indicator 2 :
                  National Emergency Management Plan
Value
(quantitative     0                         4                                   5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/10/2011                03/11/2011                          09/30/2014
Comments
                  Target met and exceeded. Studies include 3 hydraulic studies, the review of the
(incl. %
                  NEMP and the Geodetic survey.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of Communication equipment procured
Value
(quantitative     0                         324                 320             320
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/10/2011                03/11/2011          10/09/2013      09/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target met. Targets were revised in October 2013.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     number of bridges rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative     0                         6                   2               2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/10/2011                03/11/2011          10/09/2013      09/30/2014
Comments
                  Target met. The second bridge was completed after close of Project. Targets
(incl. %
                  were revised in October 2013.
achievement)
                  Number of schools facilities rehabilitated or rebuilt, and equipped, with due
Indicator 5 :
                  attention to resilience sustainability.
Value
(quantitative   0                           27                  10              11
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/10/2011                    03/11/2011          10/09/2013      09/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target met and exceeded. Targets were revised in October 2013.
achievement)
                Number of health facilities rehabilitated or rebuilt, and/or equipped, with due
Indicator 6 :
                attention to resilience sustainability.
Value
(quantitative   0                           5                   4               4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/10/2011                    03/11/2011          10/09/2013      09/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target met. Targets were revised in October 2013.
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                      IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1    06/29/2011         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    01/30/2012         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     2.64
  3    10/12/2012         Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory              2.64
  4    07/10/2013         Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     4.24
  5    03/06/2014         Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory              8.88
                                                 Moderately
  6    10/28/2014   Moderately Satisfactory                                    12.83
                                               Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 10/09/2013               S       S           6.74   Revision of results framework.
 03/27/2014               S     MS            8.88   Extension of Closing Date.




I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Country Context. In 2009, Saint Lucia’s economic growth was severely
impacted by the global downturn. Real gross domestic product (GDP) contracted sharply
after expanding on average by about 3 percent during the previous 5 years. Growth was
mainly based on the development of the tourism sector, which required substantial
foreign direct investment (FDI) in related construction. The recession in the United States
and Europe that started in 2008 contributed to lower tourism arrivals, FDI inflows, and
remittances. 1 It was during these already challenging economic conditions that Hurricane
Tomas hit the island in October 2010.

2.      Saint Lucia is highly exposed to adverse natural conditions. Hurricane Tomas
produced exceptionally high rainfall for 24 hours, which triggered widespread flooding
and numerous landslides, particularly in the central and southwestern segments of the
island, which is characterized by mountainous terrain, rivers and flat valleys. 2 The
Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC) estimated the
total economic impact (damage and losses) on the economy at US$336.2 million, or
43.4% of the country’s GDP - nine times its agricultural GDP, three times its tourism
GDP. 3 Infrastructure sector was the most heavily affected, representing 43% of the total
impact. The social sectors and the productive sectors also suffered significant damage. 4

3.      Government Strategy. Due to the losses caused by the hurricane, the Prime
Minister of Saint Lucia declared a “State of National Emergency” on November 2, 2010.
The Government of Saint Lucia (GoSL) immediately adopted a series of relief measures
and launched emergency repair works. Emergency repair works were initiated in the
form of temporary fixes to protect damaged structures from further exposure and to
restore services. The Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport and Public Utilities
(MCW) 5 completed debris removal from landslides on roads and bridges within days,
enabling the reopening of primary roads to allow movement around the island. Water
supply capacity took several weeks to be restored to its pre-hurricane level 6.

4.     Ministries rapidly completed their damage assessments and, in many cases, began
the process of prioritization of investment activities. The GoSL engaged with a number
of donor and multilateral agencies to identify funding sources such as the European
Union (EU), Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) and the Japanese International


1
  IMF St. Lucia: Staff Report for the 2010 Article IV Consultation p. 4.
2
  PAD.
3
  United Nations’ Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC) Macro Socio-
Economic Damage Assessment report (December 2010).
4
  PAD.
5
  After the 2011 elections, several Ministries have changed their names including this one to Ministry of
Infrastructure, Port Services and Transport (MoIPS&T).
6
  PAD.


                                                   1
Cooperation Agency (JICA). In addition, the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance
Facility (CCRIF) was triggered and US$3.2 million was paid out to Saint Lucia under the
program. The management and coordination of the overall Hurricane Tomas recovery
effort was carried out by a designated Disaster Recovery Committee within the Ministry
of Finance.

5.     Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank had experience engaging in Disaster
Risk Management in Saint Lucia through the Emergency Recovery & Disaster
Management Project (ERDMP-P070430) (1998-2003), and the Saint Lucia Disaster
Management Project II and Additional Financing (DMP II-P086469) (2003-2011).
Moreover, at the time of Hurricane Tomas, the GoSL led by the Ministry of Finances,
Economic Affairs and National Development, was in the process of identifying and
preparing a disaster and climate risk management program, the Disaster Vulnerability
Reduction Project (DVRP) (P127226) (2012-2019) to be financed by IDA and the Pilot
Project for Climate Resilience (PPCR). In addition to physical risk reduction activities,
the project was expected to improve Saint Lucia’s capacity to reduce risks to natural
hazards and climate change in its development planning and programs by creating
capacity to measure hazard risk and integrate these measures in development policy and
planning. This DVRP was approved by the Board on June 4, 2014.

6.      This 2011 Hurricane Tomas Emergency Recovery Project (HTERP) in the
amount of SDR 9.5 million (US$15 million equivalent) was approved by the Board on
March 10, 2011, signed on June 3, 2011, and effective on August 30, 2011. The HTERP
was processed under the Operational Policy/Bank Procedures 8.00 as some of the damage
called for immediate action to rehabilitate and secure public buildings and infrastructure.
Though the project was not foreseen before the disaster, it was still consistent with the
World Bank Regional Partnership Strategy (RPS) FY2010-2014 with the Organization of
Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) (Report No. 53762-LAC), which focused on two
strategic objectives: i) building resilience and ii) enhancing competitiveness and
stimulating growth over the medium term. In line with the RPS objectives, this project
would provide immediate support for rehabilitation and recovery following Hurricane
Tomas, and focus on activities contributing to vulnerability and risk reduction through a
combination of works and institutional development activities, complementing those
supported by the ERDMP and DMP II projects, and DVRP.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

7.     The 2011 Financing Agreement and the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) state
that “The objective of the Project is to support the recovery and reconstruction of the
Recipient in the aftermath of Hurricane Tomas.” This objective was to be achieved
through investments in school and health buildings, bridge rebuilding, retroactive
financing for emergency expenses and capacity building in disaster risk management.
Table 1 shows the key indicators presented in the Emergency Project Paper (EPP).




                                            2
                     Table 1: Key Indicators and Revised Indicators
            Original PDO Indicators-Targets              Revised Indicators-Targets
Number of people with access to rebuilt and
rehabilitated safe selected basic services (transport,  All targets revised, but no
education, health) affected by Hurricane Tomas.         indicators revised:

Total No. of daily users-TBD                                 24,645
  Students-10,000                                             5,127
  Hospital and health center patients-TBD                       145
  Bridge users-TBD                                           19,373

Improved national and local risk management and risk
reduction systems and abilities for future natural hazards   No revision.
through studies and assessments, the review of the
National Disaster Management Plan, and capacity
building for Government staff. (Number of
government-produced policies and plans that integrate
hazard risk information.)-2


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

8.      The PDO was not revised. Several indicator targets were established after loan
approval and some adjusted during implementation. Rehabilitation costs of schools and
other infrastructure were underestimated during the accelerated preparation period,
meaning that, for example, fewer schools (11 schools rather than the original 27 planned)
could be rehabilitated with available project funding. Thus, the target for number of
student daily users was revised downward. Targets were also set for health and bridge
rehabilitation. The second PDO indicator target, number of government policies with
hazard risk information produced, was not changed.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

9.       The primary beneficiaries of the HTERP were the main users of the infrastructure
that the project sought to rehabilitate: students in public schools, users of primary health
and hospital care services, and people traveling across bridges. It was not possible to
accurately estimate the number of expected beneficiaries during the aftermath of
hurricane Tomas. Thus most targets were established at the mid-term review (MTR). By
the time of the ICR mission, targets for daily users of this infrastructure had been met or
exceeded: bridges – 28,916 actual vs. 19,373 target, health centers –145 actual vs. 145
target, and schools –6,080 actual vs. 5,127 target.

10.      There were also beneficiaries in the government who received support to perform
their DRM responsibilities more effectively through training and new equipment, in
particular, the Ministries of Infrastructure, Port Services and Transport (MoIPS&T),
Physical Development, Housing and Urban Renewal (MoPD), the Ministry of Health,


                                             3
Wellness, Family Affairs, National Mobilization, Human Services and Gender Relations
(MoH), the Ministry of Education, Human Resource Development and Labor (MoE) 7, as
well as the National Emergency Management Organization (NEMO).

1.5     Original Components

11.     The project had four original components:

Component 1: Support for Early Recovery (US$1.5 million or 10 percent of total Credit
at appraisal). This component aimed to support the early recovery of the Recipient’s key
economic sectors from the impact of Hurricane Tomas, through the provision of goods,
technical advisory services and emergency operating costs. It included a retroactive
financing for emergency expenses and capacity building in disaster risk management.

Component 2: Institutional Strengthening and Hazard and Risk Analysis (US$1.5
million or 10 percent of total Credit at appraisal). Building on previous capacity building
support under earlier, completed projects in Saint Lucia (ERDMP and DMP II) and
complementing the proposed DVRP, this component aimed to strengthen the institutional
capacity at the national level including, the Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs and
National Development (MoF), the MoHULG, the MoPD, and the NEMO to, inter alia:
(a) evaluate and integrate natural hazard and climate change risks reduction into national
development policy and decision making processes using geo information; (b) carry out
various risk assessments and impact evaluation studies in highly affected areas and
specific sectors; and (c) review the National Disaster Management Plan and improving
disaster management capacity.

Component 3: Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of Damaged Critical Public
Infrastructure (US$11 million or 73 percent of total Credit at appraisal). This
component’s objective was to carry out selected reconstruction and rehabilitation
activities of damaged infrastructure in the Recipient’s transport, health and education
sectors.

Component 4: Project Management and Monitoring Support (US$1 million or 7
percent of total Credit at appraisal). This component’s objective was to strengthen and
develop the institutional capacity of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for Project
management and execution, including procurement, financial management, monitoring
and supervision of Project activities, through the acquisition of goods, provision of
technical advisory services, training, and operating costs.




7
 After the 2011 elections, the MoPDE and MoHULG became the Ministry of Physical Development,
Housing and Urban Renewal (MoPD), the MoE became Ministry of Education, Human Resource
Development and Labor



                                                4
1.6 Revised Components

The components were not altered during project’s life span.

1.7      Other significant changes

12. Project Restructuring. The Project had two restructurings. The first restructuring
accommodated the findings from the Mid-Term Review (MTR) held in May 2013. The
MTR highlighted cost overruns and shortfalls in funding of several project activities and
as a result these were cancelled and transferred to the DVRP under preparation. The
works for the new Dennery Hospital (estimated at US$ 1.7 million) and the new Dennery
Infant School (estimated at US$ 1.48 million) were both dropped and funds were
transferred to cover cost overruns for the Bois d’Orange bridge (whose cost estimate
more than doubled from the appraisal estimate to US$ 4.1 million). The balance was used
to cover cost overruns for the Dennery Temporary Facility (additional works and
demolition of existing structures), the geotechnical investigations and site preparation for
the new Dennery Hospital; and the works for Vieux Fort Campus B, National Skills and
Development Center (NSDC) expansion, Georges Charles Secondary school, and other
schools that the MoE assessed and identified after the MTR.

13.     The restructuring also included revisions to and establishment of target values for
the project development objective level indicators and related intermediate indicators 8:

a) Target values for indicators were reduced to reflect a reduction in the number of
infrastructure investments in the transport, health and education sectors. Specifically: (i)
number of bridges reduced from 3 to 2 (intermediate indicator), with a defined final
target value of 19,373 average daily users (PDO indicator); (ii) number of schools
reduced from 27 to 10 (intermediate), with a reduction in the number of beneficiaries
from 10,000 to 5,127 (PDO); and (iii) number of health facilities were reduced from 5 to
4 (intermediate), with an accompanying revision in the unit of measure of the target,
previously number of average annual patients to the number of average daily patients,
resulting in a defined final target value of 145 average daily patients (PDO).

b) Target value remained at 2 for government-produced policies, while the related
intermediate result indicator (component 2) increased from 2 to 4 studies and assessments
undertaken (which included the review of the National Emergency Management Plan).
The increase in the number of studies was made possible by lower-than anticipated costs
per plan. These plans included (i) Review of the National Disaster Management Plan; (ii)
Flood risk Assessments for Soufriere; (iii) Flood Risk Assessment for Dennery; (iv)
Flood Risk Assessment for Fond St Jacques; and (v) the geodetic survey.




8
  During implementation and after the MTR as activities were processing at a fast pace, the baseline for all
indicators was established



                                                     5
c) Target value for intermediate indicator for emergency communications equipment was
reduced slightly from 324 to 320.

14.     A second restructuring was processed in March 2014 to extend the Project closing
date for another six month from March 31, 2014 to September 30, 2014.The extension
was needed to accommodate the completion of a key infrastructure facility for which
after project effectiveness additional hydraulic surveys were identified to be critical to
conduct prior to the investments 9; and to complete key geodetic and flood and hydraulic
surveys that were necessary to support and inform proposed works under the DVRP that
was under preparation.

15.     At the project closing, the Government and the World Bank agreed to include
pending works and equipment in the Saint Lucia Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project,
which was approved on June 4, 2014. These included: (i) the rehabilitation of Bois
d'Orange Bridge; (ii) designs for rehabilitation/retrofitting of schools and health facilities;
and (iii) the flood and hydraulic study for Soufriere, Fond St. Jacques and Dennery.

By Closing date, the un-disbursed amount of SDR 1,349,312.26 was cancelled from the
Loan.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

16.      Project Preparation. In response to the GoSL’s request for support in the
aftermath of Hurricane Tomas, the World Bank conducted a rapid damage assessment
mission in early November 2010 followed by an emergency project appraisal mission in
December 2010. Outcomes of the missions were complemented by the United Nations’
ECLAC Macro Socio-Economic Damage Assessment report released also in December
2010. The Bank missions’ activities included: i) a rapid assessment of the direct damage;
ii) identification and technical discussions on priority recovery activities to be financed;
iii) institutional capacity assessments (fiduciary and safeguards) and management of the
project implementing agencies; iv) environmental and social safeguard framework
development; and v) damage assessment of past Bank-financed disaster mitigation
investment projects and review of lessons learned from these projects. The disaster
occurred towards the end of the IDA15 cycle, which meant the Bank team had to react
quickly to access the last remaining IDA resources in the globally unallocated envelope
in order for the Bank to be able to offer Saint Lucia any recovery financing. The HTERP
US$15 million Credit represented one of the fastest emergency response projects ever
processed in the World Bank Group. This was also the largest Bank-financed project in
the portfolio of Saint Lucia. 10


9
  Completion of the feasibility study for the Bois D’Orange bridge discovered damages (change in the
river’s morphology ), and technical gaps found on the earlier design (funded by GoSL financing prior to the
HTERP inception) done by FDL Consult Inc. led to the decision to conduct these additional Hydraulic
surveys.

10
     There was no Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review of the project.



                                                    6
17.     The emergency context under which the project was designed and the evolving
context during implementation posed many challenges that the Bank team pro-actively
addressed by incorporating best practices such as designing the project with retroactive
financing enabling an early disbursement of 10% of project resources, allowing flexibility
to adjust project activities as more details were available, strengthening and providing
technical support to Implementing Agencies, and ensuring project infrastructure were
rehabilitated with higher construction standards.

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

18.      Assessment of the project design. At the time of design, the PDO was relevant
and consistent with the Regional Partnership Strategy for the Organization of the Eastern
Caribbean States (OECS) FY 2010-14 (approved on May 3, 2010) which included
“building resilience” as its first strategic objective. Immediately after the hurricane, the
GoSL declared a national State of Emergency on October 31, 2010, adopted a series of
relief measures and launched emergency repair works. The GoSL’s medium- to long-
term recovery strategy was focused on the repair and rehabilitation of damaged structures
and the elimination of potential dangerous exposures and debris created by the hurricane.
Initial government efforts were designed to stabilize the situation with temporary patches
and other protective measures to restore services and guard against worsening damages.

19.     The project was prepared and designed as a framework project with the intent to
provide financing as quickly as possible in support of Saint Lucia’s effort to rehabilitate
damaged infrastructure and stabilize high-risk areas. From a financing point of view the
Bank team needed to act quickly to secure additional IDA financing for Saint Lucia from
the last remaining parts of the IDA15 global funds since all of Saint Lucia’s IDA15
resources had already been allocated at the time. From a technical point of view, the
intention was to assist Saint Lucia to reconstruct damaged infrastructure to higher
standards, and to improve on some of the institutional weaknesses that had been made
evident by the disaster. As a framework project it was expected that the project team
would need to support the government to finalize many details of project planning and
prioritization during project implementation, including supporting the design of specific
works.

20.    The project design balanced short emergency recovery and longer term risk
reduction and management DRM. The project aimed to address the immediate and short-
term recovery needs of the Government through the retroactive financing under
component 1, which financed emergency operating costs such as debris removal, etc., It
also supported medium and long-term rehabilitation and reconstruction efforts through
component 3 and longer term capacity building efforts for disaster prevention through
component 2.

21.     At project design, cost estimates of major infrastructure to be financed were made
on the basis of the little available information and were quite general in nature. The need
for quickly preparing the project, and the changes to the physical site conditions caused
by the hurricane introduced additional uncertainties for the cost estimates. Accordingly,


                                             7
project design included a contingency fund to address shortcomings arising from
implementation. It is important to note that in such emergency projects, which are
prepared in a short time-frame and before detailed sector damage assessments have been
conducted, the targets could not be defined. Once detailed damage assessments have
been completed and reconstruction costs are better known, the targets can be finalized
during project implementation 11.

22.      Implementation arrangements. The Project followed the same institutional
arrangements used under the ERDMP. A PCU housed in the MoF planned project
activities as well as carried out and monitored the project’s procurement activities and
contract management process. Financial management and supervision of project
activities was also carried out by the PCU at the MoF. The MoF supervised six
beneficiary ministries/agencies (MoE, MoH, MIPS&T MoPD, and NEMO) who in turn
provided technical support to the PCU. The project design incorporated lessons learned
from previous emergency response operations in Saint Lucia and the Caribbean region
financed by the Bank and best practices. These include having an adequately staffed
PCU at effectiveness in place to help ensure efficient and effective implementation.

23.     Procurement was to be carried out in accordance with World Bank’s guidelines
with flexibility in the procurement of works, goods, and consultant services as stipulated
in OP/BP 8.00 for Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies.

24.     Adequacy of government’s commitment. Project coordination was an
important design aspect, considering that this was a project managed by one PCU in the
Ministry of Finance, involving several ministries. Based on past experience with the
previous two Bank-financed DRM projects in St. Lucia, a structure of designed focal
points in each of the respective Implementing Agencies was established. These focal
points were assigned to work closely with the PCU to ensure good communication,
accountability and timely implementation.        This structure balanced the need for
coordination with the small size of Government in St. Lucia and the cross cutting role the
Ministry of Finance plays in a wide range of government actions.

25.     Assessment of risks and mitigation measures. Overall project risk was rated
medium at appraisal. “Implementing Agency Risk” (rated medium) included:
“complications in coordination of project activities across various agencies and levels.”
The ICR mission confirmed that MoE and MoH technicians, particularly, as well as
beneficiaries (teachers, nurses) have been engaged in the various phases of the
infrastructure rehabilitation and were generally satisfied with the works. “Project Design
Risk” was rated low and associated with losses in damaged infrastructure due to delays in


11
   The guidance note on Results Framework and M&E from OPSPQ (Results Framework and M&E
Guidance Note, OPSPQ, November 10, 2014) states that at concept note stage, baselines and tentative
targets are not required, but that the team would take actions to collect baselines and develop reasonable
targets during implementation. The team indeed focused during the first year of implementation to define
these targets.



                                                     8
implementation. The ICR mission confirmed that the rehabilitated infrastructure did not
suffer additional damage due to implementation delays. However, a 2012 flood of
smaller-scale and the December 2013 flood caused some changes to site conditions that
negatively impacted original cost estimates and in some cases slowed implementation of
planned works.

26.     The “Implementing Agency Risk” with regard to the capacity of the PCU to
manage, with an increase of its portfolio, a large project size and amount of civil works
was identified at design as a medium. Mitigating measures included the project financing
part of the PCU’s project management costs, hiring a procurement specialist with a civil
engineering background, and improving Financial Management and Bank safeguards
supervision capacity.

27.    “Project Stakeholder Risk” (risk that users of schools, health clinics and bridges
would be dissatisfied with the reconstruction and rehabilitation works) was rated medium
because activities to be financed under the project were already identified and that their
scope or location would not warrant change during implementation.

28.      A procurement capacity assessment of the PCU was carried out during project
preparation with an overall risk assessment of “moderate”. The assessment recommended
hiring additional procurement staff, particularly a senior Procurement Officer, and
increasing procurement training opportunities to strengthen the PCU’s capacity to handle
additional procurement activities and responsibilities in view of heavy civil works
activities. In addition, the Bank team reviewed the potential risk of lack of competition
for larger civil works contracts by existing qualified contractors in Saint Lucia. It was
then recommended that under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) processes, the PCU
would take measures to encourage domestic contractors to participate in NCB bidding for
civil works, while expanding advertisement of such bidding opportunities in the
Caribbean region.

29.     “Social and Environmental Risks” were rated low and associated with
environmental damage which may result from poor site management during construction.
Mitigating measures taken into consideration to address these risks included (i) the
demonstrated institutional capacity for safeguards enforcement of the GoSL’s
management of previous Bank projects, with the Bank providing targeted “refresher”
training to further strengthen safeguards capacity within the implementing agency, as
well as regular Bank supervision to ensure adherence to World Bank safeguard policies,
national environmental policies and building codes; and (ii) an Environment and Social
Screening Assessment tool has been developed that provides guidance on how to handle
all issues that may arise during implementation. It is important to note that, though
temporary or permanent land acquisition was not anticipated, as a good practice the team
triggered OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement as a precautionary measure and to allow
flexibility during implementation given the design of the project as a framework project.

30.   No social and environmental safeguards- related risk was highlighted. It is
however worth noting that the PCU very adequately managed asbestos issues at the start



                                            9
of works at the Ave Maria Primary school and Dennery Hospital (more details about this
under Safeguards section). Finally, risk related to “Project Delivery Quality” (failure of
the completed works to resist hurricanes) was rated low. As stated above, even though no
major disaster of the scale of Hurricane Tomas, which was a 1:500 year rainfall event,
occurred during implementation. The works were designed to withstand a 1:100 event.
The December 2013 disaster was such a case (1:100 year flood event), and none of the
reconstructed facilities sustained any damages. It is then safe to conclude that the rebuilt
infrastructure confirmed the low rating of this risk.

2.2 Implementation

31.    During the project implementation the key events which most affected the project
were the following:

32.      (i) Cost overruns of major works activities. Flood events of 2012 and December
2013 and the introduction of additional design elements during implementation for some
sites contributed to increased cost of infrastructure to be financed. Additional design
elements included: (i) comprehensive retrofitting interventions, which include ancillary
work such as installing adequate drainage systems, enhancing water storage capacity,
slope stabilization interventions on school compounds, and improving safety of access
paths to some of the rehabilitated buildings by installing foot bridges; (ii) additional
works to enhance the functionality of some of the facilities (eg: Dennery Health Facility);
(iii) newly discovered damages following completion of feasibility studies (eg: the
change in the river’s morphology at Bois D’Orange) and structural assessments of some
of the buildings (ex. additional structural damage that was discovered at the Dennery
Health facility); (iv) further damages to infrastructure during implementation, as a result
of other flooding events; and (v) to a lesser extent, inflation. Based on the various
assessments done during supervision before and after the MTR, a general view is that a
20%, instead of 10%, should have been dedicated for this contingency. Part of the
increase in costs for the Bois d’Orange bridge was due to the choice of a design for the
bridge that would require lower maintenance cost over time. It is also worth noting that
the GoSL financed the rehabilitation of some of the schools that were dropped by project
at restructuring, through its own budget.

33.     (ii) Implementation Arrangements: Early project implementation was impacted by
the November 2011 general elections and subsequent changes in the mandate of some
ministries participating as implementing agencies and the high turn-over of key-staff at
these ministries throughout project implementation.               Particularly, roles and
responsibilities were not sufficiently delineated, leading to early coordination challenges
for the PCU. Through the change, civil works from the Ministries of Health and
Education was transferred to the Ministry of Infrastructure and some technicians at the
various implementing agencies were of the opinion that the shift would improve the
quality of works as the MoI had the required technical staff for implementation and
technical supervision. It was seen as a positive change that would impact positively on
implementation, though it also raised some issues.




                                            10
34.     Coordination among these stakeholders was an issue, particularly for large
structures such as the NSDC that needed coordinated efforts from several line ministries
on the works that required particularly heavy technical assistance for structural condition
survey and preparation of detailed designs. Technical capacity was also an issue as MoH
had stronger technical capacity to implement activities with qualified technical staff, than
MoE. As a result of the weak technical capacity at these implementing agencies, and
clear coordination among them, implementation of component 3 started late and at
different pace among the three sectors. For example, by March 2012, works in the
transport sector was progressing at a slow pace with bidding processes of two bridges to
be launched by June 2012. In the health sector, however, contracts for rehabilitation were
awarded and works were underway. As for the education sector, activities were
progressing at a very slow pace with works underway only for the NSDC and Bocage
school. The PCU helped address the coordination issues for the more complex technical
projects by hiring an engineer based at the MoP.

35.     It is important to note that during implementation, concrete efforts were made to
hire an Engineer within the PCU to support project execution. The hiring proved
unsuccessful due to the limited pool of interested qualified local engineers. As a result,
and in view of the continuous implementation challenge (ex: delays in submitting
technical documents to the PCU for the bid process; several technical reviews and
revisions required from the Bank on bid documents and frequent contract variations, etc.)
the Bank team and the PCU agreed to hire a technical consultant on a retainer contract for
continuous support to the line Ministries. This helped to improve the quality of bid
documents, quick turnaround time of bid documents following Bank review, as well as
enhance quality of works supervision.

36.     The Bank was proactive and extensive in addressing these issues. The Bank team
conducted an implementation workshop in June 2012 that included participants from all
IAs, consultants and representatives from the private sector. In addition, the MoI
assigned an engineer to be based at MoI to serve as an interface with the PCU, while the
Bank team conducted multiple capacity building initiatives addressing all aspects of
project implementation, such as fiduciary, environmental and social safeguards, and
technical. The project then took up a faster implementation towards the last year with
significant increase in disbursement.

37.     By November 2012, the GoSL and the Bank conducted a technical mission to
assess implementation progress of the civil works component, followed by a MTR in
March 2013 during which the project’s progress in reaching its goals and necessary
changes to enhance implementation were evaluated. With the cost overruns and the time
remaining in the project, it was agreed that the reconstruction of the new Dennery
Hospital, Dennery Infant School, and Choc Bridge would be transferred to the DVRP.

38.    The GoSL could have been more pro-active during implementation to address
technical aspects of some infrastructure that necessitated permanent collaboration and
information sharing between IAs. For example, the works for the NSDC, which is under
the MoE, required heavy TA for preparation of a structural condition survey and
preparation of detailed designs. As noted earlier, the MoE was technically weak and


                                            11
needed to coordinate efforts with technicians at the MoI on the design and
implementation of the works after the Government’s restructuring of the IAs. The ICR
mission highlighted delays on the implementation of this work that underline the weak
inter-agency collaboration. Likewise, implementation delays of the rehabilitation of the
Bois d’Orange bridge was not the result of lack of commitment but rather a combination
of emergency conditions, capacity constraints (particularly the lack of engineering
expertise) and the fact that HTERP was, for Saint Lucia a very large project that was
multi-sectoral and required a great deal of cross ministry coordination. With regards to
the flood risk assessment, the implementation delay resulted from the weak collaboration
from and between various stakeholder agencies in providing timely inputs and review of
deliverables during the different stages of the study.

39.    To complement and enhance supervision, the bank team mobilized Trust Funds
resources and activities from GFDRR (that financed the DALA), and DVRP preparation
funds, which contributed to (i) enhance the quality of project implementation and likely
outcomes; and (ii) demonstrate strong performance of the Bank in leveraging resources in
response to the low capacity of the island.

40.     Finally, discussions and site visits during the ICR mission revealed general
satisfaction and appreciation among main stakeholders (GoSL technicians at ministry
level, teachers, nurses), particularly for school facilities and health centers. Stakeholders
were satisfied with the infrastructure improvements, but expressed some concerns for the
sustainability in the absence of a Government maintenance strategy.

41.     (iii) Procurement. Despite the mitigating measures put in place at project design
to ensure smooth procurement, implementation faced significant challenges between
project effectiveness and May 2012, primarily due to lack of technical and procurement
capacity to prepare bidding documents and/or review designs, and manage and supervise
the works, in particular within the Ministry of Education. Moreover, challenges
continued throughout implementation and by April 2013 GoSL was of the opinion that
Bank’s procurement procedures were complex for the context of a microstate and did not
take into account certain realities in its qualification criteria and argued for an adjustment
of the procedures to adapt to the small-island context. This is in addition to the noted
technical weaknesses at some IAs, such as the MoE. In an initial response, the Bank
conducted a procurement Workshop for local consultants, suppliers and building
contractors in May 2012, with a focus on bid and proposal preparation as an immediate
response. Another Regional Fiduciary Workshop was held in Grenada in June 2012,
followed by a Bank Internal Procurement Review (IPR) in June 2012.

42.    As for the broader issue of complex procurement procedures for a microstate,
Bank Senior Country Management and Procurement representatives met with
Government counterparts in April 2013 to agree on measures to improve implementation
which included i) adjustment to the Bank’s procurement thresholds to better respond to
this context, ii) putting in place a tracking mechanism for No objection requests, iii)
providing hands-on support to IAs, and iii) aligning Bank Procurement Policies with
OECS market conditions.



                                             12
43.     Overall, despite the various challenges faced during implementation, adjustment
in scope and the tardy launch of the works sub-component, the project successfully
rehabilitated two major bridges and critical health and education facilities, and
commissioned technical assistance and training that would strengthen the country’s DRM
capacity. With the exception of the risk assessment study and the Bois D’orange bridge,
the project successfully completed all activities by project closing.         This was
accomplished with a very short preparation period and implementation of three and a half
years.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

44.     The results framework in the appraisal document had relatively few indicators and
was simple to implement, as might be expected for an emergency reconstruction project
under BP 8.0. Still, the framework could have done a better job in a couple of areas of
capturing the impact of the project. The 2013 restructuring did revise targets but could
have gone further to strengthen the framework with additional indicators, including
measuring the benefits of the retroactive financing and user benefits from the
rehabilitated infrastructure.

45.     Design. The PDO indicators provide an indication of the scope of benefits from
the project by measuring daily users of rehabilitated infrastructure. For example, the
indicator “the number of daily users of rehabilitated and safe infrastructure and
buildings”, was appropriate. While most schools selected for rehabilitation were
functioning after the hurricane, they were not necessarily safe. The same was true for the
health centers, especially some of Dennery’s health services. In addition, the main bridge
that was destroyed (the Bois d’Orange bridge) had a temporary bypass in which vehicles
could pass by with moderate inconvenience, but that bypass would not survive multiple
weather events as would the new, more resilient bridge. Part of the rehabilitation efforts
also included long-neglected major maintenance on health and education buildings, as
well as replacement of damaged furniture and equipment. Implementing a satisfaction
survey might have offered one way to improve results measurement and capture the
safety aspect of building back better (though time might have been too short to establish a
meaningful baseline). A structural survey taken after the 2013 Christmas trough could
have provided further information on resilience.

46.     Intermediate indicators might also have been improved. For example the
indicator for equipment support to NEMO was a single number to describe items of all
different types (from flashlights to communication equipment) such that it was not
possible to know whether it was a good result or not. The number of volunteer
emergency responders equipped by the project, for example, would have given a sense of
improved preparedness. The number of government-produced policies, a PDO level
indicator, was another indicator that was output oriented and could have been refined
during project restructuring, giving a better idea as to what type of policy was
contemplated. The results framework also did not capture the impact of Component 1-
Support for Early Recovery.



                                            13
47.     Implementation and utilization. Most of the intermediate indicators of the results
framework were useful for tracking physical progress which fed back into project
management. The PCU followed contract and processing milestones to determine when
PCU intervention was needed. Accordingly, the PCU would hire technical expertise to
ensure adequate review of construction designs as needed.          The restructuring did
improve the results framework by establishing targets for the first time for some of the
indicators which originally did not have targets and by reducing targets for others (to
adjust mainly to the reality that the costs of rehabilitation were higher than originally
estimated).

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

48.     The project was classified as a “Category B” and triggered the policy on
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) with no large-scale, significant and/or irreversible
impacts. All works focused on rehabilitation and reconstruction of infrastructure
damaged during the Hurricane which were small-scale, and generated only minor and
localized environmental impacts, which were easily identified, mitigated and managed.

49.     Consistent with the Procedural Guidelines for OP/BP 8.00 operations, an
Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF) was prepared
during implementation to ensure compliance with the World Bank’s safeguard policies.

50.     An Environmental Management Framework (EMF) that was already developed
by the PCU under the DMP II was also used under this project. During implementation,
various tools developed under DMP II, including site screening, public consultations and
information dissemination, inclusion of Environmental Management Plans (EMP) in
bidding documents and supervision of environmental aspects during construction, were
applied to all investments. The EMF was an integral part of the ESSAF and was outlined
in the Operations Manual of the project.

51.     Although the project had not expected to impact critical natural habitats at design,
the Natural Habitats Policy (OP 4.04) was triggered as a precaution and to permit
flexibility in the activities financed by the project. The ESSAF also included screening
procedures to ensure that potential sub-projects would not involve unprecedented or
significant conversion of natural habitats.

52.     Likewise, during project preparation, land acquisition and resettlement were not
anticipated since most of the works related to the repair and rehabilitation of existing
structures. However, the Involuntary Resettlement Policy (OP 4.12) was triggered as a
precaution and to allow flexibility should temporary (during the construction phase)
and/or permanent private land be needed once feasibility studies and designs were
finalized and the scope of works better defined. As for the Dennery hospital and the
Dennery infant school, both of which are new constructions, the PAD highlighted that the
hospital facility would be rebuilt on its current location and the school would be relocated
and constructed on unoccupied public land already identified by the Government.




                                            14
53.    During implementation, a school and a hospital rehabilitation work required
asbestos removal (Ave Maria Primary and Dennery Temporary Facility). The PCU, under
the guidance of the Bank team, addressed the issue quickly and effectively by putting in
place plans and procedures for Asbestos Removal, tools that became standards for other
Bank’s projects. To support compliance with Environmental and Social Safeguards, the
PCU used a Grievance Redress Mechanism (GRM) that was prepared for the DMP II.
The PCU and the Bank carried out several training workshops between May 2012 and
August 2013, aimed at enhancing stakeholders’ understanding of the Bank’s
Environmental and Social safeguards policies for effective management of safeguards
during project implementation.

54.      Financial Management (FM) and Procurement: There were no major Financial
Management issues during implementation. The PCU had an adequate control
environment and provided adequate oversight while implementing project activities.
From the onset of the project, financial management staff at the PCU was provided
"hands on training" in preparing Financial Management Reports (FMRs)/Interim
Financial Reports (IFRs) including preparing a short summary of progress reports, as
well as guidance on preparing simplified IFRs formats. In addition, Capacity Building
activities during implementation helped to streamline Bank procedures and processes for
improved project implementation. For example, in June 2012, the Bank conducted a
workshop that targeted technical staff from the various implementing ministries, as well
as representatives from the Audit Department, the Accountant General’s Department and
the Central Tenders Board. The workshop reviewed the project’s implementation
arrangements, financial management and procurement processes, including the project’s
procurement plan and contract administration.

55.      Procurement was cited in earlier supervision and implementation progress reports
as one of the main reasons for the delayed start in implementation of infrastructure
works. In one instance, with regard to the school works, it was noted that delays were
experienced due to “lags in approval for use of individuals in procurement activities and
bids submitted by individual contractors.” The issue was in reference to the GoSL’s
opinion that Bank’s procurement procedures were complex for the context of a microstate
and did not take into account certain realities in its qualification criteria, and argued for
an adjustment of the procedures to adapt to the small-island context. The Bank team
however noted that these were for several small shopping contracts and had no impact on
the overall implementation. As explained in earlier sections of this ICR, mitigating
measures, agreed through discussions between Bank management and the GoSL, enabled
the adaptation some procurement guidelines to the context. Specifically, the Bank: (i)
increased World Bank Procurement thresholds for Small Island Development States; and
(ii) allowed locally registered individuals to bid as contracting firms, in line with St
Lucia’s Commercial Code that allows individuals to register as firm. The training
workshops provided in June 2012 and those that followed throughout 2013 proved to be
an effective step to improving quality of bids.




                                             15
2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

56.    At the project closing, all the major works (with the exception of the Bois
d’Orange bridge) and technical assistance activities were completed and approved by the
PCU and the MIPS&T and the MoPD. In addition, two assessments (the flood and
hydraulic assessment for Soufriere, Fond St. Jacques and Dennery) and the procurement
of selected office equipment were also pending completion. The Government and the
World Bank agreed to include the pending works and equipment in the Saint Lucia
Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project, which was approved on June 4, 2014.

57.     Providing continuity to the efforts of the HTERP, the Bank supports vulnerability
reduction in Saint Lucia through the DVRP project. Scaling up the impact of the HTERP,
DVRP focuses on expanding rehabilitation to other critical infrastructure as well as
strengthening GoSL capacity to analyze and manage disaster risk. HTERP prepared
feasibility studies and designs for some of the works to be implemented under the DVRP
(ex; Dennery Infant School, Soufriere Hydraulic Assessment). The DVRP has a total
financing of US$68.0 million: including US$17.0 million from the IDA Crisis Response
Window in emergency response to the December 2013 floods, and US$27.0 million from
the Strategic Climate Fund to support the Saint Lucia National Strategic Program for
Climate Resilience.

58.     The DVRP incorporated HTERP implementation lessons. These include the
establishment of a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) by the MoF to foster
communication and coordination between implementing agencies and key government
stakeholders; and the hiring of a Civil Works Coordinator/engineer by the PCU who
would be responsible for approving technical aspects of bidding documents, and ensuring
the appropriate construction best practices are being utilized. Close to $1 million has been
allocated for TA for capacity building and institutional strengthening of the MIPS&T for
improved implementation under the DVRP. The DVRP also included budget
contingencies of 20% for potential increases in project scope for all planned civil works.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Objectives: High

59.     The PDO to support the recovery and reconstruction of Saint Lucia in the
aftermath of Hurricane Tomas, was general, but appropriate. It provided a framework for
the Government and the Bank to work together over next three years and adjust to
changing recovery and reconstruction needs. The objective remains valid as the
reconstruction from Hurricane Tomas and the subsequent December 2013 Christmas
trough is ongoing and additional measures to improve DRM are progressing. The
Regional Partnership Strategy for July 2009—June 2014 noted that natural disasters
(which later occurred in 2010 and 2013) posed a major risk. The HTERP responded to
this risk and incorporated building improved resilience, which was one of the RPS’ two
strategic objectives. This objective was to be pursued by protecting and improving


                                            16
human capital and by strengthening climate resilience. HTERP pursued this strategy
through rehabilitation of education and health infrastructure, by improving these
infrastructures, and by building capacity in DRM.

Design: Substantial

60.      The design of the project as a framework was appropriate to the context as it
facilitated rapid support following the hurricane as well as flexibility to adjust project
activities as more detailed information became available. Furthermore, the support
across line ministries is best practice in risk reduction which requires measures not only
by lead DRM agencies, but in all aspects of development. Some of the project activities
focused on longer term benefits, such as those of Component 2, institutional
strengthening and hazard and risk analysis. The key information in the studies and the
update of the EMP under component 2 also made the activities critical to reconstruction
and recovery. It was also appropriate for HTERP to include DRM capacity building
given its importance to building capacity of government for better risk management over
the medium term. Furthermore, the HTERP was able to leverage capacity building
efforts begun under a previous DRM project. As stated earlier, the design of the results
framework could have been stronger to better measure project results.

Implementation: Substantial

61.     Implementation of the program as designed continued to be relevant. As the
rehabilitation works got underway, it became clearer that the works were going to be
more costly than originally envisioned, particularly with the objective of building back
better. The higher costs were not anticipated due to the lack of detailed data on the works
and experience in resilient construction in St. Lucia at the time of project approval.
Infrastructure repairs would have been less costly if traditional standards had been
applied, but that would not have improved resilience of the structures. This choice during
implementation to rehabilitate with higher construction standards and for the largest
activity under the project to achieve lower maintenance costs, helped keep relevance of
the project to a substantial level. With cost estimates changing, there was a need to shift
resources within the infrastructure component (component 3). This resource shift
translated into a greater share of resources to bridges (49 percent of total US$10 million
HTERP infrastructure investment compared with 31 percent planned), from health and
education (combined 51 percent compared with 68 percent planned). Thus, there was a
trade-off between health facilities, school coverage and other infrastructure. The team
was able to assure all works would be completed by including pending activities in the
new DRVP loan.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

PDO: Substantial

Results Framework Evidence




                                            17
62.      PDO indicators. The project substantially achieved its objectives based on the
targets in the revised and updated results framework. Note that this ICR is not using a
split rating because it was not possible to establish reasonably accurate outcome targets
for infrastructure rehabilitation by the time of approval, which was shortly after a major
natural disaster. Reductions in indicator targets should be evaluated in that context.

63.     In the category of daily users of health centers, schools and bridges, by the date of
the ICR, all of the revised indicator targets were achieved. The use of the rehabilitated
infrastructure is evidence of reconstruction and recovery when considering that St.
Lucians will be able to use the facilities for additional years than would otherwise be the
case because of better resilience of the structures. The new infrastructure was tested by
heavy rains in December 2013 (the Christmas trough) and, with the exception of one
instance of flooding, there were no reports of significant damage. In the case of new
government-produced policies which integrate hazard risk information, the target of two
policies was partially met. The underlying studies including the review of Emergency
Management Plan for NEMO, the three hydraulic studies and the geodetic survey, on
which policies were to be based, were all completed, thus meeting the intermediate
indicator for studies. The studies were not completed until the end of the project and so
there has not been enough time to go through a policy process that incorporates the newly
completed studies.

64.     Intermediate indicators. Of the six intermediate indicators five of the targets
were met. Output targets for equipment delivered, numbers of schools and health centers
rehabilitated and bridges built were all met, as were studies completed. Only the training
target for staff of the MoPD and NEMO in GIS analysis tools fell short (18 versus 24).
This was not a significant shortfall as the key stakeholders at MoPD and NEMO did
receive training. The record of intermediate indicator targets met is also consistent with
the project meeting its objective.

Additional Evidence beyond the Results Framework

65.    Additional evidence, beyond that in the results framework, that supports a
substantial rating

66.     Component 1-Support for Early Recovery. Component 1-Support for Early
Recovery provided substantial, timely support for post-hurricane clean-up, equipment
rental and general budget support, particularly for staff overtime, to ease the fiscal impact
of the surge in government expenditures. Discussions with government staff validated
that this fully disbursed retroactive financing of the cost of emergency cleanup activities
freed US$1.5 million of government resources to better address longer term recovery
from the hurricane. This impact directly supports the PDO.

67.     Component 2-Institutional Strengthening.           The NEMO component
accomplished several tasks that were necessary for effective emergency response and,
thus, to sustain recovery and reconstruction. The review of the NEMP was a massive
undertaking and the consultancy focused on actions related to hurricane, flooding and



                                             18
natural disaster response. The existing plan had not been reviewed in its 12-year history.
Locations of hospitals, police, fire and ambulance, as well as chain of authority had
changed. These practical items and standard operating procedures have been updated and
approved by NEMO and sent to Cabinet. This review and update of the plan means that
that there will be much better response to emergencies in the future. The equipment
provided also supports improved response. Volunteer training and equipment such as
radios, batteries and repeaters that were provided by the project also expanded St. Lucia’s
emergency response capacity. The geodetic study funded by the project for the MoPD
provides essential information for determining sites for future buildings based on
vulnerability to natural disasters. The flood risk studies for three areas will similarly help
reduce risk exposure to natural disasters.

68.     Component 3-Infrastructure Rehabilitation. The benefits to education were
the improved learning environment for primary and secondary students, the extended life
and greater resilience of 11 school buildings. The project fixed both hurricane damage
and pre-existing repair needs, while building back better. In terms of improved resilience,
in addition to hurricane standard roofs and windows, the project also provided drainage
protection to the schools in the form of retaining walls and concrete water channels,
which, although increasing cost, more importantly improved resilience. Schools also
received new water tanks, improving their functionality as emergency shelters. The four
health centers were rehabilitated including new hurricane standard roofs and windows.
The main investment in health infrastructure went to the Dennery health center where
several buildings were rehabilitated and major equipment purchased. The rehabilitation
also improved the functionality of the Dennery facility, to which a room for community
outreach was added. Health and education rehabilitations accounted for more than one-
third of project resources.

69.     The building of the two bridges supported both reconstruction and recovery by
ensuring reliable traffic flow for future years. The Cresslands bridge was completed
during the project. While Cresslands is not a heavily traveled bridge, the detour for some
could take up to 45 minutes. The Bois d’Orange bridge was completed shortly after
project closing. This bridge is a connector between Castries and Gros Islet, the fastest
growing portion of the country and one critical to economic growth and employment.
This bridge has an estimated daily traffic of 27,000 vehicles. This bridge alone would
serve about 20 percent of the entire population of Saint Lucia (assuming one use per day).
The building of this bridge was delayed mainly because of a lack of in-country
engineering capacity and hydraulic studies but also because the supplier initially provided
the wrong type of steel for the bridge (adding several months to the delay). Engineering
expertise was brought in to help local engineers with appropriate designs, including
reviews by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The bridges accounted for about one-
third of total project resources. Overall, this component reduced the risk of infrastructure
failure and directed a substantial portion of benefits to vulnerable people (including
children who are 18 percent of users) and people in communities of higher poverty rates
(Soufriere and Dennery-Section 3.5)




                                             19
70.     Component 4-Project Management. The PCU improved its capacity to manage
projects having developed a much deeper understanding of FM and procurement
processes and practices, through both specific training and project implementation
experience. It has also come to appreciate the need for engineering expertise in project
management, particularly the evaluation of bids and construction designs. The Bank is
using the same PCU for the much larger follow-on project, the Disaster Vulnerability
Reduction Project (DVRP). This improved capacity will help sustain St. Lucia’s post-
Tomas reconstruction and recovery.

Annex 2 provides a comprehensive summary of the outputs of the four components
which further supplements the project results framework.

3.3 Efficiency

Efficiency rating: Modest

71.    Returns and unit costs. The ICR has carried out a partial economic analysis
based on the bridge and school physical investments of the project which account for
63.5 percent of total project expenditures. The economic internal rate of return, which is
based on avoided cost, from education and bridge investments are 10.37 percent and
29.98 percent, respectively. See Annex 3 for the approach and assumptions of the
analysis. It was not possible to produce detailed unit cost comparisons in the St. Lucia
context. However, the per square foot cost of the Bois d’Orange bridge (approximately
US$950 per square foot) was discussed with the engineer who reviewed the bridge design
and who maintained that the cost was at the high end of the range for similar bridges, but
was justifiable, given higher construction costs in remote islands.

   Table 2: Present Value and EIRR for Bridges and Schools Investments (US$)
                                             Bridges              Schools
Percent of total project costs                       36.7%                26.8%
Present value of Costs @ 12%                      5,528,504            3,117,874
Present value of Benefits @ 12%                  12,622,033            3,580,771
Net Present Value @ 12%                           7,093,529             -462,897
EIRR                                                29.98%               10.37%

72.     Other implementation factors that need to be assessed include the moderate delay
between approval and effectiveness and the delay in the completion of the Bois d’Orange
bridge rehabilitation and resulting cancelation of the remaining project funds, the related
extension of the project closing date, and downward revision of a PDO indicator target.
With respect to the reduction in the physical target for schools (from which the daily user
target was derived), while the revision at restructuring was a sharp reduction from the
original target, it was a far more realistic target and more appropriate to the work that
needed to be done. As explained previously, rehabilitation estimates are difficult to make
accurately until work begins and the true damage can be assessed. In addition, the
project took a strategic decision to improve resilience in fewer schools, rather than to




                                            20
cover more schools, but leave them vulnerable to extreme weather. The same reasoning
was applied to bridge construction.

73.     The interval between approval and effectiveness, when financial resources could
actually be disbursed, might have been shorter given that it was an emergency project.
The 5.5 months delay was due in part to country requirements to approve funding (three
months was standard for parliamentary approval), This track record was taken into
account in project design in the inclusion of retroactive financing. The retroactive
financing proved useful in getting resources to the government promptly after
effectiveness. Moreover, time was not wasted during this period (March to September
2011), because the project team carried out further activities that were essential to a
successful project including preparation and review of documentations for the retroactive
financing and procurement packages. The delay in construction of the main bridge was
mainly because of the need to do proper designs based on hydraulic studies plus the fact
that wrong-sized steel was delivered by the supplier, which, along with time needed to
complete other studies, necessitated an extension of the project closing date by six
months. The Bois d’Orange bridge was completed shortly (two months) after project
closing.

74.     The total utilization of project funds reached 89.2 percent by project close which,
is a good performance given the context that HTERP was much larger than any other
project in St. Lucia’s experience and the project duration relatively short to implement
improvements to infrastructure 12. The infrastructure component disbursed more than 90
percent, US$10 million out of US$11 million planned, and components 1 and 4 were
fully disbursed (US$1.5 million and US$1.0 million, respectively). Capacity building
used about 60 percent, or US$0.8 million, of the full US$1.5 million allocation.
Approximately 10 percent of project funds were returned to the Bank. Although there
were costs that exceeded original estimates on a number of sub-projects, in the end there
were not enough sub-projects that could be prepared and implemented to use all funds
prior to the HTERP closing date. This was partly because of the limited capacity of the
MoE to prepare bankable sub-projects with an accelerated processing timetable under
emergency conditions. This negative impact is offset by the fact that the cancelled funds
were added to the follow-on DVRP, which finances similar infrastructure investments.
Because it was known that the additional funds would not be forfeited, and with a view to
stream line Bank support for DRM under one operation, an additional extension of the
project closing date was not granted.

75.     The overall efficiency rating is modest, reflecting the strong economic return on
the bridge investments (about one-third of total project costs), as well as the moderate
effectiveness delay in two activities. The moderately unsatisfactory rating of project



12
  Disaster Risk Management in Saint Lucia through the Emergency Recovery & Disaster Management
Project (ERDMP-P070430-1998-2003-USD 6.04 million), and the Saint Lucia Disaster Management
Project II and Additional Financing (DMP II-P086469-2003-2011- USD 10.5 million).



                                               21
implementation by the final supervision mission is also consistent with the modest
efficiency rating.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

76.    With relevance of objectives, design and implementation rated substantial, and a
substantial achievement of the PDO and a modest rating for efficiency, the overall
outcome rating is moderately satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

77.     The project, through the reconstruction and rehabilitation of key infrastructure
ensuring essential services, namely transport infrastructure, schools and health facilities,
contributed to reducing the risk of economic loss and negative impact on social
development due to infrastructure failure. The complementary efforts of the Bank and
CDB resulted in emergency stabilization and clearing works done around the
infrastructure impacted by Hurricane Tomas (such as the slides and drains at Colombette,
Soufrière, Bexon, Marc and Trois Piton, Barre d’Isle, Millet/Vanard, Bagatelle and the
water intakes at Ravine Poisson and Millet) reduced the risk of further landslide and
flooding to people living nearby. The hydraulic studies targeted three communities with
high risks of landslides and flooding and some of the highest poverty rates in the country:
Fond St. Jacques, Soufrière and Dennery (2006 poverty head count percentage is 42.5 for
Soufrière, and 34.2 for Dennery, compared to a national average of 28.8 13.

78.     The physical investments were undertaken to ensure the continuity of essential
services but also to offer better services, especially to women, children and elderly
people. For example, toilets and changing rooms were built at Dennery health facility, as
well as a patient waiting area covered by a roof in case of rain; the access road was
redesigned to accommodate ambulances; roofs were generally extended in the
rehabilitated health centers and schools to offer sheltered areas in case of disaster.
Through the specific focus on health centers and schools, next to strategic bridges, the
rehabilitation works benefited 35,141 daily users, 18% of which are considered as
“vulnerable” - children (in rehabilitated schools) and people in need of health care (in
rehabilitated health centers), corresponding to a total of 6,225 daily beneficiaries.

79.     Finally, through the provision of emergency communications equipment and
training delivered at the local level, the project contributed to (i) the empowerment of the
District Disaster Committees, mainly formed by volunteers, and (ii) the strengthening of



13
   Data from the Central Statistical Office, Household Budget Survey 2005/2006, where poverty line is
defined as EC$13.93 (US$5.22) daily.



                                                   22
the collaboration between the different users of the equipment (Districts, police stations,
fire departments, etc.).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

80.     In spite of the short period of implementation (from 2011 to 2014) the project
contributed to institutional change and capacity building within the targeted institutions.
At the national level, the MoE, the MoH, the MoIPS&T and the MoPDE have
strengthened their technical and managerial capacities, particularly through the
experience in resilient works such as the Bois d’Orange bridge, Dennery health facility
and the health facilities in general that followed PAHO’s guidelines with the objective to
provide more and better health care services as well as better access. These examples
played a critical role in raising awareness about the appropriate standards to be applied to
build back better. Planning and implementation capacities also increased significantly
throughout the project as a result of technical trainings (such as on GPS/GIS) and
operational training sessions on procurement, financial management, and safeguard
issues delivered to the ministries or agencies involved in project implementation, and in
some cases contractors. Over that period of time, the integrated vision of risk assessment
that the GoSL was supporting, grew stronger within the technical agencies that were able
to better determine and connect the objectives of the analytical studies. For example, a
GoSL official interviewed during the ICR mission realized the importance of broadening
the scope of the hydraulic studies beyond flooding to include landslides, soils, agriculture
and geological characteristics, at the scale of the entire watershed. NEMO also
significantly benefitted from the project, gaining technical and managerial capacities,
with proper equipment and amenities to conduct its mandate. At the local level,
authorities and communities have been sensitized and have strengthened their
understanding of disaster risk management.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

81.     The level of collaboration between the different institutions involved in disaster
risk management increased during the implementation of the project. Furthermore, the
project indirectly brought in other relevant entities such as the Central Statistical Office
which today plays an active role in the Household Survey, and the Business Survey, two
of the key surveys under implementation through the DVRP project, meant to benefit the
most vulnerable groups to natural disasters and economic shocks.

82.     The design of a fund dedicated to help the most vulnerable groups in case of a
natural disaster is underway (the results of the Household Survey are meant to provide
data and information and assess the possibility for such a fund).

83.     A common point raised through various discussions during the ICR mission is
related to the lack of a strong communication strategy to raise public awareness about the
project’s objectives and its benefits. This is indeed a key element that the PCU has
acknowledged as essential and is being addressed under the DVRP.




                                            23
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

This is a core ICR, as such no beneficiary survey was required.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

84.      Financial and capacity constraints of line ministries may hinder long term
maintenance of rehabilitated infrastructure. This is a common problem for public
infrastructure in the Caribbean. The MIPS&T is responsible for maintaining all public
infrastructures, but its financial capacity is limited compared to the magnitude of
maintenance needs. For example, the MoE average maintenance annual budget per
school facility is about EC$ 3,500 (about 1,300 USD), which is lower than what would be
expected given the routine maintenance activities 14. The project however also carefully
looked at introducing design elements for the Bois d’Orange bridge, for example, that
would reduce maintenance cost over the life of the infrastructure. In spite of this, and due
to scarce budget resources, most social facilities rely on revenues through fund-raising
activities (e.g. wedding ceremonies and other private events) and on volunteers from the
community to manage the general upkeep. Significant challenges in maintenance of
buildings once project financing ends were also confirmed by some of the GoSL
technicians and donor agencies met during the ICR mission, based on their experience
with previous investments. As in most investments in small island states, including Saint
Lucia, this is a challenge which cannot be addressed by an emergency recovery loan but
requires appropriate financial and policy instruments.

85.     Regarding the sustainability of the impacts of the studies, the ICR mission
received reports of the studies’ findings already playing a role in decision-making for
planning new construction. As already reported, however, because of completion of the
studies later in project implementation, it was not possible to confirm that the studies led
to new government policies on DRM.

86.     Demands for coordination across line ministries pose a risk. For example, need
for better coordination between the PCU and MIPS&T, and between MIPS&T and MoE
during technical supervision of the rehabilitation works for the NSDC which has
undergone some changes in the works without MIPS&T’s formal approval, was
highlighted during the ICR mission. The ICR noted that under the DVRP, an
Infrastructure Maintenance policy and a Bridge Maintenance management System will be
developed and implemented, as well as a technical assistance of close to US$ 1 million to
support strengthening of the Ministry. The Project’s efforts for improved disaster risk
data management face similar challenges. The collaboration and exchange of information
among Ministries and agencies would benefit from further institutionalization taking




14
     Discussions with School Principal and MoE technician during site visit at Piaye school.



                                              24
advantage of the Geonode hosted at MoPD that was financed under the project, and
should be set beyond the project’s framework.

87.     The December 2013 flood provided good evidence of resilience of project works.
Most of the rehabilitated infrastructure withstood the December 2013 Christmas Trough
storm. However, the poor siting of some facilities may reduce the effectiveness of
resilience investments. For example the Marigot school and the Dame Pearlette Louisy
locations in a low lying land and prone to flooding, may remain at risk due to its highly
exposed location or to design which might not be adequate to overcome extreme events.
To ensure that sustainability of the infrastructure is secured, the GoSL should devolve
capital investments for maintenance.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

88.    OP8.0 states, “The Bank recognizes both the inherent risks involved in working in
emergency situations, including the risks and lost opportunities associated with a delayed
response, and the critical importance of speed, flexibility, and simplicity to an effective
rapid response.” Bank performance is rated in this context and in the immediate
aftermath of a natural disaster of a scale greater than any other in the history of Saint
Lucia.

89.     Despite emergency, post-hurricane conditions, the Bank team worked well with
the government to design a project that helped rebuild critical infrastructure in health,
education and bridges, while also providing critical equipment, training and technical
support to improve disaster risk management. The project design included retroactive
financing of government activities, which followed best practice for post-disaster
situations.

90.      The Bank was fast on the scene after the hurricane and performed a quick damage
assessment, in collaboration with the Government. It worked with the government to
identify damaged schools and health centers, as well as a number of critical bridges that
were severely damaged. The Bank also helped identify key areas of needed capacity
building. The Bank team also worked closely with other donors, including the Caribbean
Development Bank to avoid duplication and ensure complementarity of reconstruction
support to Saint Lucia. The project design included retroactive financing of government
activities, which followed best practice for post-disaster situations.

91.     There were minor shortcomings in the planning of the project, particularly in the
areas of project costing and the results framework (described earlier). These
shortcomings can be understood because of the rapid response time by the Bank with
minimal time for preparation, poor data available immediately following a disaster and
the fact that this was designed as a framework project. It is difficult to get reasonably


                                            25
accurate cost estimates for rehabilitation vs. new construction because often the extent of
the disrepair cannot be seen by scanning the surface of the damage, which is all that is
possible during a quick assessment. Faced with the dilemma between responding rapidly
to the urgent needs of reconstruction, and conducting necessary pre-engineering activities
to better define the scope and estimates of project activities, which require lengthy efforts,
the Bank team rightly decided to move quickly with preparation 15 on the basis of
preliminary project cost estimates, with the inclusion of budget contingencies for all
works activities to address potential shortcomings arising during implementation. Despite
this effort to reduce the risk of shortfalls, the dramatic changes to the physical site
conditions caused by the hurricane introduced additional costs beyond the anticipated.

92.    The other area where quality at entry could have been improved is the Results
Framework, which could have included specific targets, but was weak due to the
unavailability of sufficient information to define project scope and support an accurate
estimate.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

93.     The quality of the supervision is rated Satisfactory on the basis that the Bank team
conducted regular and close supervision, with frequent missions to the island and regular
follow up via conference calls with counterparts, which kept the project moving forward,
despite implementing agency capacity issues and the post disaster challenges. The TTL
was in frequent contact with the Director of the PCU and most of the staff at the involved
line ministries, including the Permanent Secretary of Finance, Infrastructure, and
Physical Development, to help them manage and implement the project, solve technical
problems related to civil works planning and to move procurement processes.
Procurement, FM, and Safeguards specialists as well as a Civil Engineer regularly joined
missions and provided training in Bank procedures to the PCU and other implementing
agencies’ staff, which proved very useful for the project implementation. The Bank
further provided additional procurement as well as technical training for local contractors,
consultants and suppliers that would bid in Bank-financed activities. Supervision
missions identified and documented implementation issues, and Aide-memoires were
frank in highlighting concerns and implementation challenges.

94.     With support from the Bank team, the GoSL made an official request to the U.S.
Embassy for technical assistance from the United States Army Core of Engineers
(USACE). In this regard, an engineer was mobilized to provide essential inputs for bridge
design. Overall, the supervision helped Saint Lucia implement an unusually large project



15
   As indicated earlier, from a financing point of view, the Bank team needed to move quickly to secure additional
IDA financing for Saint Lucia from the last remaining parts of the IDA15 global funds since all of Saint Lucia’s IDA15
resources had already been allocated at the time.




                                                         26
(compared to previously funded projects) in a relatively short time of three and a half
years.

95.    A number of implementation issues arose related both to country capacity and
Bank procedures, particularly in the area of procurement, but also FM (related to
Financial Management Reports that were later simplified), and safeguards (case of
dealing with asbestos at the start of infrastructure works that was also addressed
successfully). In each area, the issues were resolved with close supervision support and
counterpart training that was geared to the specific needs of the staff. This was the case
for addressing procurement challenges, as discussed earlier in this ICR.

96.    A moderate shortcoming was missing the opportunity to improve the results
framework during the first restructuring. After two years of implementation it would
have been possible to do more than change targets for indicators when the framework
needed a more fundamental revision to include indicators that would produce better
evidence of the achievement of the PDO.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

97.     The Bank performed well under the circumstances following the hurricane, and
addressed most supervision challenges through regular supervision, training and
flexibility, and adapted to the context of a small island state. With the quality at entry
and supervision ratings both satisfactory, the overall Bank performance is satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

98.      MoF/PCU. The Government of Saint Lucia was actively involved in the
identification/prioritization and preparation of project activities, facilitated by the PCU.
The Government further remained committed during the project’s life. The MoF carried
out its responsibilities and provided office space and other support to the PCU. The PCU
carried out its functions competently within its expertise. Implementing agencies
reported that the PCU was helpful in easing the processing of activities, in particular, that
it took on the burden of processing requirements. It was not however able to compensate
for the lack of engineering expertise in some of the ministries when it came to screening
contracts for rehabilitating buildings and infrastructure. Recognizing this, the PCU took
action and hired consultants to assist with technical reviews and supervisions.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

99.    Implementing agencies were the MIPS&T, MoE MoH, and NEMO and the
MoPD. The Ministries of health and education performed reasonably well in working
with the infrastructure ministry, even with the challenge of the government
reorganization in 2012, to communicate infrastructure needs and develop a rehabilitation


                                             27
plan. The performance of the agencies was moderately satisfactory with allowances for
low capacity in technical areas such as architecture and engineering. The MoH
performed well in specifying its needs. The MOE had a more challenging task of
specifying needs as there were more schools in need of repair than health centers.
NEMO used all funds and completed its outputs by project closing, although with some
delay. The Ministry of Physical Development also completed its activities, again with
some delays, but before project closing. The PCU highlighted the fact that, overall, the
institutional capacity of the implementing agencies to draft key technical documents such
as Terms of References was weak and sometimes non-existent. To address this capacity
gap, the PCU hired a civil engineer consultant to provide support to MoF, in particular to
provide support to the MoE with the school rehabilitation/retroffiting sub-component.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

100. With government and implementing agencies performing reasonably well during
the project and acquiring capacity to take on a larger follow-on project, the overall rating
is moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

101. Components designed to meet immediate liquidity needs are critical parts of
post-disaster response. Countries often face inadequate liquidity to meet the sudden
surge of needs after a natural disaster. The HTERP demonstrated the value of a
significant infusion of resources to keep critical services going, post-disaster. This
support allows other planned development activities to continue.

102. Climate resilient retrofitting entails comprehensive interventions that should
be accounted for in initial designs. This is a lesson from the earlier project (DMP II),
and was reinforced in HTERP. Retrofitting requires repair of damages as well as
addressing the risk, such as drainage, slope stabilization, and water storage. HTERP
addressed all of these aspects in health centers and schools.

103. Projects, including emergency projects like HTERP, that finance major
rehabilitation of infrastructure, need to allow sufficient time for completion of
work; three years is generally too short a time period. HTERP financed bridge
reconstruction which is a major undertaking from design to completed construction,
particularly when the objective was to build back better. It was a learning experience for
St. Lucia and though good progress was made during the project, and the rehabilitated
bridges was completed two months after closing.

104. Initial estimates of rehab/retrofitting work costs need to be made
carefully/conservatively to avoid major adjustments to the physical scope of the
project down the road. HTERP’s emergency nature led to cost estimates that were too
low necessitating substantial readjustment of the project’s rehabilitation program after
project approval.



                                            28
105. Maintenance planning and budget needs to be part of rehabilitation work.
HTERP did not include sufficient emphasis on maintenance of improvements and other
aspects of school and health facilities. This is a focus that is taken up more
systematically in the DVRP

106. Bank procurement procedures need to take better into account the
limitations of the small island state context. Bank procurement procedures should
incorporate the realities of project implementation in small island state with a very small
population. Thus, contractor qualification criteria need to be adapted and tailored to the
reality that foreign bidders are not likely to compete for bids.

107. Preparation of Rapid Emergency projects face constraints, such as undefined
scope of project activities and broad cost estimates due to lack of readily available
data and pre-engineering studies. This makes it difficult to set specific baselines and
targets in the Project Results Framework at project design. As such, definition of
indicator targets should be finalized once the project’s scopes are confirmed, even if this
is done during implementation stage.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

No issues were raised.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                            29
                          Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                       millions)

C 1 Support for Early Recovery             1.5               1.494           99.6
C 2 Institutional Strengthening,
                                           1.5               0.848           56.6
Hazard and Risk Analysis
C 3 Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation of Damaged
Critical Public Infrastructure,           11.0              10.003           90.9
Goods, Works & Consultant
Services
C 4 Project Management                     1.0               1.040          104.0

            Total Baseline Cost           15.0              13.386           89.2
Physical Contingencies
                                           0.00              0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies                        0.00              0.00
                                                                             0.00
             Total Project Costs          15.0              13.386           89.2
Front-end fee PPF                          0.00              0.00            .00
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.00              0.00            .00
     Total Financing Required             15.0              13.386           89.2



(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                      Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                    Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                     millions)    millions)
Borrower                                          0.00         0.00         .00
International Development
                                    IDA           15.0        13.386       89.2
Association (IDA)




                                            30
                          Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1 - Support for early recovery

Component 1 retroactively paid for emergency expenditures that followed the disaster,
avoiding the diversion of financial resources from other budgets.

                          Table A: Outputs for Component 1

         Output                                      Description
                            This was possible through the fast supply of goods such as
                            fuel and materials. Component 1 financed the following
                            items:
Emergency stabilization     Fuel (43,348L)
works
                            Reno mattresses (48 units)
                            Gabion baskets (877 units)
                            Boulders (15,296 t)
                            Component 1 financed equipment rental for clearing
                            WASCO intakes at Ravine Poisson and Millet, clearing
                            slides and drains at Colombette, Soufrière, Bexon, Marc and
                            Trois Piton, Barre d’Isle, Millet / Vanard, Bagatelle:
                            Excavators
                            Trucks
Emergency clearing          Backhoe loaders
works
                            Rock breakers
                            Graders
                            Rollers
                            Tractors
                            Bulldozers
                            Lights
                            Component 1 paid for some staff overtime, from different
Manpower increased in       government agencies such as:
key Government              WASCO
agencies                    MCWT and PU
                            Others




                                          31
2 - Institutional strengthening and hazard and risk analysis

Component 2 financed analytical work contributing to better knowledge of the hazards
and risks, policy work through the review of the National Emergency Management Plan
(NEMP), training activities as well as goods to strengthen the country disaster
management capacity.

                           Table B: Outputs for Component 2

         Output                                      Description
                             The assessments were carried out in 3 highly affected areas:
3 hydraulic assessments      Dennery village
for flood risk reduction     Soufrière
                             Fonds Saint Jacques
                             The NEMP is composed of 26 plans, and Component 2
                             financed the review of 20 of them including the update of
                             the standard operational procedures. These include :

                         Agencies SOPs (Volume 1 : Agencies of the National
                         Emergency Management Organization Volume 2 : Standing
                         Operating Procedures for the national Emergency
                         Operations Centre)
                         EOC SOPs
                         Emergency Housing Policy
                         DANA Policy
                         DANA Plan
                         Flood Plan
                         GOSL circular on Continuity of Government
                         Information Management in Emergencies and Disasters
Review of the National
                         Plan
Emergency Management
                         Hazard Mitigation Policy
Plan
                       . Hazard Mitigation Plan
                       . Hazard Mitigation Action Plan
                       . Oil Spill Plan
                       . Relief Distribution Plan
                       . Emergency Shelter Policy
                       . Emergency Shelter Plan
                       . National Plan for transportation in Disasters
                       . Guidelines for a National Systematic Shutdown
                       . Saint Lucia Hospitality Crisis Management Plan and
                         Concepts of Operations
                       . National Hurricane Plan
                       . National Telecommunications Plan

                             This work included large consultations across the
                             institutions and throughout the country. It has gone through


                                           32
                      the first steps of approval and is now being submitted to the
                      Cabinet for final approval before 100 CD copies are burnt
                      and distributed.
                      The study generated high quality data with a high level of
                      accuracy that will serve as fundamentals in all sectors for
Geodetic survey and   all mapping exercises and development projects. It came
geodetic network      with:
adjustment            the delivery of GPS training to 12 staff from MOPD
                      the purchase of GPS software
                      the development of pre-field survey methodology report
                      GPS training to MOPD as mentioned above
                      Data capture training to MOPD (2 batches)
Trainings             Training on how to use the emergency communications
                      equipment to NEMO and to the District Disaster
                      Committees (composed largely of volunteers)
                      NEMO got equipped with new and complementary
                      emergency communications devices, some of them being
                      distributed to 18 District Disaster Committees:
                      Base station radios
                      Hand-held VHF radios
                      VHF repeaters
                      Batteries, antennas, chargers
Emergency
Communications        The selection of equipment was made so that it would be
Equipment             compatible and complementary to what NEMO was already
                      using, and with the objective of having in the near future a
                      national integrated system designed for multi-users
                      (districts, police stations, fire departments, etc.).

                      Telecommunications equipment was procured for Saint
                      Lucia Fire Services.

Improvement in        NEMO got equipped with:
NEMO’s office         A fire alarm for the warehouse
(equipment)           CCTV for the warehouse and for the rest of the compound
                      Chain saws and associated training
                      Projects and 3 laptops
                      Book ends
                      Tint windows
                      Vehicle
                      Amenities (kitchen utensils, washing machine, dryer)
                      Software licenses
                      The component also paid for Geonode hosting.




                                    33
3 - Reconstruction and rehabilitation of damaged critical public infrastructure

Component 3 financed reconstruction and rehabilitation works in the health, education
and transport sectors. Some of the select damaged public infrastructure were entirely
reconstructed and rehabilitated, others benefited from partial support either through
works or provision of equipment.

                Table C: outputs for Component 3 in the health sector


Reconstruction and rehabilitation of 4 health facilities

    #               Output                                Description
1        Dennery Hospital:            The facility was significantly damaged after the
         reconstruction of the        hurricane and was not functional until the repair
         facility, retrofitting and   and improvement works were completed. These
         equipping the hospital       include: roof repairs (lifted up and extended),
                                      asbestos removal, improvement and extension of
                                      administration area, improvement of waiting area
                                      including construction of roof and toilets,
                                      shower/changing room for patients, improvement
                                      of access way.

                                      The works required substantial TA for structural
                                      assessment, geotechnical investigations,
                                      architectural services and mechanical and electrical
                                      improvement designs. They also resulted from
                                      consultations with the staff from the hospital.

                                      The facility was equipped with: 6 emergency
                                      couches, 4 water tanks (for a total capacity of
                                      4,000 gallons), 1 generator (but still to be
                                      installed), medical equipment, office equipment,
                                      office furniture.
2        Entrepot Health Center:      The roof was repaired and extended, and
         rehabilitation of the        hurricane-resistant windows and doors were
         facility                     installed.

                                      The works required structural assessment and
                                      architectural review.
3        Etangs Health Center:        The roof was repaired and extended, and
         rehabilitation of the        hurricane-resistant windows and doors were
         facility                     installed.
                                      Drainage works provided



                                           34
                                      The works required structural assessment and
                                      architectural review.
4        Jacmel Health Center:        The roof was repaired and walls were extended up
         rehabilitation of the        to the roof. Hurricane-resistant windows and doors
         facility                     were installed.
5–       Victoria Hospital:           AC units and medical supplies equipment were
goods    provision of equipment       procured for the pediatric ward.
only


             Table D: outputs for Component 3 in the education sector


Reconstruction and rehabilitation of 10 schools

     #               Output                                Description
1            Ave Maria (Castries)      The rehabilitation works consisted in roof and
             primary school:           ceiling repairs, as well as asbestos removal.
             rehabilitation
2            Ciceron secondary         A retaining wall was built along the water course
             school: rehabilitation    adjacent to the school where landslides occurred
                                       after the hurricane.
3            Dame Pearlette            An improved computer lab was built, involving
             Louisy combined           the extension of the upper floor (moving the lab
             school: rehabilitation    from the ground floor to the first floor) and
                                       significant electrical works. There were some
                                       repairs done to the fence in the back.

                                       Some school supplies were provided to the
                                       school.
4            Bocage combined           The works consisted in: the construction of
             school: rehabilitation    drains, ceiling repairs, electrical works, the
                                       replacement of roof and roof members for 3
                                       buildings, toilet fixtures and door, fencing repairs,
                                       culvert repair.

                                       1 pedestal for water tank was provided
5            Bexon primary             The main access road was raised, and the
             school: rehabilitation    component also financed the construction of
                                       drains and of a footbridge.
6            Marigot combined          Some heavy cleanup works were undertaken after
             school: rehabilitation    the hurricane, then a drainage system was
                                       developed and built (as an alternative option to a
                                       retaining wall between the school (low field) and
                                       the upper parts of land surrounding the school).


                                           35
7              La Croix Maingot         The works consisted in the construction of a
               combined school:         gabion retaining wall (about 100m long, 2m high
               rehabilitation           and 1m thick) and some drainage improvements
                                        works.
8              Vieux Fort Campus        Some repairs were done on the roof, doors and
               A: rehabilitation        windows at Campus A.

                                        The campus also was provided with school
                                        supplies.
9              Piaye secondary          Some repairs were done to doors and partitions.
               school: rehabilitation
10 (partial    NSDC: rehabilitation     The works consisted in repairing and
financing      and expansion works      rehabilitating the roof, and building a reinforced
through this                            concrete mezzanine floor. They included
project)                                excavation works, concrete and structural steel
                                        works, carpentry and joinery works, plaster and
                                        other works including wall finishes.

                                        They required particularly heavy TA for structural
                                        condition survey and preparation of detailed
                                        designs.




                                            36
Contribution to the reconstruction and rehabilitation of 9 other schools

     #              Output                              Description
11          Dennery infant          The project financed the design study for
            school: TA provided     rehabilitating the school.
            in support of school
            rehabilitation
12          Babonneau               Gabion baskets were installed through this
            secondary school:       component (which paid for 18% of the contract
            rehabilitation works    amount)
13          George Charles          The school was also provided network and
            secondary school:       electrical services.
            rehabilitation works
14          Saint Mary’s
            College: equipment
15          Vieux Fort
            Comprehensive
            secondary school:       These schools benefited from the procurement of
            equipment               network and electrical services.
16          Micoud secondary
            school: equipment
17          Soufrière secondary
            school: equipment
18          Canaries infant and
            primary: equipment
                                    These schools were provided with school
19          Anse la Raye infant
                                    supplies
            and primary:
            equipment




                                         37
Procurement of goods for the Ministry of Education to the benefit of schools and
daycare centers in need

        #             Output                              Description
1             Replacement of           Procurement of furniture, computers, appliances,
              damaged items in         general equipment, learning materials for daycare
              schools and daycare      centers
              centers
2             Procurement of           Procurement of emergency management furniture,
              furniture and            equipment, computers, licenses, school supplies,
              materials                resource materials, instructional and reading
                                       material from the Red Cross, Oxford University
                                       Press, Anne LD French


               Table E: output for Component 3 in the Transport sector


Reconstruction and rehabilitation of 2 bridges

    #              Output                                  Description
1           Cressland               Road reconstruction with new right of way.
                                    Reconstruction of a wider bridge (concrete box
                                    culvert designed to take up to 12 times the amount of
                                    water compared to the previous bridge) including
                                    upstream and downstream installation of drains and
                                    boulders to support the river bank defense and
                                    facilitate runoff
2           Bois d’Orange           Reconstruction of a higher and wider bridge with 2x2
                                    lanes including 2 for future use.
                                    The works included road works (backfilling,
                                    drainage), the installation of girders for the bridge,
                                    river protection works upstream and downstream.
                                    They also included the deviation and complete change
                                    of the section of the water pipe running along the
                                    bridge (works undertaken by the water utility).




                                            38
4 - Project management and monitoring support

Apart from staff time (for the project coordinator, the procurement and M&E officer, the
FM officer, the procurement and contract management officer, the project assistant for
FM, the project assistant, the administrative officer, the engineer), Component 4 financed
workshops, other training and equipment.

                          Table F: outputs for Component 4

    #            Output                                    Description
1         Development of            The component financed:
          project management        A performance audit,
          and monitoring            A peer quality assurance review;
          capacity of               For the Audit Department: specific training, with
          government agencies       quickbooks and associated supplies, IDEA/Caseware
          involved in               training, staff retreat;
          implementation            A regional workshop on open source technologies
                                    and web mapping for MODP staff;
                                    Training on fiduciary aspects of project management:
                                    to PCU, Ministries of Health, Education, Sustainable
                                    Development, Infrastructure, Accountant General
2         Provision of goods        The following were provided to the different
          for the improvement       agencies:
          of administrative and     Furniture and equipment for NEMO and PCU, such
          technical capacity of     as photocopier, printer, vehicle, laptops and scanners
          government agencies       for PCU;
          involved in               Survey equipment and printer for the Survey’s
          implementation            Department at MOPD;
                                    Computers for the Architectural Department at
                                    MODP;
                                    Survey equipment for the Ministry of Infrastructure




                                           39
                     Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Summary of HTERP Costs and Benefits
The HTERP incurred costs and created benefits through five categories of activities: 1.
Bridge building—Cresslands and Bois d’Orange bridges; 2. Rehabilitation of eleven (11)
schools and equipment; 3. Rehabilitation of four (4) health-facilities equipment; 4.
Disaster Management Capacity Building, including GIS capacity building, the Review of
the National Disaster Management Plan, three Hydraulic Assessments for Flood Risk
Reduction, a geodetic survey and Emergency Communication Equipment; and 5.
Retroactive financing of emergency expenditures.
The total actual cost of categories 1, 2 and 3 is US$10.0 million (compared with US$11.0
million appraisal estimate): Health—US$1.508 million, Education—US$3.580 million
and Bridges—US$4.913 million. This analysis quantifies the benefits of categories 1.
and 2. (63.5 percent of project expenditures).
The method used to quantify benefits from the rebuilt bridges is the avoided method,
which considers the costs of traveling alternative routes and is based on additional
kilometers traveled, cost of fuel, value of the time to travel those kilometers and the
probability of a destructive event. For schools and health centers the benefits are the
value of the extended life of the assets.

Key Assumptions used in the Economic Analysis
General:

Probability of destructive event similar to Hurricane Tomas = 0.125
An exchange rate of 2.6882 was used for all conversions between EC$ and US$.

Bridges Cost and Traffic Data

       Bois d’Orange Bridge

4 options presented plus do nothing. Single Span, 4-lane option chosen.

Cost for 4 lane version estimated at:

Base cost              $EC9.345 million
Contingency (10%)      $EC0.9345 million
Total                  $EC10.280 million
VAT (15%)              $EC1.542 million

Actual Cost            $EC11,106,682.12 (from procurement plan)
                       US$4,131,709.74
Without VAT            US$3,592,791.08



                                           40
With average daily traffic of 23,683 recorded in 2011, plus 5% growth rate since 2011,
total traffic = 27,416 vehicles daily, of which:

Cars         59.0%
Minibuses    19.3%
Pick ups     15.4%
Trucks        4.1%
Other         2.3%
       ____________
             100%

Source: Hurricane Tomas Recovery Project Bois D’Orange Bridge Design, Main Report,
FDL Consult Inc., Castries, St. Lucia, September 2012.

       Cresslands Bridge

Actual cost $EC3,304,260.63
(US$1,229,172.17,
without VAT = US$1,068,845.37)

Source: Procurement documents

Traffic—850 average daily traffic (based on 3% growth rate since 1999):

Cars         40.0%
Mini-bus     33.0%
Pick-up      26.0%
Truck         1.0%
       ___________
             100%

Source: Twin Box Culvert and River Training Works—Design Report, November 2011

Total costs for both bridges was US$4,661,642.45 (without VAT), about one third of
total project expenditures.


Traffic volume data on the two bridges before and after rebuilding: Cresslands 1,500
users per day, Bois d’Orange 27,000.
School Assumptions
Enrollment in the 10 schools after rehabilitation was 6,080 students per day. Benefits
were based on estimated school value, the probability of an extreme weather event and
value of furniture, books, etc. Note that schools also serve as emergency shelters and that


                                            41
being built back better with weather resilient roofs and windows, they will not only
preserve the value of the school building, they will also be more resilient to extreme
weather and serve as more reliable shelters.
The four health facilities record an average 145 daily users after rehab. Their repairs
consisted mainly of new hurricane proof roofs and windows. They also received some
basic diagnostic equipment. These benefits are not assessed in this analysis.
Other non-quantifiable benefits
MoPD and NEMO staff training in GIS analysis tool (18 officials, 24 more planned), the
updating of the National Emergency Management Plan, and supply of basic
communication equipment improves St. Lucia’s capacity to deal with future natural
disasters. Likewise, hydraulic studies will help lower risk through better siting of new
construction.
Net Economic Benefits of bridge and school improvements
The table below summarizes the results of the economic analysis covering 63.5 percent of
project expenditures.
Present Value and EIRR for Bridges and Schools Investments (US$)
                                      Bridges                Schools
Percent of total project costs        36.7%                  26.8%
Present value of Costs @ 12%          5,528,504              3,117,874
Present value of Benefits @ 12%       12,622,033             3,580,771
Net Present Value @ 12%               7,093,529              -462,897
EIRR                                  29.98%                 10.37%




                                          42
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                         Title            Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
                          Sr. Disaster Risk Management
Niels Holm-Nielsen                                       LCSUW      TTL
                          Specialist
                          Disaster Risk Management
Tiguist Fisseha                                          LCSUW      DRM
                          Consultant
                                                                    Damage
Ana Campos García         Civil Engineer Consultant      LCSUW
                                                                    Assessment
                          Disaster Risk Management
Rossella Della Monica                                    LCSUW      DRM
                          Consultant
                          Disaster Risk Management                  Damage
Marc Forni                                               LCSUW
                          Consultant                                Assessment
Ana Daza                  Language Program Assistant     LCSUW      Operations
                          Disaster Risk Management
Zuzana Tomkova                                           LCSUW      Editor
                          Consultant
Rocío Manrique            Temporary - Program Assistant LCSUW       Operations
                          Sr. Disaster Risk Management
Jose C. Joaquin Toro L.                                  LCSUW      DRM
                          Specialist
                          Sr. Financial Management
M. Mozammal Hoque                                        LCSFM      FM
                          Specialist
M. Yaa Pokua Afriyie      Sr. Social Development                    Social
                                                         SDV
Oppong                    Specialist                                Safeguards
Yingwie Wu                Sr. Procurement Specialist     LCSPT      Procurement
                                                                    Environmental
Anjali Acharya            Sr. Environmental Specialist   LCSEN
                                                                    Safeguards
                                                         Regional
                          Sr. Structural Engineer
Bertrand Mazur                                           Council of Engineering
                          Consultant
                                                         Guadeloupe
Edith Ruguru Mwenda Sr. Counsel                          LEGAF      Legal
Miguel-Santiago
                    Sr. Finance Officer                  CTRFC      Disbursement
Oliveira

Supervision/ICR
                          Lead Disaster Risk
Niels Holm-Nielsen                                       GSURR      DRM – TTL
                          Management Specialist
                          Disaster Risk Management
Tiguist Fisseha                                          GSURR      DRM – TTL
                          Specialist
Melanie Simone            Disaster Risk Assessment                  Risk
                                                         GSURR
Kappes                    Specialist Consultant                     Assessment



                                            43
                          Sr. Data Management Specialist              GIS and Data
Bishwa Raj Pandey                                          GSURR
                          Consultant                                  Management
Christopher J. Chung      Operations Analyst Consultant    GSURR      DRM
                          Disaster Risk Management
Rossella Della Monica                                      LCSUW      DRM
                          Consultant
Margaret P. Barrett       Operations Analyst Consultant    GSURR      Operations
Ana Daza                  Language Program Assistant       GSURR      Operations
Patricia Acevedo          Program Assistant                GSURR      Operations
                          Sr. Financial Management
M. Mozammal Hoque                                          GGODR      FM
                          Specialist
                          Sr. Financial Management
David I.                                                   GGODR      FM
                          Specialist
Tatiana Cristina O. de
                          Finance Officer                  WFALN      Disbursement
Abreu
M. Yaa Pokua Afriyie  Sr. Social Development                          Social
                                                           GSURR
Oppong                Specialist                                      Safeguards
                      Sr. Environmental Specialist                    Environmental
Michael J. Darr                                            GENDR
                      Consultant                                      Safeguards
Plamen Stoyanov Kirov Sr. Procurement Specialist           GGODR      Procurement
                      Sr. Technical Specialist
Seyoum Solomon                                             GGODR      Procurement
                      Consultant
Subhash Seth          Sr. Civil Engineer Consultant        LCSDU      Engineering
                      Sr. Technical Specialist
Gerald E. Meier                                            LCSDU      DRM
                      Consultant
Edith Ruguru Mwenda Sr. Counsel                            LEGAM      Legal
                      Sr. Structural Engineer
Daniel E. Thirion                                          GSURR      Engineering
                      Consultant
Beatriz Pozueta Mayo Sr. Coastal Engineer Consultant       GSURR      Engineering

b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                                consultant costs)
Lending

FY11                                             8.20              34,822.74
                  Total
                                                 8.20              34,822.74
Lending:

Supervision/ICR

FY11                                             2.86              12,711.70



                                            44
FY12                          26.68   147,747.53
FY13                          17.77    77,617.10
FY14                          18.98    94,833.07
FY15                          11.49    49,924.19
       Total Supervision:     77.78   382,833.59
            Grand Total:      85.98   417,656.33




                            45
                 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                 46
                 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable




                                       47
     Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Summary

Performance Ratings
Bank:                                Satisfactory
Borrower:                            Satisfactory
Attainment of Objectives:            Moderately Satisfactory
Project Design:                      Moderately Satisfactory
Overall Performance Assessment:      Satisfactory

(Overall, the objectives of the project were met therefore, general performance can be
considered satisfactory.

Overview

On October 31, 2010, Hurricane Tomas passed just 29 miles (46.7 km) south of Saint
Lucia inflicting heavy damage to the infrastructure, health and education sectors among
others.     Major damage and destruction was recorded to the capital infrastructure
especially the transport network (roads and bridges), schools and health facilities.
Therefore, in the aftermath of Hurricane Tomas, there was urgent need for the
Government of Saint Lucia (GoSL) to restore the country’s essential damaged services
and to rebuild the infrastructure to an upgraded standard that reduced future vulnerability
to natural disasters.

The World Bank responded to the GoSL request for assistance, and conducted a damage
assessment in November 2010 and an emergency project appraisal mission in December
2010 and effectiveness of the Project by August 31, 2011. The objectives of these
missions included: rapid assessments of the damage inflicted on the island, technical
discussions and identification of recovery priorities for financing under the project; an
assessment of the institutional capacities among the proposed implementing agencies;
definition of the environmental and social safeguard framework; and a damage
assessment of past Bank-financed disaster mitigation projects and an examination of the
lessons learnt from these projects.

Financing under this project was provided on an emergency basis to avoid the usual time
lag between the end of the relief period and reconstruction. The cost of the appraised
project activities totaled US$15 million.

Project Objective

The project’s development objective was to support the recovery and reconstruction of
the GoSL in the aftermath of Hurricane Tomas and to provide financing on an emergency
basis for critical imports and rehabilitation activities in key social and infrastructure
sectors throughout the island.




                                            48
    The project activities included:
•   Strengthening the GoSL ability to analyze, assess, and integrate natural hazard and
    climate change risk reduction into national development policies and decision-making
    processes; and

•   Rehabilitating damaged and vulnerable transport, health, and education infrastructure
    affected by the passage of Hurricane Tomas.

    The project became effective on August 30, 2011, with defined outcomes based on the
    following:

•   Number of people with access to rebuilt and rehabilitated safe selected basic services
    (transport, education, health) affected by Hurricane Tomas:
•   Improved national and local risk management and risk reduction systems and
    capabilities to manage future natural hazards through studies and assessments, the
    review of the National Disaster Management Plan, and capacity building for staff of the
    Government agencies.

    The Project design was appropriate and implementing arrangements were consistent with
    other Bank financing investments implemented by the GOSL. The Bank worked along
    with the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) and the GOSL in the Project design to
    determine its comparative advantage and to ensure that activities for funding were not
    duplicated. The Bank focused on rehabilitation of schools, health centres and bridges
    while the CDB focused on the damaged road infrastructure.

    The Bank was quick to respond to the GOSL request for funding and negotiations of the
    Project were held in February 2011(four months after the passage of Hurricane) with the
    Bank. Within six months of negotiations the Project became effective which included
    approval by the Parliament and issuance of the Legal Opinion by the Attorney General.

    The Project design was kept simple to allow a quick transition to the implementation
    stage and as such allowed retroactive financing to the GoSL, the inclusion of new project
    activities and reallocation of project funds among components and sub components.
    Operational experience was consistent with design of the Project in its components and
    priorities as per the national investment plan of Government were met. The components
    and for the more part the related activities were met.

    Component 1 - Support for Early Recovery included retroactive financing to the GOSL
    of much needed funds. The process was simplified for the GOSL to claim and recover
    monies spent on overtime and fuel for vehicles and equipment. These funds were to be
    used subsequently to meet other expenditures / costs relating to damages
     caused by the Hurricane not funded by external partners. This simplified process used
    by the Bank for verification and acceptance of invoices for reimbursement enabled quick
    disbursement. The application for reimbursement was made on December 4, 2011 and
    paid on December 8, 2011 (four months after effectiveness of the Project).



                                               49
Component 2 which sought to improve the institutional capacity and Hazard and Risk
Analysis framework of the Project was partially met. Through this initiative the GOSL
commissioned a hydraulic and flood assessment of the Fond St Jacques, Soufriere and
Dennery areas while the CDB financed a similar study for Bexon (Castries South
Western Region). A review was also undertaken of the existing Disaster Management
Plan and training was provided to Disaster Committees, while critical equipment and
supplies including emergency communications equipment were procured for NEMO to
strengthen its capacity to respond effectively to disasters.

Component 3 related to the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the damaged critical
public infrastructure and was allocated 73% of Project funds. The improvement to
schools including replacement of damaged furniture and equipment, health facilities and
bridges allowed the GOSL to provide improved health care services and quality
education. At rehabilitated health spaces expanded services were offered such as public
education and awareness. Financing was also obtained from the private sector including
philanthropies for the rehabilitation of some of the schools complemented by funds from
the national budget.

Project Management and Monitoring Support was implemented under Component 4 and
included support to the Government agencies involved in Project implementation, the line
Ministries, Audit Department and the PCU. To this end, Survey Equipment was procured
for the MCWT&PU and MOPD while Computers and Printers were also procured for the
MOPD. In addition, various training workshops were held for Contractors, Suppliers and
Consultants on Bid preparation while other training including procurement and technical
workshops were organized for PCU and line Ministries.

Project Implementation Arrangements

The Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs, Planning and Social Security (Department of
Planning and National Development) was responsible for implementation of the
Hurricane Tomas Emergency Recovery Project through the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) and various Government Ministries - (Works, Education, Health, and Physical
Development and NEMO.

Restructuring

Over its life the project was restructured twice; a) to revise the targets based on Project
realities and b) to extend the closing date by six months to September 2014. Reallocation
of project funds was also done after accurate estimates were made available. Through
this exercise the GOSL was able to the construct two major bridges; one such bridge was
re-estimated at US$4.1 from US$1.5. In addition, low levels of preparedness for some
civil works activities caused the GOSL to transfer these activities including the
Construction of the Dennery Polyclinc, Dennery Infant School, Dennery Primary School
to the DVRP.

Design



                                            50
The HTERP came soon after the Second Disaster Management Project (SDMP) allowing
a broad understanding of the project objectives based on local context. The Bank team
visited project sites, assessed work to be done and was able to mobilize resources quickly.
During Appraisal the Bank worked alongside the technical teams of the line Ministries in
carrying out a damage assessment which was used to inform project design.

The project was processed under the Operational Policy/Bank Procedures 8.00 as an
Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL) in response to the passage of Hurricane Tomas. This
policy was triggered upon the formal request from the GOSL for assistance under the
streamlined ERL with simplified procedures as the most appropriate instrument to
quickly respond to the immediate needs of Saint Lucia following the disaster.

Generally, the project had clear and straight forward objectives to rebuild the damaged
infrastructure and component 1 allowed for retroactive financing of works undertaken
immediately following the passage of the hurricane. There was innovation built into the
project design using the earlier SDMP investments, thus including climate resistance and
resilience aspects of development into the scope. Physical development was addressed
from a macro perspective and the feedback between the stakeholders on strategic issues
improved design and gave rise to the Geodetic surveys and Geodetic Adjustment.

Environmental and Social Safeguards

There was full compliance with the Environmental and Social safeguards. The project
followed the framework developed for implementation and ensured that the
environmental clauses were included in the works contracts. The Cresslands Bridge was
one activity in which the PCU prepared and monitored a Plan to ensure compliance with
Safeguards, engaging beneficiaries, residents, community and agricultural officers with
assistance from the MOPD. The Ave Maria School and the Dennery Hospital (temporary
location) were the flagship projects demonstrating effective safeguards practice in the
disposal of asbestos and medical waste. Both of these utilized the in country systems and
were effective due to sound contract management practice including supervision.

Implementation Experience

With most of the Country’s infrastructure damaged after the Hurricane and the need to
restore economic activity in a speedy manner Agencies focused on the execution of other
capital initiatives which included the reconstruction/ rehabilitation of bridges and the
restoration of the Barre des Lisle (major Highway linking the north to the South of the
Island). Some of these capital investments were funded from the National Budget, the
Caribbean Development Bank and by friendly countries. This posed a challenge to the
implementation of the Project as the same public technical officers were involved with all
aspects of the projects which translated to slow disbursement of loan funds.

General Elections took place in the first year and had a challenging effect on
implementation due to restructuring of implementing ministries and staff reassignments.
Changes in the administration, shifted portfolios and staffing were made within line



                                           51
ministries especially key agencies like the MOPD and MCWT&PU. The Sustainable
Development Unit which was pivotal to providing technical assistance to the physical
planning processes of the MOPD was transferred to a new agency. With the loss of the
Unit and a Chief Physical Planner the MOPD relied heavily on technical assistance from
the Bank in defining the activities for implementation. The Bank assisted the GOSL in
developing a road map for implementation which included the execution of a geodetic
survey and related adjustments, hosting of the Geonode and training of staff in GIS as a
precursor with full roll out under the DVRP. Despite the challenges faced the MOPD
successfully executed these activities with support from the Bank and other Consultants.

Project funds were utilized to allow technical officers and staff of the Attorney General
Chambers, Audit, Accountant General and Central Tenders Board to participate in
training and get familiar with Bank Procedures. The Bank assisted by identifying grant
funding to expand participation. The Bank Technical Team was technically solid but not
procurement accredited / certified and therefore relied heavily on the Bank Procurement
Staff for clearances.

While Implementation progress defined by disbursements was initially slow and delayed
at about 20% of overall budget near mid-term there were ongoing activities related to the
refocusing of component 3 and re-scoping of the works for schools. This was necessary
as project costs had escalated with the introduction of VAT on inputs at a rate of 15% and
further wear and tear to damaged infrastructure including the Dennery Hospital / Health
Centre from heavy rains in May, August and October 2011. Despite these setbacks the
Project was able to successfully draw down the funds identified for Component 1.
Therefore, implementation progress should have also incorporated 1) the challenges that
caused increases to project estimates, scope and time, 2) the utilization of human
resources, 3) development of an appropriate prequalification framework for the use of
contractors under Shopping procedures and pre-bid meetings held with Contractors,
Suppliers and 4) time spent for Bank Missions which is significant.

There were challenges to manpower of the Saint Lucia Team caused by diverted time
from primary activities with organization of Bank missions for the HTERP toward the
preparation for DVRP. However, by the Mid-Term Review of May 2013 GOSL and the
Bank were able to agree on more realistic activities for completion including the
restructuring of project activities. With a revised implementation plan significant
improvements were recorded and commitments grew to 42% of allocations.

Site visits by both the PCU and Consultants engaged confirmed that the MOE scope of
works concentrated on the damages caused by the Hurricane and not necessarily on the
accumulated deterioration of the infrastructure from weather related phenomena prior to
and since Hurricane Tomas. Therefore, Consulting Services were engaged to undertake a
comprehensive investigation and evaluation of six schools namely, Bocage Combined,
Vieux Fort Campus A, Ave Maria primary, Vieux Fort Campus B, Piaye Secondary and
Marigot Secondary schools to ensure that investments to be undertaken would be better
informed. As a result, the process of reallocation of funds among the schools was
undertaken.



                                           52
These detailed investigations and discussions with the Education Sector further
confirmed that the funding allocated was insufficient to adequately redress the scope as
the school infrastructure had been further damaged from the heavy rains of 2011 and
2012, and the poorly defined scopes from the preparation and appraisal stage of the
project resulted in huge costs overruns. The situation was similar for works identified
within the Health Sector.

As a result of the comprehensive assessment done of the NSDC, Vieux Fort Campus A
and Campus B; the GOSL noted and agreed that the problems identified at these schools
would not be fully addressed and would therefore require interventions under the DVRP.
For example works tendered for Vieux Fort Campus B focused on the fencing which was
cancelled.

Consequently, the Bank agreed for these critical civil works investments Choc Bridge,
Dennery Polyclinic, Dennery Infant and primary schools, NSDC works, Soufriere
Hospital, completion of the Hydraulic Flood Assessment and other civil works relating to
schools and health facilities form part of the Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project.
Having committed to providing quality services in improved spaces the GOSL also
supplemented some of the rehabilitation works from the National Budget and also
obtained private sector assistance with rehabilitation of the Morne du Don Combined
School.

Additionally, the transfer of the Works portfolio from the Health and Education
ministries to the Infrastructure Agency took time to operationalize and created a
bottleneck that contributed to delays. Procurement delays for the Marigot School works
exemplifies this point, whereby the process began in May 2012 yet a contractor was
mobilized onsite in December 2013. The Health Ministry got guidance came from its
technical staff complement within the Planning Unit assisted by the MOPD Architectural
Section.

The US$3.4m allocation for Bridge Rehabilitation was inadequate for construction of all
of the priority bridges. During project negotiations the MCWT&PU had identified
Cresslands, Bois d Orange and Choc Bridges as priority. Original cost estimates [PAD]
US$1.5m for the Bois d Orange Bridge Rehabilitation had not incorporated the cost of
including climate resilience elements (earthquake and hydrology) and therefore the funds
allocated for other bridges had to be reallocated. The actual construction cost for this
bridge increased to 30% above the entire allocation for the Bridge Rehabilitation
component. This bridge was affected by delays in granting no-objection to the first small
works contracts that continued for six months. Independent consulting services were
engaged to provide a detailed review of the designs for rehabilitation of the bridge by the
GOSL prior to submission to the Bank. The GOSL undertook the rehabilitation of the
other bridges with support from other financiers using semi PPP approaches. The GOSL
met the cost of constructing the by-pass road to enable the rehabilitation of the Bois
d’Orange Bridge.




                                            53
Despite these delays the Project was able to turn these cases into positive/successful
achievements, such as the utilization of individuals for works contracts, strengthening of
the prequalification system for works contracts under shopping procedures and the use of
technical assistance from the United States Army Corps of Engineers. Through the
engagement of the USACE there was transfer of knowledge and the GOSL is keen in
utilizing the services of the USACE in the review of the Choc Bridge designs and
capacity building for the MCWT&PU.

A key activity under Component 2 was the hydraulic flood assessment of Dennery,
Soufriere and Fond St Jacques. The results would inform works planned for the Dennery
Primary School and Soufriere Hospital. However, the time frame for this Study was
impractical, linked to the end of the Project rather than to the actual time required for a
comprehensive study. Delays in this activity created challenges downstream for the
Dennery Primary and Infant Schools and Soufriere Hospital exacerbated by late
submission of key data from agencies and more time than expected by the agencies and
stakeholders to review and comment on deliverables.

Achievements

The GOSL revised the Results Monitoring Framework to reflect the updated targets, and
decisions made to effectively implement the project given the limited timeframe.

Risk Assessment

Project Stakeholder Risks: The risk was minimized and there were no changes in the
location of service. The project was sufficiently flexible to allow improvement in scope
to better meet stakeholders/users needs.

Implementing Agency Risks: Turnover of key staff positions at the agencies in
particular the MCWT&PU was high during the Project implementation. The Permanent
Secretary and Chief Engineers were changed three times and there were delays for more
than three months each year in the contract renewal of the assigned Project Engineer The
planning function of the MCW&PU was weak and led to redesigns and cancellation of
contracts by the Agency (Bexon Footbridge, Babonneau retaining wall, George Charles
Secondary, Ciceron Retaining Wall, and Sir Arthur Lewis Community College). The
Project Engineer that was identified as focal point for the Project had minimal technical
leadership, guidance and support.

Design: i) Delays in project implementation could lead to greater losses related to already
damaged infrastructure. There were many revisions to the procurement plan but not
sufficient to prevent implementation delays; ii) Conflict arose from the requirement to
integrate natural hazard and climate change risk reduction yet speedily rehabilitate
affected infrastructure to functional levels. Significant new cost elements were
introduced through the revision of scope of Component 3 that affected implementation i.e.
for schools that required restoration works to also function as Hurricane Shelters and
bridge designs adjusted to withstand hazards. iii) Conflict between the GOSL and Bank



                                            54
procurement rules/guidelines for Contracting of Individuals under “Shopping” procedures
was an initial challenge and resulted in delays in the commencement of six works
contracts. This risk was not foreseen as under previous investments Saint Lucia had
contracted individuals within one month of effectiveness of a previous Bank financed
Project issuing 42 works contracts using Shopping procedures. This situation proved that
the Bank’s procurement team was not fully knowledgeable of the local context and
associated Laws.

Social & Environmental: There was general consensus that the measures adopted were
adequate and effective and served as refresher training and lessons learnt as a result of
safe removal of asbestos and medical waste removal.

Delivery Quality: The project utilized Consultants and design improvements particularly
in the schools resulted. These changes led to superior quality and created opportunities
for learning in the case of the Piaye school where classroom doors specified failed to
withstand stress tests from the student population in quick time.

Borrowers Performance

Project Coordination and Management

The arrangements for coordination and management were similar to past projects.
Periodic changes to staff negatively impacted performance including reporting from
uncertainty regarding the roles and responsibilities of key players and their lines of
authority.    The project attempted to create mechanisms (absence of the steering
committee) for the agencies to hold regular meetings to allow the Lead Agencies to
develop synergies across their activities. However, given the slow rate of implementation
it may be perceived as a steep climb up learning curve by all involved.

PCU Performance

The coordination and implementation of the HTERP was similar to previous investments
enabling seamless execution of project deliverables. The implementation arrangements
entailed a shared responsibility among and between the MCWT&PU, Health, Education,
MOPD and Finance entities therefore, to meet the reporting requirements the PCU
obtained the status of project activities by meeting regularly with Agencies. In place of a
Project Launch at mid-term an orientation was held with agencies to outline the reporting
requirements, present safeguards and to detail the Agency roles and responsibilities.

The PCU staff possessed the required competency in procurement and financial
management but performance could have been enhanced with on staff engineering
expertise. Efforts to recruit this engineering expertise were unsuccessful as persons with
the required skill set were not interested. PCU created opportunities for dialogue with
stakeholders, beneficiaries and the Bank to support the project implementation efforts.
Other interventions included the involvement of the Physical Planning Officers, District




                                            55
Education Officers, Principals, Nurses, residents and other end users in the review
process to resolve and minimize design problems for the schools and health facilities.

The Contractors benefitted tremendously from Bank facilitated training and pre-bid
meetings in climate resilience building techniques and preparing responsive bids. Early in
the project the PCU facilitated workshops on contract management for technical staff of
Agencies to enhance implementation and their understanding of the GOSL Finance Act
(which includes the Procurement and Stores Regulations) and the relevant Bank policies.

Executing Agency Performance

The assessments/ identification of activities to be included in Component 3, especially
from the education and health sectors executing agencies were deficient (scope of works).
Once these deficiencies were identified, adjustments were made to the earlier assessments
to the general satisfaction of all parties. Also during implementation, the sector agencies
incorporated natural hazard and climate change risk reduction strategies into the decision-
making processes.

During project implementation MIPS&T took over Component 3 activities from the
Health and Education Agencies and this change affected overall project implementation
and adversely the NSDC sub-project, where the project went to partial completion with
decisions taken by parties other than the Beneficiary / Implementing Agency. The
Engineer assigned by the Ministry of Infrastructure as the Lead Agency did not match the
level of input required to address all the technical, administration and contractual issues
that arose, therefore human resource utilization was seen as a weakness in
implementation by that agency.

Fiduciary Assessment

The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning carried out the fiduciary management of the Project and the Project submitted
the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) on a quarterly basis as well as the annual audits
were conducted.

Bank Performance

Over the life of the project, the Bank provided the needed technical support during
preparation and assisted the GOSL in remaining on target with the implementation
strategy. In a collaborative and consultative process the Bank agreed to the
implementation of new procurement option that widened the thresholds, required the
prior review of fewer contracts. The document entitled “Making procurement work in
the OECS countries” aimed to allow for greater flexibility within the existing Bank
Procurement Guidelines.

Following the Mid Term Review, the bank intensified implementation support missions
and agreed to the reallocation of funds to meet shortfalls under the Project. The Bank



                                            56
    teams’ conducted periodic comprehensive supervision missions resulting in the
    development of a valuable working relationship and improved project implementation
    over time. During the missions, all stakeholders were engaged in meaningful discussions
    which provided greater understanding of issues and requirements by most stakeholders.

    Lessons Learned

   More attention is required in the preparation of projects, to include the economic,
    country context and stakeholder requirements;
   Authority to be exerted within Fiduciary agency to move the project along when
    impediments are flagged
   Need for a good information system to track status of activities during the stages of
    procurement and to be used for updates to the procurement plan. This will identify
    performance, delay points, improve efficiency and identify wastages.
   In addition to the assessment of the fiduciary unit a more in depth assessment should be
    undertaken of the capacity of the executing agency ;
   Inclusion of technical assistance to assist the Borrower to develop design standards and
    encourage the use of national standards. This should be supported by training to improve
    capacity and the establishment of a community of practitioners to formulate standards at
    the regional level, if possible .
   Coordinate better with similar projects in the Region, by sharing experiences
   Technical staffing commitments/ guarantees is required from the agencies to minimise
    performance constraints especially of the infrastructure components at preparation
    stage.
   A Stakeholder Group should be defined to develop direct monitoring mechanisms for
    the supervision of infrastructure works based on existing capacity and impact on
    project timelines and deliverable to support the work of the PCU
   Project funding should be available for the upgrading of Agency’s and the PCU
    capacity in support of the procurement process for the preparation of bid documents
    and review of designs ;
   Greater attention is required in the preparation of technical information (scope of works
    and estimates).
   An open line of inter-agency communication supported by scheduled briefings,
    maintaining good relationships among project personnel is necessary; possibly these can
    be achieved through a communication strategy for future projects
   Implementing Agencies should impart knowledge of the projects goals and objectives to
    staff.
   The involvement of all stakeholders from project conception to completion is a key
    contributor to success for better coordination within the agency and among other
    Ministries (Project Officers) to facilitate smooth implementation and avoid conflict.

    Sustainability

    The high level of acceptance by the various parties and stakeholders on the quality of
    works for example Dennery Health Facility and the Bocage Combined schools suggests a
    level of long term sustainability in this Project. The country will continue to reduce its


                                               57
susceptibility to disasters as the infrastructure is rehabilitated/reconstructed incorporating
climate resilience into designs for all civil works

Sustainability of infrastructure was not clearly defined and classed as weak since
maintenance plans was not a project deliverable and investments designs should include a
sufficient level of robustness supplemented by defined maintenance plans to maximize
components useful life. Despite this, the Bank has committed to assisting the GOSL
with the development of an Infrastructure Maintenance policy and development of a
Bridge Maintenance Management System as part of the DVRP. It would be useful for
HTERP investments to be included in this exercise.

Technical Officers from the MOPD, MCWT&PU and a community of practitioners were
exposed to the development of standards. The PCU played a key role in coordinating the
project despite its inherent deficiencies. It was therefore wise to strengthen PCU capacity
through Component 4 to build institutional sustainability and ensure continued success
and aid institutional memory for future Bank projects.




                                             58
     Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    59
                      Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

International Monetary Fund, April 2010, St. Lucia: Staff Report for the 2010 Article IV
Consultation, IMF Country Report No. 10/92

The World Bank, May 2010, Regional Partnership Strategy for the Organization of
Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) for the Period FY2010-2014, Report No. 53762-LAC.

The World Bank, February 2011, Hurricane Tomas Emergency Recovery Project,
Emergency Project Paper, Report No: 59604-LC.

The World Bank, November 2010, Saint Lucia, Review of World-Bank-Financed
Disaster Risk Management and Infrastructure Projects in the Aftermath of Hurricane
Tomas, Assessment of Selected Structural and Non-structural Activities.

United Nations’ Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC),
February 2011, Saint Lucia Macro Socio-Economic and Environmental Assessment of
the Damage and Losses Caused by Hurricane Tomas, LC/CAR/L.286.

The World Bank, June 2011, Hurricane Tomas Emergency Recovery Project, Financing
Agreement, Credit No: 4871-LC.

Implementation Status and Results (ISR) Reports of June 2011, January 2012, October
2012, July 2013, March 2014, and October 2014.

Aide Memoires of December 2010, June 2011, September 2011, November 2011, March
2012, May and June 2012, November 2012, May 2013, and August 2013.

Gov. of Saint Lucia, Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport & Public Utilities.
Bois d’Orange Bridge. Design Report. FDL Consult Inc. – December 2011.

Saint Lucia, Flood Event of December 24–25, 2013, Joint Rapid Damage and Needs
Assessment. Report by the Government of Saint Lucia and the World Bank - March
2014.

ICR Report No: 27951, Saint Lucia through the Emergency Recovery & Disaster
Management Project (ERDMP-P070430), April 8, 2004

ICR Report No: 02286, the Saint Lucia Disaster Management Project II (DMP II-
P086469), August 29, 2012.

Government of Saint Lucia, Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport & Public
Utilities, Bois d’Orange Bridge DESIGN REPORT, December 2011.




                                          60
Government of Saint Lucia, Office of the Budget, Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs,
Planning & Social Security; “Budget Summary 2014-2015”, official Website:
opm.govt.lc.

Government of Saint Lucia, Office of the Budget, Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs,
Planning & Social Security; Central Statistical Office “Household Budget Survey
2005/2006”; official Website : opm.govt.lc.

Government of Saint Lucia, “BUILDING THE PILLARS FOR ECONOMIC SUCCESS,
RESILIENCE AND FISCAL STABILITY” Budget Statement 2014; delivered by THE
HON. DR. KENNY DAVIS ANTHONY, PRIME MINISTER AND MINISTER FOR
FINANCE, ECONOMIC AFFAIRS, PLANNING & SOCIAL SECURITY
TO SUPPORT THE APPROPRIATION BILL FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR
ENDING MARCH 31, 2015; official Website: opm.govt.lc.




                                          61
                              Annex 10: Map

          SAINT LUCIA: Hurricane Tomas Emergency Recovery Project




Source: Map Action



                                    62
                               Annex 11. Photographs of Selected Sites

        Site visits to Health Facilities

        Dennery Hospital: reconstruction of the facility, retrofitting and equipping the hospital

Photo 1. Roof repaired                            Photo 2. Administration area improved and extended
(requiring structural assessment, asbestos
removal, lifting up and extending the roof)




Photo 3. Waiting area improved, with the       Photo 4. Emergency access way improved
construction of roof and toilets,
shower/changing room for patients, cashier and
reception boots




                                                    63
                     Entrepot Health Center: rehabilitation of the facility

Photo 7. Roof lifted up, repaired and extended   Photo 8. Roof extended to protect waiting
                                                 patients from the rain, and hurricane-resistant
                                                 windows and doors installed




Photo 9: Main entrance




                                           64
Site visits to School Facilities


                       Ave Maria (Castries) primary school: rehabilitation

Photo 13. Roof and ceiling repaired              Photo 14. Roof and ceiling repaired, involving
                                                 asbestos removal




                                           65
                                       Marigot combined school: rehabilitation
Photo 20. Location of the school in a low lying Photo 21. Drainage system built around part of
land and prone to flooding 16                   the school (photo 1)




Photo 22. Drainage system built around part of                        Photo 23. Drainage system built around part of
the school (photo 2)                                                  the school (photo 3)




16
    Climate Change Adaptation Planning in Latin American and Caribbean Cities, Final Report: Castries, Saint Lucia, ICF GHK in
association with King’s College London and Grupo Laera, financed by the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Gobierno de Espana, the
World                                                                                                                     Bank
(http://www.worldbank.org/content/dam/Worldbank/document/LAC/Climate%20Change%20Adaptation%20Planning%20for%20Cas
tries_FINAL.pdf)




                                                             66
                      La Croix Maingot combined school: rehabilitation
Photo 26. Gabion retaining wall constructed    Photo 28. Gabion retaining wall constructed
(about 100m long, 2m high and 1m thick)        (photo 3)
(photo 1)




                                          67
Site visits to bridges


                                        Cressland bridge
Photo 29. Road reconstructed with new right        Photo 30. Bridge reconstructed with greater
of way                                             width (concrete box culvert designed to take up
                                                   to 12 times the amount of water compared to
                                                   the previous bridge)




                                                   Photo 32. Drains, gabions, boulders installed
Photo 31. Drains, gabions, boulders installed
                                                   to support the river bank defense and facilitate
to support the river bank defense and facilitate
                                                   runoff (photo 2, downstream)
runoff (photo 1)




                                             68
                                      Bois d’Orange bridge
                                    BEFORE THE WORKS




Photo 36. Reconstruction of a higher and           Photo 37. Reconstruction of the bridge with
wider bridge (with visible river protection        2x2 lanes including 2 for future use.
works downstream on this photo)




                                              Photo 39. Deviation and complete change of
Photo 38. River protection works (upstream on
                                              the section of the water pipe running along the
this picture)
                                              bridge (works undertaken by the water utility).




                                              69
