G2aZ9Z 56 -CbA9
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repo" No. 8465-CRA
1M 1 (2}'i CH'l'IEd W'tFY
Rr*¾ort Nci.   84C5 (WA Type: (SA11i)
1':I2. CAr  , X74604 7 ,H 7011/ A.O)3r
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHI1IA
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
AUGUST 12, 1991
Transport Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
Ths docment hIs w resticed dibudon aod may be used by dp1enb ony In fte petonnamwe of
thei offlide duties t cen  way oot oth se be di6osed wt b  World Bank auoIaon



N
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1991)
Currency name   -  Renminbi
Currency unit   -  Yuan (Y)   100 Fen
$1.00      Y 5.22
$0.19      Y 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGBTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)   -   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       0.62 miles (mi)
1 square meter (a)       10.76 square feet (ft2)
1 square kilometer (kW   -   0.4 square miles (mi2)
l'hectare (ha) = 0.01 km2  -   2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)   =   2.2046 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB            Asian Development Bank
AIDAB          Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
ATC            Area Traffic Control
CBD            Central Business District
DS             Development Scenario
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
IRRCC          Inner Ring Road Construction Company
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
NMV            Nonmotorized Vehicle
NSC            North-South Corridor
SA             Shanghai Authorities
SAA            State Audit Administration
SMAB           Shanghai Municipality Audit Bureau
SCPDI          Shanghai City Planning and Design Institute
SCTPT          Shanghai Comprehensive Transport Planning Team
SFB            Shanghai Finance Bureau
SITC           Shanghai International Tendering Company
SMCC           Shanghai Municipal Construction Commission
SMEAD          Shanghai Municipal Engineerlng Administration Department
SMECC          Shanghai Municipal Engineering Construction Company
SHECSC         Shanghai Municipal Engineering Construction Supervision Company
SMEDI          Shanghai Municipal Engineering Design. Institute
SMG            Shanghai Municipal Government
SMR            Shanghai Metropolitan Region
S1RQDC         Shanghai Municipa_. Residential Quarters Development Corporation
SCCTPI         Shanghai City Comprehensive Transport Planning Institute
SCPDI          Shanghai City Planning and Design Institute
SMTO           Shanghai Municipal Transportation Office
SPC            State Planning Commission
SPSB           Shanghai Public Security Bureau
STC            Shanghai Transit Company
SUCDI          Shanghai Urban Construction Design Institute
SUPDI          Shanghai Urban Planning and Design Institute
TMD            Traffic Management Division
TDP            U.S. Trade and Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SA   1A  HtSOP3ITAM -ANb-PORT PROJC?
Crodit and Prolect Dea
sor re               Pieplop' Republic of Chim
Ieneficaia  s         Shanuga    tiicipal Peopl2' oovenment
Amount:                $DR 44.4 miljov (*00.0 mIlion equvralent)
!ern.:                Standard, with 59 years, maturity Including 10 years'
grace period.
Ielondia TLrms:       Prom the overrmnt of ChlAs tO Shanghai Municipal
Governmnts 20 years Including S years of grace at
fSxed lnterest rate of 1.9 percent per annum lnterest
with 0.75 percent per annum citmont fee on outstand-
Ing budce.   The foreli    exchange rlok would be borne
by 5haugha Municipal Government.
Proiect Objectives
aEd Descr&itLont    The principal objective of the project is to provlde the
baeLs foc developing an efficLent urban transport systm
in Shanghai. In order to achieve this objeclive, the
project li dsolned to lncease capacity, reduce conges-
tion, and lprove efficiency In the transport network;
and mprove the planning, programming, finance and man-
agemnt of the urban transport system In Shanghai.    The
project vould represent the first stage of a long-term
progrm intended to upgrade an4 develop the urban trans-
port infrastructure of Shanghai i order to meet the
demands gonerated by modernisation of the local economy.
Project elements consist of construction of a 5.5 kilo.
meter viaduct with surface road improvements underneath
and to the north and south of the viaduct; traffic man-
agement and safety including 1.1 killomters of busway
and 19 kilometers of nonmotor vehicle roadst and techni-
cal assistance to strengthen the municipality's capabil-
ities for planning and implementing urban transportation
measures, effecting improvements in traffic and safety,
and public transport management.
JBnefits$             The project would alleviate traffic congestion and
improve road safety in the Shanghi Motropolitan region.
The iprovements financed through this project directly
address the most serious traffic problems in the inner
city. Benefits would accrue from savings In vehicle
operating costs, personal savings associated with
shorter travel tim, and reduction in accident costs,
wlth an internal econoiLc rate of return estimated at
18 percent for the Ihougshan Road investments and
52 percent for the Znner City Road Zmprovemmnta.
This document ha a retcted distrbution and may be used by reipients only In the perfornanuc
of their offcal duods. Its contents may n  otherwi be discoed without World Bank authorization.



Risks:                 Project risks include delays in the construction of the
Zhongshan viaduct and the needed demolition and
resetteiment, and availability of counterpart funds.
The land needed for resettlement is already available to
the agencies concerned. Both agencies responsitle for
demolition and resettlement have a great deal of
experience in this area. and the resettlement would be
included as a small part of Shanghail's already ongoing
resettilement program. The project represents
approximately 10 percent of Shanghai's urban transport
investment program over the next six years, based on the
analysis of Shanghai's transport finances carried out
during project preparation. The risks mentioned above
may therefore be mitigated.
Estimated Costs$                          Local          Foreign           Total
------------ ($ million) ------------
Major arterial roads                       55.2            52.0            107.1
Traffic safety and management               6.8             2.7              9.4
Technical assistance                        0.0             4.2              4.2
Base Cost (June 1991)                 61.9            58.9           120.8
Physical contingencies                      6.2             5.5             11.7
Price contingencies                        10.7             5.1             15.8
Total Project Cost la                 78.8            69.4           148.3
Financing Plan:
IDA                                         0.0            60.0            60.0
Shanghai Municipal Government              78.8             9.4            88.3
Total Financin  Required              78.8            69.4           148.3
Estimated Disbursements (S million)s
IDA FY (711-6130)       FY92    FY93    FY94   FY95  FY96   FY97   FY98
Annual                 6.0     3.1    15.0   22.1   9.2    4.6    0.0
Cumulative             6.0     9.1    24.1   46.2  55.4   60.0   60.0
Project profile (X)     10.0    15.1    40.1   77.0  92.3  100.0  100.0
China profile (2)        3.0    14.5    35.9   62.0  82.1   95.9  100.0
Economic Rate of
Returns                Zhongshan Road                   181
Inner City Road Improvements      322
La Including identifiable taxes of Y 8.07 million ($1.55 million equivalent).



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHIKA
SHANGdiAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. URBAN BACKGROUND   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1
National Context  . . . ... . . . . .                            1
Urbanization Trends, Issues, and Options in Shanghai  . . .      2
II.  URBAN TkANSPOR SECTOR   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6
Present Condition of Urban Transport  ... .  a .  * . . . . .    6
Road Network  .... .      .  .  .  .  .   . . . . . .   .  .  .  .  7
Traffic Engineering and Control . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      8
Vehicle Fleet . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . * . .  . . . .        9
Public Transport  .... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ........  9
Freight Movee      ents  ............... ....                   10
Traffic Safety  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     10
Urban Trinsport Policy  . . . .  . .. . ..   . .  . . . . . . .  11
Urban Transport Institutions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     13
Determination of Urban Transport Priorities . . . . . . . .     15
Environmental Pollution .... .     .  .  .  .   . .......  .    17
Bank's Urban Sector Lending Strategy and Role in Shanghai .     18
Rationale for Bank Group Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . .     19
III.  THE  PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  20
Project Origin and Formulation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     20
Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     21
Project Description......................................       21
Major Road Investments  . . . . . . . *... .  . . .  . .  .     22
Traffic Management and Safety . . . ..  . . . . . . . . .  .    23
Estimated Project Cost  .... .     .  .  .   ............ .... .  26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to China in
September and October 1989 comprising Ms. Carolle Carr (Mission Leader),
Messrs. Peter Midgley (Urban Transport Planner), George Beier (Economist),
John Herbert (Urban Planner), Paul Stott (Municipal Engineer). George Mahoney
(Engineer, Consultant;, and Philip Cornwell (Urban Transport Planner,
Consultant). The appraisal findingr were updated by a mission to Shanghai in
February 1991 comprising Messrs. Daud Abmad, Peter 4idgley, and Paul Stott.
Peer reviewers were Nessrs. Flora, Barrett, Menkhoff, and Homer. The Division
Chief is Mr. Daud Ahmad and Department Director is Mr. Shahid Javed Burki.



Page No.
III. THE PROJECT (cont'd)
Project Financing Plan  ................ . .                     26
Project Management Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .     27
Implementation of Physical Works  . . . . . . . . .              28
Consulting services .e.r....e.......... .       .. ........      29
Procurement    .   . .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  29
Disbursemnt   . .. ..  . . . . .. . . . . . . . ...  . . . a .   31
Auditing, Reporting, and Monitoring . . . . . . . . . . . .       32
IV. ECONOMIC,- SOCI&. AND ENVIRONMENTAL COMSIDEEATIONS                33
sconomic Justification   .... .     .  .  .   ................   .  33
Traffic with and without Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . .      33
Economic ates of Return    . .....        .............a.......  34
Environmental Imact   .... .      .  .  .   ..........  ........  35
Project Risks . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .. ..   . .  a.....a  35
V.  AGREIEMNTS REACHED AND RE"'    ATION . . * . . . . .  .   .      37
ANNXESS
t.   Urban Transport Constraints to Growth in Shanghai
2.   Traffic Management and Safety
3.   Technical Assistance Sumiary
4.   Major Road Investments--Zhongshan Inner-Ring Road
5. Resettlement and the Environmental Impact of the Project
6.   Project Costs
7.   Project Managemeat Organization
8.   Procurement Arrange_ nts
9.   Disbursement Schebduae, Allocation of Crtdit Proceeds, and
Expenditure Flow
10.   Project Implementation Schedule and Cash Flow
11.   Performance Measures for Monitoring Resettlement and Other
Environmental Impacts
12.   Analysis of Project Benefits
13.   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
CHARTS
1.   Shanghai Municipality Administrative Structure
2,   Project Management and Construction Supervision Arrangements
3.   The Demolition and Resettlement Process
MAPS
IBRD 22042: Shanghai Metropolitan Area
IBRD 22043s Traffic Managment
IBRD 22117t Non-Motor Vehicle Action Program
IBID 22118: North-South Corridor Action Program



I. URBAN BACKGROUND
National Context
1.1      China has a lare, burgeoning urban sector in terms of number of
cities, and their population and their productivity. In 1985 there veze 150
cities with urban populations exceeding 200,000 and thousands of msiler
towns. Despite an Intense campaign to provide rural employmnt and discourage
urban growth, China's cities and their economies are graving steadily and have
become the mainstay of the national economy.  The registered 1989 urban popu-
lation of some 450 larger cities and towns (not including county towns and
rural populations administered by the cities) was about 117 million or 28 per-
cent of China's total population. As shown in Table 1.1 below, the municipal-
ities containing these urban centers produced over 90 percent of China's
industrial output in 1989 (valued at Y 1,982 billion) and 67 percent of agri-
cultural output (valued at Y 439 billion).
gkl.Ats fR14ARY CITrI N e CNA 19*9)
t6jnI@IpnhIthor R.a II ,  arn uro lounl
Shanghai  12.7   1,16  7.78   0 70   151.88  6.08  108.40  4.70  6.06    0.98
iBijIng   10.24  0.92  6.92   0.69    70."  8.92   69.51  2.78   6.06    0.92
TlenjIn    6.57  0,7T  8.70   0.51    66.69  2.69  54.4  2.46    S.10    0.79
Uhwnng    5.68   0.81  4.50   0.40    85.04  1.59  8.88  1.81    2.85    0.811
Vubon     6.88   0.59  8.71   0.a8   80.5   1.84   21.97  1.J    3.26    0.50
Ouwahm    5.65   0.801  8.54  0.82    40.71  1.46  45.9"  1.54   4.11    0.68
Chanqlng  14.71  1.82  2.9"   0.27    19.67  1.16  19.0  0.90   7.01    1.07
HurbIn    8.01   0.54  26.0   0.o5 26.60    0.75 16.21   0.74    1.2m    O.1t
Tteel         LI. RM. LA          440.j"  WA. a4r.a4         sn ,
450  itleau  695.97  62.59  817.69  26.7?  1,99.47  V'O.04  1,489.75  66.50  419.29  07.92
Chins--totl
population  1,111.91  140.00       2,201.70  100.00           080.80   100.0
Sorcet Steto Stlotlaut 1uro.u,
1.2       Although constrained by recent capital investment controls and
counterinflationary measures imposed by the central government, urban economic
development continues (15 percent avrsage annual growth rate during 1983-88),
and city populations are swelled by growing numbers of migrant workers seeking
off-farm employment. More than 5 million persons are estimated to join the
urban ranks in China each year. Declining levels of service, despite rising
expectations, and backlogs in public service provision to industry and house-
holds are major issues facing China's urban managers. Urban infrastructure
investment has typically been financed by grants from local revenues which are
now severely limited by central revenue sharing requirements and competing
local economic development domands as well as growing consumer subsidies.
Moreover, despite growing household incomes, cost recovery has not kept pace
with inflation so that development resources are further constrained by high
subsidie needed for routine expenditures, Complementing increased resource
mobilization and investment are the cities' institutional development needs.
In particular better management processes and tools such as comprehensive
spatial planning, expenditurs programming and coordination, maintenance plan-



-2-
ning, and fiscal management are essential in promoting China's urban develop-
ment efficiently.
1.3       Eight of China's cities exceeded 2 million inhabitants in 1989.
These cities, as shown in Table 1.1 above, accounted for almost 12 percent of
the urban population (3.4 percent of the total population) not including tem-
porary residents, and produced 23.8 percent of the industrial output of the
urban areas or 15.8 percent of China's total industrial output value in 1989.
The most significant of these cities is Shanghai with 2.4 percent of the total
urban population (0.7 percent of total population) which produced in 1989 some
34 percent of all municipal industrial output (almost 6.9 percent of total
industrial output) valued at about Y 151.5 billion. Shanghai has tradition-
ally been one of China's principal industrial engines, but during the 1960.
and 19709 the bulk of the city's revenues were assigned to other national
priorities, and the city was unable to modernize its infrastructure ade-
quately. In 1987 Shanghai transferred about Y 12.4 billion to the central
treasury, representing about 24 percent of all such urban revenue transfers.
This burden has boen lightened in recent years. As from 1988 the city is
expected to contribut=_ coughly Y 10.5 billion to the central treasury and is
able to retain surpluses for its own development purposes. There has been
real growth in industrial output recently (9.2 percent per annum on average
for 1983-88), but surpluses are retained mainly by the city's enterprises so
that revenues for public services have continued to fall despite significant
growth in the built-up urban area as shown in Table 1.2 below.
Mh&Lt.Zt 9v98W LOCI L tioS   AMS ReBM
oLoca overn_nat  algoverment Revonue
In0dotriel  Enterprile  rLotte *enditur.      tranefer
.t4 Cl Urn Plut  nt In  *-f billienI C4  b i T  to aentr*l
countle  only  aren  (Y bilIon)  fi   gaCly 1 sodCTt oy         govern  t
Year  (million)  (mllloon)  (kC)   G9O *ree  (Y blIIion)  count.as  only  cowntic&  only  (V billion)
19l6   12.2   7.0    184.0  $8.8      2.8        18.2  16.1  4.2   8.8    18.8
1966    12.8  7.1    1'02.0  S7.8     18.8       17.6  18.6  8.6   8.1     18.4
1487    12.5  7.2    217.0  60.5      7.to16.5       14.2    5.0   4.3    12.4
196W    12.6  7.8    247.0  70.0      0.1       1S.4  12.8    6.5  n.c.   n.n.
1989    12.8  7.8    248.0  78.8      4.7        15.9  tS.8   7.1  6.1     n.m.
Sourco: Sitat. Statlitleial Suran.
Urbanization Trends, Issues, and Options in Shanghai
1.4       Shanghai is the largest metropolis in China and has the potential of
becoming one of the largest centers of international trade and commerce in the
Pacific region. It is the largest port in China and one of the courtry's most
important industrial bases and centers of commerce, science, higher education,
trade, and finance. It had a registered municipal population of approximately
12.8 million in 1990 (not including unregistered "temporary" residents esti-
mated at 1.5 million to 2.0 million). About 7.8 million of the registered
population is urban and much of the remainder semi-urban. Future population
growth, however, could be heavily influenced by in-migration related to eco-
nomic performance and increasing relaxation of migration controls. By the
year 2010, the total municipal population could be between 19 million and 22
million, with an urban component between 12 million and 14 million.
1.5       Of the 8 million persons in the labor force in Shanghai, 57 percent
work in the secondary sector, 31 percent in the tertiary sector, and 12 per-



. -
-3-
cent in the primary sector. Growth in the secondary and tertiary sectors may
expand the labor force to between 11 million and 13 million as Shanghai enters
the twerty-first century. Shanghai's 1988 per capita income of Y 4,501 was
the highest in China and compares with the national average of Y 1,081.
1.6       To meet expected population growth will require major additions to
the municipality's housing, infrastructure and other facilities including
transport, in which there are presently major deficits.11 In the case of
housing, for example, under assumptions of slow growth a minimum of 700,000
housing units would need to be constructed between 1990 and the year 2010. A
stronger economy and higher rate of growth would generate demand for 1.6 mil-
lion units over the same period.
1.7       Relatively high pressures for expansion, and their associated
demands for space and facilities, reflect relatively vigorous ecouomic growth
and, potentially, higher municipal revenues to help to finance that growth.
Shanghai has open to it a number of options for its future growth.    Beyond the
impact of international economic conditions on its growth, the options avail-
able to Shanghai, and the particular growth trajectory chosen, will depend
largely upon national and local development objectives, basic policies con-
cerning the orientation and openness of the economy, the use and pricing of
land and infrastructure, the success with which domestic and foreign capital
are mobilized for urban development, the imaginativeness and environmental
sensitivity of the municipality's planning, and urban management capacity. In
coping with growth, Shanghai has major Infrastructure deficits to overcome,
but it also has opportunities to avoid some of the least desirable features of
mega-cities in the more highly industrialized countries. Among these least
desirable features, it may be able to avoid the cumulative congestion, pollu-
tion and environmental degradation associated with increasing automobile use
elsewhere and the massive, often fruitless, investments in expressways and
roads that result from policies which simply accept, and try to serve,
increasing demands for automobile use.
1.8       Affordability and fiscal constraints are a major short-term concern.
However, given the economic potential of the city and the absence of severe
physical constraints on growth, policies and management capacities will be the
key determinants of the range of options available. This heightens the Impor-
tance of strategic support from the Bank Group, and the importance of examin-
ing options systematically.
1.9       To assist In exploring options during project preparation, a number
of economic and physical development scenarios were explored.21 Recognizing
that financial constraint   would limit the number and scale of the short-term
11   Paved road surface area in Shanghai is equivalent to 2.4 m2 per capita
compared with 6.3 m2 in Beijing and 6.2 m! nationwide. In the 12 urban
districts in the municipality, road space is only about 5 percent of the
land surface; typical urban land use in other major cities of the world
include 15 percent or more devoted to roads in developing coumtries, and
20 percent to 25 percent in central city areas of developed countries.
21   Sha   aiXi:s Develotment Scenarios, Shanghai City Planning and Design
Institute and Groupe Huit, Shanghai, August 1989 (in Project File--Annex
13).



-4.
Investments to be made, the concern was to Identify longer-term options so
that short-term decisions on transport would not preclude any of the important
options being pursued later. Using three economic scenarios, with annual
growth rates for local gross product ranging from 3.9 percent to 8.5 percent
for the period 1987-2005. five physical development scenarios were identified.
These ranged from a low-growth highly-controlled 'cenario to a high-growth
minimal-guidance scenario.
1.10      The analysis and exploratory planning that went Into developing the
scenarios served several Important purposes. First, It helped to ensure that
decisions on near-term transport investments will not foreclose any important
longer-term development options (including, for eoxaple, optlons for develop-
ing the historically and socially important Bund riverfront and the renewal of
the downtown area). Second, it helped to heighten an awareness of the extent
to which actual population growth and land development are racing ahead of
planned development, and the importance of responding to this reailty
promptly. Third, it prompted further discussion of the municipality's under-
lying development objectiveo, including concerns about the fature quality of
life in the city, environmental quality, and related concerns with efficiency,
affordability, the revenue potential of alternative land use and transport
strategies, and the possibility of improving the Aesign, financing and manage-
ment of housing projects. Fourth, it laid a foundation for soundly-based,
longer-term planning for the municipality which wili be supported through
technical assistance during this first metropolitan transport project and in
subsequent phases of the Bank's program In Shanghai. Fifth, it helped to
highlight policy issues that need to be addressed promptly as an input for
subsequent planning and investment.
1.11      Key policy issues identified during the foregoing development sce-
nario work include (a) the specific economic and social activities to be given
priority; (b) the extent to which governmental and private (including foreign)
capital are to be mobilized to finance metropolitan development; Cc) the means
by which central and municipal governv'nt will share the financing of growth
and recurrent expenditure; (d) the extent to which the mobile (or "floating")
population (para. 1.4) is to be recognized and servicedt te) the structuring
of land use and the pricing of rights to use land; Cf) the prospect of greater
labor mobility, and the potential consequences of this for the structuring of
land use and the demand for transport; (g) the potential for relocating dis-
persed, and often obsolete, industrial facilities in order to achieve more
efficient land use and reduce industrial pollution of the municipality's air,
water and land; (h) the potential for improvLng the quality and accelerating
the pace of essential household resettlement as the city's renovation and
growth proceed, while minimizing the need for demolition; (i) the priorilAes
to be given to individual components of the city's infrastructure (including
transport), and policies concerning the supply and pricing of essential ser-
vices and housings and (j) the ways in which transport and other key compo-
nents of infrastructure such as water supply, environmental protection ser-
vices, power and telecommunications, are to be used to guide the growth of the
metropolitan area, rather than being provided simply to rectify existing defi-
clencies and respond to near-term demand.
1.12      Within the transport subsector, issues include Ca) the priorities to
be given to individual modes, including the pedestrian, bicycles, motorcycles,
automobiles, buses, light rail, fixed rail rapid transit, ferries, freight
movements (by river and canal, as well as land), and the consequences of this



-5-
for the structuring of land use, energy use, and environmntal quality;
(b) the potential for constraining travel demand (in particular an Increasing
demand for automobile use) as inces rises (c) the potential fo& effective
intermodal planning and management, and the possibility of prowiding services
with convenience and flexibility comparable with the automobile, to facilitate
a curbing of demand for auto uee   (d) the pricing of trasport services and
the financing of -apital investments, tperations and maintenances and (e) the
actions !-eeded, lncluding strict enforcement of regulations and user educa-
tion, to capture the potentially high returne of modest investments In
Improved traffic management.
1.13      Growth and change in the economic base of Shanghai coupled with
major urban expcnsion will radically alter the structure of the city-.a struc-
ture which, over the past 40 years, has ev"lvad on the basis of cycling and
walking as the primary means of transport and has created a melange of secon-
dary and tertiary activities which are scattered throughout the urban fabric
of the city. These activities are located in buildings originally designed
for other purposes. They are often ill-suited to their needs but located
within easy access by bicycle or on foot to their work force; work force com-
mmnities have grown up and become established around these locations. The
determining factor in the location of people and activities has therefore been
walkling or cycling distance between home, often provided by the work unit
concerned, and work.
1.14      As Shanghai moves towards the twenty-first century it faces a
dilemma. To move away from cycling and walking as the principal means of per-
sonal transport would permit the city to develop a more efficient spatial
distribution of activities necessary for it to enter the next century on an
equal footing with its neighbors (and competitors) in the Asian Pacific
Region. But this involves either (a) rapid motorisation and major expenditure
on freeways and the inevitable envLronmertal degradation that accompanies use
of motorized vehiclest or (b) massive expenditures on environmentally sound
mass transit systems; or (c) combinations of both.
1.15      Retention of cycling would be environmentally sound and more cost
effective. However, it is not obvious how to achieve this and still enable
Shanghai to modernize and expand its economy. There are no examples to refer
to outside of Holland, where the largest city, Rotterdam, is less than 10 per-
cent of the sise of Shanghai and where motorisation levels are high. Clearly,
however, solutions must be found which retain and promote the use of cycling
and provide for cost effective mass transit along major expansion corridors.
A fuller discussion of the urban transport constraints to growth in Shanghai,
and the role of nonmotorised transport, is given in Annex 1. The Bank Group's
modest participation in thls first metropolitan transport project provides an
important opportunity to promote an awareness of these issues and opportuni-
ties. The specific investments being supporte4 and the technical assistance
to be provided constitute a first step in relieving bottlenecks and laying a
sound foundation for longer-term investment in transport and related land
development.



11, URBAN ARANSPORT SECTOR
Present Condition of Urban Transport
2.1       The urban transport system in Shanghai is inadequate for a city of
its size and importance. Purthesaore, the limitations of the system will
become more pronounced with the city's growth as a population and production
center and as a port of entry and egress for overland traffic to its hinter-
land. Present problems include an acute shortage of road space, vehicular
congestion on important road freight routes, mixed traffic on most streets and
roads of the network (leading to low average speeds as bicycles impede motor
traffic), an aging and underpowered truck fleet, a ferry fleet in need of
better boats, and an overcrowded bus fleet requiring more vehicles and slowed
by bicycle traffic. Traffic engineering has taken only preliminary steps in
maximizing flow on the road network. There are few routes reserved for bicy-
cles, no priority lanes for buses, and few streets and roads designated exclu-
s'vely for motor vehicles.
2.2       In the 12 urban districts of the Shanghai Municipality, the road
space occupies only about 5 percent of the land surface--the lowest concentra-
tion of roads in any major city in the world. The Huangpu River splits
Shanghai into two parts, with about 25 percent of th, city's population resid-
ing on the eastern side. Until this year, only one tunnel and the ferry sys-
tem linked the two sides of Shanghai proper. (The newly completed Yanan Tun-
nel will reduce delays in vehicular river crossings but both the new and the
old tunnel have only two lanes.) A third fixed crossing in the form of a
four-lane vehicular bridge will be commissioned in 1992. The bridge nearest
the city center is located 20 km upstream. Thus, by any standard, Shanghai
has a very limited transport infrastructure.
2.3       Congestion is common throughout the day on the urban road network.
The Dapu Lu Tunnel, designed to carry 5,700 vehicles a day, now carries about
9,000 per day, with long lines and major delays at peak periods. The inner
ring road (Zhongshan Road) is heavily congested during a long morning peak
period, when traffic at several major intersections approaches saturation.
The central business district is also heavily congested, slowing bus traffic
and impeding bicycles and pedestrians. Furthermore, roads in the central
business district can accommodate only a few trucks operating under special
license during an average day. (Other truck traffic is diverted to Zhongshan
Road, with the result that trucks comprise 80 percent of its traffic.) Busi-
nesses which depend on truck traffic cannot schedule pick-up and delivery
during the day in many cases, resulting in efficiency losses for commercial
and manufacturing firms. Congestion, rather than the shortage of vehicles,
will be the major obstacle to effectlng needed increases in bus passenger
transportation, until traffic engineering and management practices give
greater priority to bus transit. Currently, buses on the main city routes are
slowed tc the speed of a bicycle during most of the day, and during rush
hours, buses and bicycles alone nearly saturate the urban road space. Only
4 percent of the nonwalking person trips in Shanghai are taken using forms of
transport other than bicycles and buses. Thus the relief from congestion
available for most cities in the developing world, namely the diversion of
motor vehicle traffic to buses, is not immediately available to Shanghai. The
diversion of bicycle traffic to its own network, and the shift of cyclists to



buses, which use road space much more efficiently, are the main possibilities
for relieving congestion in Shanghai.
2.4       Shanghai is overwhelmingly a city of walkers and cyclists.   In 1986,
of the 21 million trips taken each day by the city's then 12 million resi-
dents, 38 percent took place on foot and 33 percent via bicycle and other
nonmotor vehicle (NHV) modes. Public bus and ferry transport accounted for
26 percent of trips; these modes are preferred by people traveling longer dis-
tances such as to and from the universities. Quite unlike other large metro-
politan areas outside China, cars and motorcycles account for only 3 percent
of daily trips.
2.5       Pedestrian and cycle trips as a percentage of total daily trips have
been increasing over time. Between 1981 and 1989, the proportion of pedes-
trian and cycle trips increased from 56 percent to 73 percent, with bicycles
being used increasingly as the preferred mode of travel. Bicycles account for
18 million of the 25 million vehicle-km (72 percent) traveled each day on
Shanghai's streets.
2.6       Associated with the predominance of walking and cycling, which hap-
pen to be the most environmentally sound modes of urban travel, are relatively
short travel distances and travel times. The average travel distance is less
than 5 km and the average travel time is less than 20 minutes. Both are low
compared with commuting distances and tines in cities of similar size in Asia.
Travel costs also are low. However, dependence on this mode of transport
makes it difficult for people and firms to relocate in areas which are beyond
a reasonable walking or cycling distance. This in turn impedes efforts to
modernize, improve, or expand the city's housing and economic activities.
Road Network
2.7       The road network in Shanghai does not have sufficient caracity to
accommodate the city's present travel demands, lot alone any increases in
vehicle flow in the future. The road network in the city proper has not
changed substantially since the 19309. The length of the overall network has
increased by about 42 percent since 1949, but most of this increase is scat-
tered and has taken place in the suburbs and in other expansion areas. The
network is now 3,092 km long.
2.8       The road network is largely saturated, and there is only a limited
division or hierarc!4y of road use by function or type of vehicles. Vehicle
speeds rarely exceed 30 km per hour and the average speed is 15 km per hour.
Host streets are too narrow to accomnodate two lanes of traffic in each direc-
tion, and some roads can only accommodate one lane. Parking space, especially
for bicycles, makes further inroads into the limited street space, causing
spillovers and obstructing pedestrian walkways and motor vehicle operations.
Little road widening or new construction of ro'ds has taken place because of
the large number of people that would have to be relocated in order to free up
additional road space.
2.9       Road layorts follow the traditional fonm, with cycle tracks adjacent
to motor vehicle lanes, or without segregation at all. This arrangement leads
to serious contUcts between bicycles and motor vehicles at intersections and
to srowing accident rates. Little appears to have been done to develop segre-



-8-
gated motor vehicle and nonmotor vehicle networks in new housing areas, such
as happens in the Netherlands, for example.
Traffic Engineering and Control
2.10      A large part of the congestion in Shanghai also is caused by an
inefficient geometric design and poor use of existing streets and intersec-
tions. The resulting conflicts that occur between pedestrians, bicycles, and
other vehicles at intersections due to lack of channelization contribute to
the high accident rate .n the city. The Shanghai Public Security Bureau
(SPSB) has taken several steps to improve the capacity and management of the
road network. For example, it has attempted to separate KM and motor vehicle
traffic by designating 10 through streets for exclusive NW use and 13 streets
for exclusive motor vehicle use during certain hours. It has imposed restric-
tions on trucks ueLng city streets within and around the congested Central
Business District (CBD). It has imposed restrictions on turning movements at
80 intersections and constructed pedestrian overpasses at several major inter-
sections. It has lnstalled computer-controlled traffic signals at 135 inter-
sections and set up fixed time traffic signals at 364 intersections, and sup-
plemented these with traffic police supervision at key intersections. These
improvements have undoubtedly Improved the performance of certain sections of
the net*ork. However, their impact has been undermined by incomplete traffic
control measures. For example, at computer-controlled intersections traffic
police are obliged to control manually the signal timings because the traffic
flowing across the detector loops (which feed the signal timing data to the
computer) is not channelized.
2.11      A further inhibiting factor is the absence of an integrated traffic
management strategy. Each municipal district is responsible for managing
traffic within its boundaries and differences in institutional capacity asgd
technical approach exist among the various districts. The roles and responsi-
bilities of the police and the district administration also vary from district
to district which further inhibits a consistent management approach.
2.12      The lack of traffic management is particularly acute within the CBD
area. This area supports the major flows of pedestrian, bicycle, public
transport and commercial traffic in the city. It comprises 230 hectares, has
an estimated population of 337,000, and provides employment for 168,000 per-
sons--most of whom are crowded into buildings that were designed in the 1920s
for entirely different purposes. The SPSB has attempted to control traffic
along the most intensively trafficked streets in the CBD through some of the
measures described in para. 2.10. However, it recognizes the need for a more
comprehensive traffic management program. Such a program was developed during
project preparation and will be implemented as part of this project (paras.
3.9-3.12).11
I/ Strateav for Transportation System Hanagement, Shanghai Comprehensive
Transportation Planning Team and Barton-Aschman Associates, Shanghai,
September 1989.



-9-
Vehicle Fleet
2.13      The motorized vehicle fleet includes about 200,000 vehicles, the
majority of which are trucks (53 percent). The remainder of tae fleet is made
up of cars (20 percent), motorcycles (17 percent), and buses and minibuses
(10 percent). Before 1984, the motorized fleet was increasing at a rate of
5 percent a years since 1965 it has been increasing at 17.5 percent a year.
Cars and motorcycles have experienced the highest rates of growth (about
32 percent each). M4uch of the truck fleet consists of inherently slow vehi-
cles and the effects of this are exacerbated by poor maintenance.
2.14      The nonmotorized vehicle fleet includes about 6.6 million vehicles,
of which 6.5 million are bicycles, which represents a fleet density of one
bicycle for every 1.9 inhabitants. This is one of the highest densities in
the world. Since 1983, the bicycle fleet has been increasing at a rate of
about 16 percent a year on average.
Public Transport
2.15      Public transport in Shanghai is a major public enterprise.    The
Shanghai Transit Company (STC) runs one of the largest bus operations in the
world. It employs more than 75,000 workers and manages a fleet of about 5,500
busec. In 1988, daily passenger boardings were estimated to be around 15.3
mi.lion. Buses account for 56 percent of the nonwalking person trips in
Shanghai City, and 42 percent of such trips in the municipality as a whole.
This translates into about 7 million trips per day in the city and 9 million
trips in the whole municipality. On the inner-ring road, bus passenger trips
during peak periods approach 30,000 per hour; on some other major thorough-
fares, they are nearly 20,000. On most city streets, however, throughput of
bus passengers is relatively low and speeds are slow despite wide spacing
between stops.
2.16      The operating speed of buses is low--averaging 8 km per hour in the
inner city, which is about the speed of bicycles. Bus routes are fixed and
are fairly extensivel 280 routes covering 4,500 route-km in the metropolitan
area. The transfer rate is high; 90 percent of passengers have to transfer
from one bus to another at least once (in other cities the transfer rate
rarely exceeds 40 percent). Bus ridership has increased at an average rate of
about 6 percent a year and is expected to continue growing at about this rate
in the future.
2.17      Since 1986, the financial condition of STC has deteriorated to the
point where it no longer has the funds required to renew its fleet (let alone
expand it). Before 1990, STC's fares had not been increased since 1949
despite significant inflation in costs, especially labor costs, since 1980.
In real terms, fares declined by 40 percent between 1986 and 1989. To meet
its wage bill alone, STC currently requires an nnual subsidy of Y 180 million
($38.2 million). Following a recent study on bus transportation in
Shanghai 2/ carried out during project preparation, a 100 percent increase
in fares was introduced. Further analyses are needed to develop practical
21   Bus Trans ortation in Shan&ais    Sto ling the Decay, Richard Darbera and
Benmard icot, Paris, November 15, 1989.



-10-
policies to balance costs with revenues and to diversify the supply of bus
services to meet demand better (pdra. 3.38 (b)(iv)).
2.18      Perry service is the dominant form of transport linking the two
parts of Shanghai across the Huangpu River. Currently, the ferry is the only
cross-river service available for pedestrians and bicyclists, and it also
handles heavy vehicle traffic. About 1 million persons per day use the ferry
service, which operates 20 lines and 65 ferries for passengers, and 5 lines
with 20 ferries for vehicles. Only one line is open to bicyclists. Con-
gestion is not a major problem for passenger service, but weather conditions
sometimes interrupt service. Long vehicle delays are common on some of the
vehicle ferry lines.
Freight Movemnts
2.19      Some 70 percent of domestic cargo generatod by the port of Shanghai
is transported by trucks. This amounts to about 100 million metric tons annu-
ally. The port handles 60 percent of all goods moving in and out of the SMR
and accounts for 99 percent of its total foreign trade. Shanghai port facili-
ties generate 11,000 daily truck movements with the major concentration and
congestion at downtown terminals. At these terminals, truck traffic varies
between 700 trucks per day (at Gaoyang) and 1,400 trucks per day (at Huishan).
Within the SMR, average haul distance is 12 km, and each truck carries six
loadp per day on average. The average size of trucks is eight tons, and their
design is limited by the minimum standards of the urban road network.
2.20      Street access to downtown terminals is very narrow and with fore-
casted traffic increases in the range of 3 to 4 percent per year, the future
daily accumulated delays and related costs could be severe. Due to congestion
and the narrowness of the road network within the CBD, truck movements are
restricted between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. All trucks are banned during this period
except for those registered by city enterprises (about 25 percent) which are
entitled to a special pass permitting access to the restricted area.
2.21      Truck restrictions in the CBD area and the lack of adequate cross-
ings to the east bank of the Huangpu River oblige trucks to use Zhongshan Road
(which is the only continuous by-pass route with sufficient road width and
geometric design standards to accommodate trucks). The channeling of trucks
along the Zhongshan Road corridor is causing congestion and the need for
urgent improvement measures to avoid blocking access to the Shanghai port.
Traffic Safety
2.22      Traffic signs are used extensively throughout the city to regulate
traffic movements and promote safety. Unfortunately, their effect is limited
by the poor discipline of drivers and cyclists and the lack of enforcement and
associated traffic engineering measures. Tne SPSB has begun a campaign to
educate road users on the recently published highway code and associated laws
and regulations.
2.23      The incidence of traffic fatalities in Shanghai is high--ten times
that of Tokyo and five times higher than Tianjin--and is increasing at about
9 percent a year. About 3,400 fatalities were registered on Shanghai's road
network between 1984 and 1988. The high rate of fatalit'es in due to the



-11-
large proportion of pedestrians and cyclists Oat risk in the traffic network
and to delays in providing first aid to accident victims.
2.24      To improve the monitoring of accidents and provision of aid to vic-
tims, the SPSB developed a traffic safety improvement program with technical
assistar-e during project preparation.31 The program is being established
as a pi" L effort in one district in Shanghai and will be replicated later
throughout the city if the results are favorable (a part of this program is
included in the project--see para. 3.12 and Annex 2).
Urban Transport Policy
2.25      Present urban transport policy in Shanghai recognises the adverse
effects of present traffic conditions on economic development and social prog-
ress in general. In addressing these concerns priority is given to upgrading
urban transport infrastructure and improving management of the traffic system.
These goals were addressed during preparation through four interrelated
approaches (a) formulation of a long-term perspective, (b) support for short-
term infrastructure projects, (c) traffic management measures, and (d) user
education.
2.26      The long-term solutions to the city's transport problems should
include a more efficient structuring of land use in existing built-up areas,
guided Land development in new growth areas (incluJing measures to create new
subcenters of activity such as Pudong, east of the Huangpu River, that will
relieve the pressures on the congested city center), multimodal transport
development, to optimize the use of each mode (including a modern, grade-
separated expressway system and a high-capacity mass transit system) and sound
traffic management. Because all these changes cannot be effected immediately,
the limited resources available for major construction are concentrated on a
few strategic projects wvihin each five-year planning cycle. At the same
time, small-scale low-cost improvements are being made to make better use of
existing facilities and improve the management of the system.
2.27      During the previous five-year planning period (1986-90), investment
was to be concentrated in six priority projects: (a) construction of the
first subway line; (b) construction of an elevated viaduct along the most
congested section of Zhongshan Road; (c) providing a grade separation for an
initial intersection and railway crossing on Cao Qi Road; (d) construction of
Vusong Dam Bridge (completed in April 1991); (e) completion of Yanan Tunnel
(completed in 1989); and (f) initiating construction of Nanpu Bridge. For the
next period (1991-95), local planners have identified the following priority
areas: (a) construction of a second subway line; (b) extension of the
Zhongshan Road viaduct; (c) improving highway links to the interior;
(d) improvements to inner-city road infrastructure; and (e) development of
Pudong and its associated river crossings.
2.28      The Shanghai authorities emphasize bolstering public transport and
limiting the growth of bicycles, motorcycles, and private cars. To make bet-
3/   Report on Safety, Shanghai Comprehensive Transportation Planning Team and
Barton-Aschman Associates, Shanghai, September 1989.



-12-
ter use of existing facilities, several traffic management initiatives are
proposed. Some of these include establishing further exclusive NKV routes in
and around the CBD, resiting illegally-located street markets and vendors,
introducing regulations to promote CBD freight deliveries at night, intro-
ducing staggered working hours, rationalizing bus routes, and enforcing traf-
fic regulations.
2.29      The difficulties involved in urban transport planning for Shanghai
will call for considerable cooperation and patience on the part of the local
population. For one thing, the improvements needed in the transport system
vill not be cheap, and new eou'tces of revenue will be needed to finance them.
Possible sources under consideratio0. are a purchase tax on vehicles, a better-
ment tax for road improvemnts and constructiG", and road development taxes.
Second, even limited road widening and construction activities require exten-
sive demolition and resettlement. Fortunately, the municipality has had
extensive experience with large-scale resettlement and the ongoing resettle-
ment program provides relocated households with housing and communiL' facili-
ties substantially better than those they had previously. Closer coordination
between the municipality and the dLstrict cormittess will be required in order
to achieve effective traffic management.
2.30      The Shanghai authorities have utilized technical advice from traffic
and transportation experts outside of China. Since 1983, Australia, France,
Japan, Swed-*A, and the Unlted States have provided technical assistance to
Shanghai in the areas of traffic management, computer-controlled traffic sig-
naling, bus route planuing, network modeling, traffic safety, public transport
financing, transport corridor development, bridge design, and urban growth
analysis. This technical assistance has provided the basis for discussions
with the Bank Group on assistance to the sector. Since 1988 the body of know-
ledge on the urban transport sector in Shanghai has significantly increased as
a result of project preparation.
2.31      Independently, the Shanghai authorities have carried out consider-
able work in the management of bicycles and other nonmotorized vehicles.
Streets have been designated for exclusive NMV use, an idea which has proved
to be remarkably cheap, simple, and effective. They have erected simple bar-
riers or fences to channel ?KVs along streets which are used by motorized
vehicles. They also have developed well-designed pedestrian bridges at com-
plex junctions in and around the CID. These efforts provided the basis for
Bank assistance to the nonmotorized sector wLthin the proposed project (pars.
3.10).
2.32      Extensive knowledge of urban growth in Shanghai has been gleaned
from the recent analysis of urban development scenarios in the city (para.
1.9). However, the network modeling,and urban growth components of the analy-
sis have not yet advanced far enough to foretell the effects of infrastructure
investment decisions on future development and growth. Therefore, only
improvements to the existing system may be coneidered with any confidence at
this time. Bank assistance in the sector is currently being limited to prior-
ity investments coupled with technical assistance to prepare for the planning
and management of future growth and further development of ongoing network
modeling and urban growth analyses. The Institutionalization of an ad hoc
taak force, the Shanghai Comprehensive Transportation Planning Team (SCTPT)
into a Shanghai City Comprehenive Transport Planning Institute (SCCTPI), came



-13-
about as a result of experience gained by the Shanghai Municipal Government
(SMG) during project preparation (para. 2.37). and is expected to bring about
major changes in urban transport policy in Shanghai and possibly in China as a
whole.
Urban Transport Institutions
2.33      The present weaknesses in Shanghai's transport system are compounded
by two institutional factors--fragmentation in the structure of sector insti-
tutions, which hinders rational planning and operations, and inadequate finan-
cing mechanisms, which inhibits investment and maintenance. Five entities are
prominent in the city's transportation sectors (a) the Planning Codission,
(b) the Construction Comiission, (c) the Public Security Bureau, (d) the
Finance Bureau, and (e) the Municipal Transportation Office.  The Sbtnghai
Municipal Planning Commission (SMPC) is responsible for managing the city's
resources, a task which includes establishing overall development policy and
planning, development budget allocation, and creating special projects. It
reports to the Shanghai People's Standing Committee. The Shanghai Municipal
Construction Commission (SMCC) is responsible for land use planning, environ-
mental protection, and the design, construction, operation, and maintenance of
the city's infrastructure throutgh various bureaus, divisions, and institutes.
The Shanghai Public Security Bureau (SP8B) is responsible for traffic manage-
ment and enforcement. The Shanghai Finance Bureau (SFB) is responsible for
municipal fiscal affairs. The Shanghai Municipal Transportation Office (SMTO)
oversees all trucking operations and nonroad transport enterprises. Chart 1
illustrates the organization of Shanghai Municipal Government and its numerous
transportation-related agencies.
2.34      Urban Transport Administration.  Fragmentation in the road transport
subsector is evident in the independent planning of highway, bus, and freight
transport operations. Similarly, the planning and operation of passenger
transport services is carried out separately for buses and the planned subway
system. The recently introduced traffic management function is conducted
separately from the transport operations functLon, and both functions are
handled independently by the 12 administrative districts within the city.
Sectoral fiscal policies and arrangements for development financing also are
fragmented.
2.35      The absence of an Integrated approach to management has hampered
coordination, restricted cost-effective remedies, and prevented the develop-
ment of efficient planning mechanisms. As a result, the recent expansion and
modernization of Shanghai's urban areas have occurred without adequate atten-
tion to the need for greater efficiency in land use and the establishment of a
growth pattern that will be sustainable and environmentally sound, or the need
for a systematic upgradLng of the municipality's multimodal transport system.
Most of the solutions proposed to date emphasize large-scale corridor improve-
ments and mass transit approaches, both of which carry large inlvestment and
operational costs.
2.36      Since 1985, the Bank Group and various bilateral donors have pro-
vided assistance to Shanghai in the city's effort to (a) develop specific
tools for integrated transport planning and analysis; and (b) introduce low-
cost management techniques and systems. Efforts have centered on two rela-
tively new units--SCTPT and the Traffic Management Division (TMD) of SPSB.



-14-
SCTPT was an ad hoc task force of staff seconded from agencies interested in
transport planning, and located under the Shanghai Construction Commission's
City Planning and Design Institute (SCPDI). TMD is a structural unit of the
Shanghai Public Security Bureau (SPSB).
2.37      The experience with comprehensive transportation planning has been
sufficiently encouraging to lead to the transformation of SCTPT into a perma-
nent agencys the Shanghai City Comprehensive Transport Planning Institute
(SCCTPI). This institute was established in December 1990 and is responsible
for comprehensive transportation planning and research as well as the guidance
and coordination of urban transport planning. This is an institutional reform
of long-term and potentially major significance. Its development therefore
will be supported as part of the proposed project (para. 3.18(b)(i) and Annex
3).
2.38      SPSB's Traffic Management Division (TMD) is responsible for traffic
engineering, traffic safety, and enforcement of traffic regulations in two of
Shanghail's 12 urban districts. Traffic management in the remaining urban
districts and counties is carried out to varying degrees by traffic squads
reporting to district or county-level public security bureaus. Unlike in
other prominent cities in China, the TMD in Shanghai is a lower-echelon agency
lacking in authority. It has little expenditure-responsibility other than for
signalization, signing and marking, and depends on cooperation from the
Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Division (SMEAD) of the various
districts to undertake even minor civil works. However, its planning and
operational capabilities have been strengthened by technical assistance from
Australia and more recently, from the United States. Further assistance would
be provided to TMD under the technical assistance described below (para.
3.18(a)(i) and Annex 3).
2.39      Financial Aspects.   SMG has difficulty raising capital and funding
current expenditures for urban services which are not revenue producing.
Revenue forecasts are diffL..lt because it is difficult to obtain a comprehen-
sive picture of munic!.pal revenues at any one point in time. Because local
taxation was a rarity in the past, the fiscal systems and capacity for finan-
cial management in Sanghai are not equipped to handle the increased revenue
and expenditure autho:ity that has been granted to local governments since
1983. SMG itself has no borrowing authority and must rely on the borrowings
of the enterprises and financial entities it controls. Taxation systems are
still underdeveloped, relying on the emerging corporate income and sales
taxes. Taxes are not administered uniformly, and concessions are common.
User fees, where applied, generally have not kept pace with inflation and are
insufficient to cover the cost of operations. The resource allocation and
budget administration functions axe complicated by a multiplicity of extrabud-
getary funds that are managed by compissions and bureaus independent of the
muicipal treasury.
2.40      User fees are a significant source of income and have the potential
to finance a growing proportion of investment needs. Until the recent fare
increase, both the bus and ferry companies were incurring losses on opera-
tions, on annual sales of services of about Y 325 million by the bus company
and Y 30 million by the ferry company. It was estimated during appraisal that
to make up their deficits and cover their own investment costs, bus and ferry
fees would have to increase the fare by about 75 percent. Subsequently, fares



were increased by 100 percent in October 1990. For the ferry company, the
increase in fees would have to be borne mainly by pedestrians and cyclists,
who pay very low rates and are heavily cross-subsidized by ferry motor-vehicle
traffic. Other direct user fees are tolls on tunnels and bridges, which
amounted to Y 24 million and Y 8 million, respectively, in 1987. With the
Yanan Tunnel completed and three new crossings planned before the turn of the
century, tolls could become a major revenue source, equal perhaps to 5 percent
of the total annual transport investment. Shanghai also levies taxes on vehi-
cles and transport that could be considered as user fees for transport infra-
structure. These are (a) The Highway Maintenance Fee, a tax on vehicle and
boat use, which yielded Y 413 million in 1907; (b) the bicycle tax, which will
yield about Y 10 million per year; and (c) other vehicle taxes (vehicle and
boat utilization tax) which yielded Y 388 milLion. In total user fees other
than bus and ferry fares yield about Y 900 mlllion ($191 million) per year.
By international standards, road transport users in Shanghai pay a high per-
centage of transport costs.
2.41      City revenues may be enhanced by improved administration, new taxes,
and greater reliance on user fees and borrowing. Land use fees and annual
property taxes represent a relatively untapped atd buoyant source of revenue.
Regardless of the sources chosen, the task of evaluating appropriate measures
will be a complex one requiring extensive study and testing. Because the
issue of revenue enhancement extends beyond the sphere of transportation
investments to encompass all municipal services, a sectorally focused project
such as this one is not considered the most suitable domain for addressing
this issue.
Determination of Urban Transport Priorities
2.42      The first priority in improving the urban transport system must be
to use the existing infrastructure as efficiently as possible. Shanghai has
developed a traffic assignment model, which could be a valuable tool in iden-
tifying and evalaating the many small investments that are needed to get
greater service from the present system. Examples of these small investments
are link roads, NMV systems, bus priority routes, and minor engineering works.
2.43      Shanghai is now undertaking a major investment in a metro line which
will serve a route of 17 km. Other lines are being planned. The expected
cost of the present line is approximately $50 million per km. To put this sum
in perspective, the 17-km line comprises about one half of Shanghai's entire
transport investment in the current five-year plan. It is therefore doubtful
that such an expensive mode can be the core of the urban transport system for
passengers in Shanghai.
2.44      Recovering the costs of the ongoing Shanghai metro project is of
particular concern. This project is now under construction and cannot be
halted. Although its alignment serves areas in and around the CBD and there-
fore does nct affect long-term growth options, the project nevertheless could
have a significant influence on the development of the inner city and its
associated public transport service. Shanghai authorities are considering
recovering some of the cost of the metro investment by taxing the enterprises
that will benefit from proximity to the new m:ne.   The Bank Group supports
this idea in principle and will explore with Shanghai authorities other cost
recovery options such as fees for land use rights in the vicinity of metro



-16-
stations during execution of the proposed metropolitan transport project.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that SMG would furnish to the
Association commencing June 30, 1292, details of the municipality's medium-
tenm transuortation investment plan and subsequent annual investment plan8.
for the Associaticn's review and comments.
2.45      Planning for all high-density corridor movement systems, including
metro, is expected to start immediately, using the traffic assignment model,
among other tools, so that an alternative is available before the second metro
line is due to start construction. Halting metro planning without some high-
volume alternative is unreasonable, as is opting for such an expensive system
as metro without studying all relevant alternatives. Planning for all high-
density corridor movement systems, including metro, would be supported by
technical assistance provided under the proposed project and include due
emphasis on public transportation (see para. 3.18(b)(ii) and Anne.: 3).
2.46      Shanghai must improve its plan for the expansion of population and
employment, with realistic and affordable transport infrastructure to support
this growth. At present there is no secure basis for estimating future popu-
lation growtb. Statistical work has concentrated on the registered (i.e.,
official and permanent) population. The mobile population, which makes up a
large and growing share of the city's actual residents, has been studied only
periodically on an ad hoc basis. Thus, reasonable estimates of the growth of
the mobile population can vary widely, which introduces a wide range into the
projections of total population. A plausible method for narrowing this range
is required, based on firmer analysis of the trends in the mobile population.
2.47      With improved population projections, Shanghai will be in a position
to improve plans for the expansion of its urbanized areas. Shanghai's offi..
cial "Comprehensive Development Plan' is already out of date due to population
growth and location decisions that are inconsistent with its basic assump-
tions. A new framework, the draft Development Scenario (DS), is still heavily
influenced by normative considerations of land use, but it takes a more real-
istic view of actual population growth and location developments. Like the
Comprehensive Plan, however, the DS incorporates plans for major infrastruc-
tural links which are not costed out. Cost considerations were not dominant
either in the conception of the use of space or in the resulting requirement
for trunk infrastructural links.
2.48      In addition to the roads necessary for its own expansion, Shanghai
requires upgraded and expanded links to its economic hinterland. Shanghai,
Zhejiang, and Jiangsu, the adjoining provinces, are becoming increasingly
integrated economically, and industrial spectialization will further increase
commerce throughout the Yangtze Delta area. Both road and water links south
from Shanghai are fully used. Two major projects in the plans for r-st-1992--
the Shanghai-Hangzhou Highway and the Shanghai-Quingpu-Ping Vang Highway--will
add needed capacity on this corridor. The planned Jiangsu Road investment and
the Nanjing Highway investment, major elements in the post-1991 investment
list, are also required to serve Shanghai's dense economic hinterland and
handle traffic to and from its port. Work on an outer ring road, particularly
to the west and north of the city, is also important, partly as a defensive
measure, At present, the natural route of most of the traffic from Jiangsu



-17-
and Zhejiang Provinces includes travel on Zhongshan Road, which is already
highly congested and serves a beltway function for the city proper. A second
ring road would also serve the present industrial and Northern Railway
Terminus area, which is heavily congested with traffic transiting to the port.
Shanghai cannot afford to accommodate this traffic via Zhongshan Road, since
it is needed to serve the traffic needs of the city proper.
2.49      Major increases in traffic volumes can be expected between the new
industrial and residential areas of the city and the central business dis-
trict. This was recogaSnized in the present plan, which in-luded both the Nanpu
Bridge, Yanan Tunnel, and another proposed Huangpu River crossing at Ninguo.
These additions were designed partly to address the need. for integration
between the city center and the East Bank (Pudong). Similarly, westward
expansion, proceeding faster than planned, will require added capacity on
streets and roads into the c.tty, and its own economic development will
increase the covmercial and industrial traffic load in the inner city.
2.50      Plans must be wade to handle this new traffic within the city, par-
ticularly traffic arising from the river crossings, which will dump a concen-
trated stream of traffic onto the west bank of the Huangpu River, where there
is no major highway to receive it. The planned North-South Corridor develop-
ment is needed on about the same schedule that the Nanpsa and Ninguo projects
are completed. Otherwise traffic from the east bank will begin to compete
with present downtown traffic, even though its destination is not the city
center. Other improvements in major traffic corridors also will be needed,
although present studies do not yet support any particular choices. Studies
are included in the proposed project to analyze urban transport investment
priorities (para. 2.45). A more detailed analysis of urban transport con-
straints to growth in Shanghai is given in Annex 1.
Environmental Pollution
2.51      The urban transport sector is not a major cause of air pollution in
Shanghai due to the relatively small size of the motorized vehicle fleet.
Limited data exists on vehicle emisslons but the predominance of truck move-
ments would suggest potential problems from diesel emissions. Some 60 percent
of the present bus fleet is gasoline powered which would suggest mitor concen-
trations of vehicle emission pollution along certain corridors with high-
density bus flows.
2.52      The Shanghai Environtmental Protection Bureau is responcible for
vehicle emission regulation and control. The predominance of cycling and
walking coupled with 30 percent of the bus fleet being electric powered pro-
vides Shanghai with far fewer vehicle emission problems than a city of its
size elsewhere. However, a transition toward motorization (in the form of
motorcycles, cars, or diesel buses) could radically alter this comparatively
esafe" situation. Moreover, the city air is polluted from industrial and
domestic sources (particularly coal-burning stoves and boilers in winter).
although such less so than more northerly cities, but any increase in pollu-
tion from vehicle emissions could aggravate the situation. Hence, it is not
too soon to prepare for environmentally safe solutions to the rising demands



-18-
for mobility. In this respect the measures taken and proposed by the Shanghai
authorities to provide priority for bicycles are to be encouraged.
Bank's Urban Sector Lendin Strategy and Role in Shan&hai
2.53      Shanghai's prominent role in the economy of the Yangtze Economic
Zone (which currently accounts for some 23 percent of the nation's GNP) under-
scores its long-term ambition to recover its former position as a leading
center of manufacturing, trade and finance in the Pacific Rim. (The Yangtze
Economic Zone covers the provinces of Jiangsu, Zhejiang, and Anhui, and the
Municipality of Shanglai.) To thiV end, Shanghai's medium-term development
plans envisage a period of sustained economic growth underpilnned by a program
of structural reform and redevelopment of its industrial and financial sec-
tors. Currently, the city is experimenting with a broad range of reform in
inductrial management, foreign trade, pricing, land management, and housing
production, as well as fiscal and financial sector reforms. The role of urban
infrastructure and housing in Shanghai's attainment of its economic and social
goals is crucial. For example, the restructuring of industry will most cer-
tainly entail locational changes determined increasingly by market forces.
Both tlxis trend and the changing role of central city land use from residen-
tial to commercial uses, in addition to population growth, will dictate the
establishment of new residential areas and generate new travel patterns.
Servicing of these new and redeveloped areas will require significant depar-
tures from the city's current, inflexible land use plans and established
infrastructural networks.4/ Planning and financing such new urban services
and land development (in addition to dealing with existing backlogs in ser-
vices following years of neglect) will be a major task for the city, requiring
also concomitant strengthening of the muticipal management system, its public
service institutions, and their financing mechanisms.
2.54      The complex task of design and management of an integrated economic
and social reform program in Shanghai is currently being assisted by the Bank
and UNDP. In February 1991, an international workshop was held to discuss the
potential and directions of Shanghai's growth and to explore the required
development policy options. As a result the city has established a ligh-level
leading group chaired by the mayor to collaborate with the Bank, UNDP, and key
central government core agencies. The role of the leading group is to attempt
to develop integrated policies and measures for a comprehensive reform program
for the furtherance of Shanghai's key industrial and financial sector reforms,
trade, labor and price reforms, housing and infrastructure reforms, and fiscal
reform. The policy framework and a monitorable implementation action plan for
the medium term is expected to evolve through research and deliberation over
the next one to two years. The action plan would be expected to provide a
coordinated basis for the guidauce for institutional development and sectoral
planning as well as investment selection.
41   The Bank is financing several projects in the Shanghai area (power,
transport, agriculture, industry, sewerage, and port improvement). All
these investments affect to some degree demand for urban transportation.



-19-
2.55      The Bank's urban sector lending strategy In China is to (a) assist
the Government in planning and prioritizing needs for urban services, housing,
and enviroanental protection, and to prepare cost-effective projects; (b) help
strengthen institutions responsible for planning, preparing, constructing, and
operating urban services and environmental protection through support for
organizational improvement and staff training; (c) promote sound financial and
cost recovery policies for urban services; and (d) help develop sector poli-
cies and strategies conducive to eficient urban development, operation of
urban services, and enhancement of environmental quality supportive of China's
overall reform program. In areas of urban planning, finance, and management,
China looks to the Bank Group for transfer of experience gained !.n other coun-
tries.  No urban projects have been completed in China to date and experience
has yet to be evaluated. The ongoing Shanghai Sewerage Project (Loan 2794-
CHA/Credit 1779-CHA, 1987) has been implemented satisfactorily to date.
Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
2.56      The proposed project would consolidate the institutional development
which has occurred in the spatial planning and urban transport planning,
implementation, and management fields through earlier bilateral and Bsank tech-
nical assistance. It is an important component of the overall economic devel-
opment plan of Shanghai. It represents an initial phase of investment in the
physical capacity as well as the in.titutional capacity required to meet the
city's current and future transportation needs. The financial impacts of the
city's overall transportation investment plans and othaer infrastructural
investment requirements over the medium term are expected to be considerable.
The Bank Group's unique resources and extensive experience in urban develop-
ment and lianagement (and urban transport planning and development in particu-
lar) have contributed significantly towards an improved sectoral investment
planning capacity in Shanghai and towards the definition of least-cost solu-
tions. Continued assistance as proposed under the project (para. 3.18) could
help Shanghai resolve more efficiently not only its urban transport problems,
but also the increasingly complex intersectoral issues facing the city along
its path towards reform and opening to the outside world, as well as in its
desire to raise the living standards of its population.



-20-
III. THE PROJECT
Proiect Origin and Formulation
3.1       The proJect was identified Qn May 1988.   At that time, the Shanghai
authorities presented three large infrastructural investments for possible
Bank Group financings (a) a tunnel under the Huangpu River, at Ninguo; (b) a
vladuct running north-south in the city center (Cbengdu)l and (c) .n urban
ring road (Zhongshan). Given the complexity of the transport sector in
Shanghai, the Bank Group considered it necessary to examine these and other
future Investments vithin the context of a comprehensive and realistic deve-
lopment strategy for the Shanghai Metropolitan Region (SMR). The Shanghai
authorities therefore initiated, with Bank Group assistance, a series of eight
studies during project preparation, using technical assistanc-e financed by the
French Consultant Trust Funds, the U.S. Trade and Development Program (TDP),
and the Japanesa Grant Facilitv. These studies added to the base of knowledge
on the urban sector in Shauanai provided by studies financed by the Australian
International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB) and carried out between
1983 and 1985. The eight most recent studies include the following:
(a) an analysis of Urban Transport Finances and Investments;
(b) the development of Land Use Scenarios for Transport Forecasts;
(c) the development and application of an urban transport model;
(d) preparation of Road Safety and Traffic Regulation Programs;
(e)  preparation of a Traffic Systems Management (TSK) Program;
(f) a study if bus and ferry company operations;
(g) an analysis of the Zhen Xi pilot land development project; and
(h) prefeasibility and feasibiiity studies of major transport invest-
ments (North-South Corridor and Zhongshan Inner-Ring Road).
3.2       Of the three investments initially proposed, the Zhongshan Inner
Ring Road was retained in the proposed project; however, the length of viaduct
included has been reduced from 10.7 km to 5.5 km, which was the most congested
section of the inner-ring road (see Annex 4). The Chengdu Cross-City Viaduct,
which would require massive demolition and relocation (5,500 families and
110,000 am of building space for 3.6 km of viaduct), and the proposed Ninguo
Tunnel are being reexamined in light of the findings of the above studies and
the fact that a major bridge across the Huangpu River (Nanpu Bridge) is now
under construction, financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB). In addi-
tion, a comprehensive traffic safety and management program was introduced
into the program.
3.3       The project has been prepared by several Shanghai engineering design
institutes with asiistance from foreign consultants lf funded by the French
Consultant Trust Fund. The Zhongshan Inner-Ring Road was prepared by SMECC
and Shanghai Municipal Engineering Design Institute (SMEDI). The traffic
management component was prepared by SPSB, SC?DI. and SNEAD with the assis-
tance of consultants 21 funded under the Japan Grant Facility. The project
11   ICZOM and Group Huit, France.
21 Barton and Ascbman, United States.



-21-
preparation teams have been coordinated by the Shanghai Construction Commis-
sion (SCC). Feasibility studies for the project components have been com-
pleted and reviewed by the Bank Group. Local and foreign consultants have
been engaged to carry out final detailed designs. Bid documents for both
international and local competitlve bidding have been completed for the
Zhongshan Inner-Ring Road. The present project was appraised in October 1989
and the appraisal findings were updated in February 1991. The negotiations of
the development credit were held April 8-12, 1991.   Tha delegation of the
People's Republic of China was led by Mr. Luo Qing, Dlrector of the World Bank
Department, Ministry of Finance.
Project Objectives
3.4       The principal objective of the project is to provide the basis for
developing an efficient urban transport system in the Shanghai Metropolitan
Region (SMR). In order to meet this objective, the project is designed to
achieve the followingt
(a) increase capacity, reduce congestion, and improve efficiency in the
transport network; and
(b) improve the planning, programming, financing, and management of the
urban transport system in Shanghai.
3.5       The project would represent the first stage of a long-term program
intended to upgrade and develop the urban transport infrastructure of Shanghai
in order to meet the demands generated by modernization of the local economy.
The project would contribute to this program by introducing innovative traffic
management measures (including nonmotor vehicle measures and the first high-
capacity busway in China), upgrading a critical section of the city's primary
arterial network, and providing technical assistance in urban transport plan-
ning and programming. The project would support the municipality's desire to
replace the present fragmented institutional structure by creating a high-
level comprehensive transport planning institute, to be responsible for urban
transportation planning and policies.
Proiect Descrigtion
3.6       The proposed project includes three principal components:
(a) Major Road Investments ($131.9 million);
(b) Traffic Management and Safety ($11.7 million): and
(c) Technical Assistance ($4.6 million).
Major Road Investments
3.7       This component consists of the Zhongshan Inner-Ring Road, involving
almost 90 percent of project costs. It includes construction of a 5.5-km via-
duct and a series of surface road improvements. During project preparation,
SMG agreed with the Bank Group that the initial investment would be limited to
the section of the inner-ring road where congestion is the most severe.



-22-
Alternative measures to improve traffic conditions would be much more costly
than the solution adopted.
3.8       Construction activities for this component will be carried out in
two parts. Part I includes ce-struction of a 5.5-km dual two-lane elevated
viaduct, two entrance and exit ramps, and a ground-level service road. The
viaduct will be located over the present Zhongshan Road, from just south of
Jin Sha Jiang Road to north of Hutai Road (IBRD Hap 22042). The entrance and
exit ramps will be located at Wuning Road. The seLvice road improvements will
be made on Zhongshan Road for the length of the viaduct. The improvements
include four motor vehicle lanes (dual tw--lane carriageways), two exclusive
nonmotor vehicle roads each 4 m in width, two ped.strian walkways each 3 m in
width, and construction of temporary service roads of approximately 5 km on
each side of Zhongshan Road for traffic diversion during construction of the
viaduct. Part 1I includes intersection improvements underneath, and to the
north and south of the viaduct, widening of Zhongshan Road for 1.5 kilometers
just south of the viaduct, including improvement of a bridge over the Suzhou
Creek. The total improvements on Zhongshan Road would be 10.7 km. Further
details are provided in Annex 4.
Traffic Safety and Management
3.9       This component is a six-year (1992-97) program of small-scale
improvement, traffic engineering, and control measures designed to meet the
operational needs of three priority action programs and a traffic safety pilot
program. These action programs include (a) the nonmotor vehicle (NWV) action
program; (b) the CBD action program; and (c) the north-south corridor (NSC)
action program. These very low-cost improvements, identified with Bank Group
support, will bring about major increases in efficiency in the use of the
existing road network and will enhance the environmental quality of the down-
town area. The programs are described below and are presented in more detail
in Annex 2.
3.10      The Nonmotor Vehicle (NKV) Action Program includes establishing an
exclusive NKV route network 19.4 km long in and around the Central Business
District (CBD); it includes construction of an exclusive NMV bridge across
Suzhou Creek at Puji. The CBD Traffic Management Program involves developing
a comprehensive traffic management system for the CBD road network, which is
26.2 km long. The North-South Corridor (NSC) Program involves implementing
the first stage of the NSC improvement program. This includes establishing an
exclusive busway 1.1 km long along the Waitan and instituting traffic engi-
neering and control measures to the north of the recently completed Wusong
Bridge.
3.11      The three action programs provide for six discrete traffic engi-
neering and control measurest
(a) provision of about 67 new sets of traffic signals, 27 of which would
be linked to the existing Area Traffic Control (ATC) system);
(b) modification of some 19 sets of existing traffic signals, 12 of
which would be linked to the present ATC system;



-23.
(c) channelisation of approximately 108 intersections and about 2.2
kilometers of streets;
(d) provision of approximately 1,455 sets of traffic signs and associ-
ated lane markings along 45.4 km of streets;
(e)  construction of six missing links in the proposed NMV network; and
(f) provision of bus priority facilities (including the establishment of
a 1.1 km busway).
3.12      Traffic Safety.  This pilot program will provide the Shanghai Public
Security Bureau with the equipment needed to: (a) modify procedures for acci-
dent reporting and data collection in order to improve the quantity and qual-
ity of basic accident data; (b) carry out a computerized analysis of accident
data in order to identify blackspot locations and contributory factors, and
design and implement accident -revention measures in the Jing-An District of
Shanghai as a pilot case; and (c) identify, design, and execute remedial traf-
fic engineering and control measures at specific locations and times of day.
Measures which prove to be effective in reducing accidents and injuries in the
pilot scheive will be replicated in other city districts as part of a compre-
hensive traffic safety program. Further details are provided in Annex 2, Part
B.
3.13      Resettlement.  The project requires the relocation of approximately
2,150 families and 200 enterprises. This resettlement is associated with the
planned improvements to Zhongshan Road, and development of the nonmotorized
vehicle (N1V) system in the central part of the city. Annex 5 provldes a
detail3d discussion of resettlement under the project and Shanghai's resettle-
ment policies. A further elaboration of settlement methods and issues is
available in the project files. Assurances were provided by SHG at negotia-
tions that it will carry out resettlement in accordance with a plan satisfac-
tory to the Association. In addition, an understanding was reached with SMG
at negotiations regardint the schedule, cost, financing plan, and institu-
tional responsibilities and procedures for resettlement associated with the
proiect, described in Annex 5.
3.14      The demolition for the Zhongshan Road improvements is required pri-
marily to widen the rights-of-way at ground level, construct the viaduct, and
widen and improve selected intersections. The housing to be demolished is a
mixture of low-standard structures and low-rise housing units. Households
have no waterborne sewerage, many share communal taps for water supply, and
the area is subject to temporary flooding in the rainy season. Many of the
manufacturing enterprises to be relocated are occupying 20- to 50-year-old
facilities in poor condition. The physical facilities occupied by the retail
and service enterprises affected are a mixture of substandard and low-standard
units. No high-rise structures are to be demolished.
3.15      The demolition and resettlement activities associated with the NHV
component of the project are limited in scale. They are needed primarily to
create or widen bicycle and pedestrian rights-of-way and have already been
completed.



-24-
3.16      Households are to be resettled permanently in projects which incor-
porate housing, community facilities such as kindergartens, schools, clinics,
shops, recreation facilities, and landscaped open space. Individual housing
units will have indoor kitchens and bathrooms, piped water supply, waterborne
sewerage, electricity, and gas. For households, new space is provided at a
standard of approximately 4 to 5 oP of floor space per person.  For enter-
prises, 1 me of new space is to be provided for every square meter of demol-
ished space. Enterprises will be consulted on the design of the new space,
since they are part of the municipality's ongoing program for resettlement.
3.17      According to the original plan for resettlement, a substantial num-
ber of households vould be relocated temporarily at first, but eventually all
of them would be resettled permanently (by the end of 1992). The principal
constraints on the scheduling of resettlement have been the time required to
negotiate for suitable land, and shortages of funds for construction. Secon-
dary constraints have included shortages of construction materials, erratic
delivery times for materials, and inefficient site management. For the proj-
ect, SMG has already arranged to use sites which have been acquired by housing
enterprisess they will acquire other land later and reimburse these enter-
prises for the land preempted for the project. The agreements reached during
appraisal and confirmed during negotiations were the following: (a) the sites
required for relocation will be made available from land already under the
control of municipal agencies, thus eliminating delays that might be incurred
by acquiring rights over land presently being used by others; (b) the munici-
pality will provide the Bank Group with the original survey of households and
enterprises and structures in the areas from which households and enterprises
are to be relocated, in order to facilitate proper monitoring of the resettle-
ment process and its impact; (c) the municipality will provide the Bank Group
with the site plans, building designs and specifications, and construction
schedules for resettlement areas, to facilitate both the monitoring of reset-
tlement and technical assistance in detailed planning and construction manage-
ment; (d) the schedule proposed for demolition and resettlement is that shown
in Annex 5; and (e) demolition, resettlement, and the project's other environ-
mental impacts will be monitored and evaluated systematically, following the
objectives, performance measures, procedures, and institutional arrangements
described in Annex 5.
3.18      Technical Assistance.  The principal objective of this component is
to strengthen the SMG's capabilities for planning and implementing urban
transportation measures and effecting improvements in traffic and safety and
bus operations. The assistance to be provided would build on the support
provided in the major studies carried out during project preparation (para.
3.1) and falls under two categoriest (a) project implementation support, and
(b) urban transport planning and management support. The component provides
for 266 staff-months of foreign technical advisory services and equipment
described below. Outline terms of reference for the activities are preeented
in Annex 3.



-25-
(a) ProJect I.mlementation Support
(i)  Project Imlementation AdvisorY Services.    In this activity 96
staff-months of advisory services will be provided, as follows:
46 staff-months to the Inner Rin8 Road Construction Company
(IRRCC) for implementing the Zhongshan Ihner-Ring Road; 30
staff-months to a team led by the Shanghai Public Security
Bureau (SPSB) for implementing, monitoring, and accounting for
the three traffic management programs (NWN routes, CBD net-
works, the first phase of the North-South Coriidor) and to
provide equipment and advisory services for the traffic safety
pilot program; and 20 staff-months of project management advis-
ory services to IRRCC, together with $50,000 of computer equip-
ment for project monitoring and accounting.
(ii) Road Maintenance Support. This activity will provide the
Shanghai Municipal Snglineering and AdminLstration Department
(S4EAD) with the equipment needed to complete a comprehensive
inventory of the condition of streets and other faciliti-e in
the urban area. The data collected will be used to establish a
computerized data bank which will facilitate the preparation of
annual and multiyear maintenance and reconstruction programs
and improve the allocation of budget resources. ?he budget
constraints and large increases ln traffic volume experienced
over the past few years make it essential to Lmprove mainte-
nance planning and programming in order to protect the massive
investments in transport infrastructure. Two pleces of specia-
lized equipment for pavement evaluation will be provided, along
with training in the use of the equipment. The equipment is
expected to cost $200,000.
(b) Urban Transport Planonin and Management Support
(i)  Shanahai City Comprehensive Transportation Planning Institute
Support. This activity provides for 30 staff-months of techni-
cal advisory services to SCCTPI to assist with data collection
and analysis.
(it)  Identification of Urban Tranaort-Investment Priorities.    This
activity calls for 60 staff-months of advisory services to help
the Shanghai City Comprehensive Transport Planning Institute
(SCCTPI) to identify, evaluate, and program transport invest-
ment priorities for 1995-2000, taking into account the munici-
pality's development prospects for these years.
(i)    Preparation of Preliminary Feasibility Studies.   This activity
Involves 50 staff-months of advisory services to assist SCCTPI
in preparing preliminary feasibility studies for priority
investments idcntified by SCCTPI and which would be considered
for inclusion in a future project.
(iv) Shanghai Transit Company This activity provides for 30 staff-
months of technical advisory services to help the Shanghai
Transit Company (STC) improve its bus operations and fare



-26-r
structure. A study of the company carried out during orepara-
tion highlighted the need for this support.
Estimated Project Cost
3.19      The proposed project is expected to cost in total about Y 774 mil-
lion or $148.3 milllon equivalent as shown in Table 3.1 below, including iden-
tifiable taxes of Y 8 million ($1.6 million equivalent). The direct and indi-
rect foreign exchange costs are estimated to total about $69.4 million or
47 percent of estimated project costs. Base costs are estimated in June 1991
prices and include land requisition and resettlement costs and administration
and engineering overheads. Physical contingencies of 10 percent of base costs
have been included. Price contingencies have been calculated for foreign
costs using an international price inflation factor of 3.6 percent for all
project years and domestic price inflation factors of 10 percent for 1991,
8 percent for 1992, and 5 percent per year thereafter.
3.20      The estimated costs for the Major Roads Improvement component are
based on work quantities calculated from detailed designs and unit prices
computed on the basis of SMGse standard manuals for construction costing.
Details are provided in Annex 6. The estimated costs of the Traffic Safety
and Management component are based on quantities calculated from preliminary
engineering designs and standard unit costs (Annex 2). The technical assis-
tance costs are based on recent contracts for similar consulting services.
Table 3.1s PROJECT COST ESTIMHTES
Estimated Cost ($ million)          Percent
Estimated Costs                Local        Foreign     Total Cost        (2)
Major arterial roads            55.2           52.0         107.1          88.7
Traffic safety & mgmt.           6.8           2.7            9.4           7.8
Technical assistance             0.0           4.2            4.2           3.5
Base cost 'June 1991)         61.9          58.9         120.8         100.0
Physical contingencies           6.2           5.5           11.7          9.7
Price contingencies             10.7           5.1          15.8          13.1
Total Project Cost la         78.8          69.4         148.3          122.7
la  Including identifiable taxes of Y 8.07 million ($1.55 million equivalent).
Project Financln Plan
3.21      The detaLls of the project financing are shown in Table 3.2 below.
An IDA Credlt of SDR 44.4 million ($60 million equivalent) would finance about
40 percent of the total net project costs. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that (a) the proceeds of the development credit would be made avail-



-27-
able to SMG urder arrangements satisfactory to the Association, and (b) the
SHG would rtovide about Y 461 million ($88.3 million equivalent) to meet the
remaining costs of the prolect. The proposed onlending tusms between the
Ministry of Finance and SMG would be 20 years includi-- five years' grace at
1.9 percent interest per year with 0.75 percent per year commitment fee on
outstanding balance. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by SMG.
Table 3.2: TENTATIVE FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
X of
Source of financing            Local       Foreign      Total       total costs
IDA                              0.0          60.0       60.0              40.5
Shanghai Municipal
Government                    78.8           9.4       88.3              59.5
Total                      78.8          69.4      148.3             100.0
Project Management Arrangements
3.22      For the purposes of overall direction of ptoject implementation, SMG
would maintain its Leading Group for the City's 'isaor Engineering Projects
composed of the SMG core and line agencies concerned with, inter alia, trans-
portation planning and implementation, including those responsible for the
following:
(a) citywide spatial and economic planning,
(b) citywide and district road and rail transport planning,
(c) traffic management and enforcement,
(d) public transport and transit planning and operations,
Ce) freight transport planning and operations,
(f) Shanghai Port and airport planning,
(g) road construction and maintenance, and
(h) sectoral finances,
which would advise the SMG on transportation policy and investment strategies,
and key sectoral issues, as well as on project implementation policy and
issues. The Leading Group would be chaired by the vice-mayor responsible for
urban construction and transportation matters. The Leading Group would meet
at least quarterly and its agenda, resolutions, and selected proceedings as
appropriate, including progress reports on the implementation program, would
be included in a progress report to be submitted quarterly to the Bank. Dur-
in& negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Leading Group and the
implementation arrangements as given in the following two paragraphs would be
established by January 1, 1992, and maintained with the necessary staffin& and
resvonsibilities satisfactory to the Association.



-28-
3.23      A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be established before
January 1, 1992, with a mandate from the Shanghai Municipal Government. The
PIU would be the Inner Ring Road Construction Company (IRRCC), a state-ouned
company shortly to be incorporated. IRRCC consists of six departments (Plan-
ning and Finance, Engineering and Technology, Land Acquisition and Resettle-
ment, Engineering Management, Construction Supervision, and Materials and
Equipment) and an administrative office, with 90-100 staff (including 30-40
engineers and accountants), all reporting to a general manager assisted by a
deputy general manager (see Chart 2). Technical matters would be supervised
by a chief engineer. The authorized charter of the company and its mandate as
PIU would be provided to the Association before January 1, 1992. The com-
pany's budget would be derived from the overhead allowance included in the
project costs and would be paid by the Shanghai Finance Bureau.
3.24      Three project teams (Sub-PIUs), one each for the Zhongshan Inner
Ring Road, the NMV Roads and Road Maintenance components, and the Traffic
Safety and Management component would be established to carry out project
implementation as illustrated in Annex 7.
Implementation of Physical Works
3.25      The Major Road component and related resettlement will be imple-
mented by IRRCC. The Traffic Management and Safety Program will be imple-
mented by the Traffic Management Division (TMD) of the Shanghai Public Secur-
Aty Bureau, and the Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Department
(SMEAD) in collaboration with the Shanghai City Planning and Design Institute
(SCPDI) and the ShanghaL Urban Construction Design Tnstitute (SUCDI). Con-
struction of the WV and NSC components will be administered by SMEAD through
its district organisations. The TSM program activities will be managed by
TMD, which also will manage traffic signals, road markings, and installation
of signm. Related civil works will be carried out by SMEAD. An understanding
vas obtained at negotiations that arrangements for coordinating the Traffic
Management and Safety component satisfactora to the Association would be
established not later than January 1, 1992. Details of the arrangements are
given ln Annex 2.
3.26      The implementation unit for the Zhongshan Road will be staffed and
run by experienced engineers. These engineers will be assisted by foreign
consultants financed under the project. Foreign consultants experienced in
traffic engineering will be recruited to assist with the Traffic Management
and Safety Program, as the Shanghai authorities have not attempted to plan or
implement a program of this scale before. Related specific implementation
responsibilities will be assigned as follows:
(a)  The demolition and resettlement for the Zhongshan Road will be
administered by IRRCC. Because resettlement for the NHV road system
affects three areas in the Central Business District (Jing An,
Huangpu, and Hong Kou), each of the three area construction compa-
nies was responsible for demolition and resettlement in its own
locality completed during 1991.
(b)  A Pollution Monitoring Unit would be established in the Municipal
Environmeital Protection Bureau, through the assignment of specific
responsibilities for this to existing staff.



-29-
(c) A Traffic Safety Monitoring Unit would be established under the
Traffic Division of the Shanghai Public Security Bureau.
(d) A Development Impact Monitoring Unit would be established under the
Shanghai Planning Comnission. This Unit should be responsible for
the basic monitoring of the metropolitan areas physical development,
building on to procedures initiated during the identification of
alternative development scenarios In the preparation of the project.
3.27      Project management consultants would be engaged by IRRCC to advise
and assist the P1U in establishing a microcomputer-based management Lnforma-
tion system, development of procurement systems, and train PIU staff in proj-
ect reporting and production of the quarterly Progress Report to be submitted
to the Association.
Consulting Services
3.28      Consultants are required to help complete bid documents. provide
technical assistance to the implenenting agencies and public transport com-
pany, carry out project related studies on urban transport, assist in environ-
mental monitoring and management, and prepare a second phase project. These
services have been included in the project cost estimates. The proposed tech-
nical assistance component for the project is presented in Annex 3. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from SJG that it would engage consul-
tants satisfactory to the Association to sugervise proiect construction arnd
conduct project-related studies.
Procurement
3.29      Satisfactory procedures for procurement have been agreed between the
Association and Shangabi project officials. All international procurement
activities will be organized by the Shanghai International Tendering Company
(SITC). Local procurement will be organised by the Shanghai Municipal Tender-
Lig Company (SMTC). As far as possible, civil works components have been
grouped together to allow the maximum amount of work to be awarded through
international competitive bidding (ICO). The Association will review all
draft ICB bidding documents and all local competitive bidding (LCB) documents
for civil works contracts exceeding $3.0 million, and any equipment contracts
costing more than $200,000. The procurement categories and expected procure-
ment methods are summarized in bible 3.3 below.
3.30      Civil Works.  Nine civil works contracts will be avarded under the
project. Construction of the Zhongsban Road viaduct, the major
component of the project, will be a complicated task requiring well-defined
stage construction and close cooperation between many agencies in order to
maintain traffic on this vital artery during construction. The first activity
required is the construction, concurrently with utility relocations, of trail
roads along each side of the existing road. These will provide for mainte-
nance of traffic and central working space for subsequent viaduct construc-
tion. This work, estimated to cost $4.3 milllon ($4.2 million net of tax),
will be done under two contracts usLng LCB procedures and forms of contract
acceptable to the Association as the type of work and contract values (about
$1.8 and 2.5 million) would not be attractive to foreign bidders. Two con-
tracts for viaduct construction with a total value of $54.4 million



-30-
Table 3.3s PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million, including contingencies)
Procurement Method
Category                         ICB            LCB         Other         Total
Civil works                      54.1          18.3          5.4          77.8
(37.4)        (12.6)        (3.7)        (53.8)
goods and equipment               -             1.0          0.9           1.9
(0.7)        (0.9)         (1.6)
Technical assistance                                         4.6           4.6
(4.6)         (4.6)
Resettlement                      -            56.2          -            56.2
(0.0)                      (0.0)
Taxes and overheads                                          7.8           7.8
(0.0)         (0.0)
Total                      54.1           75.5         18.7         148.3
(37.4)        (13.3)                      (60.0)
I of loan funds                 62.3Z          22.32        15.4Z        100.01
Notest Figures in parentheses represent the arounts (including contingencies)
expected to be disbursed from the credit proceeds.
($54.1 million net of tax) will be awarded to prequalified contractors using
ICB procedures in accordance with the Association's guidelines. Qualifying
domestic contractors will receive a 7.5 percent preference in bid evaluation
on these contracts. Five other contracts, with an estimated total value of
$14.3 million ($14.1 million net of tax) for surface improvements on Zhongshan
Road beyond the limits of the viaduct, construction of the service roads and
for erection of the Puji Road bridge under the KWV program will also be
awarded using LCB procedures acceptable to the Association. Here also the
number, size, timing, and scattered nature of the contracts would make them
unattractive to foreign bidders. However, interested foreign bidders would be
allowed to bid on any LCB contracts. The six-year construction program of NMV
roads and traffic management road improvements, utility relocations, signs and
marking, and street lighting, all with a total estimated cost of $5,5 million
($5.4 million net of tax), will be carried out mainly by force a count. This
procedure is considered most appropriate because these works are small and are
widely dispersed throughout the Central Business District area. Procurement
packaging is summarized in Annex 8.
3.31      Goods and Equiipment. Five packages of goods and equipment, total-
ling $1.9 illion will be procured under the project.    Of this amoint, about
$1.3 million will be required for traffic signals and their controls and for
computer equipment for monitoring various project components. Imported traf-
fic signals vith a value of $0.3 oillion will be procured through prudent
shopping from international suppliers whose products are compatible for the



-31-
extension of Shanghai's existing traffic control system. Computer equipment
estimated to cost $0.3 million and locally manufactured traffic signs esti-
mated to cost $0.7 million will be procured through LCB. Road maintenance
equipment with a value of $0.2 million vill be procured through prudent shop-
ping from international suppliers.
3.32      Technical Assistance.  Consultants retained for the project will be
selected according to the Association's 'Guidelines on the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers." Local counterpart staff will be assigned from the
various government departments to work along with the foreign consultants.
3.33      Resettlement.    All demolition required for civil works components
will be carried out on a force account basis by the various districts
involved. Construction of facilities needed for resettlement of housing and
enterprises will be procured using a combination of force account and LCB.
None of the work would be financed directly from the credit proceeds. How-
ever, LCD for resettlement is appropriate in view of the fact that
(a) households are resettled in relatively small groups (in the range of 200
to 400 households) among eight sites in the urban area; and (b) domestic con-
struction enterprises have had considerable experience with resettlement;
SMRQDC alone has eight subsidiary companies in Shanghai. These domestic units
have a continuing responsibility for resettlement and new housing projects.
It is Important to encourage a building-up of their skills and greater innova-
tion in the designs being used.
Disbursement
3.34      The proposed IDA credit of $60.0 million equivalent will be dis-
bursed over a period of seven years, as follows:
- $ million -
1.  Civil works           51.1             70 percent of total expendi-
tures for civil works
2. Goods and
equipment              1.5             l00 percent of foreign expendi-
tures
100 percent of expenditures (ex
factory) and 75 percent of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
3. Technical
assistance             4.6             100 percent of total expendi-
tures
4.  Unallocated            2.8
Total            60.0
No proceeds from the credit will be disbursed for resettlement.



-32-
3.35      A special account will be set up in a bank acceptable to the Associ-
ation to facilitate disbursements for project expenditures. The account will
be given an authorized allocation of $4.0 million, representing an average
four months of disbursements, and it w1ll be managed by IRRCC.   Replenishment
will be made on a monthly basis, or whenever the account is drawn down to
50 percent of its initial deposit value.    The disbursement schedule (Annex 9)
which is reasonably consistent with the China profile, has been derived frc
the Implementation schedule (Annex, 10). In the case of expenditures relating
to civil works carried out by force account and contracts for works, goods,
md services, each valued at $200,000 and less, reimbursements would be made
mn the basis of SOEs. Documentation supporting the SOEs should be retained by
the implementation agency and made available for review by Bank Group supervi-
sion missions. Project completion is estimated to be June 30, 1997, and the
credit closLng date June 30, 1998. Retroactive financing of up to
SKR 2.9 million ($3.9 milllon equivalent) would be applied for expenditures
for work relatLng to the traffic management component and for preliminary
works for the Zhongshan Viaduct made after July 1, 1990.
Auditing, Reporting, and Monitoring
3.36      The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of the State Audit Administra-
tion (SAM) will be responsible for auditing the accounts of project expendi-
tures. Actual audits will be conducted for SA by the Shanghai Municipality
Audit Bureau (SMAB), a subordinate organization of SAM. These arrangements
are being used for the Shanghai Sewerage Project and are considered satisfac-
tory for this project. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from SMG
that it will cause the project accounts and the Special Account, including
statements of expenditures (SOEs), to be duly audlted by SMAB, and will submit
them to the Assoclation within six months of the end of each financial year.
3.37      The project implementation unit (para. 3.23) will submit quarterly
progress reports on the project to the Association, using the project monitor-
ing indlces presented in Annex 11. The project office also will prepare a
Project Completion Report and submit it to the Association no later than six
months after the closing date for the credit.



-33-
IV, ECONOHIC, SOCIAL, AND ENVIROHEMNAL CONSIDERATIONS
Economic Justification
4.1       The rapid population growth and growth of output in the Municipality
of Shanghai have created a growing damand for transportation within the SMR.
At the same time, the growth of Shanghai s port and the increasing counerce
between Shanghai and neighboring provinces ha" increased the need for links
to the port which bypass the city and for links between the city and neighbor-
ing provinces. Steps now are being taken to develop several road projects in
neighboring provinces which connect to Shanghai's borders. This will further
increase the demand for through traffic corridors.
4.2       Meanwhile, severe congestion has been develoting in Shanghai due to
the low percentage of land area allocated to roads and the bottlenecks created
by the city's natural barriers--the Buangpu River and Suzhou Creek. These
problems have been aggravated by a long period of neglected transport invest-
ments. Today, all of the transport investment options open to Shanghal are
expensives river crossings, creek crossings, the demolition of very dense
areas required to make major road improvements, and difficult subsurface con-
ditions for underground transport. The proposed project represents one of the
least-cost options for relieving some of the congestion and improving the
efficiency of the transport system.
4.3       The strategy of the physical components in this project is (a) to
intensify traffic management techniques, including the use of exclusive bicy-
cle ways and busvays, in order to make the best use of the existing street
networks (b) to remove a major bottleneck on the most intensively used inner-
city corridor; and (c) to increase capacity on the main corridor from the area
southwest to the area northeast of the Central Business District. The inner-
ring road links the major Shanghai industrial areas and the port to neighbor-
ing provinces, and also serves intracity traffic. The strategy for the tech-
nical assistance components is to build upon the intensive work undertaken
during the preparation phase of this project and to lay the groundwork for
more comprehensive planning of transport and related infrastructure for area
development.
Traffic with and without the Prolect
4.4       Traffic on the existing roads is already a major impediment to effi-
cient movement within the city. Without the project's investments in bicycle
ways and traffic management, the extreme congestion of peak period inner-city
traffic, caused by the conflict of buses and bicycles, could not be relieved.
The recent increase in bicycle traffic, a response to the growing inadequacy
of bus service, also would continue. Every increase in bicycle traffic mixed
with other traffic would further slow peak period movements.
4.5       Without the project's investments in Zhongshan Road, the only
through road from southeast to northwest and the key link to traffic from
other provinces would be fully saturated during the long morning and evening
peak periods early in the 1990s. A significant portion of Zhongshan Road
traffic is already diverted (south) to the system of inadequate streets and
roads along the northern edges of the Central Business District (north), to



-34-
narrow and indirect roads through the major industrial areas around Shanghai.
On both indirect routes the conflict with local traffic is severe, and this
problem would get worse with normal growth in demand and with the new routes
being completed to the border of the province from adjacent provinces.
4.6       The project partially alleviates existing traffic problems rather
than offering comprehensive long-term solutions.   Nevertheless, each of the
elements of the project fits within any rational transport developmenL plan.
The traffic management component, with the creation of bicycle vays and bus-
ways, will provide immediate and significant relief to peak period congestion,
but it is only the first step in a system that must eventually provide a more
extensive bicycle network, including creek crossings, and the development of
dedicated busways and mass transit systems. Investment in some higher-capa-
city roads in the city also is needed. The Zhongshan Road investments will
relieve present cor.gestion and will allow currently diverted traffic to use a
more direct route. In the long run, however, traffic from the adjacent prov-
inces to the industrial areas and the port cannot be accommodated on Zhongshan
Road, even with the project's improvements in capacity. A second ring road
will be urgently required by the end of the century. By this time, Zhongshan
Road will be fully utilized as a ring road for the central buainess district,
and as a link with major suburbs that are developing to the west.
Economic Rates of Return
4.7       The economic return for physical investments in transportation was
calculated using 1990 prices in renminbi and adjusted to reflect economic
shadow values. According to the regulations governing infrastructure develop-
ment for the Municipality of Shanghai, there is an associated cost for the
development of housing, commercial, and industrial space and related infra-
structure to "replace the buildings that are destroyed to clear the rights of
way for these investments.   Because the standards of demolished housing are
lower than community standards, about four times as much floor space is being
constructed as was destroyed. In order to isolate transport investment for
purposes of economic evaluation, one quarter of the cost of resettlement was
allocated to the road investment (i.e., the cost of building and infrastruc-
ture for the replacement proper). This is consistent with the Bank Grcup's
practice in economic analysis, which focuses on the benefits and costs attrib-
utable specifically to a project.
4.8       A separate calculation of benefits and costs was done for Zhongshan
Road, a relatively free-standing investment. The imprcvements in the inner
city--traffic management, bicycle way development, buaway development--are
interdependent, and thus they can only be evaluated as a single investment.
4.9       Project benefits were estimated using present and projected vehicle
operating costs and time costs with and without the project. Details of the
calculations of user cost savings are shown in Annex 12. For Zhongshan Road,
project benefits were based on current traffic and projected normal traffic
growth. No generated traffic was assumed, but the return of traffic, which is
now diverted to other roads in the network in the most congested part of the
Zhongshan Road corridor, is incorporated. For the inner-city investments,
first-year benefits were calculated, and the rate of return was estimated as
if these benefits would not increase with traffic growth. The reason for this
is primarily practical; the projected network traffic assignment for the cen-



-35-
tral business district and contiguous area is a complex and time-consuming
calculation with the available model. Thus, a single year's projections, with
and without the project, were used in the calculation. For both the Zhongshan
Road and the inner-city investments, savings in tine costs were estimated by a
procedure which was designed to value only work-related trips. This has the
effect of counting only one out of three hours saved in the benefits of the
project. Each of the procedures discussed above tends to impart a conserva-
tive bias in the estimate of project benefits.
4.10      As shown in Annex 12, the calculated economic rates of return (ERRs)
are 18.1 percent for the Zhongshan Road investment and 32.1 percent for the
inner-city investment. There is little risk that the benefits will not mate-
rialize, as they are based on a conservative estimate of growth in the
Zhongshan Road case and, in effect, on the relief of present congestion in the
case of inner-city traffic. The risk of lower-than-estimated ERR derives
mainly from the posslbillty of real cost overruns and the possibility of pro-
tracted implementation periods, which would have the effect of delaying bene-
fits. A delay in beginning the project would tend to raise the ERR in this
project, as in all projects with growing demand. For the traffic management
investments, detailed designs and costing remain to be done throughout the
project implementation period, so some risk of cost overrun is present. An
analysis of the sensitivity of the ERR to project cost estimates is included
in Annex 12. This analysis shows that a 15-percent cost overrun on Zhongshan
Road, and a 30-percent cost overrun on the inner-city investments would still
produce rates of return well in excess of the cutoff rate of 10 percent. It
seems likely that the main physical components will take longer than planned.
However, similar projects have been implemented by the municipality in less
than two years, as compared with the four years that have been allowed in the
ERR calculation between the start of implementation and the beginning of proj-
ect benefits. Nevertheless, a sensitivity to delayed benefits has been calcu-
lated. Assuming a two-year delay in all benefits (i.e., a 50 percent imple-
mentation period overrun), the ERR are 16.9 percent and 25.2 percent for
Zhongshan Road and the inner-city investments, respectively.
Environmental Impact
4.11      The Project is expected to have a positive environmental impact due
to net reductions in engine emissions (associated with higher vehicle speeds),
reduced traffic accidents, and improved housing and sanitation conditions for
families relocated under the Project. These issues are discussed in Armex 5,
and a further report on resettlement is in the project files.
Project Risks
4.12      Delas in Construction of the Zhongshan Road Viaduct.    The risk of
delays in constructing the viaduct are moderate. Four years have been allowed
for construction, rather than the two suggested initially by the SMG. The
effects of a two-year delay in the beginning of benefits, beyond the four-year
construction period provided for, would reduce the ERR by only 1 percent (from
approximately 18 percent to approximately 17 percent).



4.13      Delavs in Demolition and Resettlement.  Delays in demolition and
resettlement often are a major risk in projects of this kind, particularly
vhere land acquisition is iAvolved. However, in this case the risk is low.
The land needed for resettlement already is available to the agencies con-
cerned and much of the Zhongshan Road demolition is already completed. The
housing to be provided, together with cash compensation, is a strong incentive
for households to move when requested. SMG has a great deal of experience
with demolition and resettlement and could include this project's resettlement
as a small part of its already ongoing resettlement program.
4.14      CGongestion of the New Viaduct.  The diversion of traffic to
Zhongshan Road Viaduct could be in excess of expectations and could result in
severe congestion before other traffic routes are available. This congestion
should be minimized by proceeding with the planning and implementation of
longer-range improvements and additions to the transport system, specifically
the Second Ring Road as soon as possible as part of the second phase of the
program.



-37,
V.  AGREEETS REACHED AND RECOIEKNDATION
5.1       The following agreements were reached with the Borrower during nego-
tiationss
(a) Shanghai shall furnish to the Association, comencing June 30, 1992,
details of the municipality's medium-term transportation investment
plan and subsequent annual investment plans, for the Association's
review and comments until completion of the project (para. 2.44)S
(b) Shaunhai shall carry out the resettlement of the people affected by
the project, in accordance with the plan agreed with the Association
(para. 3.13);
(c)  the proceeds of the development credit would be made available to
Shanghai under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, and
Shanghai would provide about Y 461 million ($88.3 million equiva-
lent) to meet the remaining costs of the Project (para. 3.21);
(d)  Shang!Iai shall establish by January 1, 1992, and maintain the Proj-
ect Implementation Unit (PIU) with the necessary staffing and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.22);
(e) Shanghai shall furnish the Association by January 1, 1992, arrange-
ments for coordinating, planning, and implementing the Traffic
Safety and Management Program (para. 3.25);
(f) Shanghal shall engage consultants satisfactory to the Association to
supervise project construction and conduct project-related studies
(para. 3.28); and
(g) Shanghai shall submit audit reports on the project accounts includ-
ing the special account and statements of expenditures (SONs) which
have been prepared by SMAB within six months of the end of each
financial year (para. 3.36).
5.2       Understandings were reached on the following and recorded In the
Minutes of the Negotiationst
(a) the formats of the presentation of the municipality's medium-term
transportation investment plan (para. 2.44);
(b) the various steps agreed to be taken and the schedule for resettle-
ment monitoring and reporting to the Association (para. 3.13); and
(c) Shanghai making available the necessary local counterpart funds
needed to finance the project (para. 3.21);
(d) arrangements for coordinating and implementing the Traffic Manage-
ment and Safety Program, (para. 3.25).
5.3       On the basis of these agreements and understandings, the project
would be suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 44.4 million (860.0 million equiva-
lent) to the People's Republic of China. The credLt will be on standard IDA
terms, with 35 years' maturity.



-38-                            ANNZX 1
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Urban Transport Constraints to Growth in Shanghai
Present Condition of Urban Transport
1.        The urban transport system in Shanghai is inadequate for a city of
its size and importance. These inadequacies will become more pronounced with
Shanghai's growth as a population and production center and as a port of entry
and exit for overland traffic to its hinterland. Present problems include an
acute shortage of road space, vehicular congestion on important road freight
routes, mixed traffic on most streets and roads of the network (leading to low
average speed as bicycles impede motor traffic), an aging and underpowered
truck fleet, a ferry fleet in need of more boats, and an overcrowded bus fleet
requiring more vehicles. Traffic engineering has taken only preliminary steps
in maximizing flow on the road network. There are few routes reserved for
bicycles, no priority lanes for buses, and few streets and roads designated
exclusively for motor vehicles.
2.        In the 12 urban districts which make up Shanghai City, the road
space occupies only about 5 percent of the land surface--the lowest concentra-
tion of roads in any major city in the world. Cities in developing countries
typically devote 15 percent or more of the land surface to rords, and devel-
oped countries often devote from 20 I!;rcent to 25 percent for this purpose in
city centers. The average road width in Shangnai City is only 15 meters, and
few roads inside the inner-ring road are as wide as 24 meters. The Huangpu
River splits Shanghai into two parts, with about 25 percent of the city's
population residing on the eastern side. Until 1989, only one tunnel linked
the two sides of Shanghai proper, otherwise dependent on an extensive ferry
system but with limited vehicular capacity. The newly completed Yanan Tunnel
will help reduce delays in vehicular river crossings. The nearest bridge to
the city center is 20 km upstream. Thus, by any standard, Shanghai has very
limited transport infrastructure.
3.        Congestion is common throughout the day on the urban road network.
On some critical links, traffic reaches saturation levels during rush hours,
so that added vehicles only slow traffic, with no increase in throughput. The
Dapu Lu Tunnel, designed to carry 5,700 vehicles a day, now carries about
9,000 per day, with long lines and maJor delays at peak periods. The inner
ring road (Zhongshan) is heavily congested during a long morning peak period,
with traffic at several major intersections approaching saturation. The cen-
tral business district is also heavily congested, which slows bus traffic and
impedes bicycles and pedestrians. Furthermore, roads in the central business
district can accommodate only a few trucks operating under special license
during an average day. (Other truck traffic is diverted to Zhongshan Road
with the result that trucks comprise 80 percent of its traffic.) Businesses
which depend on truck traffic cannot schedule pick-up and delivery during the



-39-                           ANNEX 1
Page 2
day in most cases, which results in efficiency losses for commercial and manu-
facturing firms. Congestion, rather than the shortage of vehicles, is the
major obstacle to effecting needed increases in bus passenger transportation
until traffic engineering and management has improved the priority of bus
transit. Currently, buses on the main city routes are slowed to the speed of
a bicycle during most of the day, and during rush hours, buses and bicycles
alone nearly saturate urban road space. Only 4 percent of the nonwalking
trips in Shanghai are taken using forms of transport other than bicycles and
buses. Thus, the relief from congestion available for most cities in the
developing world, namely the diversion of motor vehicle traffic to buses, is
not imuediately available to Shanghai. The diversion of bicycle traffic to
its own network, and the shift of cyclists to buses, which use road space much
more efficiently, are the main possibilities for relieving congestion in
Shanghai.
4.        Public transport in Shanghai is a major public enterprise.   Buses
account for 56 percent of the nonwalking trips in Shanghai City, and 42 per-
cent of such trips in the municipality as a whole. This translates to about
7 million trips per day in the city and 9 million trips in thie whole munici-
pality. On the inner ring road, peak period bus trips approach 30,000 per
hour, on some other major thoroughfares, they are nearly 20,000. On most city
streets, however, throughput of bus passengers is relatively low and speeds
are slow--less then 12 miles per hour, in spite of wide spacing between stops.
(This spacing averages 700 meters and serves to eliminate demand for short
trips.) Generally, bus transportation is unsatisfactory, in that it induces
passengers to shift to bicycles, resulting in private improvement for the new
cyclists but greater inefficiency for the system as a whole, as these cyclists
further obstruct the network. Buses are extremely crowded; passenger loads of
9 persons per square meter of bus floor space considered normal, and 12 per-
sons per square meter not uncommon dutring peak periods. (At 12 persons per
square meter, standing passengers cad;uot be further compressed.) Long lines
and long delays are also normal during peak periods.
5.        Ferry services are the dominant form of transport linking the two
parts of Shanghai across the Huangpu River. They are the only services avail-
able for pedestrians and bicyclists, and they also handle heavy vehicle traf-
fic. About 1 million persons per day use the ferry service, which operates 20
lines and 65 ferries for passengers, and 5 lines with 20 ferries for vehicles.
Congestion is not a major passenger service problem, but weather conditions
sometimes interrupt service.   Long vehicle delays are common on some of the
vehicle ferry lines.
The Medium-Term Transport Investment Plan and its Rationale
6.        Shanghai's investment in transportation infrastructure was limited
during the municipality's period of slow growth, and only now is it approach-
ing reasonable levels. Investments in transportation infrastructure increased
from Y 75 million in 1983 to about Y 425 million, which is equivalent to about
6 percent of municipal tax receipts after deducting transfers to the central
government. During the closing years of the current plan peric-, which ended
at the close of 1990, the bulk of the transport infrastructure investment
program has been allocated to nine ongoing projects listed in Table 1. The
final cost of these investments will be approximately Y 4.6 billion, of which



-40-                            ANNEX 1
Page 3
Table 1i EXISTING PROCRAM OF ONGOING AND PROPOSED
MAJOR TRANSPORT INYESTMENTS
(Y million, 1991 prices)
1990        1991        1992-99
On2oin Proiectes
Zhongshan Rlng Road                 113         229            333
Wusong Dam Bridge                     3          54            165
Nanpu Bridge                          -         200            670
Xujia Huei Cross Road                10          15              0
Chao Qi Road Link                    20          20              0
Nonmotor Vehicle Routes              17          12             19
Traffic Management                    1           4             12
Metro Line 1                        400         400          1,189
Subtotal                         564         934          2,3B8
Hiahway Links to Interiors
Hangzhou Highway                                               270
aNanjing Highway                                               616
Jiangeu Road                                                   162
quingpu-Ping Wan Road                                          594
Outer Ring Road                                                648
Subtotal                                                  2,291
Inner City Improvements:
North South Corridor                                         1,081
Chengdu Expressway                                           1,081
Wusong Road Widening                                           162
Tibet-Hetlan Road                                              162
Chengdu Road Widening (from Yanan)                             432
Subtotal                                                  2.917
Port, River Crossings, and Pudongs
Pudong Outer Ring Road                                           324
Long We Road (near new port)                                     216
Yangao Road, Pudong                                              324
Ninguo River Crossing                                            972
Nenjiang Tunnel                                                  864
Subtotal                                                  2,701
Metro Line No. 2                                               1.189
Total 1992-99                                            11,486



-41-                             ANNEX 1
Page 4
about Y 1.5 billion is bein$ spent during the period 1990191; this represents
an average of about Y 750 million per year.
7.        Beyond 1991, in addition to completing the project carryover from
this plan period (about Y 2.4 billion will be carried over), planners have
identified several major investments in transportation infrastructure for the
rest of the decade which are at various stages of preparation (see Table )).
These investments have -ot yet been officially approved, nor has financing
been arranged, so at this stage the cost estimates are very approximate. The
total cost of carryover and proposed new investments during the 1991-99 period
comes to Y 11.5 billion in 1991 prices or about Y 1,440 per year. Shanghai
planners assume an upper limit of about Y 800 million per year available for
transport investments (excluding possible special financing for Metro), and
they note that some prioritization will be necessary.
8.        The discussion above omits work of major importance in traffic man-
agement, the creation of bicycle ways and bus priority routes, and safety
enhancement, in addition to work started during the current plan period.
These activities and a long list of minor investments, such as for minor engi-
neering works and the building of minor link roads, could add up to Y 20-
40 million per year. Without these minor investments, the present network
cannot be used optimally, and major new investments will not serve as substi-
tutes.
9.        Bus and ferry investments are also required to make up a backlog of
service requirements and to allow for growth. At present, bus and ferry oper-
ations are under review, and proposals for improving this efficiency and
financial management soon should be forthcoming. No major impediments to
increasing ferry services appear to exist; improvements are largely a matter
of updating charges, increasing operatlonal efficiency, and investing in
increased capacity. The bus company can also improve efficiency and financial
performance. For this, more rolling stock is needed to augment its capacity
greatly. Improving bus operations also will require that, at least on a few
major routes, the right of way be cleared of slow-moving NMV traffic, and
buses be given priority of movement or exclusive lanes. For the moment this
is Impossible, since bicycles make use of all streets and have no alternative
routes for commuting. However, the widespread creation of NMV routes, sched-
uled to begin in 1990, will make possible designated bus lanes and major
improvements on other motor-vehicle-only roads. With sufficient investment in
buses, passengers that are now crowded out, using bicycles as a second best
alternative, could then shift to buses, further adding to effective road
space. For these improvements to proceed, it will require a large investment
in new and replacement rolling stock. As a rough estimate, bus and ferry
investments could come to Y 200 million per year, including depots, rolling
stock, and repair facilities. About three fourths of this amount will be
needed for replacement of vehicles. The role of bicycles in Shanghai urban
transport strategy is discussed in the attachment to this annex.
10.       Shanghai does not have a comprehensive strategy for meeting its
urban transportation requirements, nor does it have a clear rationale for
planning transportation investments. Furthermore, even the extensive list of
investments above does not allow for growth in the urbanized area of Shanghai.
Yet another set of investments is needed for this purposes preliminary land



ANNEX 1
-42-                              Page 5
use plans call for trunk roads and imply secondary roads not included in the
transport investment list. There is a serious risk that heavy investment will
leave comparatively inexpensive but critical needs unattended.
Affordability Issues in Transport Development
11.       Unlike most major cities in the developing world, Shanghai must pay
its own way in the development of infrastructure will little assistance to be
expected from the national government. For planning purposes, therefore, the
municipality could be compared to a small country. Typical levels of trans-
port investment in developing countries are close to 5 percent of GDP. Since
Shanghai is a major port and has responsibility for providing infrastructure
for transit to the interior, a total transport investment at least equal to
typical developing countries is reasonable and should be affordable consider-
ing Shanghai's relatively high per capita income. Assuming that total trans-
port investmeuit In Shanghai was close to this average, and allowing 2 percent
of gross regional product (GRP) for necessary investments in railways, ports,
waterways, and airports in the province, about 3 percent of GRP would be
available for investmerts in roads and rapid rail services in Shanghai. This
would imply a budget ftr road and rapid rail services of roughly Y 1.4 billion
per year.
12.       Although  ,gh compared with historical levels, this investment is
still below the expenditure required to finance the needs evidenced by
Shanghai's present transport situation, which is near crisis, and its economic
growth prospects, assuming these are not impeded by infrastructure shortage.
As discussed above, investments beyond 1991 have not been costed or scheduled,
and many obvious needs have been left out. To spell out these investment
needs will require additional study and planning, including improved growth
scenarios and intensive work with thp traffic assignment model. In the mean-
time, a rough scheduling of transport investment needs has been attempted in
order to provide a framework for planning. This schedule is presented below
after a discussion of fiscal constraints and urban transport.
Fiscal Limits to Transportation Investment
13.       User fees are a significant source of income and have potential to
finance a growing proportion of investment needs. At present, both the bus
and ferry companies make small losses on operations, on annual sales of ser-
vices of about Y 325 million by the bus company and Y 30 million by the ferry
company. To make up their deficlt and cover their own investment costs as
estimated above, bus and ferry fees voulJ have to increase by about 75 per-
cent. This would still leave bas fares among the lowest in the world. For
the ferry company, the increase in fees would have to be borne mainly by
pedestrians and cyclists, who are now heavily cross-subsidized by ferry vehi-
cle traffic and pay very low rates. Other direct user fees are tolls on tun-
nels and bridges, which amounted to Y 24 million and Y 8 million, respec-
tively, in 1987. With the Yanan Tunnel nearly completed and three new cross-
ings planned before the turn of the century, tolls could become a major reve-
nue source, equal perhaps to 5 percent of total annual transport investment.
Shanghai also levies taxes on vehicles and transport that could be considered
as user fees for transport infrastructure. These are (a) the Highway Main-
tenance Fee, a tax on vehicle and boat use, which yielded Y 413 million in



-43-                             ANNEX 1
Page 6
1987; (h) the bicycle tax, which yields about Y 20 million per year; and (c)
other vehicle taxes (vehicle and boat utilization tax) which yielded Y 388
million. In total, user fees other than bus and ferry fares yield about Y 900
million per year, nearly two thirds of the investment suggested by the 3-per-
cent-of-GRP rule of thumb. By international standards, road transport users
in Shanghai pay a high percentage of transport costs.
14.       A variety of other taxes unrelated to transport are partly allocated
to transport investment, and user fees do not accrue entirely to the transport
budget. This is only a matter of rules for revenue sharing; in terms of fis-
cal affordability, the bottom line appears to be that in addition to the
direct and indirect user fees and the self-financing of bus and ferry invest-
ment, additional resources of a...out Y 500 million per year would be required
to meet the Y 1.4 billion investment target. One possible source would be an
increase in the vehicle tax rates, which are modest for motorcycles, trucks,
and buses (Y 60 per year).   Special license fees for use of the Central Busi-
ness District (CBD) (trucks are already licensed without fee for daytime use,
and additional restrictions may become necessary) also could yield significant
revenue.  Another major and untapped source would be a municipal vehicle fuel
tax, the backbone of the user charging system in many countries.
15.       On balance, it appears that Shanghai has no insurmountable fiscal
impediment to increasing its road and rapid transit investment to something in
the neighborhood of 3 percent of gross regional product.
Determination of Urban Transport Priorities
16.       The first priority must be to use the existing infrastructure as
efficiently as possible. Shanghai has developed a traffic assignment model,
that, when simplified and enhanced, could be a valuable tool in identifying
and evaluating the many small investments that are needed to get greater ser-
vice from the present system. Examples of these small investments are link
roads, NMV systems, bus priority routes, and minor engineering works.
17.       Shanghai is now undertaking a major investment in a subway line,
which will serve a route of 17 km. Other lines are being planned. The cost
of the present line is approximately $50 million per km. To put this sum in
perspective, the 17-km line comprises about one-half of Shanghai's entire
transport investment of Shanghai in the previous five-year plan. If it
achieves world class utilization rates (comparable to the most heavily used
lines of the Paris or Mexico City subways), the line will transport 60,000
persons per hour during peak periods. Considering Shanghai's density, this
may occur. However, it is doubtful that such an expensive mode can be the
core to the urban transport system for passengers. Therefore, less costly
alternatives should be evaluated carefully.
18.       Surface road systems (light rail), using single traffic lanes and
stopping for traffic lights, have achieved volumes of up to 20,000 persons per
hour, at costs of less than 10 percent of the cost of the Shanghai metro.
Dedicated bus lanes can also achieve very high volumes. Planning for all
high-density corridor movement systems, including metro, should start immedi-
ately, using the traffic assignment model among other tools, so that an alter-
native is available before the second Metro line is due to start construction.



-44-                             ANNEX 1
Page 7
Halting metro planning without some high-volume alternative is unreasonable,
as is opting for such an expensive system as metro without studying all possi-
ble alternatives.
19.       Shanghai must improve its plan for the expansion of population and
employment, with realistic and affordable transport infrastructure to support
this growth. At present, there is an insufficient basis for estimating future
population growth. Statistical work has concentrated on the registered (i.e.,
official and permanent) populationt the mobile population, which makes up a
large and growing share of the city's actual residents, has been studied only
periodically on an ad hoc basis. Thus, reasonable guesses about the growth of
the mobile population can vary widely; this introduces a wide range into the
projections of total population. A plausible method is required to norrow
this range, based on firmer analysis of the trends in mobile population.
(Except for terminology, this is the familiar problem of estimating migration
into a rapidly growing urban labor market.)
20.       With improved population projections, Shanghai will be in a position
to improve plans for the expansion of its urbanized areas. Shanghai's offi-
cial "Comprehensive Development Plan' is already out of date due to population
g.-owth and location decisions that are inconsistent with its basic
assumptions. The restructuring of industry and emergence of a housing market
will be increasingly driven by market forces leading to locational choices
differing from planned land use. A new framework, the draft Development Sce-
nario (DS), is still heavily influenced by normative considerations of land
use, but it takes a more realistic view of actual population growth and loca-
tion developments. Like the Comprehensive Plan, however, the DS incorporates
plans for major infrastructure links which are not costed out, and cost con-
siderations were not dominant in the conception of the use of space and the
resulting requirement for trunk infr'tqtructure links. Even on casual inspec-
tion, the bulk of investments implied by the DS are clearly unaffordable.
New, empirically-based expansion plans are needed, and these must be based on
a realistic estimate of affordability. It would be useful to determine how
much of the required expansion area over the next decade could be served by
the trunk roads that are currently planned primarily as links to the interior,
as these links are required under any circumstances.
21.       In addition to the roads necessary for its own expansion. Shanghai
requires upgraded and expanded links to Its economic hinterland. Shanghai and
Zhejiang, the province to the south, are increasingly integrated economically,
and industrial specialization will further increase commerce between the two
provinces. Both road and water links south from Shanghai are fully used. Two
major projects in the plans for post-1992--The Shanghai-Hangzhou Highway and
the Shanghai-Quingpu-Pung Wang Highway--will add needed capacity on this cor-
ridor. The planned Jiangsu Road investment and the Nanjing Highway invest-
ment, major elements in the post-1991 investment list, are also required to
serve Shanghail's dense economic hinterland and handle traffic to and from its
port. Work on an outer ring road, particularly to the west and north of the
city, is also Important, partly as a defensive measure. At present. the natu-
ral route of most of the traffic from Jiangsu and Zhejiang Provinces includes
travel on Zhongshan Road, vhich is already highly congested and which also
serves a beltway fuiction for the clty proper. An outer ring road would also
serve the present industrial and Northern Railway Terminus area, which is



-45-
Page 8
Table 2: MODIFIED PROGRAM OF ANNUAL INVESTMENTS FOR URBAN TRANSPORT
8-year
Y million/vear       total
1992-95    1996-99    1992-99
Ongoing Projects /a                                597                   2,388
New investments, by functions
Optimum use of existing infrastructures
- NMV routes, minor links, traffic management       20         40          240
- Bus and ferry investments                        200                     800
Metro 2 or alternative la                          100        200        1,200
Area expansion and links to hinterlands
- Major highway links to interior la               286        280        2,291
- Port, Puttlng, and river crossings la            338        338        2,701
- Other primary and secondary roads or
area expansion                                   100        200        1,200
Major road redevelopment in inner city la          100        629        2,917
Total                                       1,144      1,693       11,349
La See Table 1 for listing of projects.
currently heavily congested with traffic originating in the area and transit-
ing to the port. Shanghai cannot afford to accommodate this traffic via
Zhongshan Road, since it will be needed to serve the traffic needs of the city
proper.
22.       Major traffic volume can be expected between the new industrial-and
residential areas of the city and the central business district. This was
recognized in the present plan which included both the Na Matu Bridge and a
Ninguo River Grossing (commenced in 1991), partly to cater to the needs for
integration between the city center and the east bank. Similarly, westward
expansion, proceeding faster than planned, will require added capacity on
streets and roads into the city, and its own economic development will
increase the commercial and industrial traffic load in the inner city.
23.       Plans must be made to handle this new traffic within the city, par-
ticularly arising from the river crossings, which will dump a concentrated
stream of traffic onto the west bank of the Huangpu River, where there is no
major highway to receive it. The planned North-South Corridor development is
needed on about the same schedule that Na Matu and Ninguo Bridge projects are
completed. Otherwise traffic from the east bank will begin to compete with



-46-                             ANNE   I
Page 9
present downtown traffic, even if its destination is not the city center.
Other major traffic corridor improvements will also be needed, although stud-
ies do not yet support particular choices. Several are included in the post-
1991 investment list.
Quantification of Transeort Investment Priorities
24.       Table 2 makes no pretense at accuracy.   Its purpose is to aid in the
discussion of affordability of high priority transport investments after the
current plan period, i.e., commencing In 1992. In addition to the obvious
sources (the current plan and the post-1991 investment list), allowances have
been included for high-priority additional investments in traffic management,
nonmotor vehicle routes, minor road links, bus and ferry fleets, and for pri-
mary and secondary roads for area expansion.
25.       Annual investment estimates after 1991, at about Y 1.2 billion,
matches the affordability rule of thumb discussed above (3 percent of GRP).
It is not at all obvious where the investments (summarized in Table 1) should
be cut, if reductions will be necessary. Substitution of the Metro Line 2
investment with cheaper and more flexible light rail (or slow development of
Metro) is already implied by a total Metro 2 budget of only Y 1.1 billion
compared to Y 2.5 billion for Metro 1. Area expansion investments are less
than half those implied by the DS, and already assume that most links to the
hinterland can be used as access to new areas. Scaling down or postponing
some major inner city redevelopments, and slowing the Pudong development seem
to be the main possibilities for keeping investment plans roughly in line with
a 3-percent-of-GRP limit in the next few years. We can conclude, however,
that with careful planning and programming, the priority transport needs of
Shanghai are affordable, from the point of view of Shanghai's income and con-
sidering the rest of the decade as a whole. The fiscal problems involved in
trying to realize investments of Y 1:4 billion per year have been discussed
above and do not appear to be insurmountable at present levels of GRP. Assum-
ing normal growth, the same arguments can be extended t( the projected
Y 1.7 billion investment level later in the decade.
Next Steps
26.       The Shanghai transport infrastructure problem is partly transitory,
making up for decades of comparative neglect of needed investments. Further-
more, the tax base of the municipality could be expected to grow quite
rapidly, and major improvements could be made in revenue yield, f-r example,
by taxing property which is greatly undertaxed by international standards.
Improved infrastructure will further enhance the base of the property tax.
For all these reasons, Shanghai would appear to be justified in borrowing a
significant proportion of its transport investment needs.
27.       A finer definition of urban transport investment priorities will
require, as stressed above, sophisticated use of traffic models, improved area
expansion plans, and investigation of transport technology alternatives such
as bus lanes, NMV routes, light rail systems, and combined transport develop-
ment and land development or redevelopment. Shanghai should seek to tap
international experience in these fields as well as in land development and



-47-                                -
Page 10
redevelopment, and ccst recovery systems both for trunk infrastructure and
secondary and tertiary route development.
28.       In considering possibilities for future Bank involvement, it may be
useful to think of the present project as the first phase of a continuing
program along the same lines.  In the project or in studies related to it,
Shanghai has begun to expand its nonconstruction measures to improve transport
(traffic engineering, a pilot program for traffic safety, construction of NMV
lanes). The project has also attempted to make practical use of the traffic
assignment model, which is now being improved. In addition to evaluating
previous investment choices, eventually the model will be useful in setting
new priorities. Improvements in the planning for the city's area expansion,
begun in a project-related study on Development Scenarios, should be followed
up with further pragmatic, least cost development objectives. Technical
assistance provided during this project preparation has made a major start in
analyzing management improvement and the investment needs of public transport;
this needs to be sustained in the coming years. Finally, a series of techni-
cal assistance studies financed by the project itself will lead directly to
identification of priority investments.



-48-                           ANNEX 1
Attachment
Page I
CHINA
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Bicycle Transportation in Shapghai
Bicycle Popularity
1.        Within the city of Shanghai and its 10 adjacent counties, more than
12 million people in 1986 made 21 million daily trips for working, shopping,
and for other purposes. Of these trips, 33 percent are estimated to have been
made by bicycle compared with 38 percent by walking, 26 percent by bus, and a
mere 3 percent by other vehicular modes. The bicycles and their riders trav-
eled some 18 million km, competing for scarce road space with buses, trucks,
pedestrians, and hawkers in Shanghai's narrow and congested streets.   The
bicycle fleet in Shanghai is the largest in the world, at 6.8 million, and is
growing at 17 percent annually. Bicycle ownership in Shanghai is now
approaching 1.9 per family on average. A recent sample survey It of owner-
ship by occupation and residency revealed the following distribution:
Percentage of persons
No. of persons       interviewed owning a
Occupation                  interviewed                bicycle
Worker                        122,278                   38.6
Student                       23,378                     9.7
University student              5,952                   18.3
Unemployed                     47,007                    S.7
Farmer                         12,764                   39.1
Suburban dweller              10,273                    75.0
2.        Polloving liberation in 1949, China increasingly encouraged the use
of bicycles as the preferred means of transport for urban travellers. This
policy was consistent with wages and incomes policies and strict limitations
on vehicle ownership, as well as residential and employment location strate-
gies which housed workers within reasonable cycling distance (about 5 km) of
their respective workplaces. Bicycle production blossomed from just three
factories producing 14,000 bikes per year in 1949 to 115 factories i2 1983
1;   Powills, H. A., J. R. Hamburg, J. H. Vance.   "Transportation Planning for
Bicycles in Shanghai.- Paper prepared for 70th Annual Meeting of Trans-
portation Research Board, Washington, D.C., 1991.



_49_                          AiNNWX .
Attachment
Page 2
vith a combined annual production of some 30 million.2I Passenger bicyclee
are relatively inexpensive in China, equivalent to about one month's salary
for a worker. Designs are generally sturdy and durable, vith heavy components
and simple gearing arrangements, based on British designs prevalent during the
1930s. As part of their employment benefit package, enterprises provide
transportation subsidies to their employees, which include maintenance allow-
ances as well as vouchers permitting purchase of good-quality bicycles at a
generous discount. The economic impacts of bicycle usage extend to a thriving
service sector for tire repairs and maintenance.
3.        The flat topography characteristic of many Chinese cities, including
Shanghai, facilitates more than just passenger transport by bicycle. Freight
movements in the form of local deliveries are frequently made by flat-bed
tricycle; some 300,000 such vehicles ply the streets daily. This extensive
use of nonmotor vehicle modes coupled with tax disincentives has enabled the
government to limit the number of private motor vehicles. Shanghai currently
restricts the number of automobiles in private ownership to less than 1,000.
Motorcycles are similarly controlled.31
Pros...
4.        The advantages of a bicycle-based transportation system are mani-
fold. Mobility is high, time and cash cost of travel ls low for users, and
environmental and health impacts are generally positive. A significant indus-
try has grown to supply and serve users and contributes to exports. In cases
where adequate separation of mixed traffic occurs, serious accidents are low.
For example, in China's third largest urban center, Tianjin, where bicycle use
is even more intensive and separation of motor and nonmotor vehicles along the
city's generally wide streets is comm nplace, the accident rate is about 80
percent lower than in comparable developLng country cities. The rate in
Shanghai's congested narrow streets more closely resembles the norm (about 100
fatal accidents per million population), which is also due in part to the
absence of uimediate first aid to victims.
21 Recent investments Include IFC investment No. 1020 in the Shenzen China
Bicycles Co. Ltd (1987). The output of this factory and many others in
China is partly directed to export. Chinese-made bicycles are reportedly
popular in many developing countries, notably in India and several
African countries. Several manufacturers (including joint ventures with
foreign investors) are attempting to stimulate further demand and improve
market shares with improved designs and marketing methods.
3/   The Shanghai registered motor vehicle fleet totaled about 200,000 in
1988; the majority of which were trucks (53 percent). Cars and motorcy-
cles owned mainly by various work units totalled about 20 percent and
17 percent, respectively. Buses (including a public transport fleet of
about 5,500) constitute about 10 percent of the fleet.



-50-                           ANNEX 1
Attachment
Page 3
...and Cons
5.        Notwithstanding its popularity, bicycle usage in Shanghai for the
future faces two considerable problems. First, bicycles do not make optimal
use of Shanghai's scarce road space, especially dovntown. Second, the close
relations between home and workplace which encourages bicycle useage are some-
what of an obstacle to modernization of Shanghai's economy. A third less
tangible problem is a misconception, nevertheless growing, that bicycles as a
mode of travel do not somehow equate with progress.
6.        Network Capacity.  The conflict between bicycles and motorized traf-
fic creates serious congestion and travel time losses (particularly in the
city core, which although only 1.5 percent of the municipal area accounts for
about 50 percent of all trips). Average traffic speed in Shanghai is around
15 km per hour. Buses are particularly hampered by mixed traffic conditions
and average bus speeds around 8 km per hour are often lower than that of the
bicycles. This imposes serious capacity constraints on the available road
space since a bikeway is capable of carrying about 6,000 passengers per hour
whereas the capacity of an equivalent bus lane could be as high as 20,000
passengers per hour.4/ Parking of bicycles at downtown destinations adds
further to congestion. Although often organized in pay parking spaces, bicy-
cles typically occupy limited sidewalk space. The resulting congestion and
spillover tend to force pedestrians into the road, which further negatively
affects traffic flows and creates traffic hazards.
7.        Shanghai's solution to street capacity maximization is to segregate
bicycle and motor vehicle traffic either in exclusive street networks or,
where sufficient width of street exists, in semi-exclusive traffic lanes with
physical barriers separating the different flows, and to implement traffic
engineering and control measures to Legulate flows at crossings and intersec-
tions. Considerable attention has been paid to this solution in the project
as described in the main body of this annex.
S.        In addition to physical facilities being provided, the role of traf-
fic regulation and enforcement will play a major role in ensuring that the
efficiency Rnd convenience of Shanghai's segregated network will materialize.
However, the ability and capacity of the traffic police to influence the often
undisciplined behavior of Shanghai's cyclists and motorists at intersections
and along one-way systems have not been demonstrated clearly. Experienced
gained under the proposed project will help contribute to development of the
required capacity and measures called for, including more self-operating
intersection designs and signal control systems.
9.        Strategic Planning.  A great deal of Shanghai's industry and com-
merce (including noxious trades) is located in areas of mixed land use, much
of it in the aging buildings of the central area once erected for other pur-
poses and now an inefficient basis for modern processes and production lines.
4/ Automobiles, with an average occupancy of 1.5 (not including the profes-
sional driver normally employed in China), would face a lane capacity of
about 1,200 passengers per hour.



-51-                          ANPNEX 1
Attachment
Page 4
Future economic growth in Shanghai is likely to entail industrial restructur-
ing and relocation, coupled with the divestiture of housing and enterprises'
other social welfare responsibilities. This will, among other things, facili-
tate greater labor mobility and freedom of locational choice for industries
and residents. These choices will reflect, in large part, trade-offs between
housing and transportation costs. Lotnger commuting distances will arise as
the city spreads and will likely increase the significance of public transport
modes. Adequate provision of an attractive, convenient public transport system
will become a major objective for a growing Shanghai. Bus passes are already
provided to workers at a heavily subsidized price both to compensate for
longer journey times and to encourage public transport useage.
10.       By the year 2000, trip demand ia estimated by Shanghai's transport
planners to total 32 million, nearly So percent more than in 1986. By then,
about 10 million bicycles are estimated to be in Shanghai. Many families will
also by then have relocated to the satellite townships (now under construction
at a rate of 80,000 units per year) ringing the city, and the average work
trip length will at least have doubled along roughly radial routes across the
city. In this scenario, the number of public transport trips is expected by
the planners to grow dramatically, to serve about 80 percent of the total
demand from its present level of 26 percent. This should be achieved by
improved public transport services, including the subway line now under con-
struction. Additional arterial roads are under construction, and a reduction
in the congestion of secondary roads is anticipated. Bus speeds are expected
to rise and services improve through traffic segregation measures, such as
exclusive busways.   The role of the bicycle, though much diminished, will be
as in the past to serve relatively short trips, including "park and ride'
journeys.
Nonmotor Vehicle Options
11.       Careful planning of future residential and industrial location could
do much to maintain the current role of the bicycle and disperse the conges-
tion implied in the year 2000 scenar.'.o described above. Experience in other
cities indicates that as populations decentralize, trips become lateral rather
than radial, hence the prospect of nearby employment and convenient access
could remain if industrial and commercial locations were well coordinated with
residential locations. Also, in new estate developments, the opportuwliy to
assign adequate space for segregated bikeways, parking, and footpatFs (to
minimize vehicular access) should be taken at the outset. Future technical
assistance to Shanghai for land management and residential/industrial develop-
ment design would help Shanghai's land use planners and developers devise
suitable plans and measures. Tools for the analysis of alternative scenarios
and strategies already exist in Shanghai and would be further developed under
the project.
Postscript
12.       The bicycle is demonstrably an appropriate technology for urban
transport purposes in China's cities. The Bank has supported, indeed pio-
neered, the application of appropriate technologies widely in many sectors and
numerous operations worldwide. The significance of such technologies in con-



-52-                           ANNEX 1
Attachment
Page 5
tributing to affordable, replicable solutions to the burgeoning demands of
urban dwellers is unfortunately not always appreciated and often is viewed as
a second-class solution. Close attention to information and education of the
users, planners, designers, and administrators is essential in establishing
the technology. In China more generally and Shanghai's case in particular,
the persuasion is largely unnecessary since the system is already in place.
However, if this efficient, private, human-powered urban transport system is
to survive in Shanghai, new measures must be found to adapt it cost-effec-
tively to the demands of a growing megacity and enable it to compete with the
clamor for motorized alternatives in the face of growing expectations in the
standard of living.



-53-                             ANNEX 2
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Traffic Management and SafetZ
PART It TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
Objectives and Scope
1.        The traffic management component is designed to increase the  capac-
ity of the transport network in and around the Central Business District (COD)
and reduce congestion caused by conflicts between inherently Incompatible road
users (bicycles, pedestrians, and motor vehicles) competing with one another
for limited road space. This component would contribute significantly to
improving the efficiencl of the transport network by providing priority for
the movement of people and goods in locations essential to the economic well-
being of the city.
2.        The traffic management component comprises low-cost small-scale
traffic engineering and control measures designed to Improve travel conditions
for cylists, pedestrians, public transport, and commercial vehicles in and
around the CBD of Shanghai.
3.        These measures provide thp basis for the implementation of the fol-
lowing three priority traffic management action programs (which are illus-
trated in Maps 22043, 22117, and 22118),
(a) the NHV action program: the establishment of an exclusive Nonmotor
Vehicle (NMV) route network, 19.4 km in length, in and around the
CBD;
(b) the CBD action programs the development of a comprehensive traffic
management system for the CBD road network, 26.2 km in length; and
(c)  the N8C action programt the implementation of the first stage of
the North-South Corridor (NSC) improvement program comprising the
establishment of an exclusive busway, 1.1 km in length, along the
Waitan and traffic engineering and control measures to the north of
the recently constructed Wusong Bridge.
4.        The component would include provision of the following traffic engi-
neering and contgol measures:
(a) the provision of 67 new sets of traffic signals (of which 27 or
40 percent would be linked to the existing Area Traffic Control
(ATC) system);



-54-                              ANNEX 2
Page 2
(b)  the modification of 19 existing sets of traffic signqls (of which 12
would be linked to the existing ATC system);
(c) the channelization of 108 intersections and some 2.2 km of streets;
(d) the provision of 1,455 sets of traffic signs and associated lane
markings along 45.4 km of streets;
(e) the construction of six missing links in the proposed NMV network;
and
(f) the provision of bus priority facilities (including the establish-
ment of a 1.1-km busway).
5.        The summary cost estimates of the traffic management component are
presented in Annex 2, Table 1; the unit costs and quantities are presented in
Annex 2, Table 2; the implementation program (showing the annual development
of the action programs which comprise the traffic management component) is
presented in Annex 2, Table 3; the implementation schedule (showing annual
phasing of civil works and equipment) is presented in Annex 2, Table 4; and
the expenditure program is presented in Annex 2, Table 5.
The Nonmotor Vehicle Action Program
6.        The Nonmotor Vehicle (NMV) action program would increase capacity
for bicycles (and other nonmotor vehicles) by the provision of 19.4 km of
exclusive NMV routes each 2 x 4 lanes wide (thereby providing a total of
77.6 km of bicycle lane in each direction) through:
(a) the establishment of a network of ten NMV routes from the conversion
of 17.8 km of existing, buL little used, secondary roads for exclu-
sive NHV use; and
(b) the construction of 1,6 km of missing links at six strategic points
in the proposed *exclusive NWV network;
7.        The NMO route network would reduce congestion to buses and other
motor vehicles caused by bicycles (and other nonmotor vehicles) along heavily
trafficked routes by rerouting NMVs to parallel exclusive NMV routes. It would
also contribute to improving the efficiency of the transport network by:
(a) making better use of existing, but under-used, road space;
(b) allocating road space in a more rational manner and in a manner more
suited to road-user needs;
(c)  reducing delays for NMV and vehicular traffic; and
(d) reducing the risk of accidents.
8.        SMO began the Implementation of the NHV network in 1990.   The proj-
ect would include the second phase of a comprehensive, long-term, exclusive
lNW network development program and would comprise the following componentst



55                     ~~~~AM=E  2
Page 3
(a) provision of approximately 575 sets of traffic signs, 1,000 m of
channelization, miscellaneous road markings, etc., for converting
17.8 km existing streets to exclusive NKV use8
(b) the provision of about 39 sets of traffic signals, the modification
of three sets of traffic signals, and the channelization at about 39
locations for modifying or improving intersections between the pro-
posed NIV routes and existing motor vehicle streetes and
(c) the construction (and associated demolition and relocation) of some
1.6 km of exclusive NMV roadway to provide missing links at six
strategic points (including the construction of an exclusive WV
bridge across the Suzhou Creek at Puji) in the proposed NMV route
network.
9.        The unit costs and quanties of the NkW action program are presented
in Annex 2, Table 6, and the NMV action program implemeutation schedule is
presented in Annex 2, Table 7.
The CBD Action Program
10.       The CBD action program is designed to improve the performance of the
CBD road network to meet the needs of pedestrians (pedestrianixed streets,
sidewalk improvements, etc.), bicycles (IKV lanes, etc., to complement the NHY
action program within the CBD), buses and their passengers (but priority
facilities, bus stop improvements, etc.), $through* traffic (use of streets
around the CBD to form a motor-vehicle-only 'ring road'), and essential com-
mercial and emergency vehicle access (use of selected streets within the CBD
to form a commercial distribution network, demarcation of 'loading bays., one-
vay streets, etc.).
11.       The project would include the first six-year phase of a comprehen-
sive, long-term CBD traffic management program and would comprise the follow-
ing componentsi
(a) the provision of approximately 600 sets of traffic signs, 1,200
meters of channelization, and mlicellaneous road markings, etc., for
converting 26.2 km of existing streets to exclusive motor vehicle
use, to one-way systems, to counterflow bus lanes and NMV lanes,
etc.s and
(b) the provision of about 16 sets of traffic signals, the modification
of about 11 sets of traffic signals, and the channelization at some
61 locations for modifying or improving critical intersections
within the CBD motor vehicle network.
12.       The unit costs and quantities of the CBD action program are presen-
ted ln Annex 2, Table 8, and the CBD action program implementation schedule is
presented ..n Annex 2, Table 9.



-56-                             ANNEX 2
Page 4
The North-South Corridor (NsC) Action Program
13.       The NSC action program is designed to impro..e public transport oper-
ations along the Bund and across Suzhou Creek.   It complements the construc-
tion of the Wusong Bridge, which opened for traffic in June 1991. The con-
struction of Wusong Bridge and the NSC action program represent the first
stage in the improvement of the North-South Corridor linking Vusong with
Nanmatu via the COD. This corridor carries the highest bus passenger volume3
(estimated to reach 60,000 passengers per hour in both directions) in metropo-
litan Shanghai. The NSC action program is, therefore, designed to provide
urgently needed capacity for bus movements along this heavily trafficked sec-
tion of the North-South Corridor. The program would be implemented during
1991/92 and would comprise the following:
(a) the conversion of part of the existing carriageway along the Bund
(saoe 1.1 km in length) into an exclusive busway and the conversion
of the existing Waibaidu Bridge to exclusive bus use (now that
Wusong Bridge is complete);
(b) the provision of approximately 280 sets of traffic signs, 700 m2 of
bus lay-bye, 3,300 m2 of bus stop platforms, the rerouting of
1.35 km of overhead trolley bus power lines and miscellaneous road
markings, etc., to establish the buavay and associated traffic man-
agement measures to the north of Sushou Creek; and
(c) the provision of about 12 sets of traffic signals, the modification
of five sets of traffic signals, and the channelization at eight
locations to modify or improve critical Intersections within the
proposed NSC bus and motor vehicle network.
14.       The unit costs and quanties of the NSC action program are presented
in Annex 2, Table 10, and the NSC action program Implementation schedule is
presented in Annex 2, Table 11.
PART Its TRAFFIC SAFETY
15.       The Traffic Safety component would provide the Shanghai Public Secu-
rity Bureau (SPSB) with the computer equipment needed tos
(a) modify accident reporting and data collection procedures to improve
the quantity and quality of basic accident datal
(b) carry out the analysis of accident data to identify blackspot loca-
tions and contributory factors, and to permit the design and imple-
mentation of effective accident prevention measures:
(c) identify, design, and execute remedial traffic engineering and con-
trol measures at specific locations or times of day; and



-57-                             ANNE  2
Page 5
(d) monitor the effectiveness of the above measures in accident and
injury reduction.
16.       A pilot scheme would be carried out initially in one city district
selected as being representative in terms of the characteristics of accidents
currently occurring in Shanghai. The results of the pilot scheme would be used
subsequently to replicate in other city districts those measures which proved
effective in reducing accidents and injuries as part of a comprehensive traf-
fic safety program.
17.       The project would include the financing of the following equipments
(a) one personal computer with a large-capacity hard drive of 120 Mega-
bytes or more (equivalent to an IBM PS/2 Model 70 with 120- megabyte
hard disk, 25 MHz clock speed) estimated to cost $11,300 equivalent;
(b) one color monitor (compatible with the computer described in para. 3
(a) above) with high resolution (equivalent to an IBM 8514 high-
resolution monitor) estimated to cost $1,551 equivalents and one
compatible high-resolution display adaptor (equivalent to an IBM
8514JA display adaptor) estimated to cost $1,291 equivalent;
(c) one color printer estimated to cost $1,400 equivalent;
(d) two digital terminals with Chinese characters (VT320 or equivalent)
estimated to cost $550 equivalent each;
(e) a GKS software package for VMS 5.0 estimated to cost $4,000; and
(f) one plotter, continuous feod, 36 inches wide (Calcomp or equiva-
lent).



-58-                                              ANSX 2
Page 6
361f COST TA=
IT4                 t#4NNV PROORAH           1 COD PROORA               N 8 CPROORAN TiOTL PT             RO   RRA"
Local  a.n Total NW      Local Forelpn Total CD   Local Foreign Tetet mC  t Loa  Pe.reoi  Total  TOT
:AI Traffic Slg,aloe  I 1.i    0.62  2.80   S3: 0.72   0.86   1.00   18I: 0.84  0.0    C '6  353: 3.02    1.20  4.22   11$
2   0.)              7 : 
11M: Signals          883    8o    SOS     :   243    303   263          16x   1      18     :   1      100  1o"
s~ ,                                                     .     ,, .1. ,t: ,::
:6: Traffic Sigtal.   : 0.05  0.04   0.09   Ol: 0-.2   0.49   0.?    11o : 0.20  0.02  0.22   ION: 0.82  0.88   1.00   aS:
:  ipra4d)          :::::
3 Uplrad.d Signl: I           so    as     :    8n    66     713        38      43   213    l:     0   1006   100i
.. . . ........ I.. ..  ............... . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . .  ......... ..   - .: ...... ... .  ,......,...,...
:C: Camwelimation     : 1.88  0.00   1.88   88:   .99   0.00  8.99   893: 0.80  0.00   0.50   283i: 5.87  0.00   .867  1m3:
(Junctiomn)
Jtlon                 243                      o 23  :  6  0  a     :    as     Os     a     t   low     O31003
:0: Chaaellatien     : 0.20   0.00   0.20   ot: 0.59    0.00  0.89   96: 0.00   0.00   0.00   *1:s O.?*   0.00  0.79  24:
:   illdblockI)   s                        : a                                               t 
:  SNldsloc        :   28      06i  283     :   786     0    786     t    03     06    03i    :136        C6 1003      :
...    ..........2 ............                ........................:. .  .   .    .   .    :. ...I..........
Il: Sign aWd i4rlin  I 0.88   0.00   C.88   IS: 0.88    0.00  0.88    on: 0.20  0.00   0.21   186: 1.02   0.00  1.02   8S:
:  SgaWrdg:             83      0 63         :   87t383               :   93      0     7      :                        :06 03 10
.................... ..  ..             .  .... ..  ,.              . .,                      ..      I...................
:Ft Nianing L4nk0    : 24.10   1.88 50.74  Mt 0.00      0.00  0.00   GOl  0.00  0.00   0.00   05: 26.10   1.88 20.74   66i:
nslng          lo     :  ion0   Ol t 1001           03 0   5a    an          as    as     on     :  I00ll IOii  100t
t . .. . ....... ...  :.. ... ...I... ... .... s................  ............. . . ........ ...  ........ .. ..... .t.......... t....... . . ......... .....:
tOt &M p1CIlitleo    I 0.00   0.00   0.00   Olt 0.00    0.00  0.00   01: 0.40    0.00  0.40   US: 0.40    0.00  0.40    1St
3Saailte .                3          ,3     ,, ,      ,3 ,3 ,   3               . 100  0.  190 .  10. 0..      100
I  * gm« UtatliOies  I     asi   an     an     t    401   OSi    an     I  IGOD    as     lOi    t  I       co     lowS   t
:S9 A     C08TS         7.91   2.1  80.19 SOON3  S.95   0.6   0.o0    0s: 1.91   0.15  9.26 1005: tJ.79   8.82 3.10 10Wm:
Aidult eatlbon   t1.89    0.00   1.89    6ti 0.81  000    0.81   Sol 0.10   0.00   0.10   81: 1.80   0.00   1.00   85:
tTOTAO NW COMS         2 39.8t  2.90  81.   10   6.20  0.65   7.11 10i    2.01  0.20   2.26  1063: 37.8   8.39 40.90 1063:
Plum              : 6.00   0.2e    0.06 2.Oi   195  *.1S   2.13  1SU: 0.45   0.06   0.48   Mi: 8.2S   0.44   0.66  M2-:
t.S



ot-o  orlo  o.-o2 
0:0  o00'0 o 'o  t al3  1         " Je g0  :    oeJiR inwe Sol 10i () (a)
o-o  COl   010  t0                p a"  iOtt    o ot-pin d"S  s1 CL) $  1 IJIj gmtO;
:~~~~~~WV                                          a 1  110 :                 :
*31*    *- It'S :                                 d I ^ l..it 
.......  .......  .......  .......  ......... . . . . .  I..........  ............ ... .... ...
"It   u 8*  99t re  o.u  '9 $ 0Oem' 3 i I ;w * $  t    J    5)
9:WL   RIQ  Celt  931   i  C.   t 3) t  A" ot  t               ti) 2w            Sdt
030  eo-o  03L0  2 90.t                        s 2  mqt :  rS ,() 2
UtO  oo'o  uo    s oon 2            .B@ t  2            o   (a) I a      0v 9
*  o  Colo  a,*0  O "VT0Q                               901#-qw C)aIg1110a    a
2' 99.0  00C0  CLI0                                  0 9:0 J" B  9  t  (3) £
' 01   00 10 9 S     ' 6   :  O g000  J OnV (a) I
$ *()0  Colo  0  2 01O  U  2 oniu Jed O9! on 00    ~      O (1)  No#uvzrimwoo mmii-ts
901   W O  33 O  4 1   :                   :         e  9*js_  s                :
s ozo  moD  s0o  : a     Ogs3  0  o0o0 0000 2:  s v:> o0  O  pos (a)
:B0  60 'o  O          2 t  oe  0 000 o  o$9 ooo*"  09 39-u4 (a): S16 I    1J:62
:z   :, ,al  :0-  'to                                                            : 90
...... . . ..  ......  .. , . .  .. . .  ..,,,,  I ...........  ....... .. .. ..
IL' 0tl5 t         a O  2 08  000't 000'03  2'        9jyl-U  (£)                2
2 400  00o0 o 0e0        a s 0*  0  00083 OOO'S 2  ((P.1o W /)g*¢ (:)
: ?e^7 S nn-l    t *p.  : f'tJ2n f  p^~tf pS 2 2sne  1JC"l2 i"8}g*l> (til 2  tS0WJ? =1 ^ 2
2:,"Hp (cg)  ( * 24 Io9   (MO (W4 ( qW (qW 2                   2
a          2     2  a 0J  %  3g Lb  A                                     2
AM"A*mvI sew smu =&v&
AWa0ms hmDdwKmL #*hXtd1m I"w"
WWI. 1U
3ro 4 2
£ 31tSwjtz                                                              9olb



-60-                                            -    2
Page 8
Fl le s9VW@AMlAPUL:V.  1O0o-0w9pp                                                                     TAU. 3
WIA"t IWI0P"UM4 lRDU09? 950190
1RA95 ICWMA09ff csoiuit
tAC~~~6w                                  T    Sui   n A  aA  eI os
t                               t:I(   Co" I Km   Co"t KM   Cat Km           KItM  Cost:K   Coo 1 t , Kee Cot 
I                                     (RNa. .e)s I() (t.O)t (S) bb.G)i (1) Ote): (t M  PA.w) i(91) (ftb. 0t (s  bu) t)
t        NefzWV  t1.6 *                 .25 I     9.00       0.00      0.00 't US  .98  ON   1.49: 250  1.49
t        NW Rout.       2          82.0  .20: 1009 7.20:    0.00 :     0.00       0.00:     0.00       0.<00
I  NWRwte       a      .2.4    S."9  100 5."9       0.*0:     0.00 t     0.00:      0.00:     0.00 
N W Rount       6      : 1.5  0.60:      0.00: 805 4.80   809 4.80       O.00:      0.00     o0.00:
WV Rtouto       a      I 2.9   0.72 t 100  0.72:    0.00:     0.00;      0.00       0.00:     0.00
NM1V Raulto     6      : 1.4   0.86  U09B 0.85 :    0.00 :    0.00 :     0.         0.00:     0.00
WV Rout$e       7          .4  0.15 :    0.00: 505 0.17 50i 0.17      t  0.00:      0.00:     0.00
: NlW Route     a      t 1.0   0.25:     0.00  8X0  0.12  501 0.12:      0.00:      0.00:     0.00
lo1w Rout*      9      : 1.1   0.27:     0.00   US 0.14   80  0.14       0.0        0.00:     0.00
I  ,.,........,...  .. ...  ,,............................,.,,.,,:.,.  ........ .,,,,  .............  ........ .. .. .. ... .. .. .. ..
#0WRot    0          .009 : 10609:            0.0:       0.0:      0.0:       0.0       :.
tta St (i.oCate):             : 17.8 80.15     14.78S: 14  4.78 tI C4 4.78:  45 2.q0   25S 1.49  25 1.40
ob-4otea*         I       : 2.0  0.7: 786 0.81 :25    0.7 I      0.00:     0.00:      0.00:      0.00
Sob44t.rl*        2       s 6.8  1.6 t      0.00: 201 0.80 t 409 0.65: 401 0.65:      0.00       0.00:
Sub-Wteotr        S       : 5.5  1.4:       0.00: 10% 0.14: 206 0.29: 256 0.50 : 255 0.36: 206 0.29
&-W*              4       : 4.6  1.18       0.00: 20a 0.80: -s   0.80   M  0.80   25  0.80:      0.00:
t Sb-Nbu*         B    ,    8.0  0.78:      0.00  g5o 0.19: S    0.19: 2   0.1: go    0.19:      0.00;
*AN  te           0       : 4.8  1.10 s     0.00: 2I0 0.25 IOXS 0.56 : 2    Q5 O.2S:  0.00       0.00:
I                       t     ~    ~     ~ :  I          : ;                  :          :
Stubte.tl (basesC)t           t20.2  0.80 t n   0.81  21  1.40 29    1.8: 28   1.77     2 o0.85s 4 0.29:
tc: MC v.                                             5                              -      '
I     $outh (ar)                : 1.1  1.85 S     0.00 tS0 0.00 I a   0.66:      0.00: t   0.00       0.00:
NAt Ohm")                   0.5  0.79:      0.00: 806 0.40 t 80  0.40       0.00      0.00:      0.00;
.                                                    t,t:.  . :.:         :          :
s &btotl Siues Ca):             : 1.4  2.N 1   06 0.00: 503 1.00 t 50  1,08   0    . 0.00:  0  0.00:  05 0.00:
Am eooa OtM lH peaat            :45. 92.10 t 21 t8.24t 1     7.811  24S 7.79: 175 4.71   06 2.81  *   1.77: t
r sI  ,  an lnt, w I .s5UUIWU             Y.WW** -, pim~ bqwlU"Wo*UU.



-61-                                            N        2
Page 9
Pi I*:SN4#4SI\A53\AX8lL3J10..o-69gg.w                                                                      p 16.4
8V61512  UPULITDM 1      ?tR   PROJ
IRA53I W14SDW     P  E
,    SW  IM S       --*-
:CSChinTa                  :-Rs...     )--....  Cas     :   cost    I  Cost       Cot           t       Ct
:NOV. CID, OC Pogrems)     'Le", Flatn Tota      (3.1.): (5) (R.D): (l) (.e))-): (         3) ).:): (    (.-.)
ii. 1.10 WUIIIU 
Ooaoi tlos            :17.60  0.10 17.0: 6 811.40     8as 0.62    J0.41     1 to  2.6?  7   1.J4 :  73 1.84 t
P.eottlou.nt           : 0.00  0.00  0.00   ON 0.00: va   0.00:   Os 0000 I  0  0.90   at 0.00 t 050 .CO:
X  vsXlislee           I 0.09  0.00  0.09  100  0.09 :  0a  0.00:  On 0.00 I  an 0.00   as 0.00    011 0.00 :
.............            ..... ..........                                             .     .    .    ..........
ISuqb-Total (1)             17.69  0.1  16.07 5  03 11.49 :  0  0.62  Ot 0.62 :  05 2.07:   03 1.34 V0     1.84
:2. CIilv Wto              I                 5          :          2                                           :
Miosing Links          : I0.   0.00  0."  65   .44"   00 0.00: t  0  0.00 t 1  0.12 I  03 0.06 I 0   0.06: 
Puji Steidg            : 8.61  1.38  8.29  0 0.00: SOII 5.44    SOS 3.49:   05 0.00   N0 0.00     00 0.00
:uo Fustibe*          : 0.40  0.00  0.40:  00 0.00:   0  0.28: 803 0.20:    00S 0.00:  00 0.00 :  00 0.00:
Signal*                :1.69  0.00  1.69 :       0.60: 23 0.44 : 2  0.49  1111 :.21    SS 0.10    2 0.05:
CheomllWlan            : 6.68  0.00  6.80: 2Us 1.14: 212 1.42    271 10: 1t     1.25 :     0.60:   S  0.23:
..  . . . .                ......... . . . . .  ..........  .. . . . .  ..... . . .   ,.,.,,.,.....  ... , , .. .   ............
Sob-Totol (2)           :18.2=  1.6 16.61 t 141 2.89    S    .5 a       .99 t10   1.69    S S 0.76   26 0.83
:a. Od.:                                                t                     :
: igsi,loot*           :1.6a  1.76  8.41: 8    1.10: 281 0.8 I    M  0.53: 113 0.85:    a  0.1 6   21 0.06:
sigw, ate"              1.02  0.00  1.02 t 20d 0.25l  26  0.17   201  0.80  11t 0.11 t5    0.06    26 0.02:
..                       ...... -    .... -     ...........           .       .. t.           :       .
U1A-Total (8)           : 2.07  1.76  4.48 2 813 1.86   24  1.6    213 1.181: 111 0.49    II 0.24 I  26 0.11
:~~~~~ VW.1vlt, 'U)                 7JW.Nu . 4v VW IV.= t.s 30  Ma I. w%xXw sr. WV *.f:
uss-ouiv             l.o1 0.:1  0.00  0.oww 2Iy  0. 1.s  aus 0. Is 571111 0.0: In  0.01 I Its 0.08 t  So 0.09
*FinalI &a.            2.05: 1.09  O.C0  1.0Ott  42 0.04 : SONl 0.42 s 2  0.82  1990. o.n   9 0 .10 t  06 0.00t 
Conot. Son.          0.$8S 0.20  0.00  0.20a: 18  0.06 s  t0.4 :I 21 0.06: t 101 0.04: 1"    0.04:   IS 0.00:
..  . . . . .              ..... . . . . . . .  .... . . .  ..... ....  ..........  ,.:.,,.:.... t  .,,,......,,, ,,,....I ........... :I
Sub-T otl                : 1.80  0.0Ct  1.60: 100 0.18: 824  0.61 : M6  0.48 :  5 0.32: 113 0.20    go 0.06:
X ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   ~   :ro    ..u..            w.g:ps,q : t          u.   I 1    .        : n.gO    uLU
Phy,loil Ccmt1inacioo   :I . 76  0.14  4.09 :8     1.84 s  1 0.79: 30  0.0:2  1  0.1:   63 0.28    43 0.18
Price CoertAtnes,oI 0.2s        0.44  6.53 . 15 0.4: t Ia    1.06 : I   2.10 : 1   1.98 : 1 1.27: 11311 1.14:
Tta76l Coet:               :49.5   4.09 S8.0    8 517.  I   1S3 9.07 t 213 11.2? : 145 7.58  1 a5  4.06 t  61 8.1:



-62-                                                  A0S       2
Page 10
IRWWIC   _A   TV c.ll
I  IL~~                           T                     U  w  U     U  S-                              I .. . .  5  U  1 . .  S a  *  z-  vr c  .................e..
:910GW)                           :.b.Z): 0 - .F          W: .Z         ?, ,)       ), .W) ): .e)                 3      :..
:                      t          ~      ~      ~      ~      ~~:I   :1 1  19)  ,il       :99          :199
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
:Ibe  Cast                              81.8: t14.86     473: 26.08    64O: 251.5    01t 26.36    906: 80.08    981: 81-.8  1006:
: PlbylcsI                      :     8.18 :   t.49   471:   2.01   646:   2.52   601:  2.64   6o01   5.00   953:    . 15  tO06:
: Pr le                               6S.06 :  0.01   l811i  1.65   27:    2.99   491:   4.28   701:  5.09   841t:  6.06  100L :
:%lou  Cst                         :    40.74 : 17.15    425: 28.78    M6t6 60.65    Mt: 85.48    67:    16.12  9431: 40.74 100l6:
,......................................................................... I...........................................................
:0D PR0OO1A                        :          :             :                                        :
:Rww Cost                                7.11    o0.e8    IS:   2.02  1S:    4.08  S71    1.92   68-    6.1    M6.:   7.11  1006:
Ph1y;esl                              0.71:    0.06    75:   0.2    M61:   0.41  573:  0.89   On:    0.86    966:  0.71  1005:
Price                           .     2.18:    0.0    1S:   0.27   113:   0.68   891:   1.51,  713:  1.94   915:   2.13  100S:
:T7.1l Cost                              O 0.9":  0.91    66:   2.40   5:    5.8 61  5:    0.02   6l1:   9.48   981:   0.95  1001:
...................... ............ ................ ...............I................................................... ..............
:9~P~1                             :          ,             :             :            :             . :
loom Cost s                              2.26 t   0.0S    11$   1.18   Mt    2.26   1o0o:  1:.26 lw;    2.261 1006:  2.26   1006
sCestlngoet.                                  :             :             :             : 
ph7.14sI                        S     0.2:     0.00     I3:  0.11 5t1:     0.28  1006   0.28   100lt  0.2I 10001t A  0.2  1
t PriCo                                                   C .4:: 0.0  06:  0.18  866J:  0.40  100:  0.46  06:  0.48  1003:  0.41  10011:
sTe.t Cost                         .     2.90     0.06    I5:   1.45   491:   2.9?  1006:  2.9   t 100t:  2.97  1001:  2.9?  1100:
*4L  t~~            ~  ~~~      ~~~~~~ : -                                                       t 
some Coms                               40*.9  t 15.42   181   28.25   61: 8149     ?3    86.86   6M6: 89.09    961: 40.90   1.0o:
:C..tlaosumelo                     :          I             I             S             :            :             I 
ph7t.si                         '      4.06 :   1.84   Mt    2.83   573t   8.18   7M1:   8.66  6O:    8.91  O96:    4.00 1001
S Prico                           s      0.66     0.S4   10I    2.10   25t    4.80  *03    0.28   71i:   7.82   1sil   O.ff  1006:
7ts5 CosI                          :    8.65 : 17.00      Mt WAY       Sol 66.98     M: 46.46     6l 89.8       945: 82.65   101:



-63-AN                                                    2
Pasge 11
Fi I*:S#NWAFR%A31WMl 10-ft-OW                                                                               TAM a
SIW0W MRWPOUrr TRM*W i#Wr
N   Wr mom - Wm? Cmt A01wXt
U          - I   w a        I r  v WJ"III  II     a t I         I
:V Civil  1.1t S    t O*l lereI           t   l Tot
t            :                           si\i-}~~~~~~~~~~~~~:oAx   SoU  iLem  Felo s  t      e    
X           :                            t tAt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O)  14)  ob)   CUM   : (Uhil): ob6.e) oWb6.o  CASb.a)
sNN~a.. awqAI.D~  2 I~~J Ie~ujcwIru. 237 20..15m  WOW   V W&Z,'Aw       £22     V.96-- 2,.3     J..do
t                          v{(2) SCATS(uIe amrlllor)   I 2@.000  0.00      0 a    0s:       0     0.00     0.00    0.00:
(3) Mon-SCATS              : 20,000  M0,00 $.O000             25     1.al     0.00    1.13:
t :~~~~~~~~ .......................... ................................:        . .... ........  1 .... . . ......  ...... .... ... ...
Sub-rtetl A             .                            :          l:  1.76    0.62    2.39
:8tStI IRAFUtC SIOELfS     t (1) NObi-SCATS tO SCATS    2s.000      0      0 t12.000        I     0.03     0.04    0.0o
(2) U  ificatice of SCATS  : 20,000 @0,000    0 61,20:         0:    0.00    0.00    0.00
(3) SCATS b Uta-SCATS      t     0      0 10,000)     01        2:    0.02    0.00    0.02
: : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~................                      .  ... ....... . ........ . ...,, , ........  ........- .......  ....... .... ...........:
:   Sb-Totel i              :                             :             0.05    0.04    0.09
:C:cACrtON aWOJZArTIl      : (1) Sanic                 : 30,000 per ltereecti;en    :      36      1.05q   0.00    1.08:
2 (2) Co.emple                74.000 per Inlere.eien              a     0.      0.00    0. 15
2 (3) Very Ceou             2m:110,000 per I"ter.tI n             1     0.15    0.00    0.1 
:2t                          .        .         .        ...       ........... . . . ...... .........2 .....................  ........  .... .......
Sob-Trol c                                           :      39:     1.16    0.00    1.3l.1
t0:Sj10O.0  0 0911ZATtOm   : (1) luel c                :   200 pW I lame  Wr       I    1000 2   0.20     0.00    0.20:
t  (2) Cowles               t iam pedI llr new            t      0 S    0.00    0.00    0.00:
.1                              ;          ,             t     ,           t      .................. .............. ...  ......... ....... .......2.....
2                          2   Stb-r  oI 0                                          :    1000 :   0.20     0.00    0.20:
:  t                           t                             t        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  I
te:s5  AM OI(DQJ           t (1) Treffc 8IIS           *   600 pt Spe                     PR i    0.29     0.00    0.29
t (2) Lian bhrklna          t2     1 I.two va             t   604 a     0.0     0.00    0.00:
t                          2      .   ........2.......... ........... . .........2..................  ....... .............
I                                                         I bI@10I g  :  2  0.16  0.C0  0.6 2
:                                                                                   ttt
P:NMISUD  t                S (1) om.itiSenN8      t       1.810 er tA (6 14.3 t)   t    ISM l     7.60    0.18   17.96
2                          2 (2) Coo\g4,uetI 4         t     I 1u   - oh Fe    0.87 t    SiOS I    6.111   1.16    7.76o:
2                          2            X ....................... ......................... 2...... .....  ....... .......2.....
a   6*-lesalP               2                             2         a  @0.18    1.86    6.64 t
t                          2                           2                            2         t                         t
t:t05  FACILIIU            I (1) be Step widerning     t   140 per s2                       0t     0.00    0.00    0.00 t
I (2) &so St"   louds       I     s0 per w                :             0.00    0.00    0.00 t
a (S) 7Tol lay 6au tVreo    :0,11000 Wear                 t         a   0.00    0.00    0.00 t
t t2- t-----t..                      ...                ....... ..... t .. .   ............  ........ ... -             t
t                          t   &3Tptel C               t                            t       0 t   0.00     0.00    0.00 :
tT      II a.     W n * F        C u v   i    Wa                                                  p        p.     so.ae I
,%~IAI~; UMinDi *w,m a OINiruug  VI Wu;g * euWia..a   JumuIne M y W  o2211.e %W. VI  VuJi m*gJ 0 .aI  " IUMeu  to3 swig



ANNEX 2
-64-                                               Page 12
P1 l,:U~~39~hPR~53TUL2RM1X VA1049M                            c?WA I
WW@A    I eUIRPOUt    t pm ay    1pjjxT
#1W DCTI06            nwrf li  WVUN6. A
tlO4Ut  P@i tet0a 7 5: (3) (%6.v):  ) ("   :1) (>.a: MI (W.N)f () (rAb-O): (3) -ae
*1. su.u.,a
* eelg4i.e               :17.80  0.1  17.98    6    11.40 :  St 0.82    St 0.02 : 15    2.67:    73 1.84 :   71 1.84
t  Rsbtlooelb            t 0.00  0.00   0.00 t   01 0.00 I    1tA  0.00t  01 o 0.00 t    0.00I    03 0.00 t   0   0.00C
:     I Ittie s            0.09  0.00   0.09   10o   0.09 :  01 0.00D I  05 0.00 t  03 0.00      03 0.00 :   01 0.00:
: ~~~~~~~~~~~~.               . . . . .....        ....   .. , . . . .   ........  I..   .. . . . .   .. . .. . .   ...........
: gb-Tobal (1)             :17.89  0.16  18.07: 64 11.4:          0.62     St 0.62: 16     2.37    71 1.34      71 1.84
:2. Clvi  VorkI  :W:                                                       :
Miesirg Lnles            : 0.68  0.00   0.S8   C*i 0.44":    Os 0.00:    01 0.00: 18S 0.12:         0.00:   91 0.00
Pgji or Ide                8.61  1.39   0."9  :  01 0.00: NS0    8.49   501 8.49:    01 0.00:    01 0.00      01 0.00
Si-gle                   :0.86   0.00   0.66    68    0.60:  14    0.12:  14S 0.12:  41 0.04:     2     0.02:  2    0.08:
ChinoilItat4len          : 1.56  0.00   1.56  61U    1.00: 141 0.25:: 141 0.22 .     41 0.07 :    Zl 0.08::   21 0.06
sub-Tal (2)                : 6.75  1.86  10.12   201 2.00: Sol    3.64:    -11  3.64:  21 0.22 t    11 0.11:    11 0.11
:8.Oitd                        :                  :            :           ::: 
:  gnslo, *to            :0.48   0.67   1.89: 611 1.01:     14     0.22:  14    0.25:  41 0.07    25    0.03:  3 0.06:
signs ate                t0.86   0.00   0.368     1 1 0.23:  U1   0.00: 141 0.06:    4   0.02:    2     0.01:  2t 0.01:
:~~~~~~~~~~~.             . . . . . . . . .    ...... . .  ...... . .  .. . . . . .   .. . . . .  ............. : ..,.::.:.
: S-,Toel (a)              : 1.209  0.67  1.96 t 6311 1.24 : 141 0.27: 141 0.27:       41 0.08:    2i 0.04:     21 0.04
= a-I*"# %114131             -2.9    Mu -0.1_ Wma                                            w.w: Fe  M   M.-t is  M   *0^9 Mt11I  9 a
indWm       1                     w    z    .      :                                           -   :
Admnletiretin            1.911: 0.39  0.00  0.89 : 251   0.10: 8011 0.12: lag 0.061: 1ll 0.09: la        0.04:   S   0.02:
Final Eno.              2.411: 0.64  0.00  0.64 t  0S 0.00: 406 0.84: 50        0.25: 203 0.17:     101 0.00a   0 OR 0.00:
C:not. SBn.             0.5: 0.715  0.00   0. IS: 20   0.00:   20M  0.03: 201 0.0: 23 0.08:         Ol 0.03       1 0.00:
..  ..:   ... ...            I .  . . . ....... .  .. . . . .  .. .. .. .  .. . .. . .    .:.:.,.:.:.:.  .., . .. .  .... .. ..
: b.Tota                    : 1.39  O.00   1.39:   91 0.18: 65M     0.49: 98M 0.84: 191 0.26 : 1I       0.18:    11S 0.02
:11                            :y.a    n.                      :           :, qu  i  w~  u  .a :   *u ,a:o  .. :            :ppO 
P:h4slcul Conthasltlatoe      2.95  0.29   8.16 I  471 1.49    II1I3 0.62: 1    0.91 : 1  10  0.89   S S 0.1 t:  S1 0.15
Price Coptinganci.e         : 8.60  0.28   0.00 a 1111 0.61    141 0.34: 22     1.84:   M   1.27: 141S 0.84 * 161 0.90
:e.ta Coott                   :9.04    2.70 40.74 : 4A    17.16 i 160  6.66 t 173 6.92  i 2  4.01 i   6N 2.t4 i   6t 2.6S2 



na.A    *ip  in&.o                     1^aI a p                       t    m a    a 8     -  a A" J
t 010   00o0   00cl  1       S I"01-qJiS I
.... ..,  . .  . ..  I ........  t. .---...--.-t----'-'---'''''-'-'-- .
Colo   0010   000    0                    " .4" 00@.0I1'  St9Iq Om & 11  (S) s
:oo    eColo   Colo  'V a"bat e                             opalg.  wgeq  )  S5)
I00-0   00-0   00-0  I 0                   a *ed 4T        ogutO-VIA ^S .e (t) '      mz.ru:wi wino
OO0    0010   0O                                    I *           169011   S
I00O0  0010   0010  '0        12,30 im *j0 -  33 I           A"I"ll"O9*IP (a) £ 
Ioo   cOo    coo  ¢o   o   t   Up g1:t o 0 t) D  d g0't a    G8ataIigmo (t) t        Og?aiw'i64d3
3 ego 0 000    so0o t3       3                       3           3 I"Olns    I 
.. . .  ...    .....  ........  .......... . . .. . . . .......  .. ..  I,  .... ... .... ...
I 9000  Col   o   solo  I                st          : IIjo *n Cs) s                              3
I06'0   00C0   Colo  ; 009   3            Om aed 000  t        e   I6s a-A, (1)   5 M)OWI 0w 6313Sms93
'or0o   00'0    9 0   Om OO0t                                                3 a
S ............  .......  ....... . ....... ................ . . ........ ............ .  .
3 910   00o0   00     0001         joom Je"uI aed as9  3            oi"o (a) I                    I
t0     00-0  9040    005     t     05     l -Bad 005 t              *it% () 0)  w Dzr,mc  Sm ti0a
t oo9 e   o000  44    to                       3                 o gat-90 1  I                    S
, .......  ......  ..   . ..... , , ......  :......... I  ;.... . ......  ........  ................. 
t 09B1  CO O   sll t               00a..w,ual JiD 0W0 00-       Xog4 LJDA (C)
I 001'  00'0  colt     K        :   0 90*JO6J s B od cOOgU :       ss;doo (a)
I *8   ' 00'0  "90   39            ugJ*9Iset* 4Jd 0o000 I            DI96 CO)I NOrINMc _NDNWb     ;
:       *o 1 o 6     3o 99 30 it                                    6 9o-qnS
.......  . .....  . .....  - 1 -"   ' l  .... ,1.... .......  . ....... ........ ........ 
00o0   oOln  00e0   I 0      as    W0'0s 0    0           SOV o  :  *--w OS uS (e)               3
00C0 0010o o                  0 0 w00 O   00:'  B 0000z3o  aim'B AO io  an,,*9 (a)
ao    6o    solo   ut       0005'19 0  0     ooo0sz      SMWS °9 sm-uq (C)  Simi$ %I&M DISU:8
8001    sol0   UI-O   91t
....... ....                               ..... .............   ...........
:30 zZ 000   40 u0  093            000D'0 e  00' oOWO  IsG-uq- (5)                               :
t0'0   4'00   00    :       IS     0     00o0o 0009o5   (JoI It9   O/)S4OS (a): )
(t'~) (0.9011) (aqO 3 C("tun)  (WIr) C4  Cqu   (VW*UI
*~~                   § 3  3 *iJ@ *O@   6908 9: @9 .    .   .  .   ..3.3
: FWYA, wdelojei Ieae:                      I MA    I                      I
£Trew eSd     t
? XZMIW        ,                                                          O   t 0               t
- 9vlI



ANN1EX 2
-66-                                         AM=       2i
-66                              ~~~~~~Page 14
PiI S.A:W4A0RASTWAL0610-Clea-41001                                                                     UAWLE9
soat "MralOUr      TI-tIt O  PW  WJO
TIAFIC _6N       06  n
CO AOff    nAWM IIULWAnT     S@4.B
. .W WOLR  '-P                  *I2 ' ..US      1K *      Lp     s ,d            0 ,      L , 
tLegoi FWan0 Tote: (3) *% .0)t CB) (Rb.0)t :(f) b.6): (3) (PA.s): (3) (R .0): (3) tb.a)
om lltlon             , 0.00  0.00  0.00 :  03 0.00 t  00 .00:  0  0.00 t  l 0.00:   as 0.00:   03 0.00:
Rmeotooent            t 0.00  0.00  0.00  06 0.00 I  Os 0.00 *  a  0.00:  as 0.00:   O  0.00:1 0o 0.00:
v: tttte.             : 0.00  0.00  0.00  O 0n 0.00:  on 0.00   06s 0.00 :  03 0.00  as 0.00 : 0   0.00:
.                                                    t  ...........  .. t              .............   ....... *,,.
Sub-Total (1)          : 0.00  0.00  0.00:  06 0.00:  0 0.00:   0 0.00    as 0.00:   0o  0.00:  06 0.00:
:2. Civil 1ore ,                            :                                          t
0.00  0.00  0.0    06 0.00:   0. 0.00: 06 0.00:    06 0.00:   0s 0.00:   0o 0.00:
: ........     .       ...... : 0.00  0.00  0.00:  06 0.00:  06 0.00: Os 0.00  06 0.00:  0S 0.00:  06 0.00: 
: ign1aDl    .       ...... : 0.f6  0.00  0.65:  7r 0.05: 213 0.18  293 0.19  28  0.1l: 12 0.0  4S 0.09:
:m ewseiatilon  s    llst>| - . : 4.80  0.00  4.58:  73 0.84: 213 0.95 : 2"  1.83: 26S 1.20: 1  0.87:  43 0.19:
I  ............           I.............     .. .. .. . . :  .. . . . . .  .,. ..... .  :  .. . . . .  .. . . . .  ..........
Sub-Total (2)          : S.29  0.00  5.28:  7S 0.89: 213 1.00   29S 1.52: 26S 1.86l: 11   0.65:  43 0.22
:. ode                    :                 :         :          :I
Signals stst          : 0.85  0.8S  1.20  13 0.09 s 213 0.25 : 293 0.35 : 263 0.81  121 0.15:   43 0.05:
Sign, et:c            : 0.80  0.00  0.8 :  73 0.06: 21  0.08: 293 0.11:t 253 0.10: 121 0.05 :  S 0.02
:~~~~~~~~~~.         . . . . .             .......   ........ .  ............ . . . .....  .. . .. . .   ............. 
S 8ub-Ttl (3)             : 0.18  0.06  1.57 S  7  0.1t2  213 0.82  293 0."   263 0.41 s  11 0 0.20 :  43 0.07
I  m-goof          t      I4 J  ; : ..s  v. 9. . w     :M               Iv.  I mm  -.i: Io   V.30 ;.1 in .Wy
Ad4lnistretion       1.83: 0.09  0.90  0.00:  611 0.00 t 20  0.02 : 20  0.02: i3 0.00: 206 0.02: 1331 0.01
Fi nol ag.           2.6:t 0.19  0.00  0.19  10  0.0:2 t J04 0.06 I 8  0.00: 2XS 0.0: 3 10 0.802:  06 0.00:
CU,OS SPo.           0.3:.     0 .o 00 .05:     0.0 : o      o00.0 18C51 0.01: 20 o0.Ot: t a O.O:  530.00:
....    .                ......            ..   . , .    t     ... :  .        ..........: ..   .............
: ub-Totol       t          0.O1  0.00  0.8  83 0,0: 2     0.0: gm 0.00: o,a0   0.06: 143 0,06:   a3 0.01
2                   t                :          :          S         :          :     
t8GMTI1                                             s *                 5.  ; 5    .t1 *  . *.wW *   2 V.U It  1  v.W 
Phtjoie Cotinomis        t 0.08  0.06  0.71:  I  0.5    213 0.13: 20 0.21 : 203 0.10    1 U6 0.06  4   0.0: t
Price Cotingencies      :1.W8  0.13  2.15:  190.03     1   0.14 t  5 0.35: 80   0.00   9 0 0.48 t    0.13:
:Total Ctab:              :8.7    1.00  9.95 t      60.01* 193 1.61  1 5  2.68 t 1   2.71:  146 1.41  5 3 0.51 t



-67-                                               AMNKX 2
Page 15
Pil:EH\FaTlRElOz10t                                                       '         ~~~~~~~~~~~~TAM tO
P1 l.:W0\UPMTILE1:10-Oc4bap
IRAW   iEcTMWr cR     1 W
"IC AVW4 NIQW      - emI  0T cog'   R47175
ss*|~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .4b -- I                               - R 6 1. r0  *  xt,.,    I~          u ..* 
civClil  Signl  Cntritere   :         : L    i  Pero.ln   T1    5
tV.e*." *at o    a1 PS    lgtn I        :kg
3                          :                            : , )     (1d.) (PA) (US6)    s (Units) i Qbe.)   (Rd..)  OW6..) I
:A-NO     ~WMIRM        I ¶tJ WRI@OUgNIW0I ,ur       I 91,wv  VOMJ.      V 61m    I       a      U.@     iJ-.J
t                          :() 9CATS(e/o canebl er)     : 2S,000 20,010     0      t          0     0.00    0.00     0.0<O
(3) lon-mTSC               : 20,000 20.000 s,000      s0         7:    0.392    0.00     .32:
: : ~~~~~~~~.......................... .....................       :t........ .....:  ....... .. .  .......  ... ....  ....
Sub-ToCto A                                                   12: ..0.4      0.22     0.76
:e:EW(WVsThAFIC ssL          (1) Non-SCATS to SCATS     : 28,000     0      0 812,000   :     0:    0.00    0.00     0.00t
(2) Moditicatlen of SCATS  : 20,000 20,000      0  1.200:        5:    0.20     0.02    0.22:
:3: (3) SCAIS to Non-SCATS                                    0      0 10.000      SO:        0 t   0.00    0.00     0.00
, , ..............~~~~............             .......................   .     .... ........ .....: .......  ......  .... ...... ........:
Sub-7t0"i S              :                                    5      0.20    0.02     0.22:
:C::JUTIGN  WAN14LIZATIQN  : (1) Slic                   9 80,000 per Intersection            4:    0.12    0.00     0.12
(2) Coaplex                  75.000 per mnt   ter,ein    :       9     0.28     0.00    0.28
(a) Very Clwle*            :150,000 Ope Interneetlon     t       I:    0.IS     0.00    0.18 
: ~~~~~~~~t              ....I ..  ,::........ ..........  ... .. ......... .. ........ .  ........  .......  .......  .......2
9:b-,t'al C                                           :         : a  0.0     0.00     0.80:
3                          :                            3........... :
tDItNiDU    CLOH4 IATIO4 t   (1) 8soIc         t            200 per lner    tr       :       0 t   0.00     0.00    0.00:
(:) Ceaples                :   am80 per Iner   etr        r        t   0.00     0.00    0.00
.                    :     .      .     .     ..... :........  .......... ....... .......  ......
Sub-Tetl 0                                                     0     0.00    0.00     0.00
tE:S1   AND KDSR   2       : (1) Traffi c8              :     0 pe r ar               : D:          0.14     0.00    0.14:
(2) leU   arktinS                I #Wm am                    15S0 3    0.14     0.00    0.14
: .                                .    .    .       .       ..................... ............................... t ........  ....... ....... ........
2   Sub-TOtal E              : I                                     :I.          0.00    0.2O8
t                   t                            :                             t         :                         :~~~t 
:%PttDl LD8                : (1) Dolitlan%8               1,160 per 0C (o 1:4.8 a4)   I       0     0.00     0.00    0.00 t
3                          t (2) Cwatruetletm4                1 Iwuo am eo Fe 80,87 t ?       0     0.00    0.00     0.00 :
t X ~~~~~~~~~.......................... t................................      t   ............ t  .......  ......  .... ...... ........
t                          t   Sub-Total p                                                      :   0.00     0.00    0.00 3
:OtVA  MCIL                : (1)   . Step WIdening      a   140 pa                tS t       0      0.1t     0.00    0.10:
*a (2)e at"gIlumde           I    80 per                   :l *   a8800:  0.10    0.C0    0.10:
t (a) Trolle am Wire        ft0.wo 000 ka                 :    1.88t    0.3      0.00    0.20:
t tt..                               .......... ............              ..              ...  .......  .   ... ....... ....t
I t  u-Total C               t                                           0.40     0.0     0.40 s
tT U   I A t.   '        U Ob       U    at                                                                   . aa,
nu,m~6:Lao, eauW  monin; ~umoun. men. sos jneumep  e Va;no ~.mu,ruj urcIla     r se.e,uw e; .0  ore



-68-                                         ANIEX    2
Page 16
PI,:Q9AAS1Tin.           t:10 10-0#-6%g                                                                      1SI
NBCDCr    MMM  W   05W 04ML
I~~~~~NSC WtU  ttARel SQll 
I 
tILea Feel TA6rtt MW~4 (11) .%): (tl) tb.0): M                                                       M............................ ),to .*) i Z)
:  Ocotit                 0.00  O.OD  0,00 I  011 0.410 I  on 0.00 I OIS 0,00  as0 0.00 2  400 0.00: I  a  0.00:.
: Rt_mt0.00  0.00  0.00  Om O.CO I   0.00 I on 0.00  Os 0.00 I  ON 0.00:  O   .
t  UtttXtt          X ~~~~0.00  0.00  O.CO z  X  0.00 I  Om 0.00 I  05 0.00:  of 0.00 ,  05 0.00  Os 0al o.o
~s:............                     .      .............  .  .,              .....  ..:...    .   .. . :  : ,
X  Sub-Tei (1)         :L0.00  O.CO  0.00 I  a  0.00:  OJ 0.00    OS) 0.00  *I) 0.00 t    (ox 0.00:  OX O.CO:
:2. C2i2 I Work::s:*
:n .....       .     .. ........ : o.oo t0.00  0.00  0.00  as 0.00  00 0.00:  Os 0.00  Os 0.00 2 s 0.00:  Os 0.00:
:m BuettSite..         0.40  0.00  0.40:   00 0.00  0M 0.20    0M 0.0 0    OS 0.00:   as 0.00: O    0.00*
0.00  0.00  0.0    o05 0.00       0.00: t 6S  0.0 1  OS 0.00:  05 0.00    Os 0.00
:  ClTottnallsatlen (1)...... :  S0.0  0.00  0.00  O S 0.00  so 0.200: WS 0.20:  aS 0.00:  Os 0.00 :  ox 0.00
:.  .............            :.                  ,       .         :     :               . : 
t  ISub-Tol (2)            01.00  0.00  1.02   ON 0.00    US O.00 :an   0.09 0 4OX 0.00 :   g 0.00 O0S 0.00:
Ru.   6t; o           :0.40  0.0   0.402   OS 0.00: a    0.1    S   0.20   01 0.00:   0  0.00:   O  0.00:
I    slt..                  0.87  0.00  0.217: 0   0.00 s01 0.14    SO  0.18: OSl 0.00     O 0S 0.00  ox 0.00
: .............0.0                   ...... 00  0.0...0.: SOS.0.25:    0.28 : OS,.00: 0.       .00 : ....00:
6ub-rTotl (2)            1.u6  0.002S9      00 0.009:      0.40  so  0.00    OS 0.00    O   .00 0    .: 0.00 I
:6. Sue                                                             mm :g '             I -  '        on
:AdSinPt,n a.: 0.86             0.25  0.62:  O0 .00: 80 4=  0.81  480  0.01:  OS 0.00   a OS 0.00  a Os 0.00
Pi "A1 En.           2.8i: 0.6  0.00  0.0 :  O0S 0.00  40 0.02 s 201 0.01:   OS 0.00 : OS O.O:   OS 0.00
:C  -t ta. (8.        *t: 0.01  0.25  0.01 t  0 0.00: anS 0.01 I an  0.01:   OS 0.00: I0   0.00:  OS 0.00:
t.............. ........ t                   ........... t  .    I  ..       :             :       t  , .:
t Sb -To2.66 0.00                 0.00  0.10 : 400 0.0W  400 0.00: 20   0.03 : as 0.00     0 OS 0.00 I  S 0.00: 
t pCU.t. QI*           0.86 : 0.01  0.00  0.01 :  IO 0.00: 800 0.01 t 40  0.11 s   OS.  2 oS 0.00     OS 0.00:
i Pric*a Cantinalso         0.42  0.02  0.48 s  (1 0.00  8A  0.11 I1on  0.1o      OS 0.c: t  oS 0.00:  OS 0.00 
tTetel CeeOs               : 2.66  0.80  2.97 :  5 0.00: 460 1.41 t W1  1.82:   OS 0.O:W 0 0.00 :    0a 0.00 2



-69-                                         3
Page 1
STAFF _PPRAMSUL REMMRT
SHASA     EROLITA     tRSP       POCT
Technical As$Ietenve Summar
Beneficllry  Procurement Et. stf       Est. cost
item               beedription                        gency       aency       month.     (  'O"0)
Cl.  Zhongehln IRR construction supor-
vislon and project mensegemnt support             IRRCC       SITC          06        1,068.1
Ct. Traffic management support                        1ID          SITC          80          478.9
Ca. City Comprehenslve Transport Planning
Institute                                        SCC1PI      SITC           80          478.9
C4. Identification of urban transport
Investmnt priorities                             sCCIPI      SITC          60         967.9
CS. Preliminary feesibilty studies preparation        SCC1PI       SIT5          so         711.6
CO. Transit Company support                           SCC1PI/STC   SKTC          s0          470.9
CT. Inst. deelopment equipments
(e) road maintenance monitoring equlpment        SED         SITC        n.e.           212.6
lb) project managemet cmputing eqipmnt           1RCC        SMTC        n.e.            60.0
transportation analysie coaputlng equip.     SCCIPI       SSTC        n.e.     8      0.4
d) traffic safety monitorlng computing equip.   TOD         SMTC        n.a.            28.0
Touts                                                                 206        4.2.4
Notos  MRRCC    Inner-Ring Road Construction Company
SCCTPI   Shanhai City Comprohensive Transport Planning Instltute
SCPDI    Shanhui C4mprhn_    ve Planning and Design Institute
SETC     Shnhai Interntional Tonderlng Company
SMEAD    Shanghai Municipal Englneerlng Adeinistration Department
SMYC     ShanhaI Municipal Tenderlng Company
SPS      Shangha  Public Securlty Bureau
STC      Shangha  Transit Company
TMD      TraffIc Manaqe      t Olvision (of SPSS)
n.G.     not appicable



_70_                          ANNEX 3
Page 2
CBINA
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Cl. ZHONGSHAN INNER-RING ROAD
CONSTRUCTION, SUPERVISION, AND PROJECT HANAGESEN? SUPPORT
Terms of Reference
1.        The Municipality of Shanghai, throt.gh its Construction Commission,
is about to commence Implementation of a World Bank-assisted project to
improve transport in the city through investment in arterial road improvements
and traffic management and safety measures, as well as through an extensive,
related resettlement program, together with various institutional development
measures and investment studies. The project will be carried out under the
direction of a leading group drawn from the participating coumissions and
agencies, and will be assisted by a project implementation unit (PLU), which
will coordinate the activities of the various project implementation teams
involved in carrying out the physical components and technical assistance
components. Consultant assistance will be required in two areas: supervision
of construction for the Zhongshan Inner-Ring Road and overall project manage-
ment by the PO.
Part Is  ZBONGSAMN INNER-RING ROAD
General
2.        The Shanghai Construction Commission will Implement an improvement
project for the Northern Zhongshan Road beginning about 1.5 km north of
Changning Road and ending just south of Hutai road, a distance of about
5.2 km. The improvement works would include a 5.2-km, 4-lane viaduct with two
exit and two entrance ramps and widening and reconstruction of Zhongshan Road
over the same length. The surface improvements would provide four motor vehi-
cle lanes with separated bicycle and pedestrians lanes, but would not include
reconstruction of intersections between Zhongshan Road and crossroads, which
will be carried out in a subsequent phase. The project will be accomplished
with two contracts for initial surface road works and two contracts for the
viaduct, ramps, and remaining surface road work. Construction is expected to
be completed in a period of 24 months. Prior contracts awarded for building
demolition and utility relocations would not be included in the consultant
services described below.
3.        The supervision organization will be the Shanghai Municipal Engi-
neering Supervision Company (SMESC), which will report to the Inner-Ring Road
Construction Company (IRRCC), the agency responsible for project construction.
(See Chart 2.)



-71-                                 3
Page 3
4.        These consultant services are for foreign experts to train and
advise SNESC on supervision methods and techniques used by international
organizations. The actual performance and responsibility of the construction
supervision will be with the SMESC staff, who report to IRROC. About 46
months of Individual assistance will be needed.
Ob3ective
5.        The objective of these consultant services is to train and advise
the local staff in the proper methods and procedures to ensure that all the
civil works are carried out in full compliance with the engineering designs
and technical specifications and in accordance with the international condi-
tions of the construction contracts.
Definitions
6.        In these terms of reference, the following terms are defined for
this assignment:
(a) Contractors The construction firm with which IRRCC has a civil
works contract for this project.
(b) Contract: The contract agreed between the parties mentioned in (a)
above.
(c) Works: The works to be executed in accordance with the contract.
(d) Engineers The Chief Supervision Engineer of SMKSC.
(e) Resident Engineer: The 5np,gneer appointed by the Chief Supervision
Engineer to represent him at the construction site and in all mat-
ters pertaining to the contract therein.
(f) Employers The IRRCC.
Scope of Work
7.        The consultants are to train and advise the SMESC on matters relat-
ing to supervising the contractor's work, including the approval of materials
brought to the site, workmanship, and proper measurement and record- keeping.
Areas to be covered in the formal training program conducted before the effec-
tiveness of the first civil works contract will cover such items as the fol-
lowing:
(a) organization and administration of supervision teams;
(b) materials testing for compliance with technical specifications;
(c) quality control relating to contractor personnel's workmanship;
(d) methods, timing, recording, and reporting of quantity measurements,



-72-                          ANNEX 3
Page 4
(e) preparation of systems and procedures for recording the contract
progress, quality control testing, project costing, variations due
to change orders and force majeure, monthly certificates, etc.;
(f) legal aspect of contract Implementation and supervision;
(g) auditing procedures for reviewing contractors' account, invoices,
and claims for compliance with the contract conditions;
(h) labor relations and safety measures to be applied to the contract
site; and
(i) other areas necessary for supervising civil works contracts.
8.        There should be at least two consultants, with substantial experi-
ence in construction to conduct this training course for Chinese supervision
personnel. Materials for the course will be made available to SMESC, in
English, at least six weeks before the start of the course so that it can be
translated into Chinese. These materials should be in such a form as to
comprise a construction manual when consolidated. (See para. 11).
9.        During the course of construction, about 24 months, the consultants
will provide advisory services to the supervision team (SMESC). The advisory
services will cover all aspects of the construction process as covered in
para. 7 above. The consultant team will consist of the specialists agreed
with the owner. The specialists will be assigned to coincide with the
appropriate work activities, i.e., the paving specialist will be assigned when
paving operations are in progress, etc. Although the consultants will not
have direct supervision responsibilities, they will be expected to provide the.
necessary on-the-job training to SM$,*J and both formal and informal training
to the supervision team during the course of the construction as necessary for
them to perform their function at the level of international standards for the
areas covered in pars. 7 above.
10.       If requested, the team leader will assist and advise in the evalua-
tion of contractor bids, along with IRRCC and SMESC personnel, and will pro-
vide any training in bid evaluation that may be warranted.
Reporting
11.       Inception Report.  Within four weeks of signing the contract, the
consultants will be expected to furnish SMESC a plan for the initial training
program. 11
l1   A construction supervision manual has been prepared, in both English and
Chinese, for use on another highway construction project in China. The
consultant, along with SMESC, will review this manual and suggest any
changes or additions which may be appropriate to adapt the manual for use
in the training program and during construction and considering the
future use of the manual on other civil works construction projects in
Shanghai.



-73-                           ANNEX 3
Page 5
12.       Training Materials.   At least six weeks before the start of the
training course, the consultant will make the necessary training materials
available to SHESC for translation).
13.       Monthly Reports.   The consultant, together with SESC. will provide
IRRCC brief monthly letter reports stating major accomplishments, difficul-
ties, unresolved problems, recommendations, and plans for future activities.
including training plans.
Support 8MECC Is to provide the Consultant
14.       Adequate air-conditionedlheated space will be provided for the
training courses. The facilities will be equipped with furniture, audiovisual
equipment, blackboards, etc. that are required to carry out such courses and
conducive to the learning process. Particularly, audio equipment will be
provided as necessary for the translation required during the training sea-
sions.
15.       Translation services from English to Chinese will be prcvided by
SMECC for both the written materials and for the training course.
16.       On the construction site, the contractor will be required to provide
office *nd working space for both the consultant and SMESC personnel.
17.       IRRCC will provide at least two vehicles on the site for the exclu-
sive use of consultants for perfonuing their duties.
Part Ils PROJECT MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
A. General
18.       In addition to assistance in construction supervision, suitably
qualified eonsultants will be required to advise and train the PIW in design-
ing and establishing processes and means to coordinate and monitor the project
implementation. The duration of the assignment is expected to be about 17
months and would entail about 20 months of individual assistance.
B. Scope of Services
19.       The scope of the advisory services and assistance is as follows%
(a) to establish and carry out training for a micro-computer-based man-
agement information system (including standard reporting formats) to
record and monitor progress with (i) planning and engineering, pro-
curement, construction; (ii) project budgets, expenditures, and
credit disbursement; and (iii) key monitoring indicators;
(b) to assist and train staff in developing procurement systems consis-
tent with Bank procurement guidelines, including bidding procedures
and bid evaluation for goods, physical works, and technical assis-
tancel and



-74-                          ANNEX 3
Page 6
(c) to establish and train PIU staff in a project-reporting system,
including format and content for a quarterly report in English for
submission to the World Bank, which would include plans and progress
of key activities (planning, procurement, physical construction,
technical assistance, and disbureement), monitoring indicators
(including resettlement), and a sunmmary of major issues and proposed
solutions and responsibilities.
4.        The advisers are to be experienced in managing and monitoring major
construction and institutional development projects with particular reference
to metropolitan transportation and World Bank procedures. Experience in (i)
establishing and operating microcomputer workstations and a comon data base,
word processing, and spreadsheet analysis software, and (Ui) training class-
room and on-the-job methods) is essential. Fluency in Mandarin, as well as
English, will be an advantage. Offices, equipment, and computer workstations
will be provided by the PIU.



-75-                          ANNEX 3
Page 7
CHINA
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRAZSPORT PROJECT
C2. TRAFFIC MANGEMENT CONSULTANT ADVISORY SERVICES
Outline Terms of Reference
Objectives
1.        Consultant advisory services are required to assist the Shanghai
authorities in the implementation of the Traffic Management Component of the
Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project and in the establishment of Traffic
Management Guidelines for application in the Shanghai Metropolitan Region.
The Traffic Management Gomponent comprises the following programs;
(a) a Nonmotor Vehicle (NWM) action program;
(b) a Central Business District (CBD) action program; and
(c) a North-South Corridor (NSC) action program.
Scope of Services
2.        Part As  Implementation.   The Traffic Management Component (and
ancillary NMW, CBD, and NSC action programs) comprises various intersection
and midblock channelization projects, as well as installation or conversion of
traffic signals at many locations. Tlite consultant will assist the Shanghai
authorities in the followings
(a) the establishment of a detailed implementation schedule for civil
works and procurement of equipment;
(b) detailed design and supervision;
(c) the establishment of criteria and key indicators for the monitoring
of the performance of the respective and localized traffic engineer-
ing and control measures; and
(d) monitoring progress in implementation and subsequent performance
(including the costleffectiveness).
3.        Part B: Design Guidelines.   The SCTPT "Design Manual" would be
expanded to include more detail in typical design situations that reflect a
variety of conditions which can be encountered in Shanghai's traffic network.
The guidelines would be prepared to enable local engineers more effectively to
design and monitor traffic engineering and control measures, which respond to
the current and future traffic conditions specific to Shanghai. The Design
Guidelines would comprise, inter alia, the followings



-76-                           ANNEX 3
Page a
(a) the procedures and techniques to be adopted in the functional analy-
sis of the performance of Intersections, street segments (between
intersections), corridors and other special circumstances;
(b)  clarifi.cation and definition of detailed design objectives and
requirements applicable to traffic management policies and proce-
duress and
(c) preparation of detailed functional design concepts for the typical
elements which comprise Shanghai s traffic network.
Time Schedule and Reportng
4.        The Consultant Advisory Services are expected to require 30 staff-
months of a qualified traffic engineer familiar with Shanghai traffic condi-
tions. The services are expected to be carried out between 1992 and 1995.
5.   Concise annual reports will be submitted to SCPDI summarizing progress on
Parts A and B above.



-77-                          AYM   3
Page 9
CHINA
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TUANSPORT PROJECT
C3. METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT INSTITUTE
Outline Tems of Reference
Oblectives
1.        Responsibilties for urban transport planning and management in
Shanghai are currelutAy fragmented and transportatLon planing Ls carried out
by an ad hoc team--Shanghai Comprehensive Transportation PlannLng Team
(SCTPT)--with staff seconded from interested agencLes. In order to improve
sector effLcLency and to establish a permanent transportation planning capa-
bility, Shanghai Municipal Government (8MG) is considerLng the establishment
of a Shanghai MetropolLtan Transport Institute (SMTI), under the direct
authorLty of Shanghai Municipal Construction Comuission (SMCC).   SMCC wishes
to appoint consultants to assist it to carry out a feasibilLty study of the
proposed Transport Institute.
Scope of Work
2.        The role of SMTI would be to direct and coordinate urban transport
planning and management within Shanghai Municipality (interurban and Lnter-
national transport would not be the direct responsibility of SMTI) and its
responsibilit.es would include the following:
(a) preparation of a Comprehen.ive TransportatLon Plan, including both
short- and long-term propoials. together with phased and costed
implementation schedules;
(b) technical directLon and coordination of urban transport plannlng by
other municipal agencies;
(c) execution of feasibility studies of proposed major transport proj-
ects;
(d) establishment of an urban transport data base, to be used by all
relevant agencLes, linked to SEIC and Statistical Bureau data basest
(e) assembly and dissemination of relevant technical information to
lnterested organizations in Shanghai, and possibly elsewhere in
China; and
(f) organization and coordination of research and development related to
ShanghaL urban transport.
3.        SMTI would be developed into an executive municipal agency, starting
from the existing SCTPT organizatLon and staffing, and would employ its own
staff, with the exception of representatlves seconded from the Public Security
Bur&ou.



-78-                          ANNEX 3
Page 10
4.        A high-level advisory board would be established, comprisLng senior
experts from SMG and outside bodies (e.g., universities) to provide technical
guidance to SNTI executive management.
5.        The consultants will assist SHCC too
(a)  specify activities to be carried out by S14TI and to define SCOTI's
role and responsibilities within the Shanghai Municipal Government;
(b) propose an organizational structure and specify the responsibilities
of each department/section;
(c)  determine Uw-.an resource requirements (by level of experience and
professionalltechnical qualifications), and suggest recruitment and
training policies;
(d) determine material resource requirements (e.g., computers, vehicles,
etc.);
(e) prepare a detailed plan and timetable for the transfer of respon-
sibilities to SMTI from existing agenciess
(f) prepare Indicative anrnual operating budgets for the transfer period
and for the first full year of SKTI operations; and
(g) describe the anticipated net benefits and costs of the recommended
SMTI arrangements.
Time Schedule and Reporting
6.        The Consultant Advisory Services are expected to require 30 staff-
months of high-level managers, with personal experience in running a large
governmental or mnwicipal transport department. The inputs may be provided
during several missions, to be carried out over an 18- to 24-month period. At
least one consultant must be fluent in Chinese.
7.        Concise progress reports will be submitted to SMCC and the Vorld
Bank on completion of each mission to Shanghai. A draft final report will be
submitted to SMCC on or before the end of month 12 and, following receipt of
written comments from SMCC, the consultant will prepare and submit a final
report to 8NCC within one month. All reports will be submitted in English and
Chinese.



-79- A.X 3
Page 11
CHINA
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
C4. IDENTIFICATION OF URBAN TRANSPORT INVESTMENT PRIORITIES
Outline Terms of Reference
OW ectives
1.        The Shanghai City Comprehensive Transport Planning Institute
(SCCTPI) wishes to appoLnt consultants to assist with their ongoing work pro-
gram to identify transport investment options for the period 1990-95 and 1995-
2000 (within realistic budget envelopes and consistent with agreed development
scenarios), to assist the team in establishLag transport investment priorities
and in developing an affordable and cost-effective transport plan.
Scope of Work
2.        The consultants will work with other team members to undertake ana-
lyses at three levelss
(a) spatial development strategy and major lnfrastructure;
(b) investment programming; and
(c) area studies.
3.        In order to prepare a reconmended transport strategy, the consul-
tants will assist the term to:
(a) define realistic estimatee of transport sector resource availabil-
ity, from both public and private sectors;
(b) conflnm major spatLal options for urban infrastructure (taking into
account transport, water supply, sewerage, electricity, public hous-
ing) within the framework of development scenarios prepared by
SCCTPI; and
(c) test transport investment and policy options. in conjunction with
the development scenarios, using the SCCTPI computer model.
4.        The consultants will then assist the team tot
(a) establish transport infrastructure investment priorities; and
(b) prepare affordable five-year infrastructure investment and policy
programs for 1990-95 and 1995-2000.
5.        Within the time and resources avaLlable, the consultant will assist
the team with one or more detailed area studies to develop coherent and viable



-80-                          fNEX 3
Page 12
traffic plans for key areas (e.g., Second RLng RoadlZhongehan Roads Ninguol/en
Jiang River Crossings; Hongkou area; North-South Corridorl etc.).
Time Schedule and Reporting
6.        Particular attention will be given to cost-effective ways to develop
seoregated networks for public transport (rail and bus) and for nonmotor vehi-
cles, and to the future coordination of metro with other transport modes.
7.        The Consultant Advisory Services are expected to require 60 otaff-
months of qualified transport planners, urban planners, and economists over a
period of two years.



ANNEX 3
Page 13
CHIMA
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CS. PREPARATION OF PRELIMINARY FEASIBILITY STUDIES
Outline Terms of Reference
Ob3ectives
1.        Shanghai Municipal Construction Commission (SMCC) wishes to appoint
a consultant to assist nominated design institutes to carry out prefeasibllity
and feasibility studies of priority transport infrastructure schemes identi-
fied by the Shanghai Comprehensive Transportation Planning Team (SCTPT) and
Shanghai City Planning and Design Institute (SCPDI).
Scope of Work
2.        The consultant will work vith one or more design teams nominated by
8NCC on preparation of high priority transport projects (e.g., Second Ring
RoadlZhongshan Road: Ninguo/Nen Jiang River Crossings, North-South Corridor,
etc.) and will provide assistance withs
(a) traffic demand forecasting
(b) identification and analysis of design and management options
(c) matching design standards to projected traffic demands
(d) economic, operational. and environmental evaluation procedures
(e) prioritization and preparation of phasingistaging plans
3.        The consultant will assist the design institutes to specify and
interpret SCTPT model runs and, if appropriate, to specify and carry out al-
ternative or complementary transport demand analyses.
4.        A reasonable range of design alternatives must be identified and
evaluated for each scheme (e.g., alignments, standards, intersection configu-
rations, ttaffic management, etc.). The consultant will assist the design
institutes to perform these tasks and to match proposed design standards to
anticip4ted traffic demands.
5.        A major objective is to systematize the use of economic and other
evaluatton techniques to appraise alternative schemes and to optimize individ-
ual scheme designs. The consultant will assist the design institutes to
establish suitable standard parameters and methodologies for this purpose.



-82-                          ANNEX 3
Page 14
Time Schedule and RePorting
6.        The Consultant Advisory Services are expected to require 50 staff-
months of a qualified urban planner, transport planner(s)/economist(s) over a
two-year period.
7.        Concise progress reports (in English only) will be submitted to the
client and the World Bank on completion of each mission.



-83-                           ANNEX 3
Page 15
CHINA
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAR TRANSPORT PROJECT
C6. SHANGIAI TRANSIT COMPANY SUPPORT
Outline Terms of Reference
Ob1ective
1.        To identify and prepare a program of priority investment and manage-
ment improvements to improve public bus transportation services and finances.
Scope of Work
2.        For bus transit, the consultant will work within a team tot
(a) prepare a schedule of bus fleet requirements for 1990-95 and
1995-2000 and to set out a bus rehabilitation and procurement pro-
gram;
(b) assess the need for improvements and/or additions to existing bus
depots, workshops, and terminal facilities, and prepare proposals
for recommended investments, taking into account proposals for route
rationalization, integration of metro and bus services, and evolu-
tion of the bus fleet;
(c) identify measures to increase bus efficiency and productivity.
Part IIIs AGENCIES
3.        Work under these TOR will be carried out under the technical leader-
ship of SCTGPT (subsequently STI). The team will work closely with staff
from Shanghai City Planning and Design Instituted (SCPDI), Shanghai Municipal
Engineering Administration Department (SMEAD), Shanghai Transit (STG),
Shanghai Metro Corporation (SMC), Shanghai Public Security Bureau (SPSB), and
other agencies as required.
Part IVs SCHEDULE
4.        Technical assistance vill be provided over a two-year period, to
begin as soon as possible.
Part Vt RESOURCES
S.        An estimated 30 staff-months of international consultant input will
be required.



-84-                             ANNEX 4
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Walor Road Investments
Zhongshan Inner-Rirj Road
Objectives
1.        The objective of this project component is to reduce traffic conges-
tion and improve safety on the most heavily traveled portion of Zhongshan Road
which, when eventually Improved throughout, will comprise the inner-ring road
of a comprehensive transportation plan for Shanghai.
Background and Description
2.        The western sections of Zhongshan Road (see Map IBRD 22042)
presently carry high volumes of traffic movlng between the large industrial
and port facilities north of the central city and the hinterlands to the west
and south. Traffic volumes on some sections are already near the road's
capacity during peak hours, and serious congestion and delays occur at all
intersections with arterial cross-streets.
3.        A prefeasibility study for improving the most heavily traveled 19-
km sectlon of the inner-ring road wan carried out by the Shanghai Municipal
ingineering Design Institute (SMEDI).  The study recomended that first prior-
ity be given to improvement of about 10.7 km between Guangzhong Road on the
north and Changning Road to the south and proposed an elevated, limited access
viaduct over the road together with surface road widening and improvements at
intersections. In November 1988, a detailed feasibility study of the 10.7-km
sectlon was begun by a team composed of staff from SMEDI, the Shanghai Munici-
pal Engineering and Construction Company (8MECC), and the Shanghai Urban Con-
struction Design Institute (SUCDI), with assistance from a French consulting
firm, BCEOM. Various alternative improvement schemes and stage construction
possibilities were investigated. The report. completed in March 1989, recom-
mended construction of a four-lane elevated viaduct about 5.2 km in length
between just south of Jin Sha Jiang Road and HutaL Road, with "diamond" type
access and exit ramps at four locations, including the eastern terminal.
Further study resulted in reducing the number of ramps to four at Wuning Road
(two access and two exit) with the viaduct descending to surface level at both
terminals. Surface lmprovements on Zhongshan Road would provide four motor
vehicle lanes, two 4-m segregated bicycle paths and two 3-m pedestrian walk-
ways. In addition, added turning lanes, channelization, and traffic signals
would be provided at all five main crossroad intersections spanned by the
viaduct as well as at one intersection to the south of the structure and three
to the north. Improvements on Zhongshan Road would extend over a total length
of 10.7 km.



-85-                             p       4
4.        The agreed improvements would be divided into two parts for execu-
tion. Part I would consise of the viaduct, the access and exit ramps at
Vuning Road and surface road widening and reconstruction under the viaduct
only between intersections. Part II would consist of (a) widening Zhongshan
Road for about 1.5 km from the end of the viaduct south to and including the
intersection of Jin Shan Jiang Road and including the widening of the existing
bridge carrying Zhongshan Road over the Wusong River (Suzhou Creek); and
(b) channelizing and signalizing all nine principal intersections affected by
the project (para. 3) together with limited improvements on the cross streets.
Cost Estimates
5.        The estimated cost prices of the proposed Part I improvements is
Y 556.15 million ($106.54 million) including demolition, resettlement, engi-
neerint.. and administration and allowances for physical and price contingen-
cies. This estimate is based on quantities taken from nearly completed
detailed engineering to which have been applied standard unit prices issued by
SMG. The estimated cost of the surface improvements under Part TI is
Y 132.53 million ($25.4 million), which also includes demolit im, resettlement
engineering and administration, and allowance for physical and price contin-
gencies. The estimate was derived from detailed estimates prepared for simi-
lar improvements proposed under the traffic management component of the proj-
ect (Annex 2). Details of the appraisal cost estimates are given in Annex 6.
Detailed Engineering and Tender Documents
6.        SMECC is responsible for the detailed engineering and preparation of
tender documents for the viaduct, ramps, and related surface improvements
(Part I), all of which will be completed in mid-1991. SMEDI and SUCDI are
assisting in preparing the detailed engineering and plans and the Shanghai
International Tendering Company (SITU) and the Shanghai Hunicipal Engineering
Tendering and Consulting Company (SHETCC) are helping, respectively, to pre-
pare bid documents for ICB and LCB as well as to prequalify contractors and
evaluate tenders. Assistance in both detailed engineering and document prepa-
ration was provided by the French consulting firm, BCEOM. The design stan-
dards and procedures used, including consideration of seismic activities in
the area, are appropriate.
7.        SMECC is also responsible for preparing designs and tender documents
for the surface improvements under Part II. SMEDI, SUCDI, and the Public
Security Bureau are assisting in the design work. SMETCC will assist in pre-
paring tender documents, prequalifying contractors, and evaluating tenders.
INmlementation
S.        Construction under Parts I and 1I will be carried out by a combina-
tion of ICB, LCB, and force account. The demolition of buildings required for
surface road widening is being done on a force account basis by the districts
Involved, in accordance with Shanghai Municipal Government regulations. Since
the regulations also require that relocation of utilities be done by the
related utility enterprises, this work is under way via force account agree-
ments signed by S8ECC. Construction of new housing and factories for those
displaced by demolLtion is being carried out under contracts awarded after



-86-                              ANNEX 4
Page 3
LCB. Details of the resettlement program for the project are given in Annex
5.
9.        Under Part I, initial construction work will consist of building new
pavements (temporaty roads) along the outer edges of the widened surface road-
way to provide for maintenance of traffic during subsequent viaduct substruc-
ture work. This construction will be done under two unit-priced contracts
awarded to prequalified contractors through LCB. Two unit-priced contracts
for viaduct and ramp construction, including completion of all remaining sur-
face road work will be awarded through ICB to prequalified contractors. Con-
tractors would be prequalified for one or both contracts, and the latter situ-
ation would be allowed to bid for individual contracts or both combined.
Viaduct and surface road lighting and signs would be installed on a force
account basis by the utility company and the Shanghai Traffic Safety Bureau,
respectively.
10.       Designs, plans, and tender documents for Part I construction will be
completed in mid-1991 with the first construction work starting in about the
third quarter of that year. All civil works, including lighting and signing,
are scheduled for completion in mid-1994. This is a complez project, which
will require close attention to work coordination and execution to avoid
delays. Close supervision by the responsible municipal agency the Inner-Ring
Road Construction Company (IRRCC) is essential. Well-timed Bank supervision
visits, particularly in the early months of implementation, would be of con-
siderable assistance in ensuring timely completion.
11.       For Part II, initial construction would consist of widening and
improving the 1.5 km of Zhongshan Road south of the viaduct. Two contracts
for this work would be awarded to prequalified contractors aftet LCB. Cross-
road intersection channelization and improvement works vould also be carried
out by contract after LCB. Designs, plans, and bid documents for the 1.5 km
improvement works will be completed by mid-1992 with construction work begin-
ning in the third quarter of that year and completed by the end of 1999. The
studies for crossroad intersections would be completed by late 1992 with con-
struction and installation of signs, signals, and marking extending through
1994.
12.       Supervision of all Part I and II construction will be done by the
Shanghai Municipal Engineering Supervision Company (SMESC) reporting to
ZIRRCC, the responsible agency. SMESC provides field supervision for practi-
cally all civil works in Shanghai and has considerable experience and exper-
tise in this regard. Mowever, since this is the first road project subjected
to ICB, a nomInal amount of technical assistance by foreign experts is needed
to train and advise SMESC staff on supervision organization, methods, and
techniques used by international organizations to ensure that all work under
contracts aCarded after ICB is carried out in compliance with the engineering
designs and in accordance wit1. the international conditions of the construc-
tion contracts. The experts would also prepare a draft construction supervi-
sion manual which could be used in other projects in Shanghai and, eventually,
in other areas of China. The terms of reference for the consultant services,
estimated to require about 46 man-months, were agreed at negotiations sad are
shown in Annex 3.



-87-
Page 1
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Resettlement and the Environmental Iapact of the Project
A. Resettlement
Background--Ongoing Resettlement Activities in the Municipality
1.        The scale of demolition and resettlement in Shanghai is substantial.
During the three years 1985-87, somewhere between 50,000 and 60,000 housing
units were demolished, which displaced households at a rate of about 20,000
per year. During the three years 1986-88, one municipal entity alone, the
Shanghai Municipal Engineering Construction Company (SMECC), which is respon-
sible for planning and managing the construction of a large proportion of
urban infrastructure projects, and which will be responsible for the Zhongshan
Road improvements, undertook the demolition of approximately 388,000 m? of
residential, manufacturing, and commercial space. Approximately 202.000 m2 of
this total was in residential space; 7,683 households (approximately 42,000
persons) and 936 enterprises had to be evacuated.
2.        The impact of the demolition and resettlement process can be
significant. Demolition results in loss of output from enterprises and social
dislocation. But the demolition and resettlement process provides major
opportunities for attracting higher-rpnt uses to redevelopment areas and
augmenting municipal revenues through the sale or leasing of use rights. It
also provides opportunities to create better-located and more efficient
facilities for enterprises and improved housing and residential environments
for relocated households.
The oDlectives of Resettlement
3.        The municipality's long-term demolition and resettlement program,
within the comprehensive plan for Shanghai, has the following objectivest
(a) improvement of housirg, infrastructural, and environmental quality for
households; (b) promotion of economic development tkrough the provision of
urgently-needed new infrastructure and improvemenits to existing infrastruc-
turel and (c) more efficient land use.
Policies, Principles, and Standards
4.        Housing and new space for enterprises in resettlement areas gener-
ally is physically superior to the demolished structures. Thi space standards
used appear to be a pragmatic reflection of what is considered desirable and
What it takes to ensure that households and enterprises move fairly promptly.
S.        Shortages of funds, difficulties in the planning of demolition and
resettlement, difficulties in the design of new settlement areas, and diffi-



-88-
ANNEX 5
Page 2
culties in the management and coordination of new construction result in sub-
stantial differences in the quality of the new areas and in the time required
for resettlement. Some agen :ies plan and provide new space prior to demoli-
tion. In other cases there are delays of three years or more between demoli-
tion and resettlement. In October of 1988 SMECC estimated that it had a back-
log of approximately 400,000 m2 of permanent residential space for relocatees
(representing approximately 6,700 households at a standard of 60 m2 per house-
hold). A year later the situation was essentially the same, with approxi-
mately 6,200 households for which S1ECC was responsible in temporary housing.
6.        Because the proposed transport project involves a significant amount
of demolition, IBRD participation provides an opportunity to assist in the
establishment of a more systematic approatch to land acquisition, demolition
and urban resettlement, as an important part of the task of building up muni-
cipal planning and management capacity.
The Lesal and Administrative Framework
7.        One act and one regulation at the national level, together with
three Shanghai Municipal Administrative regulations, provide the legal basis
and administrative instructions relevant for demolition and resettlement.
These are the National Real Estate Law of 1987, revised in 1988 (issued by a
Standing Committee of the State Council); the National Urban Planning Regula-
tlons (lesued by a Standing Comittee of the State Council); Shanghai Munici-
pal Regulations for Land Acquisition for Capital Construction Projects
(Shanghai Municipal Regulation No. 119, October 20, 1980); Shanghai Municipal
Regulations for the Demolition of Buildings (January 6, 1987); and Shanghai
Municipal Regulations for the Planning of Urban Construction (June 22, 1989).
Procedures
8.        A fairly typical sequence of activities for demolition and resettle-
ment associated with a major infrastructure project comprises about 30 major
steps. The details of this process, using the proposed Zhongshan Road
Improvement Project as an example, are described in the report on resettlement
in the project files. Bank participation in resettlement would help to sim-
plify this process and shorten the time between demolition and permanent
resettlement. (See Chart 3. The Demolition and Resettlement Procesu.)
Institutional ResDonsibilities
9.        The entities responsible for each step in the demolition and reset-
tlement process are identified in the resettlement report In the project
files. The coordination task is formidable. To facilitate on-site construc-
tion in the resettlement areas, a coordination unit is set up with representa-
tives from SMCC, the utility companies and, if necessary, other agencies. As
later commente on the quality of new site development will indicate, this
aspect of the resettlement process still has considerable room for improve-
ment.
0



-89-                          AM      3
Page 3
Notes   Dist. CQCU          District Construction Quality Control Unit
Dist. MECC          District Municipal Engineering Construction Co.
Dist. Sec. Bur.     District Security Bureau
Dist. UCD           District Urban Construction Department
SMCPD               Shanghai Municipal City Planning Department
SMCPDI              Shanghai Municipal City Planning Design Institute
SICQCU              Shanghai Municipal Construction Quality Control
Unit
SMCTPT              Shanghai Municipal Comprehensive Transport Plan-
ning Team (ad hoc)
81M4Ct              Shanghai Municipal Engineering Construction Com-
pany
SME9DI              Shanghai Municipal Engineering DesLg  Institute
SmB                Shanghai Municipal Finance Bureau
81M41B              Shanghai Municipal Housing and Real Estate Bureau
SMPB                Shanghai Municipal Planning Bureau
SMtLB               Slunghal Municipal Land Bureau
SMUCD               Shanghai Urban Construction Department
Ultil. Cos.         Various Utility Companies (Vater Supply, Gas,
Electricity, etc.)
Serv. Bur's         Various Service Departments or Bureaus (Health,
3ducation, Mnicipal Gardens, etc.)
Others              Various Other Development Entities (for exmple,
Shanghai Municipal Residential Quarters Develop-
ment Corporation, SMRQDC)
The times required for individual steps in the process which are relatively
predictable are shown In months, in parentheses, for each step. An asterisk
(*) in parentheses indicates steps for which the time required varies
considerably, depending upon the scale and complexity of the project and/or
the potential for delays resulting from slow decision-making or negotiation.



_90-                          ANNEX 5
Page 4
The Particigation of Households and Enterprises to Be Relocated
10.       Households participa.te in negotiations concerning their contracts
for resettlement, including the cash compensation to be paid, but they are not
consulted early in the programming process or in the cesign of housing or
community facilities in the areas in which they are to be resettled. Fuller
and earlier consultation might improve the quality of housing. It also might
lower considerably the costs to households of adapting to the new areas and
the municipality's housing maintenance costs.
11.       Manufacturing enterprises are consulted in the design of the facili-
ties to which they are to be transferred, and an effort is made to provide
them with suitable space and services in locations in which they can function
efficiently. The extent to which retail and service enterprises are consulted
is unclear. They are particularly vulnerable to losses resulting from reloca-
tion from central city areas to outlying areas.
The Project Components Requiring Resettlement
12.       The resettlement resulting from the project is involuntary resettle-
ment necessitated by the project's transport objectives. Those objectives are
economic, social, and environmental, but they are not concerned primarily with
the improvement of the physical facilities available for economic enterprises
or with housing. The scale of the resettlement necessitated by the project,
vhich requires the relocation of approximately 3,300 households (about 18,200
persons if the average household size is 5.5) and 212 enterprises, makes its
financial, economic, social, and environmental impact significant. The reset-
tlement associated with the major physical improvements in the project is
swnmArized below.
13.       Zhongshan Road Improvement. The demolition for the Zhongshan Road
improvements is primarily for the widening of rights-of-way at ground level,
the construction of the viaduct, and the widening and improvement of selected
intersections. Approximately 1,417 households and 120 enterprises will be
displaced, including 980 households evacuated already from the roadsi(ae
between Langao Road and Railway Road (just to the north of Guangxin Road).
Approximately 40,867 mt of gross residential floor space and 30,130 mt of
floor space for enterprises will be demolished, together with the utility
systems serving these facilities. No provision is being made for the reset-
tlement of households or manufacturing enterprises in the original site area,
but an effort Ls to be made to relocate retail and service enterprises nearby.
Dislocated households will be relocated in two sites, Zhen Ruxi (adjacent to
the Zhen Xi pilot project) and Beixinjing, both within about 3 km of Zhongshan
Road. Approximately 980 households have been evacuated already; demolition
for the improvement of Zhongshan Road began in July 1988.
14.       The housing to be demolished is primarily a mixture of low-standard
makeshift structures and substant_.al four- to six-story housing units. House-
holds have no vaterbomne sewage, many share communal taps for water supply,
and the area is subject to temporary flooding in the rainy season. Many of
the manufacturing enterprises to be relocated are occupying 20- to 50-year-old
facilities in poor condition; the newest facility to be affected is about ten
years old. The physical facilities occupied by the retail and service enter-



-91-                          ANNEX S
Page 5
prisee affected are a mixture of substantial and low-standard units. No high-
rise structures are to be demolished. Some of the widening is to take place
on land now used for open space, involving no building demolition.
15.       Nonmotor Vehicle (NWV) Rights-of-Way.   The demolition and resettle-
ment associated vith the NHV component of the pro4ect is limited in scale and
is primarily for creating or widening bicycle and pedestrian rights-of-wvy.
The project will result in 578 households and 22 enterprises being displaced.
Approximately 21,964 mW of gross residential floor space and 6,926 ma of floor
space for enterprises will be demolished. No provision is being made for the
resettlement of households near the original sites, but an effort will be made
to resettle at least some of the enterprises nearby. Households will be
resettled in three locations--Pengpu, Zhen Xi, and Lou Shen (near Jing Dong)--
all of which are relatively distant from the original sites.
16.       The housing to be demolished is predominantly in old, but substan-
tial, two-story and three-story brick and timber structures with old infra-
structure typical of the central city. Units have piped water, electricity,
and gas, but are without waterborne sewerage, and some have outside kitchens.
The physical facilities occupied by the retail and service enterprises
affected are on the ground floor of structures with mixed residential and
commercial uses. As in the case of the Wusong Bridge approaches, the entre-
preneurs in retail and service activities that cannot be located nearby are
likely to suffer economic hardships as a result of their dislocation from
cenitral city locations.
The Environmental Quality of the Affected Areas
17.       The environmental quality of the area affected by the Zhongshan Road
improvements is nondescript, made up largely of roadside development. The
structures range in quality from sulistantial to very poor, as noted earlier.
They do not hae any particular historic or aesthetic value.
18.       The environmental quality of the affected NM1 areas is typical of
the central city. Here, streets serve a variety of social, as well as trans-
port, purposes, but they are heavily trafficked and are used less for non-
transport purposes.
The Resettlement Program
19.       The Basic Approach.   The approach to demolition and resettlement for
the project will build upon the municipality's considerable experience in
these activities. Demolition is being minimized.
20.       Demolition will not take place until the resettlement areas have
been developed and are ready for occupancy. Dislocated households will be
provided with permanent or temporary housing in existing project areas for
which no new land acquisition is required. The agencies responsible for
resettlement (SNECC, $MRQDC, and the three District Municipal Engineering Con-
struction Companies responsible for resettlement for the NKV system improve-
ments) will utilize these existing areas for the project and later acquire
additional land, which they will transfer to the entities responsible for the
areas they utilize, in compensation for the space preempted for the project.



-92-                          ANNX S
PftS 6
21.       A4though the use of temporary housing cannot he avoided entirely, an
effort will be made to minimize it. The two principal factors causing delays
ln permanent housing are shortages of funds and an insufficient number of
skilled and experienced project managers. IBRD participation in the financing
of demolition and resettlement ls expected to alleviate these problems signi-
f icantly.
22.       An effort will be made to correct inefficiencies and deficiencies in
the design of resettlement projects of the kinds referred to earlier. To that
effect, ths project includes technical assistance to SMRQDC and $MECC, build-
ing on to the experience gained through technical assistance to SMRQDC for the
Zhen Xi Pilot Project during project preparation.
23.       The demolition acd resettlement, which are a necessary part of the
project, provide an lmportant opportunity to demonstrate possibilities for
Improved demolition and resettlement practices that could be emulated in the
much larger and more complex program that is onpgoing in the metropolitan area.
The innovations proposed may also be useful in other cities in China. They
will be coordinated with work on land management, site planning, and housing
to be supported by the IBID in the Mbledium-Size Cities Project.
24.       Relocation Sites.  The resettlement sites to be utilized for house-
holds and enterprises evacuated from the Zhongshan Road Improvement area and
the 3tV system area are as shovn in Table 5.1. They have been chosen with two
concerns in mind: (a) proximity to the areas from which households are being
relocated: and (b) the imuediate availability of.land for the construction of
housing and community facilities. five of the nine sites are within 4 km of
the sites occupied originally by the dislocated households. The selections
represent a reasonable compromise between being able to ensure the timely
availability of land and the desire t;i use sites as close as possible to the
original locations.
25.       Facilities to Be Provided in the New Locations.   Households dis-
placed by the project are to be resettled permanently in residential projects
which incorporate housing, community facilities (including kindergartens,
schools, clinics, and comunuity centers)> shops, recreation facilities, and
landicaped open space. Individual housing units will have indoor kitchens and
bathrooms, piped water supply, waterborne sewerage, electricity, and gas. For
households, new space is provided at a standard of 4 to 5 mg per person.
Standards are, to some extent, negotiable, as noted earlier.
26.        For enterprises, I m2 of new space is to be provided for every
square .eter of demolished space.   Enterprises will be consulted in the design
of the new space, as they are in the municipality's ongoing program.
27.       A oujstantial number of households would be relocated temporarily at
first, but eveatually (the end of 1992 is the original target date) all of
them could be resettled permanently. In the case of Zhongshan Road, SMECC
expects that all of the 1,417 households dislocated will have to be accommo-
dated initially in temporary space (980 of them already are).
28.       For preliminary costing purposes, the municipality has assumed that
an average of 4.3 mi of resettlement floor space will be provided for each



-93-                                          AM= 5
PRge 7
Tjb:          R    E   ~
Residentlul de.iltnin
Copoet             ile          -      i     S1    a     w          D       Oetinatlnn            1X.       m    110t i
bn..a-n AsdI
DOfore 11/89      1,00?      71   06/8
Af90r 11/89         410      20   00/91       762      84   12/91-12/62    Zhosal N.             s0    80      06/6A
an       46    t"9-SW9        oxlogJlng            so     a0   06/91-01/92
E,Den** Rond it
Slofor I1/6         nil                       nil                                               nil
After II/"          868     100   09/92       o        00      09/o        hanl K.               W 81  100     09/92
8ab1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 uim IQ                              agQX 
Dobtot.l         II      1                                   ~S
lolore a/89         nIl                       nil                                               nill
Zen 1                59      860490            89      as      04/90      Pnv                    12    48      04/0W
Ze. 2                so      84   Oi/90        W       84      04/0       znsu M.                 8    so      04/90
Zmo a                49      80   04/90        49      80      04/90       YanJIanoLgebn          a t1         04/90
Subtatel          ,5     A5                1A       MB                                         s    M9
L   lot ntorpries oxpect to relocato In wicinity of oriinaol alt.
A  P cp.Aed   teie.tlem d..tinatlen.  Atuel deltinatieno l. to be  fird by 08/92.
Zone I ent"rpl. will relzte           In Waoke4g  Sw 9-Jing An; &W Slt h$no 8w-4 u.
C_s~~n.nt             5    T     iSrell3 .lroIFycal       9.9.1                            poll m.li        P1      Tomtl
-        dmab, Wn I
sofor. 11/09          9.01       53.89      0.91        62.I8        -          -          -           -           81.6
After 11/W           S.04        81.80      1.40        I.SB         6.0o       0.52       1." 96.86              84.82
12.48       1.98       1.07       15.45        15.48
Smbteftl                      ZLL        La          fIjI          &,                                ZO        12a aM
IL..glogg Read II
Sofore 11/69
After 11/69           8.69       26.48      0.00        80.88        0.99       1.88       0.00        11.82       41.68
Subotl              512143               LQ          5309         0.00       L3II        SL10        1          41.6
IDforo 11/69
20nm  1               0.14        8.14      0.01         8.80        0.17       0.00       0.48         0.65       3.98
Zem 2                0.18        0.96      0.02         S..s        0.26       0.00       0.32        0.60        8.75
Zano a                0.12        2.61      0.01         2.74        0.24       0.00       0.41        0.6         8.9
Subtotel                       .am        gm         9Li          aLU Lm                  Ii. 1Q                11.0
Tal               1AL    15tL4           84         ULM                      LULB        La        ?M          11W5.t7



-94-
ANNEX 5
Page 8
square meter of space that is demolished. In the case oe SMECC, during the
period 1986-88, the ratio of new floor area to old floor area was approxi-
mately 2.3 to 1. The search for appropriate Innovation will take advantage of
the experiesce gained through the Zhen Xi Pilot Project (which is one of the
relocation sites). However, it should be recognized that the 4.3-to-1 ratio
arises partly from the (realistic) expectation that (a) multiple families that
have been crowded into single units in old housing in the demolition areas
will be accommodated in individual units in the resettlement areas, and
(b) households being displaced during resettlement must be accommodated.
29.       Unit costs for demolition have been estimated on the basis of guide-
lines in the Shanghai Municipal Regulations for the Demolition of Euildings
(January 6, 1987), which identify the unit costs to be uoed for different
types of structure.
30.       Cash Compensation.  Current practices have been assumed for estinat-
ing the cash compensation to be paid to dislocated households. The rates of
compensation mean that a household of five persons evacuated from a private
house of 25 m2, moving when requested, to benefit from the bonus payment, and
relocating in temporary housing found by the household itself for three years,
would receive a total cash compensation of Y 5,700. A household moving into
SNECC temporary housing would receive Y 3,500. Details of the cash compensa-
tion are available in the resettlement paper in the project files.
31.       Institutional Responsibilities.   The basic institutional responsi-
bilities for demolition and resettlement will be those of the ongoing program.
Specific responsibilities for demolition and resettlement for the three rele-
vant project components will be as fnllowss
Table 5.2s RESPONSIBILITIES FOR DEMOLITION AND RESETTLEMENT
Demolition               Resettlemeat
Zhongshan Road                 SHECC                     SHECC
Wusong Bridge Approaches       Hong tou District         SMRQDC
MECC
NMV System                     Jing An District         Jung An District
HuanSpu District          Huangpu District
Hong Kou District         Hong Kou District
32.       The Demolition and Resettlement Schedule.   The schedule for demoli-
tion and zesettlement, related to project construction, is described in Table
5.1.  For the NMY area, with the exception of the demolition of the Ninghai
Vegetable Market, which is scheduled for 1995, permanent resettlement was
completed by the end of 1990. For Zhongshan Road, permanent resettlement
would be completed by the end of 1992. Given the number of agencies involved
in demolition and resettlement, the complexity of the process, and the poten-



-95-                          ANNEX 5
Page 9
tial for delays resulting from prolonged negotiation, there is some risk of
project implementation being delayed. However, in case of land acquisition,
for example, which Is often a prolonged process, SMECC and the SMRQDC have
arranged to resettle dislocated households in existing project areas for which
the land use rights already have been acquired; they will acquire additional
land use rights later to reimburse the relevant entities for thie preempted
space.
Resettlement Issues
33.       The principal social, economic, and environmental issues associated
with demolition and resettlement are discussed In the resettlement report in
the project files. They include the followings
(a) Social Issues
(i) the breaking up of social relationships when friends and neigh-
bors in the demolition area are relocated in different places;
and
(ii) the impact of resettlement on poverty; however, because of the
relatively small variance in the urban household income distri-
bution in Shanghai, this is loes of an issue than it is in many
other countries.
(b) Economic Issues
Mi) inefficiencies in land use and dhe installation of infrastruc-
ture because of present demolition and resettlement practices
and standards;
(ii) the costs of the delays that occur in resettling households and
enterprises permanently--and the avoidable losses in output and
personal income associated with these delays; and
(iii) the additional transport costs for enterprises and households
in their new locations.
(c) Environmental Issues
Ci) unsatisfactory design and maintenance of public spaces, the
late completion of drainage, pedestrian paths, and landscaping,
the practice of leaving construction debris in public spaces,
and inadequate building and infrastructure maintenance--all of
which result in low environmental quality in resettlement proj-
ects, relative to the capital costs of the projects;
Evaluation--The Expected Impact of Resettlement
34.       In evaluating the potential impact of demolition and resettlement,
the concerns include financial viability, economic justification, social
impact, environmental impact, and local acceptability.



-96-                          A-E   S
Page 10
35.       Flnancial Analysis.   The financial analysis for demolition and
resettlement in the project has been Incorporated in the analysis for the
project, not treated separately. The cash costs involved are substantial
(approximately 39 percent of total project costs), expenditures occur primar-
ily during the flihet three years of implementation, and their cash flow conse-
quences require careful budgeting within the municipality's overall financial
planning. The importance of this is increased by the social desirability of
minimizing the times which dislocated households will have to spend in tempo-
rary housing.
36.       The cash flow analysis in Annex 9 identifies the amounts required
for demolition and resettlement under the schedule that has been agreed upon.
The cash flow analysis, in the context of the financial analysis for the proj-
ect as whole. indicates that the demolition and resettlement program is finan-a
cially feasible. As noted earlier, IBRD participation in the financing of
resettlement is expected to make it feasible to reduce the times for which
households must remain in temporary housing.
37.       Economic Analysis.  The economic analysis for demolition and reset-
tlement is an integral part of the economic analysis for the project as a
whole (see Annex 12).
38.       The economic costs recognised in the analysis comprise the economic
values of financial costF, excluding transfer payments and depreciation, plus
the economic values of terminated rents from demolished housing, teminated
value added from commercial activities, and teminated revenues from demol-
ished infrastructure.
39.       Tn principle, the economic benefits would include the economic val-
ues of cash revenues, excluding transfer payments, reduced costs for health
services (if there are savings as a result of improved environmental condi-
tions), reduced costs for environmental maintenance (if there are savings),
incroments in household incomes and the value added by enterprises as a result
of increased productivity (if any) resulting from more efficient locations,
improved facilLtios and services and the peychological boostl of improved
conditions, terminated operation and maintenance costs for demolished housing
and enterprises, terminated operation and maintenance costs for demolished
community facilities, and terminated operation and maintenance costs for
demolished infrastructure.
40.       In practice, obtaining reliable estimates of all of these values is
impossible. The analysis, therefore, uses imputed quasi-market rents as a
proxy for all incremental benefits. This assumes that cost savings for the
provision of infrastructural services such as water supply, as well as all
increases in household and enterprise productivity resulting from resettle-
ment, are reflected adequately in the proxy values. It potentially involves
some double counting, since a part of any increase in land use rents is likely
to be attributable to transport improvements in the project, whose benefits
already are included in estimates of transport operating cost and time sav-
Ings. These transport bonefits, annualized, are therefore deducted from the
estimated increments in rents. The estimates of increments in land use rents
are a result of an linformed judgment" based on the analysis of land use pro-
fitability (annual operating income, minus annual operating cost) for a vari-



-97-                          ANNEX 5
Page 11
ety of land use zones and land uses, which was carried out by the Financial
Research Institute of the Shanghai Finance Bureau, current information on
compensation being paid for land rights, recent land auctions, and recent
sales of rights at administered quesi market prices.
41.       Social Benefits and Costs. The principal social benefits of the
proposed resettlement that cannot be monetized readily include access to
school and health services superior to those available in or close to the
original site; the convenience of access to shopping facilities superior to
thoaa in or near the original site; and the convenience of access to recre-
ation facilities (cinemas and local park space) potentially superior to those
in the original site area. The potential value of local park space may not be
realized because these spaces often are not fully developed, and/or their
maintenance is inadequate.
42.       The principal potential social cost that is difficult to monetize is
the breaking up of social relationships when friends and neighbors are relo-
cated in different places and when links with schoolmates, teachers. and
friends near the originul site are lost. This could happen in the project.
The relocatees from the Zhongshan Road area are to be resettled in two new
locations, including sites in Beizinjing and Zuenzi N.
43.       Although the costs of lor, social relationships can be very high for
individuals, the evidence in Shanghai seems to suggest that the authorities
have managed to identify leveis of compensation in kind (subsidized housing
and facilities) and cash which equal or exceed these losses. Because of the
desire for adequate housing, there frequently is an influx of would-be relo-
catees into areas designated for demolition. This is the key factor that has
resulted in the practice of announcing demolition plans as late as possible
and the registering of the original 1!opulations in demolition areas.
44.       These social benefits and costs of resettlement e-< noted here
because they are potentially important, but may or may not be reflected ade-
quately in the increments in land use rents used as a proxy for economic bene-
fits.
45.       Environmental Benefits and Costs.   The potential environmental bene-
fits of th7e resettlement resulting from the project that cannot readily be
monetized include improved drainage and the elimination of seasonal flooding,
improved all-weather footpaths for on-site pedestrian movement, reduced water
contamination as a result of new distribution facilities, improved air quality
as a result of relocation away from high-density inner city areas, and
improved aesthetics as a result of improved building design, site layout. and
landscaping. However, during the next several years, these benefits may be
potential, rather than actual. The drainage and pedestrian walks in reloca-
tion sites sometimes are installed long after resettlement and/or their main-
tenance is inadequate. The aesthetics of new project areas sometimes are less
attractive than those of the or.ginal demolition areas because of their design
and/or inadequate maintenance. They tend to be more barrack-like than the
individualized two-story structures in the in.er city, and the new site lay-
outs lack the intimacy and interest of the old areas in which narrow streets
serve as spaces for socializing, as well as movement, and inner courtyards
offer opportunities for socializing with immediate neighbors, and serve as



-98-                          AMNEX 5
Page 12
safe play spaces. 2nvironmental benefits that presently are potential, rather
than actual, could be made actual through improved design and maintenance in
the new areas; this should be encouraged. Work on this vas initiated during
project preparation through the technical assistance provided for the Zhon Xi
Pilot Project and will be continued through the technical assistance to be
provided for project implementation.
46.       Environmental costs that cannot readily be monetized are primarily
those resulting from the problems just mentioned. They are avoidable costs.
The problems giving rise to them could be rectified by improved technical
training, improved management, and adequate budgeting for maintenance.
47.       In principle, the environmental benefits and costs described might
be monetized in site rents, but in the absence of a real estate market, esti-
mating their values is difficult. An attempt to do so has been made in the
project economic analysis, as noted earlier. The immediate operational con-
cern will be to eliminate avoidable costs.
48.       Local Acceptability.   There are public-relations benefLts in reset-
tlement, which result from the desirability of providing improved housing in a
metropolitan area in which the probleme of overcrowding and inadequate infra-
structure are especially severe. The efforts of would-be relocatees to move
into areas designated for demolition suggest that the public-relations costs
of resettlement, which often are high in cities elsewhere because the poten-
tial relocatees are disadvantaged and vocal, are far outweighed by the
improved housing and cash incentives provided.
49.       Equity and the Impact of Resettlement on Poverty.   Household income
data for the municipality are available, but they had not yet been tabulated
by traffic zone at the time of appralsal. In the absence of this information,
informal field surveys in the affected areas suggest that the households to be
relocated comprise a mix of middle and lower-middle income households that 48
typical of many parts of the urban area, together with some low-income house-
holds, in a municipal income distribution that has a relatively small vari-
ance. A majority of the households to be evacuated from the Zhongshan Road
area occupy housing of a very low standard. The fact that the benefited
households comprise a fairly typical mix of income levels, other than higher
levels, is acceptable, given the relocation results from transport priorities,
not housing priorities.
B. Other Environmental Impacts of the Project
50.       The demolition and resettlement associated with the project are
responsible for a major part of its environmental impact. In addition, there
are likely to be a variety of types of environmental impact typically associ-
ated with intracity transport improvements, and potentially important environ-
mental implications of future developments in Shanghai's transport can be
anticipated as result of the analysis undertaken in preparation for the pro-
posed project. These are discussed in the materisl on resettlement in the
project files. The impacts analyzed include traffic noise: visual impact; air
pollution; community severance; impact on conservation areas; disruption due
to construction; accidents; urban blight; and development potential. The
Issues are described in greater detail below.



-99-                           ANNEX 5
Page 13
51.       Traffic noise levels are likely to increase on Zhongshbu Road as a
result of increased traffic volumes. They are likely to decrease adjacent to
the NHV rights-of.way. The on and off ramps for the Zhongsban Road viaduct
will have a negative visual impact on the buildings adjacent to them, but the
main viaduct structure is to be in the central part of the right-of-way and
should not be visually disturbing. The visual Impact of the NMV rights-of-way
is likely to be positive in the sense that these improvements will simplify
traffic flows and reduce conflicts and delays. The levels of traffic-
generated air pollutants will depend largely on vehicle maintenance and oper-
ating efficiency, rather than the nature of rights-of-way provided, but in all
cases the project improvements will improve traffic flowe and should reduce
pollution caused by vehitles that would be operating even further below
optimal speeds and which are frequently brought to a standstill by congestion,
without the improvements.
52.       The potentially disruptive social effects of the demolition necessi-
tated by the proposed improvement have been discussed in the analysis of
resettlement. As noted earlier, the Zhongshan Road area is of no special
historic or aesthetic importance. The NMV development will enhance historic-
ally and aesthetically important areas in the central city. The demolition
and construction sequence has been planned to minimize traffic disruption and
the disturbance of adjacent land uses. Traii roads and service roads are
being provided for the movement of contracting equipment and vehicles. Grade
separation of heavy traffic on Zhongshan Road, together with improved inter-
section design, signs, signals, and traffic policing, is expected to reduce
traffic accidents considerably below the levels that would occur without these
improvements. The NMV system, similarly, with improved channelization. signs,
signals, and policing, is expected to mske a major contribution to reducing
accident rates.
53.       The improvements generally are likely to increase, rather than
decrease, the values of land use rights in adjacent areas. The only possible
exceptions to this are the buildings and uses in the vicinity of the ramps on
Zhongehan Road, which may be adversely affected. The outcome would be moni-
tored carefully so that exceptions can be converted to less sensitive uses, if
cost-effective. All the imuediate improvements proposed are expected to
increase the development potential of the areas they affect directly.
C. Overall Evaluation
54.       Resettlement is a necessary consequence of the project.   Opportuni-
ties for rectifying deficiencies in current resettlement practices have been
identified and are to be pursued throughout the project. The financial, eco-
nomic, and qualitative analysis described suggest that if these opportunities
are realised, the overall Impact of resettlement could be very positive. The
resettlement program makes highly beneficial transport improvements possible.
It provides an opportunity to Improve housing conditions significantly for
approximately 2,150 households, if multifamily households living in extremely
crowded conditions in the areas to be demolished oan be housed as individual
families in the new settlement areas. Approximately half of these households
(those to be relocated from Zhongshan Road) are among Shanghai's poorest
households and are presently living in low-standard units with inadequate



.100-                         ANNEX 5
Page 14
infrastructure. The desire for inclusion in resettlement projects suggests
that benefits outweigh the costs of disrupted social rela:ionships.
55.       The qualitative analysis of potential environmental impacts suggests
that most are positive. Exceptions could be the potentially negative impacts
of the on and off ramps for Zhongshan Road.
56.       Overall, the potential benefits of resettlement, relative to its
costs, the significance of resettlement in the continuing development of
Snanghai and other major cities in China, and the potential for reducing these
costs considerably argue for IBRD participation in resettlement in the project
in order to provide leverage for iucreasing the cost-effectiveness of the
resettlement process. The benefits of this participation are expected to ex-
tend well beyond the improvements achievable in the resettlement associated
vith the project itself.



CHINA
S    EANGHAI ME    POLITAN TRMSPORT PROJECT
$UM     OF PUJC    CoSTS (n milt ion)
......... ...................... ..............  ........................ ............................. .................................................  ......................, 
-    Basn castle...- .  ..    . Contin wncles -------                             -- 
ul91U)b         Physical ..-... Price id --**  met     TJx                      f1iga
Locat Foeign T.tat        Ic    Loat   1omein total cost       le      Cost,     I        If
.. . .  .. .  .. . . . . . . . . . . .  .. . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  .  ..  ..  . . . . . . . .     *.. . . .  .. . . . ..*  . ......... .
A. lbJo  arterial ra:                       282.32  271.29 553.61   55.36   48.u    2.89  72.52  681.49    7.18    666.68    89.01     4A8
Al. labwnhmn I (VI&An   )                 211.20 241.55 42.75     45.28   31.90 20.93 52$. 550.86        5.28    556.15    T1.9M     51.51
A2. ibs1ha    11 ISurte top)               71.11   29.74  100."6   10.09  16.73   2.96  19.69  130.63    1.90    132.53    17.12     26.98
D. Traffic atety   d      w    s             34.67   13.66  48.53    4.15    6.02   1.01   7.04   60.42    0.88     6t.30     7.9X     26.51
...................... .....................  ...... .... .... .. _..... ......... ......... ......... ......... .. .....  ......  . ...  ......  ......... . F
e1. an-Saw Vfeilel Raab                    25.43   1."6   36.0     3.61    3.82   0.69   4.51   44.22    0.64     44.85     5.8X      7.7S
a. TON am                                   6.96    1.90   8.87    0.69    1.76   0.22   1.97   11.72    0.19     11.91     1.51     19.42       I
3. NC Ustuwk                                2.7      1.29  3.57    0.36    0.4    0.10   0.55    4.48    0.06      4.54     0.6      3.71        0         _
Ildeatat - I* projects A 9&               316.9   1   IS.15  40.14  60.21  54.65  24.91  79.56 741.91    8.07    749.98    96.98     45.11 U                   a
C. Te"dcal Aaastuw                            0.00   22.07  22.0     0.00    0.00   1.88   1.8    23.94    0.00     23.94     3.12    100.5 
.... *............... ....      ..     .    .    .    .     .    .     ...... ...... ......        ......                           . .
C/C3. Pr"jet Ipl_emtatlin                   0.00    7.40   7.40    0.00    0.00   0.78   0.78    8.18    0.6       8.18     1.12    100.08
C4. Ut Il    nt   Priorities                0.00   4.85    4.62    0.00    0.00   0.37   0.37    4.00    0.00      5.06     0.51    100.02                 1
CS. ft fbiltat St   iore                    0.00    3.65   3.85    0.40    0.00   0.23   0.23    5.08    0.00      4.00     0.42    100.02
£6. marep. lrmpet      asatitut.           0.00    2.31    2.31    0.00    0.00   0.22   0.22    2.53    0.00      2.53     0.31    100.02
Cr. _ueb fo Trueit Co. stti                 0.00   2.31    2.31    0.00    0.00   0.19   0.19    2.50    0.06      2.50     0.32    100.01
CB. Bond K§atmena EWpm*                    0.00     1.04    1.04   0.00    0.00   0.06   0.06    1.11    0.00      1.11     0.12    100.08
e9. c    _ur  Iqis     for C6.              0.00   0.52    0.52    0.00    0.00   0.03   0.03    0.55    0.00      1.55     0.11    100.18
Toutl prlect cost                   316."   3.U     241.2t  60.21   54.65   6.    81.43  745.05    8.07    M.92     100.0     47.111
...      ......         ...... .....O.*..                     ........ ......           ......
_ _.............. ...... ............ ...... ............ ...... ............ ..... ............ ...... ......... ...... ............ ...... ............ ...... ........ ......... ........... ......... ...
...F.... ............                                                                                   . 
For explntory notese,se page 2.
Øw 



-102-
STAP    APPRAISAL REPORT                            Annex 6
CHINA                                   Table 6.1
SEANGAil MlEROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT                       Page 2
Project Costs
UptSmtory notes On parMeto  s and a8suqt IO  eW   for cost  tables
............. ..........................._....._  ......_ _...
la lctlUdirg orbeads total: 4.6,* i.e. oWnistretion        I.o0; p   wmnt        0
Arwry n desigms           2.8k; ard cantrnltfn sw4rviefon      0..
lb OffIlist sxcae rate MIJ    a RMI(T)     5.2Z
/c Physacat cantingCyt laotance:           1O.0k
Id Ambt    nf tation ratest:
1992  1993    19P    1995    1996   1996
houatic:               10.0  6.0k    5.0k   S.0k    5.05    .x
Forefgn:                3.6   3.5    3.45    3.6k   3.      3.2
Inftlation fators:
1992  1993    191     199    1996    1996
0oestlc:              1.025 1.14    1.218  1.279   1.363  1.410
Forslgn:              1.009 1.055   1.093  1.132   1.173  1.21S
Price Intreae 1/90 through 5/91 estlaoted to bet
Uonetf :               10.3X
Fareign:                5.5S
/e Taxes Capplfed to local costs only)      2.0k
If Land requisition Inctudes 40.0X Indirect for.
estimated foreign exhn, needws U       69.45 .dt t on



J
414P
tSNbIIO# go P..MqIP "Om" ~ )W SGU z" 33.I  )MI@ hO 10O0  0) )Uh)SAY& S  Mm 2 U WO  of
O9u)Pwi pit s igJeuiq sopZpu oJuq go  "UNW1013 eJM0la~ Pow Pom U)rIu.3n Mpn p i~j
(1u.wjfb.) ePsa PU, WA361#s 1813SU1P3 OWII@JWSmW S*JM j(13 aglp4iaUl a/
WI5IsAJGw~t PU 9UUIJSUIOS "PS4JSA X3SjOJ W.sfAeu.J wuotqim b;ip1luiE qi
1-#                             upw.Jd )IPS~~~~310JOA~M) *0W P1Ju -, M   )180q SwuJAO6 ,sd.iow. l"*mo . us ;PuI1 el
o A.
=00 1  9lOt 1    6u         tol           64"                   1"7                        'wi PUBJ
O/Mov    80*0    01tfi    1    091  '      itf        ore          or.       19O1 In
~SW"   92,0 U     O  AV099  LO90                     W              M      1W)L IN
Ult    6 Si    % U          0010                       S - 6  :OO 00.0       In
solo  000  soloore              00.0          ore0        or.         WA
$4                               ---          .....      .....        .....        .....              ........_...,,,...,..
Mot    60       06U "-        o        "l a-0                    "*0       1O 3
j                     s|s    65,      WU           ro                     ore          woe              pi:0-rns v tUWpWJ. 'U wU  1
6lt    Rol     on,          W           96-£  S-t  %-2                       on
sf~~~~~~~..              .. 1 .  - ....     .....      .. ...       ....         .....       .. ..... .. ....................
%9ffl  605      St.         Colo        SVS         000          0090                 :
X~~~~~~~U"              tlg §! x; s      t  91,0    .    VB.     -    0'6Z        1,9*o      m;zeooo
!S~~~~~~~~--               .....       ... ..  ,   ..... ..     .....       .. ...              .. ....... .. ..... .. .. 
I            W,S~~2'6  IWif  0fS *U                  rmf'92W                                      qn    sa      a
X~~~~~ IISS                 15U        lIWUiU0     "'2 z                      t:G IWU  t"11 '
,....... .. ..    . ............. ....................
............................................... ..............................................................................
*1 '621Jl 1IA1:l  e pJWl                .0   WWIt
......................~~~~~~~~NYl ............................ ,WU ,. .. UIO_ ____...... ,, 3,



I 1 9 *-qi3 OM    9903U  XCQVUffTdX9 JZO5
uDpp6.r*w USI432J4WD
X0@     W@0     00.0   0Cr0   orlo  O0(i 01     00ro  ore   or.  oo*o  or  ore0                   t.uN.jssy9 jsoswpe
zi5f5   Noe004  S-t9`I6  U 9?S   O 90S5WS £''"ZgS6-0C @6 - UIt IA L?0SVS-I 9519  0131Z                     iSsOWI
WO0     %50     6VZ1    alo   9il~ £50    0010  "00    ZZ00  9LZ          91'?    SIu  3u8    uSiStiA.Ut  DI)2U330M
o      ~~we     ZP'2   9r94i   U20    96f1   w    we S00.   £90  IZ.  ?t'21       21.21  *iu   an2        JBUSB4I1S3 IGWI
9o     wIt   UW        Wo)   if*j  9tt    ol oro  i  9WO    £915         ff05   DAB    on     )u=M. SDU Po   SuPv
..O      .  .S   .      ..    . .    ..   ..    .. ....                   ....             ...  ..............  ..
s 0        2Y0     iwe     wo    Colo   00z  Cole   wez   we     W610  90#:   W6000u441w u 0.s)
vo-O  0-0   ore    0ore   o@o0   ore0 0oe   00     00r0  00-0   ore0   WO-          33  t(3u=3I*I '6)s31Js433 qse
We       W2l    VO,St   drO   5V1t   OS*!  00r0  OS*?  60t   "lot   00'0   prOt    vs                       uao 
o  04  ~XRS1A   165Z   W?St    £LO    WM1 90r51    W9*  S9*9  £V'Ot  LWI90  WUL   WIg    631             IF  J41103 3-'PWgA
WU?    W?'J    W6ill   Wor   6VOI £5*(t 11@t   "'I    W01,   WM.0  W07   IZ*lE   631 )         8     =4 3W0@ 3M IA
31                                 we~99  SO  671  cl  uzt90  Igoe We or:   wee  aml  Cr9o   ml            St 3OJ3U**P*19
MOC     u7lz   60019    Cr09  1,L9   299t  110  "IS    9lS   "'AS   157.2  tl05    vi            aWp4830)0 8830141f14
I~   ~  ~i X0.f  e9o   S£*104  6z     90*fp1 10*I  WIl 019    "Is    £VW   £9Wu   srzs   on131uo
WAt     1L-9    1211f   WI)   29'99  WI.   St". 90't   125   O27.5  15.t  1V6t     VA                      II~
lg*J5   U9-15   WORg~   "     69VA0  011t St'?  Cr11t  WUL   90911 95`V    WM10        233            ml11i-aspb  JAD
of        4503    P/    4500 1841ij9j101~401             01iW*  m  t"iejow100  dOSM  O/
tijJOd                  191   4 -  ---- 14d--- 19013413           1(619)        Wm Aauyt             on) I AJOWv33
S      ..1%     .                     6SI00b14u*3.....         4603o   ..... 800d -ad"
(WilliS aN) 1S503 133MO8d 0311V136I (iLlWA) I U*VSNSIO  19V
woii%,d  loimstw      avirxo.MIoUM nnDWNs



Ins                                                * I *9 ejqvj.O 00  *0zw~  £oWutmdx. ioa
69lo  WroO   00S    0010  00fI 0061 we W9&0 or@o    00Ol WvO   Orow
sol    200   Or We   9O   soro  we Ooe   Oro   or0   wg   wor  00o0
t     IrO30*  ire  00.0   0O'0  00.0 .0010 00r  Cole  solo '30*0  ore0  WO1              s8=338I,v )wpaq3S
*f.......       ...0.........0.      ...   ..    ..   ..                                   0
269gz  10loot £51Et  0si  £90l 49`61 WE U091 r0@i0 wool M-a    itL                          'oq
o4        200    %S0    we0   we    D.4  WOl   WCe fit,* Iso  we    00.0  VVIO            WiOtjAJai  11U)0
1oo  VZ   IVlt   9010  ttVf  9VS0 000  WGl  WC   CSz  Colo  OIL"?                S*1J0i.3s 3Suld
Woo  f t  "      BI   ti    9*o.      r 10 0gi9otso sl  OrG0  silt                  oioiasJ3uhUv
* ~~~~   ~ wo      *V9  E9.S    WCS ?S59  "1   00re  "   Wo    "It   ore0  WVs
I   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~..   ...  ...   ...  ......               ...   ..................
W 0o      WOo  0040    0010 Cole  Or0  we 00O   Go's   OS*@  "or  oreo          1(3'uIlft '6)51.30A) SP=
WVA    WL6   997L   SF0o  1'zI 9S0Z 010o "rz   wo   WO6  IVO    VIS  931 335        iii1i PM sots
WV5    %91vt  694   Ail0  z5oie not WO1 0L1r   Win  1191  WV   960fI  931 3315    wjej WIS S3Wf33WIMa-
5  .~ ~....   .....  ....  .......       .....  .....  .....                         ...........35~
(to)4    K  1  Z3Odeiis     SIUOil3V33 IUIhII         Z
xzlo  ulo 10 P  tot  9V19 z3r otd WLadSV 910V WIVJUI IuDkIVR9S:*J IA1



cUINA
SHA1I4GI NITROPOLITAW TRANSPORT PlROMCT
31. =-MS VEISCLI ROM       - OETAIU   POJCT =TS1 (O      MUilion)
...... .......... 9..... .. ...................................................................................................................... ..................................................................... 
ame. Pre.'....             @t.     . -------- Cntinn c08               ----... Tot           .... 
cste   y a lte               AuW     M            (6r St"t VIDv  U.caI --                       me      T -- t  Tax  *g
la     typ    Laes   Fweuig  Tutt      /C    Loel Foroitn Total cat        /41     COst  cs          i
......... ................................................................. ,........ 
Led bW1sitin                           11.84  8.50   20.33    2.0     1.61  0.54   2. "   26.52    0.29    24.6     5.3%     .39.91
0inlt1un od       ettline                 11.77    6.46   20.3     2.02    1.61  0.54   21S    26.41    0.29    24.70    55.12     39.91
Utilities r.tecatin                        0.06    0.06    0.10   0.01    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.11    0.00     0.11     0.32     36.1
civit IISu                                  10.59    1.4    12.06    1.20   1.71   012    1.63   lS18    0.27     1.35     34.22     11.21
...  .  ..             .   *.a.                           ...     ...
...........                                                 ........... . ....    . ...,. .....   . ......*. ... ....., ...; 
Traffic steals                             .J6     0.00    0.96   0.10    0.10   0.00   0.10    1.16   0.02      1.18     2.62      O.1
c   uwwalifztien                           2.69    0.00    2.69   O.27    0.27   0.00   0.27    3.23   0.06      3.29     7.3X      0.02
winin       lh*s                          0.15    0.00    0.75    0.66   0.11   0.00   0.11    0.94   0.02      0.96     2.12      0.02     pg
1r1111                                     6.19    1.46    7.64   0.76    1.23   0.12   1.35    9.75   0.16      9.91    22n.X     1.3 V=
OasE  (Iterfals, ftdpm*nt                    1.42    0.71    2.13   0.21    0.15   0.03   0.18    2.L     0.03     2.55     5.72     31.72     4   '       
............................                ........... .....      . ..... . ..... . ..... . ..... . ..... . ....  .....  . ..... .. .. .. 
Truffle Simms a sign                       1.42    0.71   2.13    0.21    0.15   0.03   0.18    2.S5   0.03      2.55     5.72     31.71     8
INVlnerIng aed Addaistratm                   1.59    0.00    1.9    0.16    0.35   0.00   0.35   2.10    0.04      2.14     4.3      0.M       r 
---.------- ........... ............--.... .  .. . ..  ... ... .....  ... ..  .. . .... ...... ..  .....  ... .... ...... ..  .....  ... .... . 
Adilnstration0 0.45                                        0.45   0.04    0.09   0.o@   0.09    0.58   0.01      0.59     1.3       0.0 
Fiem  oniuInew re                          0.97           0.97    0.10   0M     0.00   0.23    1.29   0.03      1.31     2.01     0.0% 
CtmtrVntim   ssvision                      0.17           0.17    0.02    0.04   0.00   0.64   0.23    0.00      0.23     0.51      0.02 
sItAotat                                  25.43   10.66  36.09    3.61    3.62   0.69   4.51  4.22     0."4     44.65   100.02     27.71         -
........                                  .....   .....  .. ,.... .....  ..... .....           .....  .....     .....   .....     ..... F
tentical Aasistanm:                          0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00      0.00     0.0      0.M
..._................... ..... .........     ..... .......  .....    ..... ..      .. * ... ..... .......  .....  .......  ..... ..... .. .... .. .... ..
0.00    0.0     0.0J   0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.L       0.0
0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00      0.0     0.        0.0M
TWAL                                        25.43   10.66  36.09    3.61     .82   0.69  4.51   4.22     0.64     44.5    100.02    27.7X    S      2
.....   .....   .....          ..... ..... .....     .....  .....     .....   .... .    .....     ,        . 5
~-... ° . 
.................................................................................... ............ . ..........................................
EPor axpl     atory   00t6st Se       Table 6.1.



*I 9 slq;     aess 'UOvQou AaozwsMdxm     oao
...... .......
iL ~~~.....      .. .... .. .... . ..... .. .... .. .... .. ... .  . ..... .. ... .    .. ....                      . ...... .. ..
WU       10lo     0X91,   sF0    OZF91  S   5Z             0       OFZ          91W  .   0O*f  £o6         W 1
0e0      io      00o0    00-0    0040  00 0   00 0  00 0   00 0   00 0                                               ......
We       ir0     00'0    00*0   00.0   00e0 0o@0 .    0    oo o   ooo..
.....     .... ... 0,. .....    ....    .    ..... 0..... .... ... .....  .....  .....*                  ................
wre      u0s     00.0    0o-ooo oe     ino    oe o 0o      oe o   oo o   OD 000  00.0                    sIIW)SsU    )U21uwl
Q   .....    .....  ~~~.....  .....  .....  ..... ..... .....  .....*  .....  .....  .....                            ........
i        =0 atl oo  50*91   0    T 0*9t  ZS'Z  Zf*0  OZ*Z  *j I     ZW  OZ*1    SZ                                 waowus
XO0     XS'O    solo    sol     18@0   ZOO 00-0    z0     tie    900           900                      U1s      5Iu3um
aSd       SD               5 Z,    10*0   ti'o   100   0090   0-0    £0.0  £s£0           £0 slJo OSU19eu*i
52     XO20.0   1£      ZZOW0           WO Or  bO o~*  oo o  go o  . w o    o          si o                          W}J3J3S5UqI
:s ~~~~~~...........           .     ..........  .....  . . .... . 0..... ....... .......  .......  .......  .........  ..............................
*     0     290t    SCL      10-0   £L*0   £1O   00 @0  £1£0  Solo    50    0000   ssO              WIISJ4IUMV pRw 46WI5u
O 9                       %.O    L Zf   Ore f0*0  667  £  Ol*O  Z9£O  9Z  Zt'2  62W  l,  511  lld (093) mdl881MaIa sI,f,wJ
x6las    g119*   zr et e0        66     O o   ZZo O   e    tre 0t        err £  0 z r   9 S ll Sd (3)    OIs/'SIDAIS 31#JlA
... .... . ..... . ..... . ..... . ..... . ..... . ..... . ..... .  . .... . ..... .  ..........................
I'            zrsU-lS  5|St  wt'  ire-  ff-l  £o 0   e £  09o0  es.O    Sri5  oZ     srz                :(3umdpf   6)3lJPI)a qm
0O       =1 19   t W9" I    *0   a't    OZ'O  00*0  0FI   iO0     60     @@'@   66s    Vd131 lad        /S
=10 0    wit     Es 9609  ttZ  §  a 9   J21 &  00   a |O*&  05-S  so'    Or     Goe    wil      ad8 Bu     s        NSA 0
We      ie       1        1     V       9     r    W0r            ~      r       9q.                                    11
I
ire      5t'O   0ore      00G0   000   00-0  0010  00-0   00-0   00@@   Olre    10      VA Vi  i    l Cl) Ym1   -5n3I   1O
0-0 i.            00      00'0   00-0   00D0  00-0  C0o0   0010   00-0   0010   00-0                         fWlatgt9IIv PA"
.......................................;........................;...........................................*...........0.........
0I       I     3902     P 3303 piI01                 1    /     1301 uS        1j01  0d4    e/
ti&M os                    1....... so.lid .          .....- 1931&44  q/C6/9)         3US Amw                on I I AJe6)3
X     .     001 - ........... slalSOuluo                  ........  ..... S03 mg IISB *- a--d 3'3
.......................... .    ............... .........................................................................................................................*.
(wilo   GMa) s5393 133fI 031V130- &N3NVN - A13S 31JMVU       'Z'
ja:u . 1*5asivu       Umbamm            ratIs



%0O
Xo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                     9 srlj        oo    xnwfeli
S4 z ~~~.... __....... ,,*_*_.... ................................................ ...................
S C.
PI 0
0                          Z .....-- .....  .... - -. ....  --. -..-. -.-....  .....
14 l      xrais  Wol   Wf    ire   WU   Si Belli we 1                                             wm
Iwo01  not   irs0   oe   sr-   g-0 gre 00e0   0re0  ao  Ma    ore          3   dug  .min U I1 A 6
P4     zrwl   Olt9  tilt  Ooe 0'       le  re0 sae  r0e0  "I,   "It oge            t     w    fI 'l
v~~~~~~~ ...        .....   .....  ..&..   ...  .....  .- - -.. - .....- .....  .....  ...._.   .........
wooe  2069 o wi     0ore  wi 1  e0  804   e  oe0 ogl  no  "I  ore  oto yw
NJ            ol'os '000 "-2      WO 0S'?    W'0 G0 '0 '0  WO    rZ   Irt ZD'    GEa 4M `03 3   1 100  *0
tA           20et   %9401.  WI   00ore  o  i o   WOe  wre  ore0 e0-0   it'  ore e0A0 OS£     MJ1 38ms *93
Iwool  %I    WV     Cole  WIt  a's a"s ore    ole  sr   sel   ole eo     s  spms Au s q..a=.  5
Wootl  not   OOS    WOre  ie   VO0  Wo 0 O   OVr   9t e  WIOV o  0r  ui   t   Aw s1Iw     *0
I X~~0*00t   Xrt   061    05- 0*0  OS-2  "'O `0 '0 "*0  Solo  WI£t'Z  000   £'t VAG U     *J#l 1f 'P3
OOl z1691, SR         w      r0e0  srt  Oe  WOe  we   0re0 KWI   wi    W   91  #018 * l'uI       0'3
... ............. .+.....  .....  ..*.. . .. .... .. ..  ___. ....... ..._ ....   ........._ ..... .......  ..... .......  ....................
.10oe  wrO   on in  ogle  Woin full IOva 0ore  Cole 0oson 0mu  ore0           wsmewzvs 1qm,
....................... ....................................................__._._._..................... ____.__ .................. __._.........................._..... 
a..C.  ..~~~~=       05.... W4 .     ....                                   fl....f(6/)  AN=w.t
.1         $69 P0    1 3S    1 W3@ 'ieO  691  31  131*1 dIS  im
1...    _     ...... ,,,,b,   --.-          6--.mew
... ... - .,  ,,....... ..-,..................,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.......................................,..
16J'N9 90       hIP Mu) SUM 1h1Ua unVtI - IUIVUWL W UUVIW WINNZIA 1 3
vm'a



-109-
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SANGBAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Management Organization
Shanghai Municipal Leading Group
for the
City's Major Engineering Projects
Inner Ring Road                                       SCCTPI
Construction                                     (Coordination
Company          -                            & management of
(PlU)                                        T Te_hnical Aset.
rHEAD              SPSB T    l
(Sub-PIU 01)       (Sub-PIU #2)
Zhonughan        MV & NSC             CBD        Tech. Asest.
Road
Parts Al-AS    Parto B1,B2 & 54   Parts 83 & 85   Parts C3-C6
Part Cl (T/A)     Part C7(a)       Part C2 (T/A)   Part C7 (c)
and C7 (b)                         and C7(d)
Notes  Parts A and B of the project refer to (a) Zhongshan Inner-Ring Road
(Annex 4), and (b) Traffic Safety and Management components (Annex 2).
Part C of the project refers to the technical assistance component (see
Annex 3).
PIU - Project Implementation Unit
SCCTPI - Shanghai City Comprehensive Transport Planning Institute
SMEAD - Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Department
SPSB/PTD - Shanghai Public Security Bureau/Traffic Management Division



- 110 -                       ANNSX 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SWNGUAI MMOPOLITAI TINSPO       PROT3CT
Clvil Works Contract Procurement
Procurement
No. of        Value           method
Civil works item                   contracts    tS million)   ICB   LCB   Other
Zhongshan viaduct                      2            54.4       2     -      -
Zhongshan trail roads                  2             4.3       -     2      -
Zhongshan surface improvements         4            12.4       -     4      -
MIV bridges                             1            1.9       -     1      -



-111 -                         ANNEX 9
Page 1
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
1 bursement Schedule, Allocation of Credit Proceeds, and Expenditure Plow
Table 9.1: DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULME
Bank FY (7/1-6/30)     FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    PY97    FY96
Annual ($ million)         6.0     3.1    15.0    22.1     9.2     4.6     0.0
Cumulative ($ million)     6.0     9.1    24.1    46.2    55.4    60.0    60.0
Project profile (Z)       10.0    15.1    40.1    77.0    92.3   100.0   100.0
China profile (1)          3.0    14.5    35.9    62.0    82.1    95.9   100.0
Table 9.2: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
Expenditure
financed from loan proceeds /a
Total cost    I of          Amount            a of
Disbursement category     (Y million)   cost   Y million   $ million   total
Civil works                 406.04       69     281.21       53.87      89.8
Goods (equipment)
Foreign CIF costs           4.65      100       4.65        0.89       1.5
Local costs                 5.22       65       3.40        0.65       1.1
Technical assistance
Bilateral assistance        0.00        0       0.00        0.00       0.0
SMG (loan)                 23.94      100      23.94        4.59       7.6/ b
Land (resettlement and
utilities)                293.55        0       0.00        0.00       0.0
Administration and
engineering                32.44        0       0.00        0.00       0.0
Taxes                         8.07        0       0.00        0.00       0.0
Total                  773.92              313.20       60.00     100.0
la Including eligible local and foreign currency expenditures.
lb  SWG is seeking bilateral grant funds for this components  loan funds would
then be reallocated to civil works.



cu
S     1AN I   ElTOPOLITAN TRMNSPORT PROJECT
iTt>IE nm ST an     _m  a DISBIMSE        SMUiR (mm1 mIttlUn)a
. ............................................ ........................... 4.............................................................. ..... 
...       .    ..   .... ---------- ----- SW$ fiecat leab. ..-................................
e     _*                        As      1991            99             1993           1             19"             199
amn    t        am     two     an      un      on l2ow       orn     too     Urn      low
A. oiwr arterial roadst
Al.   wds5n 1                      210od0 M   6.1S  9C5.44  47.92  78.50  101.42 30.08 62.5      0.00    0.00      0.08    0.0O
12. IZ3OR  u3 11 tsgrfa 1iP)       12.33    0.00   21.1?   L.92   20.93   18.42 33.33   22.49    0.49    0.00      0.2?    0.00
B. traffic $dety d MS
........................... - 
St. caenl-mter vhle   ba           17.63    340    3.36    4.07    3.14    4.07   4.49   0.32    2.06    0.16      1.83    0.16
Q2. TM CIO                          0.20   0.43    0.95    2.49    1.12    3.01   0.67   1.58    0.35    0.76      0.11    0.24
83. UC  bluak                       0.50   0.16    0.3?    0.94    0.43    1.14   0.25   0.60    0.13    0.29      0.04    0.09
ohbtdtal - S    Jrect A    B      151.23   10.34  131.2   50.23  10S.12 11.25 48.92     07.74    3.01    1.21      2.25    0.49
~~~~~~~~~~ ........ ,,, ........ ,,, ...... ...... ,......... ...... ......... ...... ........ ......  ...... ..... ...-*--
C. T1edcal Aslatuu:
....................
c1,C21  . Project lW     idatlun   0.00    0.37    0.0     2.54    0.40    2.78   0.00   1.14    0.00    1.14      0.00   0.1?
C4. PT tuwegteI Priorities         0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    21 0.00       0.00    0.08    0.08      0.00    0.08
C$. FesIbfltty Steeo               0.00    0.62    0.00    2.4S    0.00    0.82   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00      0.0o    0.00
C6. Usrip. Ir  mport Imatitute     0.00    0.25    0.00    0.76    0.00    0.7b6  C -0   0.76    0.08    0.00      0.00    0.0Q
C?. Shu$mal Tlmit Co. stud          0.00   0.00    0.08    1.25    0.00    1.2S   0.00   0.08    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
CS. Read Ilantaumw   Eqdju*         0.08   0.00    0.00     1.11   0.08    0.08   0.08   0.00    0.00    0.08      0.00    0.08
C9. Ceater Eq£pipwt fow C6.         0.00   0.00    0.08    0.55    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
Subtolt  - Put C                   0.00     1.44   0.00   11.20    0.08    8.10   0.00   1.89    0.00    1.t4     0.08    0.1M
......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...... ...... ....  ...... ...... ..... ...... ...... ......  ...... ......
Total eapmndlt       (O M mill)  151.23  11.78  131.29  69.43  104.12  139.35 6U.92    9.63    3.01    2.35      2.25   0.67
oUsM dill)    2B.97    2.26   25.15   13.30   19.95  26.70  13.18  17.1t    0.5B    0.45      0.43    0.13
SXB dgobwsecnt     (C=1 mill)   151.23          131.29         104.12          68.82           3.01              2.25
Spec. Rect ddlR      n I USS OMi)        0.00            15.56          26.70         17.17            0.4S              0.13
CumtaRtve           0.00           15.56          42.25         5A.4I           59.8?             60.00
Spoc O=t ue54enisiut      m5S min)       6.00 Ic         12.23          23.35         18.42            0.08              0.08
mulative            6.00           18.23          41.50         60.00           60.00             60.08
Special  coseuAt balmuce  USS min)       6.00            2.67           *0.67          0.58            0.13              0.00
............................................ -....................................................................................
O-Su-91 la      E   UitUS    to be fud fru     I3  ctedit preeds dsw      IInMIB eplvtalueuts
lb      amuy t *   _eCeer 31
ic    Initial deposit US$6 alliton (eqaivalent tt expected peak quarterly disburwse nt)



Page I
Project Iuipl.enttion Scf.Aale                       02-Nr
........ ..............._._.....____....... _........................ ................................ ........................................................... .. ................ ............................... ... ..........
1PRJrE   l   '199)  *  1992  :   1993   :   1994  ,   199f  :   1996   :
SESIPTIIN                          IETR      JFWANJJA9N:JFMANJJASOsJFAJJASWaJFINJJASC:JFANJJASOND:JF JASVD
.. . .. ..................................... ..... ......... . .................. ...............................................................................
A J O 2R A RTEIAL     O A D S                        s                   I 5 
zhansa vievwt    Site P?patlan        FA    D:                  :         :         :         5          :
LCl .  RlRRRhR1RR :       :3*31 Ra :
tA    d*:d:tMUlPAAUA:                         :         :          :
Tail Roeds           LCB   dd6SU3C=C:CCCCCCCCCCCC:CC                         :
Viaduct              I      d    p _a;p: BC:a=:CCCCCC:                   :COC
Lighting             FA     dld              llsililiiliillilll  :         :
..........  ;   ...   ....  i  ..................   ......... ..   ....     ..........  ................ ........... .... ...,ss,:::s
ThmWm Surwce     Site Preparation     5A             OIaD:_:_:                      :         :     
1_Rnmas                               FA            MAIMU      :     :_            :          :          :ARU MM
FA      dAIdd:4|:11LAW       W      :                   :
Bridg  3 & piwin     tc             :ddbbW:CCCCCC C:                                :rr Pr"
lntersectfl & Drs1ns  LCIi             d_|;  MCCCCCCCCCCCC:.XCCCCCCCi        :     
ft   CO              LCII                       rr:dW6r  t.VCCKCCCC;
S)won A rwkt"        LCII            I         :       Ill:li1iJIIII: 
................................~~~~~............ I..............I............ ........... 0... ......0...... .. :t :si
iTA 84 f fI  * 11 A .. SA .. GEN E ... Io .....                 t ..... ......
owAetiC 1ro     site Pr_watin       FA               st                                                              l
FA      ddWJ    :         :LO :'la
Chml§tation          F1t   :tidkCC.C:CCCC=SCCCCCCCt        )CCcC:C  t:rCPrrrrfr r
HIlssinm ein   s     FA     i   dCCs      s         :         dd"C:      dM0St s   "=
IBrldos              LCB         Wdd  :sAbMCC0CC         :         s                                   0 
................... i..*......  ...........  ...... 0.....  .....*........ . ........  ......... . ...... ......  ...... ........ :::st:;
COD Ac Jctn 1nw  owls 8 Clm21tittien LCBAISIFA  dd*l   C:CCCC=:COCCCCCCC=CC:CC=CsCCCCC=:CCOCCMC   Cr .. P
..  ...         ... 40........0........  ...........   ......... O..: ..............O........... #..O.... ......2.. ........... ......... 
MD Alttic PrW    Signls & lmitetlmn  LCJfA     d   :::=-                            s         :          :cccc.
........................................... ........ . ..............  ........... ........ ........ ....s:s::s
n   1g1m .R.R. 04e1fs(er           O         b     Xxutxxxs_    s:xxx3:   rxxx3txlxxx3u:::
traffic Man_at Suppwt                  O             l  i     b     s:xxvXxxxxxx    2         :          :
project Maagmet Swt                    O          b    :     _    :   tNxuxxxgxXX$XKKXXXL(x  s1
Urb Jransport lnwas-tt Prlorf ties     O               xxxb   b   :sstuUXXXXXx      :     
feribfZtfty gSSies        .            O          t      :      :      :            :         s          :MM: 
S..T. Institue                         O         :_:xxzxxxxxxtxxxxxx::                        :          :xxxx
Sb_|§i lnit Cpnyw Study                O           bbixxxxvm.xxxxx::s::
Ro bintomc E4Jpment                               'bbbsxx       s         ::s:                                        e :
IIWE: b:- bidding dwts; d: design ; ps- prequlilfiestion B:. biddivo; C:. civ(t ICB; O:. dewltition; 1:. imtallatfn M 
11: rteloetfar; U: utilities; xt: tedhnfesl Istloanee. fee; fntwrmthnal copetftive biddl#v; LC0: local coMtitive bidding;OO
LItS: timited iv;"ifant( psMWng; rk forc scown; Ots othe. 



Al ZUNOMSRWI I (VIAWCT) - INPLEHEIITATION SCIUIL     AND CAS0 FLOU
....... .............__._..... .................................................................
Expeniture flow (S pw   530 FT)
Categor & Itm
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   Total
.....0 ............   .....     ...............             ..  ......     .......      .............
Lord Reqaiitian:                              mU    itll.  105.8    76.6     V.?     0.0     0.0     0.0   210.1
.................
0lfAt1osn                                    PctIr          803     203     0a       03      03      03    1003
Eegttlmmtt g M                                              403     40      2        Q3      ox            1003
ltititles relocation                                        so%     An      103      0       ox      03    10
CM^I Vuut                                     mi Nilt.       9.0    69.6   151.7    9.2      0.0     0.0   321.5
_...._......
Trail Road Contract UA                      PctIr           40X     50X     103      0s      QS     0o      lQ0
Trail Ioad Contrat 13                            S          40      503     103      03      03      0     1002
Vialat Contract ZA                                           03%    203     5OX     30       ox      01    1003
Viudint cotract 23                                           ox     203     50      30       as      03    10
Lfghtinf                                                     a 0X   103     50s     40X      0s      03    1003
Foib (Nita.ria, E*mn      :                 a     NIl.     8.0     0.0     0.o     0.0     0.0     0.a     1.0
............................
Cwa .... Pcth                                                a os                    ox      a       as a 
gInzwlng aid Addfnltratfon                     M  Nitt.     12.3     7.1     3.5     1.6     0.0     0.0    24.6
......... .................. , .
Rddx mF                                        re/           SX     40S     3SS      0       ox      ox    low
fimi §nzel                                                  m       20       ox      ox      ox      ox    100
CLotruction     8ofn                            253                 45X     303      52     lo       a     100*
Subtotal                                    RIS N1iI.    127V    153.3   182.9    92.8     0.0     0.0   536.1
--------                                    Pctlyr       22.93    2r.a    32.9S   16.73    0.03    0.03    1003
Todhical Assistance:                            e mtIll.     O.      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
-...................
cnmtruwtien esuspvision                    Pft/yr            0s     0a      0o      0o      0o      0o      0O
(Sae Table C)
TOTAL                                         mUlNil.        12?     153     18       93       0       0     .1S
-Pctlr       22.93   27."6    32.93   16.73    0.03    0.0X    1003
Sources:    u   MU Nitt.    21.0    105.4    78.5    30.1      0.0     0.0   33.o
tlio      *         6.1    47.8   104.4    62.?     0.0     0.0   221.1
. . ..... ................................................................................................



!09" 00'0 e000  0*Z2  Z9'1  26'2  00    u     ml
o          9tS8@  a'O  6r0  £££  £f6'  it'2 WI U2  '11W a  ssn
253  XZ'@  ZV'  ID    2Y62 Zt Xf'6     .AIM.                           .....-::
H5IM  0    0    95    o 0   2    Et    lIIII anIVIo
n    10    XD         s l
20      20  S20    20    20| 20S    20   e   u* *--
U C O " w tZ Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WW*18V1~1WPS1
1001  X20  ZiYO  21*?t 2S'62 IFUIt  U6    JAh'.....
i~~~o      =     =2   us    %0   ut    so                       voeAssm 1   $ms
F   0    w~~ 0      95 0D XtO   710   1108IU                      iu1533tu'
no0  20 CSI     205   0O    0 201  202          X   S  w,,
4           999 9' S'O 0  5'0 5 0re    t'i   9'!  '11W :                      a
l | t w w w w w w *aN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............... o. .........
010  ~ ~ ~ ~~              0soHI                  lo 3auusdin w)w3Jsiw) *no,
2061  20  20  09  20!  110  ~~20                     ON4nP    a
| n ¢'G ¢ O 0            %6   us     O  O9                          Su7" I{l '@)@4tP
<;  I    2001  20  20    20L  20£   20   XOc                        wep0|    w
Ii     t     .W  *~*   0~ 90  woI w  o  'l £a fz  010  lIII an                qm 1w
no0  so    a    to     0   Su t   0       a               (2) DISISmlJ SJS)))3a
001   0    t 20  20   %0   %0   %51       Jzz            Quoqsbw tg) Mla Ip=
9841 5661 6 9  61 ,  166X   66  1661
(AU US .ao 2) N)5 DJIMPUSdV
MUbl OMV GW 310010 UDIAVII3WI3-1d 3MI (S3OVAUd 410UM) 11 NVUSONOEZV2



B1 ON-MTM0 VE01ICLE RISM  - IWLE NTATION SIE      AIND CASII FLOW
.._  . . ....   ..  . ....   . ....    . . ... ..  ..  ..   . . . ...   ......     .......... _ ....  .. .. ....
Experdi ture flow CZ per sUBPT
catgory & Iten
1991     1992    1993    1        1995    1996     total
La.d. R  sitiont                           so Rill.       15.9      0.?     0.7     4.0      1.7      1.7    24.8
olittamn ad rmttelat                     PCttyr           64X       31      31      l6       7X      71     llW0
0s1      0t      O1       01      01       OX      o
Utilities rstoatiui                                      1001       ox      0        01      01      Os     1001                ta
Clvit Vrwb:                                  S Will.       3.S      5.6     5.6      0.4     0.2      0.2    15.3
...........
Traffic o1snlt                           PCt*yr           641     1'4      1I4      4        21      2S     1001
Cbwm,litaticn                                             64a      141     141       41      21      2X     1001
Risafeg Iirks                                             641       0x      ox      1n       91      91     1001
Brhle.                                                     01      so5    s50        ox      as      0%     100
e (stwalats, Eqpipfnt):                    aB Kitt.        1.6      0.4     0.4      0.1     0.1     0.1      2.6
..........,...........
Traffic 8lnmOIs &  isig                  Pct/r            64X     1b1      141       416     21      2      1001           I   i
EaineirIw ad Ahinistratian                 US 1i11.        0.2      0.8     0.3      0.4     0.2      0.0     2.1            o
......... .............................................
Aftnistretimn                            Pcttr            251      301     151     1S%       la5S           1001
fin al   iuih IeO1                                                 401     301     201x     1n       ox     1001
Cultruttlmn utpervisin                       *           201      20n     201      201     20tS     01     100
OllllStoutiS                              IDIl.          21        7       7       5        2       2 4.65
......                                   ftPet/y        47.3X    16.61   16.11    10.7X    4.92    4.41     1001
Technical Assistwes:                        -  Milt.         00               0                0       0
........ .............. 
......                         ....... Petyr     01      0        01      01      OS       01s     0
ftt/W        ox       01       1       0        1       Ol      0
TOTAL                                      UISlBNitt.       21        7       7       5        2       2    44.85
-Ptlyr         47.31    16.61   16.11    10.71    4.91    4.4b     1001          4
Sources: SW    R1B Ntil.     17.63     3.36    3.14     4.49    2.04    1.83    32.48
130D      *         3.60     4.07    4.07     0.32    0.16     0.16   12.37
.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. *



31 AlM-HMOH VEHICLE VOADS - IIULH   TATIEI SCHEDU  AIM CASH VWJI
...........          .  ...............             .. ..  ..  ......       ... ..   .......... A.....................Z 
Expltwe tlo     Cl psi 63 fO)
catego   & litem
1991     1992    1993     1994    199S     1996    Total
La6 h_p1sttien:                             RIU alti.      15.9      0.?     0.7      4.0      1.7     1.7      24.8
..... .................. 
Dentition oW rosettlaunt           ftt:vr            642       32      32      16"       72      71       O
"~~~~0             ox      as os ox         a        ot       ox
Utfilitiesrtae                                             cz     15     m   ox   0   Os       0X      as      Ieon
Civil this:     .                              3t1t.        3.5      5.6     5.6      0.4     0.2      0.2      15.3
........... 
traff le stas                             0tlt              "       UZ      14X       a       2        2        1                 w
Chutizotl n                                                642      142     14X       4       222 a            100t
nheimagtit"s                                               642       ox      a       1in      92       91      10o1
Uridwe                                                      Os      so5      51       0       0u s     02 Os   100
Good  aterialst. Epuht                      me Kill.        1.6      0.4     0.4      0.1     0.1      0.1      2.6
............................
Traffic stoats & sals                     PcttY            642      141     142       a       21       22      1002
&ariwsrierai ed Add*istraticn         INUtl.                0.2      0.8     0.5      0.4     0.2    O  .0       2.1
Adnistration                              ftt/Yr           252       m      152      5S       In       St     t100
Fink u§iaisr                                                OH      401     302      202     10f       ox     1002
Comsstrimtmiqisrin                                         202      201     20       202     201      0a      1002
Subtotatl                                 m     Nlt.       21        7       7        5       2        2    44."5
........                                 ftt/y           47.3     16M.4   16.1     10.72    4.91     4.       1002
ToWed   t Asslstarz                         31mt111.          S       0        0        0       0        0
..... ........ _ ,,.__
..t/yr            ox       W       aos      02       0       a         ox
.ox          ox  OX       02     o0     x       ox  0
TOTA.                                       1  Kittll.       21       7        7       5        2        2    44.85
.ft/y          4T.31    16.6     16.Z    10.7O     4.9     4.42      1002
Soure: OM      S115 Nit.      17.63    3.36     3.14    4.49     2.04    1.6      32.48             0 
15II      *          3.60    4.07     4.07     0.32    0.16     0.16    12.37
..................................                       ................ .......       ...  .. 0...............



02. COI tRAFFtC NAIAGENU   -IMPLINWATEON SCEDULE AND CAS    FLOW
ExpedIitwe flow (X w     per  FT) T
Ctegoy 8 ItaDJ
1991     1m      193     19        lf    19       To
Lend ReIetion:                               R   pill.       15.9      0.7     0.7      4.0      1.7      1.7      24.8
............. ........ ;;; Mi
DenUtinuf ett       lemiio  mt t           Pct/'yr           641       39       32     1         71       71      10
0 1               o0       OK      Os       Os        a2
Utilities relocattin                                        1001       01       0s      ox       01       ox      1001
Civit Vorbi                                  m     N"il.      3.5      5.6     S.6      0.4      0.2      0.2      IS.3      
trafff¢ lineis                            Pft/yr             "S       14X     141                2        2       lQO 
Oimteztation                                    a            64%      14%      141      41       2        21      100x
Hissing links                                                61        01      OX     1n        9X       ox      1001
BrkIds                                                    O*         SO       S0o       ox       0s       0t      1001 
G0.   (Ntaterfals. EwpMft):                  UB1 It.          1.6      0.4     0.4      0.1      0.1      0.1      2.6
............................
Traffle sismIs & sln                       fctyr             641      14      14X       41       21       21      1001
Enineerli   end A   inistratfen              as mill.         0P.      0.8     0.5      0.4      0.2      0.0      2.1 
...__.__... . .. . .. . .. . ..
Admnistration                              Pottyr            251      30%      151     15      101       51      100X
Firmt eMwineerg                                               Os 0   40       3OX     20X      1OX       OX      100
Castnetimn sIWvisio                                          201      201     201      201      20        01      10x 1.
ElsDtot                                    uUmItI  .         21       7        7        5        2        2    M.8S
..... I..                                  Pcttyr          47.31    16.41   16.1X    10.71     4.9%     4.4X     1001
Tetdmeil Asslstmwe:                          0     Pitt.        0       0        0        0        0        0
....................
O..*.*                                    .Pt/yr             0t       0%       ox       01       01       o1      o0
...... ox.......                                                                            .......... O%  0  0  0  0 ox  Os
MIAl.                                         m  Illtl.       21        7        7        S        2        2    4.              8
Patwr           47.3X    16.61   16.11    10.J      4.9%     4.4        100S        0%
Sourcss   SG    INS NH ilt.   17.43     3.36     3.14     4.49     2.04     1.83    32.48
two        8         3.60     4.07     4.07     0.32     0.16    0.16     12.37
................. ................................................................... _I ............................... ....... .............. 



oo**o@*v-*****won**6*-****---v--****----^-**............  ....... .............. ...................._.* o. . *___...  ........;..*X 
solo     0S'S     S00'    00o0     110-0   000      ogl *e 111N ON         S  3993UWS
301                S1t     Zs               o    0                         A 3  3....
40 t6oo           lot I    6-1     109        l      '1         MN UU                                        Wm
1051      0       10       0       so      101     so             *                      93 JW   dp * G     IV3=U 'd3
ml        0       s0               20       01     10      S       AO 00 w0p                     0    WI     ,,,
L'l      0'S      00      0'0      090     VI       0'0   *11|" I
4 3001               30 xootS                 1us      3m      so1                                A    .   *3Mul     *1'3'  * 3
*~               1001      50      IOD      30       501    IGOS     100           *@aJI/ USp                       WiA   Iqu8 11
001       10      1                10      20       10            *                     a       03aMdW SMIl1a'   3
3001     10       31       0       us1     10s     101            a03JD RJOdI                 iwS        M S  d '13
H ..... s--- ...........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....................
za1001        10       101     301       "10    11      1
f      .~~..................................................................................................... ..................I
)1@A0    966l     1661    "61     f661     166      1                                                   w
(UAU zan 1w) no); .jmipwdmb
SV3U OM W 31MMMOS 0lVIN03WRI * IUVSISSV W3IWUI3 '3



-120-                          ANNEX 11
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Performance Heasures for MonitorinA
Resettlement and Other Environmental Impacts
Supervision
1.        The following provisions are proposed for monitoring demolition,
resettlement, and other environmental impacts.
(a) Objectives
(i) To evaluate the actual physical progress vith demolition and
resettlewmnt relative to planned progress, as a basis for
determining whether the schedule for planned transport improve-
ments is likely to be met, and for taking corrective action if
differences between actual and planned progress indicate that
this is necessary;
(ii) to identify actual expenditures for demolition and resettle-
ment, relative to planned expenditures, as a basis for deter-
mining whether implementation is proceeding within the finan-
cial constraints established during appraisal, and taking
corrective action if tiffferences between actual and planned
progress indicate tbat this is necessary, and as a basis for
IBRD disbursements;
(iii) to evaluate the actual physical, financial, and economic char-
acteristics of the demolition and resettlement component of the
project, relative to planned characteristics, to determine
whether the economic, social, and environmental objectives of
the project are likely to be met, and taking corrective action
if differences between actual and planned characteristics indi-
cate that this is necessary; and
(iv) to monitor the environmental impacts of the project during
implementation, and to institutionalize a system for their
permanent monitoring.
(b) Performance Measures
(i) physical completion of demolition and new construction, by
location;
(ii) financial expenditures, by demolition and relocation area and
by item;



-121-                          ANNEX 11
Page 2
(iii) the composition of financial expenditures and the implications
of this for economic costs:
(iv) numbers of households relocated (a) in permanent housing, and
(b) in temporary housing, from/to each location;
(v) numbers of enterprises relocated from/to each location;
(vi)  physical characteristics of the permanent and temporary reloca-
tion areas, including the degree of coordination in site devel-
opment;
(vii) informal evidence of relocatees' satisfaction with new facili-
ties (for example, actual uses of space, compared with planned
uses);
(viii)  levels of traffic noise in adjacent residential buildings,
before and imuediately after the improvements to Zhongshan
Road, the Vusong Bridge approaches, and the NHV system;
(ix)  levels of traffic-generated air pollutants in and adjacent to
the rights-of-way developed in the projects
(x) the disruption of traffic affected directly by the construction
and/or land uses in areas adjacent to the project areas;
(xi)  traffic-related accident rates in areas affected directly by
the project; and
(sii)  land use and imputed values for use rights in areas adjacent to
the improvements undertaken in the project;
(c) Procedures
2.        The performance measures (i)-(ix) will be monitored quarterly; mea-
sure (x) will be monitored monthly during construction; measures (xi) nmd
(xii) will be monitored annually. Progress reports will be submitted to the
relevant commissions in the municipality, and the municipality will submit
copies of these reports to the IBRD, together with other project monitoring
reports required by the IBRD.
3.        The data on which the monitoring of demolition and resettlement is
based will be available to the IBRD on request and will include the original
surveys of the sites, households, and establishments in the demolition areas;
the original programs for demolition and resettlement, with records of any
changesl and the original project designs and budgets for the relocation
areas, together with any changes; as well as the quarterly reports of the
monitoring units.
4.        The monitoring unit responsible for monitoring resettlement, as a
part of the basis for its quarterly reports, will undertake random samplings
of the households and enterprises surveyed in the demolition areas and in the



-122-                         AMNN    11
Page 3
relocation areas, to evaluate the actual consequences of relocation, relative
to expected consequences.
(d) Institutional Resj,onsibiliUt and Staffing
5.        Four project monitoring units in existing agencies, vith appropriate
full-tine staffing to be agreed upon prior to negotiations, will be made
responsible for monitoring resettlement and environmental impacts. The units
vill be the followingt
(a) a Demolition and Resettlement Monitoring Unit, to be established
under the Planning Commission or the Capital Construction Comnission
and working in collaboration with the relevant District Municipal
Engineering Construction Companies (which presently monitor demoli-
tion and resettlement informally and assist in resolving conflicts
and eliminteing bottlenecks in construction);
(b)  a Pollution Monitoring Unit in the Municipal Environmental Protec-
tion and Sanitation Bureau (possibly through the assignment of spe-
cific responsibilities for this to existing staff);
(C) a Traffic Safety Monitoring Unit, under the Traffic Division of the
Shanghai Public Security Bureau; and
(d) a Development IMpact Monitoring Unit, under the Shanghai Municipal
Planning Bureau. (This unit should be responsible for the basic
monitoring of the metropolitan areas physical development, building
on to procedures initiated during the identification of alternative
development scenarios in the preparation of the project.)



-123-                          Annex 12
Pag^e 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI HETROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Analysis of Project Benefits
1.        Economic analysis has been done separately for the two main compo-
nents of the project: (a) Zhongshan Road viaduct and surface improvements,
and (b) Inner city traffic improvements which include traffic management,
nonmotorized vehicle network creation, and the Wusong Bridge approaches.
Savings in road user cost were used to measure the economic benefits for both
components. Road user costs were divided into vehicle operating costs (VOC)
and the cost of passengers' time; freight time costs. which are smaller but
not insignificant, were ignored for the sake of simplicity. VOC include fuel,
tires, vehicle maintenance and depreciation, insurance, and labor, for the
main vehicle types in use in Shanghai (five classes of vehicle). The cost of
time was calculated based on average passenger occupancy for each vehicle
type. Both VOC and time cost savings result from a reduction in delays and an
increase of speed as a result of project investments.
Zhongshan Road Viaduct and Surface Improvements
2.        Zhongshan Road traffic is already diverting to a network of inade-
quate streets to make the journey around the main business district of
Shanghai from northeast to southwest. About 40 percent of present Zhongshan
traffic demand is estimated to be diverted in the most heavily congested
southwestern portion. By the time tlhe project starts, the without-project
case would find this portion of Zhongshan completely saturated during peak
periods, and nearing saturation during off peak periods. Further diversion
would be cumulative and rapid. and would quickly raise costs in the network of
streets in the Zhongshan corridor. With the project, which more than doubles
capacity in the highly congested southwestern section of Zhongshan by means of
a viaduct, and makes minor improvements in the northeastern portion of the
road, congestion is relieved on both Zhongshan and the network of streets in
the Zhongshan corridor. To the southeast, the project includes road-widening
to the Wusong River, and two additional traffic lanes and a bicycle lane
across the river. Beyond the river, congestion is relatively minor. The
northeastern section of Zhongshan will reach serious congestion levels in a
few years, but comparative economic analysis showed clearly that heavy invest-
ments on that part of the road should be delayed. The increasing congestion
of this part of Zhongshan Road is taken account of in the rate of return anal-
ysis.
3.        The method for calculating VOC was to develop empirically determined
functions relating vehicle speed to the ratio of traffic volume to road capa-
city, (V/C ratio), and to calculate VOC on the basis of vehicle speed and
delays, for each of five vehicle types, for vehicles using the Zhongshan Road
and for those using tne network of streets in the Zhongshan corridor. Normal
growth of traffic was then assumed, and traffic was assigned according to



-124-
Annex 12
Page 2
historical proportions until Zhongehan Road was saturated, then the traffic
was diverted to the nearby network, and finally divertud outside the corridor
altogether. Separate traffic assignments and cost calculations were made for
morning and evening peak traffic, for normal daytime traffic and for night
traffic.  In this type of model, each year produces higher VIC ratios and
itcreased diversion, leading to higher total VOC, with or without the project.
With the project, however, the escalation of cost is from a lower base, and in
the long run, benefits persist because more vehicles can use Zhongshan Road
rather than the more indirect and slower routes of the corridor network.
4.        Detailed economic return analysis was done by consultants, based on
a complex traffic model which calculates V/C ratios and speeds on the roads of
the Zhongshan corridor. This was supplemented by updating counts and speed
observations done by the consultants. These are included in 'Comparison of
Options, Economic Evaluation," March 1989, updated in "Economic Evaluation of
Schemes 3, 3A, and 5,' both available in the project file. Both volumes are
primarily concerned with choosing among various alternatives--longer or
shorter viaducts, greater or smaller investments in surface improvements--and
they were quite valuable for that purpose. No single analysis, however, pre-
sents the results of the exact combination agreed upon by the appraisal mis-
sion. For this reason and other more technical reasons (e.g., differences in
analysis period and in scrap values), the VOC savings have been recalculated,
using the functions relating speed to density, and VOC to speed, as estimated
in the consultants' report. The results are sunmarised in Table 1, and a sam-
ple of the detailed analysis of average VOC for one section of the road is
included as Tables 2a and 2b. The complete detailed calculations are avail-
able in the project file.
5.        Time cost savings were calculated by the consultants using the same
basic speediflow parameters that were, used for VOC estimation, and adding
observations about passengers per vehicle for each vehicle type. The result,
in numerical terms, is rapidly increasing time savings and value of time
saved. Because passengers ha"e alternatives such as bicycles over the compar-
atively short distances in flat terrain, the low projected speeds and high
time costs in the-without-project case seemed possibly overstated. Therefore,
time savings have been reestimated, based on detailed analysis of first year
savings that are firmly grounded in present observations (see Table 3). Slow
growth in time savings, less than one third of projected traffic growth, is
assumed thereafter.
6.        Two key assumptions in the rate of return calculation may lead to
understatement of the internal rate of return. First, traffic growth assump-
tions are well below recent traffic increases. This partly reflects provin-
cial governmental policy to control the vehicle fleet administratively, but
because the primary traffic category on Zhongshan Road is comnercial trucks,
the fleet control policy may not be consistent with production goals and
incentives. To the extent that the traffic growth rate is underestimated, the
VOC savings are underestimated. Second, the evaluation of time cost savings
follows the normal Bank practice of placing very low values on time, or count-
ing only a portion of the passenger hours saved, which amounts to the same
thing. In the calculatLon used for appraisal, only 30 percent of the passen-
ger hours saved were included in the calculation of value of savings (meant to



-125-                          Annex 12
Page 3
approximate the proportion of work trip hours), and they were evaluated at a
rate equal to average hourly earnings for the province.
7.        As shown in Table 1, the rate of return based on these methods and
observations is 18.1 percent. A 1S-percent increase in cost would lower the
rate of return to 16.5 percent. A two-year delay in benefits, which would
imply a 50-percent t)Ne overrun, would lower the return to 16.9 percent. All
Costs and benefits are calculated in border prices using the conversion fac-
tors shown in Table 4. (Calculated at market prices, the rate of return is
slightly higher.)
Inner City Improvements
8.        Traffic conditions in the Central Business District and District 9,
directly across Suzhou Creek to the north, are the most heavily congested in
all of Shanghai. Buses compete with bicycles in a very sharp morning and
evening peak, each lasting approximately an hour and collectively accounting
for about 30 percent of bus traffic and 46 percent of bicycle traffic. During
these periods, the streets are effectively saturated, with Lpeeds for both
bicycles and buses in the neighborhood of 8 km per hour. Automobile and truck
traffic is more evenly spaced throughout the day. Although sharing the even-
ing peak, they compete little with bicycles and buses in the morning rush.
Hence, their average daily speeds are higher. The Waibaidu Bridge across
Suzhou Creek is a bottleneck to traffic between the CbD and District 9, slow-
ing traffic flow on the most heavily crowded corridor in the city.
9.        The improvements financed through this project directly address the
most serious traffic problems ln the inner city and comprise a package of the
most necessary improvements. The nonmotor vehicle roads will make a massive
improvement in peak hour performance. Prior to the project, 82 percent of
bicycle flows in the CBD will be in mixed traffic. After completing the NMV
network, only 20 percent of bicycles will initially be competing with other
vehicles. The project also creates a buses only network along the riverfront
side of the CBD and across Suzhou Creek, using the existing Waibaidu Bridge,
which will become an exclusive bus brldge. The parallel Wusong Bridge, for
which the project provides the approaches (the bridge itself being a
by-product of a necessary floodgate, nearing completion), will have about
twice the capacity of the existing bridge and should remove the bottleneck to
nonbus traffic. In addition to the many vehicle-only streets that are created
with by routing bicycles to NHV routes, the project will also create one-way
pair bus lanes going both north and south and east and west through the CBD.
Finally, the existing street system, and still more the special-purpose street
systems being created by the project, will be engineered to handle traffic
better, particularly at intersections.
10.       For calculation of vehicle cost savings and time svings on this
integrated package of projects, the investments have been lumped together (the



-126-                         Annex 12
Page 4
Wusong Bridge approaches,11 Traffic Management and Safety, and NMV Roads)
since the benefits accrue to the package of measures. For example, the cre-
ation of NMV routes, though convenient for cyclists, could make little cost
savings without the traffic engineering and creation of bus-only and motor
vehicle-only routes. The Vusong Bridge would relieve a bottleneck, but a
large part of the benefits are from the creation of a bus route over Waibaidu
Bridge and along the CBD. Traffic engineering would have more limited possi-
bilities without the NMV routes. Practically eneaking, none of these invest-
men~.s would be economical without the other two.
11.       The method of calculation was to use the speed/flow relationships
emerging from a complex origin and destination model to determine speeds with
and without the project for 1994. Using the model of speed/VOC relationships
created by the consultants for the city streets on the Zhongshan corridor net-
work, the VOC with and without the project were calculated, and time costs
derived exactly as in the Zhongshan corridor. It was not practical to run the
origin-destination model for a series of years, since each run takes several
days. Therefore, first-year (1994) savings were assumed to continue for the
life of the project. This is surely an understatement of benefits, but no
practical alternative exists. The calculated rate of return by this method is
32.1 percent, not unusually high for this type of intervention. A 30-percent
increase in cost would reduce the rate of return to 26.9 percent. A two-year
delay in benefits would reduce the rate of return to 25.2 percent. The sum-
mary rate of return calculation is shown in Table 5. Complete detailed calcu-
lations are available in the project file.
1/   The Wusong Bridge soproach roads were appraised as part of the project
and included in the network analyzed as part of the economic evaluation.
The approach roads were constructed in 1990/91 with local funds and are
no longer part of the project. Since the approaches contribute signifi-
cantly to the costs and less so to the benefits, the analysis of the
project components shown in Table 5 underestimate the IRR attributable to
the project-funded components.



-127-                                   Annex 12
Page S
TABLE 1: SUMMARY RATE OF RETURN CALCULAT IONS, ZRONCSNAM ROAD IMPROVEMENTS AND VIAOUCT
TOTAL 1/ TOTAL      VEHICLE OPERATING COST      VALUE   TOTAL      NET        NET       COSTS       ENFITS
IIVEST-   NAINTE-        SAVINGS               OF       UENEFITS   BENEFITS    ENFITS   PLUS 15   DELAYED
ET COST AINCE        DAYTINE NIGhT    TOTAL     TIME               AT LOCAL   ECO   IC            Tn   YEARS
COST       TRAP#IC TRAFFIC            SAVO               PRICES     PRICES 2/
l        ii         fif      Iv       v        vi       vii     viii
wV+i     *V1fi*j4 e 
1990   -23.09                                                             -23.09     -30.95    -35.59     -24.76
1991  -115.58                                                            -11S.58    -154.93   -178.18    -123.95
1m    -170.75                                                            -170.7s    -228.89   -263.22    -183.11
1993  -100.51                                                            -100.51    -134.73   -154.94    -107.79
1994            -0.10       19.45     1.29    20.7?    44.30    65.04      64.94     71.34      71.34     -37.18
1995            -0.10       21.S5     1.39    22.98    45.19    68.16      68.06     75.1T      75.17     -72.72
1996            -0.10       23.75     1.50    25.25    46.09    71.34      71.24     79.06      79.06      79.06
1997            -0.10       27.99     1.62    29.61    47.01    76.62      6.52      85.68      85.68      85.68
1998            -0.10       46.53     1.75    48.29    47.95    96.24      96.14     111.11    111.11     111.11
1999            -0.10       56.66     1.89    S8.55    48.91   107.46     107.36     125.52    125.52     125.52
2000             -0.10      54.99     2.05    57.04    49.89   106.93     106.8      124.52 ,  124.52     124.52
2001             -0.10      60.12     2.22    62.34    50.89   113.22     113.12     132.46    132.46     132.46
2002             -0.10      as.19     2.41    8T.60    51.90   139.50     139.40r    166.S8    166.58     166.58
2003             -7.40     104.87     2.61   107.48    S2.94   160.42     153.02     183.90    183.90     183.90
2004             -0.10     1iO.90     2.84   105.73    54.00   159.74     159.66     192.4S    192.45     192.45
2005             -0.10     111.32     3.08   114.41    S5.06   169.49     169.39     204.90    204.90     204.90
2006             -0.10     119.97     3.35   123.33    56.18   179.51     179.41     217.70    217.70     217.70
2007            -0.10      129.09     3.65   132.75    57.31   190.05     189.95     231.16    231.16     231.16
2008             -0.10     132.49     3.98   136.47     58.45  194.93     194.83     237.19    237.19     237.19
2009            -0,10      138.03     4.34   142.37    59.62   202.00     201.90     246.10    246.10     2U.10
2010             -0.10     143.85     4.74   148.58    60.81   209.40     209.30     255.63    255.43     255.43
2011             -0.10     149.96     5.17   155.14    62.03   217.17     217.07     265.24    265.24     265.24
2012             -0.10     154.85     5.66   160.51    63.27   223.78     223.68     273.52    273.52     273.52
2013             -7.40     156.71     6.19   162.90    66.54   22W.44     220.04     268.13    268.13     268.13
2014             -0.10     156.90     6.78   163.68     65.83  229.S1     229.41     280.23    280.23     280.23
2015             -0.10      1S6.87    7."4   164.30     67.16  231.45     231.35     282.36    282.36     282.36
2016             -0.10     156.84     8.16   165.00    68.69   233.48     233.38     284.61    284.61     284.61
2017             -0.10      156.61    8.96   165.57    69.86   235.43     235.33     286.74    286.76     286.74
2018             -0.10     156.11     9.85   165.96     71.2?  237.21     237.11     288.64    288.64     288.66
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN         0.1809     0.1646    0.1694
1/  Investment costs differ from finantial cost tables becruse only replacement cost of housing is inctuded here.
According to practice of the municipality of Shanghai, 4.2 sq. meters of housing will be constructed for each
sq. ceter of housing destroyed. This entire cost Is irrluded In the cost tables.
21 Conversion factors derived from Table 4 have been applied to investment cost, maintenance cost,
vehicte operating cost savings.  Conversion factors have been appiled to time cost savings on the asswqption that
of the labow hours s8ed, S of 6 ere unskilled labor.



-128-                                         -
Page 6
Table    2A: VENICLE OPERATING COrT ZIGI   N     RO SUCTION  Cl-C, OFF PM, VITUT "wOJCT
TAFPIC   CAPACITY    L      ATs     Loan       Parmters for VOC calcutation 3/ Peramotere for VC calculation 4/
VOLUN    VI0        FAT A      lKPNf   ATS 2/   Al     A2 13         A4     AS      e1     62     83     54     es
V/KP/R   MILLIONS     Z
NtLLIO
191W    15.93    21.87     0.73    16.55     2.92   1.20   1.16   1.58   1.51   1.94   -0.17  -0.15  *0.23  -0.21  -0.25
1992    16.90    21.8?     0.77    17.30     2.85   1.20   1.14   1.58   1.S5   1.96   -0.17  -0.15  -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
1993    17.93    21.67     0.62    16.40     2.80   1.20   1.14   1.58   1.51   1.94   *0.1  -0.15  -0.23  .0.21   40.25
1994    19.03    21.87     0.8     15.s      2.n    1.20   1.14   1.8    1.51   1.94   -0.17  -0.15  -0.23  -0.21  -0.23
1 9     20.19    21.87     0.92    14.10     2.M     1.5    1.tb  1.5    1.51   1.94   -0.17  -0.15  .0.23  -0.21  *0.25
1996    21.4     21.87     O.9"    13.20     2.58   1.20   1.14   1.58   1.51   1.94   *0.1?  -0.15  -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
1997    21.8?    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14   1.58   1.51   1.94   -0.17  -0.1S  -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
1998    21.87    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14   1.58   1.51   1.94   -0.17  -0.15  -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
1999    21.8?    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14   1.58   1.51   1.94   -0.17  -0.15  -0.23  -0.21  *0.25
2000    21.87    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14   1.58    1.51  1.94   -0.17  -0.1S  -0.23  .0.21   -0.25
2001    21.87    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14    1.58   1.51  1.94   *0.17  -0.1S  -0.23   -0.21  -0.25
2002    21.8A    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14    1.58   1.51  1.94   -0.1?  -0.15  .0.23   -0.21  -0.25
2003    21.87    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14   1.8     1.51  1.94   -0.17  -0.15  -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
Z004    21.8?    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14   1.58    1.51  1.94   -0.17  -0.15   -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
2005    21.87    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.30   1.14   1.5     1.51  1.94   -0.1?  -0.15  -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
2006    21.87    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14    1.58   1.51   1.94  -0.17  -0.15   -0.23  -0.21  *0.25
2007    21.87    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14    1.58   1.51   1.94  .0.17  -0.15   -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
2008    21.8?    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14    1.5    1.51   1.94  -0.17  -0.15   -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
2009    21.8?    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14    1.58   1.51   1.94  -0.17  -0.15   -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
2010    21.87    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14   1.58   1.51   1.94   -0.17 -0.15   -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
2011    21.8?    21.87     1.00    10.0O     2.30   1.20   1.14   1.58    1.51  1.94   -0.17  -0.15  -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
2012    21.87    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14    1.58   1.51   1.94   -0.17  -0.15  -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
2013    21.8T    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14    1.58  1.51   1.94   -0.1?  -0.15   -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
2014    21.8?    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14    1.58  1.51   1.94   -0.17  -0.15. -0.23   -0.21  -0.25
2015    21.8?    21.8e     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.1    1.58   1.51   1.94   -0.17  -0.15  -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
2016    21.8?    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14   1.58   1.5'   1.96   -0.17 -0.15   -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
2017    21.87    21.87     1.00    10.00     2.30   1.20   1.14    1.58   1.51  1.94   -0.17  -0.15   -0.23  -0.21  -0.25
2018    21.87    21.8?     1.00    10*00     2.30   1.20   1.14   1.58   1.51   1.94   -0.1?  -0.15  -0.23  -0.21  -*0.2S
Sourcea  DWtailed roto of return calculatlons In project file, ihich
contains catculatIons tor each road section, peak mnd off peak.
for the qlfth project" and the "without projetm P mese.
1t Averae traffic speed (ATS) calculated as: ATS*   tifme e to tho pzow b times loed factor.
2/ For each vehicle type, Vehicle Operating Costs are caLculated usinm the equation:
VOC-e  bnaturl loo of ATOS
3/ For eath vehicle type, thos are the psranteor (a) In the equation of note 2.
4/ For eath vehicle type, these are the peroneters (b) in the equation in note 2



-129-                                    Annex 12
Page 7
Table 2B: LINE BY LINE CONTINUATION Of TAOLE 2A i/
VOC per km for five vehicle types 2J   Traffic percentage by vehicle type 3/ AVERAGE  TOTAL
VOCI   VOC2   VOC3   VOS6   VOCS       tYPEl  TYPE2 TYPE3 TYPE4   TYPES     VOC Crab VOC 4/
PER N)
1991   0.71   0.69   0.91   0.90   1.21      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.78    12.42
¶992   o.n    0.70   0.93   0.91   1.23      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.79    13.39
1993   0.73   0.71  0.94   0.92    1.23      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.80    14.3?
1994   0.74   0.72   0.96  0.94   1.26       0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.81    15.47
1995   0.76   0.74   0.98   0.96   1.28      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.83    16.70
1996   0.77   0.73   0.99  0.97    1.30      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.84    17.97
1997   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
1998   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   O.-7   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
1999   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2000   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.6T   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2001   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2002   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37       0.04  0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2003   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37       0.04  0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2004   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2005   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2006   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.3?      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2007   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2008   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2009   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2010   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2011   0.81   O.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2012   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2013   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2014   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2015   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2016   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2017   0.8t   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.37      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
2018   0.81   0.79   1.06   1.03   1.3V      0.04   0.67   0.03   0.18   0.08        0.89    19.40
Source:  See Table 3a.
1/ To make the presentatfon readable, continuation to a second table was necessary.
2/ Tese are results of the calculation along each line, showing the VOC per km of
each vehlete typo as a function of the volume of traffic projected for each yew.
3/ These are weights reflectine the composition of traffic by vehfcle type for purposes
of calculating average vehicle operating costs. The five types of vehicle are
small paSsenger vehicle, small and medium freight vehicle, large passenger vehicle,
large freight vehicle, end articulated vehicle, represented by Types 1-5.
4/ Total Vehicle Operating Cost, in million 38 for this section of the road, In ecuh
year In the without project case.



-130-                                  Annex 12
Page 8
Table 3: VALUE Of TIME SAVEO. ZIONHAN ROAD IMPROVEMENTS AND VIADUCT, INITIAL YEAR, 1994
Calculation of vet.e of time swithout project
VEHICLE   LOAD     SPEED   VEHICLE PASSEIGER WORITRIP VALUE
KM 1/     FACTOR 2IKPH     HOURS 31 HOURS 4/    MS Si OF TINE
RNSCNIL)
ZHONG' UIA
ROAD
C1-7 PEAK,                 13.SO      1.00    10.00    1.35    25.2?     7.58   19.03
C8-12 PEAK                 15.75      0.8S    15.75    1.00     18.7     5.62   14.10
C1-C? OFF PEAI             19.03      0.87    15.30    1.24    23.28     6.99   17.53
C8-C12 OFf PEAK            18.29      0.61    21.80    0.84     15.71    4.71   11.83
CORRIOOR NEtUORK PEAK      108.89      0.79    17.06    6.38    73.78    22.13   SS.S6
CORRIDOR IETWORK OFF PEAK  145.36      0.60    22.19    6.5S    72.19    21.66   54.36
HOWS, VALUE TOTAL                                    17.3?   228.95    68.68  172.40
Calculation of value of time with project
ZH0NGSIIAN
ROAD
Cl-7 PEAK, GROUN            6.62      0.4S    27.50    0.24     4.S1    1.35    3.39
CIt- PEAK, VIADUCT         16.33      0.4S    63.29    0.26     4.83     1.4S    3.64
C8-1Z PEAK                 15.75      0.7     17.50    0.90     16.85    5.0S   12.69
Cl-C7 OFF PEAK GROUND       7.73      0.32    32.30    0.24     4.48     1.34    3.37
Cl-C7 OFF PEAK VIADUCt     18.91      0.32    68.24    0.28     5.19     1.56    3.91
C8-C12 OFf PEAK            18.29      0.55    23.6S    0.77    14.48     4.36   10.90
CORRIDOR hiTTWORK PEAK      97.09      0.70    19.17    5.06    5S.81    16.74   42.03
CORRIOOR ENdORK OFF PEAK   13S.85      0.56    23.40    5.81    63.98    19.19   48.17
HWAS, VAUIE TOTAL                                    13.S6    170.12   51.04  128.10
VALUE OF TIME SAVED (MILLION RMM) 6/                                             44.30
Source: Detaited rate of return calculations in project fite.
1/ Millioms of vehicte km per year In each section of road. Note that the totals differ
in the with project case from those In the without project ce because some traffic
nw diverted frm Zhonoshan rosd to altloed to returm to the shorter 2hormshan route.
The difference Is minor for the first year (about 4 million vkm) but i1ortnt loter.
21 Defined as the votume of trafffc divided by capacity for each road sectfon.
3/ Millfons of vehicte hours per year. Defined as traffie volume divided by speed.
41 ased on a weighted average of passengere per vehicte for the ffve vehiclo types used in the
In the economic analysis. For Zhougshan Road traffic and traffic diverted from
Zhonshan, this average 1s 18.7; for the streets In the Zhongshan network, 11.2.
S/ Assuamed to be 30X of trips.
61 Difference between value of pessanaers time In with prosect cae cowpared to
without project case, fn mill0in of MEM.



-131-                   Annex 12
Page 9
TABLE 4: ECONOMIC COST CONVERSION FACTORS, 1990
FINANCIAL COST CONVERSION   ECONOMIC COST
COMPOSITION %   FACTORS     CONPOSITION %
CONSTRUCTION COSTS
Labor: Unskilled     9.00            0.80         7.20
Labor: Skilled       3.90            2.00         7.80
Equipment            11.60           1.50        17.40
Materials 1/         32.90           1.20        39.48
Cement               7.70            3.00        23.10
Steel                4.10            1.90         7.79
Timber                4.00i          0.80         3.20
Bitumen 1/           1.40            1.20         1.68
Diesel fuel          4.00            1.10         4.40
Gasoline              1.00           1.60         1.60
Overheads           20.40            1.00        20.40
Total            100.00                      134.05
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS 2/
Labor: Unskilled     11.93           0.80         9.54
Equipment (Dep.)    21.07            1.50        31.60
Diesel fuel          4.82            1.10         5.30
Gasoline             20.30           1.60        32.49
Tires                 5.33           1.00         5.33
Maintenance          25.63           1.40        35.89
Overhead             10.91           1.00        10.91
Total            100.00                      131.07
Source: Conversion factors from "China: Conversion Factors", January 1990
1/ No converrion factors were calculated in the above source
for bitumen and general materials. The factor for road
investment was used.
2/ Based on the average of 5 vehicle types used
in the economic analysis.



-132-                                    nex  1.2
Paso 10
Tabl.o 5s   uMuv s_rOA    hhlMUw OClLawt.auO, 1s* A,FI     IS. mvIC UR" AM Nmt           , AM N0-OTO,IM     V-CR1 =OaS
nou wISttio
POW=    INWTNSNT 11    PAIIMtl       UI CM? S*VIIU 21     MET O.      W T. _nT             InElt
MM     M     MM      OAL    AT lit OF 11   VOC        tiNS    651n11     UIlt8       PLUI    O3LAlYE
YEARlY                            At NOWKT    AT  ISIC              1w 138
PICIu     PmiCnS 3
1990  .0.66 -0.71 -8.47  -9.8                                         -9.84     -13.19      -17.15     -10.55
199" -1.22  -.90   .3.02 -n1.14                                      -21.14     -28.34      -36.84     -22.67
99 -V.95    -3.66 -2.93 -36.34                                       *36.54     -48.98      -43.68     *39."
193 -14.07 -2.51   -1.9r -18.35                                      *18.J5     -24.8       -32.33     -34.87
1994 -0.24  -1.24  -0.89 -2.3                    3.35      31.31      32.19      32.42       31.47      -9.80
1995        -0.39  -0.80 -1.19                  3.3        31.21      33.37      34.01       33.53     -g.31
1996                               -0.45        6.70       62.41      6B.6       70.59       70.41     32.42
1997                               -0.45        6.70       4.41       66.6       70.5        70.61     34.01
9                                  -0.45        6.70      62.41       6.6        70.59       70.61     70.41
1999                               .0.45        6.70       42.41      68.6       70.59       70.41     70.41
2000                               -0.4          6.70       2.41      46.46      70.59       7041      70.41
2a00                               -0.45        6.0        62.41      68.6       70.59       70.41      70.41
2am2                                0.45        6.70       41.41      68.6       I0.9        70.41      70.41
2005                               *0.4s        6J.O       62.41      64.        M0.59       70.41     70.41
2004                               -0.45        6.70       62.41      48.6  *     0.59       70.41     70.41
2005                               -0.45        6.70       62.41      48.66      tO."9       70.41      70.41
2006                               -0.45        6.70       62.41      do."       70.5         0.41     70.41
Z007                               -0.45        6.70       42.41      66.66      M.5         7.41       70.41
3008                               o0.45        6.70       6.41       66.         0.59       70.41     70.41
2009                               .0.45         MO        62.41      6.6        T0.59       7.41       70.41
2010                               .0.45        6.70       62.41      G6."       70.59       70.41      70.41
211                                *0.45        6.70       62.41      66.66      70.5        70.41      70.41
2012                               .0.45        6.70       62.41      6.6"       7.59        70.41      70.41
2013                               .0.45        6.70       62.41      48.66      70.59       70.41      70.41
2014                               .0.45         6.70      42.41      6.6        70.59       70.41      70.41
2015                               -0.45        6.70       63.41      66.6       70.59       70.41      70.41
2016                                -0.49        6.70      U.41       66.6       70.39       70.41      70.4?
201?                               -0.45        6.70       62.41      66.6       70.59       70.41      70.41
2018                               -0.45        6.70       62.41     6a.6        7C0.59      70.41      70.41
Intnmt rato of r,ewnt                  0.3215      0.2690    0.2018
II 8eo lnote 1, Tcbtb I
V/  lwm _SrIp    prc          tho butk of TI  nd 1M  woerk  ll be cuptoted by end 1993. Onm half of yearly befIts
hwe bse oaw      for tho follteing tw  yean  Wn  miner wrks ar being copleted.
SI  Sea 10o 2, Tdoo I



-133-                         ANNEX 13
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Pile
Item No.          Description
1    Financing Urban Transportation in Shanghai, Remy Prud'houe and
Richard Darbera, January 1989.
2    Shanghai: Development Scenarios Land Use Scenarios for Transport
Finance, Shanghai City Planning and Design Institute and Groupe
Huit.
v Phase 1 Report, January 1989
 Final Report, August 1989
3    Zhen Xi Pilot Project, Shanghai Municipal Residential Quarters
Development Corporation and Groupe Huit, October 1989.
4    Bus Transportation in Shanghai:  Stoppin the Decay. Richard
Darbera and Bernard Nicot, November 1989.
5 Shanghai Ferry Company, Rilhard Darbera and B. H. Nicot, November
1989.
6    Report on Safety, ShanghAi Comprehensive Transportation Planning
Team and Barton-Aschmaa Associates, Inc., September 1989.
7    Strategy for Transportation System Management, Shanghai
Comprehensive Transportation Planning Team and Barton-Aschman
Asso-iates, Inc., September 1989.
8    Resettlement.  Prepared by World Bank Appraisal mission, October
1989.
9    Shanghai North-South Corridor Study--Shanghai City Planning and
Design Institute and BCEOM French Engineering Company. Final
Report, March 1990.
10   Zhongshan Road Detailed Feasibility and En4ineering, Shanghai
Municipal Engineering Construction Company (SMECC), Shanghai
Municipal Engineering Design Institute (SMEDI), and BCEOM French
Engineering Company.



-134-                         ANNEX 13
Page 2
    Technical Proposal, September 1988, prepared by BCEOM in
collaboration with IAURIF, SOFRETU, and TRANSROUTE.
*    Inception Report, December 1988.
    Structural Feasibility Study, February 15, 1989, and March
1989, prepared by BCEOM.
o    Monthly Report, February 15, 1989, prepared by SCEOM.
e    Work Papers No. 0. to 08, March 1989, prepared by BC1OM,
SMECC, and SMEDI.
o    Detailed Feasibility Study--Final Report, March 1989.
o    Plans, March 1989, prepared by BCEOM, SMECC, and SMEDI.
*    Detailed Engineering Report (Part A:  Technical Report),
September 1989, prepared by BCEOM, SHECC, SMEDI, SUCDI.
*    Detailed Engineering Report (Part Bh  Cost Estimate and
Economic Study), September 1989, prepared by BCEOM, SHECC,
SHEDI, AND SUCD!.
*    Comparison of Options (prepared by BCEOM, SM3ECC, and
SMEDI)s
(1) Capacity Study
(2) Economic Evaluation
11   Traffic/Transportation Study, December 1989.
12 Zhongshan Inner-Ring Road--Feasibility Study (SHEDI).
*    First Stage--Drawings of Traffic Safety Facility, June
1989, prepared by Shanghai Municipal Engineering Design
Institute (SHEDI).
*    First Stage--Drawings of Bridge Design, Section B, June
1989, prepared by SHEDI.
o    First Stage--Design Drawing of Detailed Engineering 2.
Section A (Chang Ning Road--Wu Ning Road), June 1989,
prepared by SMEDI.
o    First Stage--Design Drawing of Detailed Engineering 3.
Sections A and B (Chang Ning Road--Hu Tai Road), June
1989, prepared by SMEDI.
13   Prefeasibility Study for Partly Harnessing Pro3ect of Relaxing Road
Traffic in Shanghai Urban Area.



ANNEX 13
-135-                         Page 3
e    Scheme Drawing, September 1988, prepared by Shanghai
Design Institute of Urban Construction, Shanghai Urban
Construction Design Institute (SUCDI).
o    Bicycle Ways, September 1988, prepared by SUCDI.
14 Feasibility Study for Nonmotorized Way--Puji Bridge Project
(Summary), March 1989, prepared by Shanghai Urban Construction
Design Institution.
15   A Brief Introduction to the Maintenance and Administration of the
Municipal Engineering Facilities of Shanghai Urban District,
February 1989, prepared by Shanghai Municipal Engineering
Administration Dept.
16   Shanghai Urban Studies Project, Vol. 4--Public Transport Report,
prepared by Maunsell & Partners, Pty., Ltd., Pak-Poy & Rneebone,
Pty., Ltd., with Binnie & Partners, Pty., Ltd., R.J. Naim &
Partners, Pty., Ltd. and Coopers & Lybrand.
17 Partly Harnessing Project--Bicycle Ways, Construction Drawings,
March 1989, prepared by Shanghai Urban Construction Design
Institution.
18   Chengdu Roads  IAURIF, March 1989.
19   Quyang Residential Quarter on the Rise, July 1986, prepared by
Shanghai Municipal Residential, Quarters Development Corporation.
20   Minor Reconstruction Proleet for Betterment of Shanghai Het%rolitan
Transport--Complement to tihe Nonmotor Vehicle Route Component, June
1989, prepared by Shanghai Urban Construction Design Institute
(SUCDI).
21   Approach and Road Project of Wusong Road Dam Bridge, June 1989
prepared by Shanghai Urban Construction Design Institute (SUCDI).
22   Feasibility Study Report.
23   Figures.
24 Approach and Road Projecti Wusong Road Dam Bridge, South Approach
Design Drawings (modified), Shanghai Urban Construction Design
Instltute, February 1990.



CHWa
awn 1: SHAG  hM12M ADCIRY S
o       ch 
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
w~~~*Vo
akftn~~~~~~*          fwg                                         a~i  u4
dusby  &BMltov~~~    EVd                  bji ctd    wy
ILM'                     '       I                   b
,   I   .   .    .     .    ._,I
HWHtkl~~~ - 8.i
l                           t  n  A  & _: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~od  gm  Ch
-                              ,  __  _  w.  _ - ShlWdlhlD>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kotfl
EL rmirevsrS                                    w            <bCdcn om*



Chart 2: PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION ARRANGEMENTS
I      ,I
|Admlinls;retle                                   P roJect Man;.|
Plannlng      Engineering      Engineering      Construction      Materiels        Land
a               a          Manag3emnt         Supervislon           a         Requtltion
Finance       technology                                         Equipment      a Settloemnt
Chief
Supervision
Eng I mnr
Conseruetion
Consu1   t
Reelon      >                       uetIlity   _
Engineer    |1Contractors
Typile1
Organization
Supervision
Netot IR*CC - Inner-Ring Road Conetruction Company
PIU - Project Implmemntatiotn Unit



Chart 3: THE DEMOLMON & RESEREMENT PROCESS
l_ la
.~    .



C H I N A                                                                                                        1I_A
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN                   )                            -          -l
TRANSPORT PROJECT                      X                         BAOSHAN
SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN AREA      T. Nf'              -                 DISTRICTI
NO"0I0R Ve e   A CTION PROG1M_                                      I
1011OO0 NMV ROUTS          BAOSHAN
STING NV ROUTES            DISTRICT
DFNGHA   INNE{lR W4   ROAD, WLs;* t 
,1 SulF^cEurvionENn                     /                    t NORT-                                _
0  INRMTEIIoN IMPgOVEMENTS _/E\\_-x 9 
C{NWRA1.BUSINESS OWRICT               t ^    I   --             ; 
ROAD3ro N0
RAILROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
K"ls                                          'DilpiRICT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ma 9



zi = ¢~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-           IW :K N   S 
Uw       __I
_   -.  .~  ,
-~~~~ tl                                            ;     
TRANSPORTIMON  RL.L STATION       o
PARK --
ti
C~~~ ' ,                      -           - Jlt \ 
-~ ~~A           _                                      rh-    J a  r-~r-~~S  3a  _\f';_
*       >         .  . -  -  --         __                  .P4 A RCv v Z < : j. . st
CHINAA
- ,   . ~ .a5  r- 4-&-~ Jg                      SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN
R ~     ~    ~    ~    i~F       w   r~}~                  TRANSPORT PROJECT
1J.. Pt7M  A  -g  ow  * t  t  B  e]Traffic Management
f ,) -   S U  U  G   G  Q     t             5            TRAFFIC SIGNALS
*                         [ 3             FIXED  TI_  g   S -   e  ' M E
-0                         FUM~~~~~~~~~~~~ XITN UPG1MED
O  O Y  S   2  2  z  t  RA fiRD- g g  g             ~~~~~~~~~~~~CI-jAN EUATION:
oiw        3   go    n                                    M ID BILO C Kt
0~~~~~E 
CHANr ItE RD.        %M
HUHA)
PARK 



\        ;      r >     r          - w~- 
T--NSPORTATON  RRI STATION
s   --   o-''-        vwo                h     h ,-_       -. 
,-         4  N',b -,g%W _t/lf          -~
--  ~- \- ;-- ) :uts t @~ ' C H   I                                                                    N   A
-SHANGHAI METROPOLITAN
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Non-Motor Vehicle Action Program
NON-MOTOR VEHICLE ROUTES:
PROPOSED-
EX-E  CLUSIVE ROUTES
-~--....EXCLUSIVE LANES
CHANG   '  '                                           I w ; 



CfALDR9 N'S
w- or&
7TRANSPCV~ATION RLIL STATION
20              ~~~~~~~~PARK
.                       I_
B3EIJING! RD.
_~~~~~~P                                                            ,MA.P
t  TSPATAT10N  RR STAT10N -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR
-~~~~~j
PD. ~  .  -                                            7  AE
--                                                CHINA,'  , 
SHANGHAI METROPOUTAN
TRANSPORT PROJECT
..OPLE                                             North-South Corridor Act,on Program
- .,, . . , s ~~-                   _,,SON BRDGRA
PAPK~~~~
v                  % ~~U-- -hl;.'                                          .-. 
-~ ~, *         ----            S_                                  4 *~X,
0                                     r>g1--Q-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UO G BRI  E  -r \  ,hAMGPS:--
-- -   o¢w            %               4    T>NSPORT~~~~~AMO PROJEC
PEOE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                         US PRORT , %.1lSC HEMES 
~~~~~~- -- - -.-                    -I/.                     g  -~  _            N  G   B  E
BUS -   -i -X   V
_                                 <  -s  5,  _-^  ._^ -- ------- E tF - \ 0~~~~~~~~~~~~BLIWAY
I-IIJ._I-NA-                      .__-_             AXB  RM  ON I
-"-   ' , ~ ~ ~ ' -     , 'r ~ -'   '   4 t. ~ "-   ~ vi _ _  w   ' } t   \,   ~   C D fARKP O G A



