Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2296 CHA
(Shanghai Metropolitan Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY
Dated October 28, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2296 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 28, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY (Shanghai).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-four million four hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 44,400,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Shanghai agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS Shanghai, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Shanghai declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provision of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Shanghai shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Shanghai shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and its part of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Shanghai shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of its part of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Shanghai shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its part of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Shanghai of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Shanghai shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition in respect of the 
activities related to the Project.
(b)
Shanghai shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
including the 
Special Account, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
Page  3
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, Shanghai 
shall:
(i)
maintain in accordance with sound accounting practices, records 
and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
Shanghai shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
Page  4
which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For Shanghai:
Shanghai Municipal Finance Bureau
60 Jiu Jiang Road
Shanghai, People's Republic of China
Telex: 
33685 SMFB
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Shanghai, or 
by Shanghai on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by the Mayor of Shanghai or such other person or persons as the 
Mayor shall designate in writing, and the Mayor shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Page  5
Implementation Program
1.
Shanghai shall establish, not later than January 1, 1992, and thereafter 
maintain, the Project Implementation Unit with staffing and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Association, and shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
arrangements agreed with the Association.
2.
Shanghai shall furnish to the Association, for the Association's review and 
comments, during the Project implementation period (i) not later than June 30, 1992, 
its current medium-term transportation investment plan, and (ii) not later than June 
30, thereafter, subsequent annual investment plans.
3.
Shanghai shall carry out the resettlement of the people affected by the Project, 
in accordance with the plan agreed with the Association.
4.
Shanghai shall furnish to the Association, not later than January 1, 1992, for 
the Association's review and comments, arrangements for coordinating, planning and 
implementing the
Traffic Safety and Management Program under Part B of the Project.
