Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19035
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3420-VE)
April 2, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Country Unit: Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Sucre (S$)
Average Exchange Rate for 1998
US$1.00 = S$ 5.100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANDAGRO           -  National Agricultural Bank
CADAFE             -  Electrical Administration and Development Corporation
CASA               -  Supply and Agricultural Service Corporation
CONARSAT           -  National Council for Irrigation and Land Reclamation
CORDIPLAN          -  Planing and Coordination Ministry
FCA                -  Agricultural Credit Fund
FY                 -  Fiscal Year
Fl                 -  Financial Intermediary
FONCACAO           -  National Cacao Fund
FONCAFE            -  National Coffee Fund
FSAL               -  Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln 3224-VE)
GOV                -  Government of Venezuela
IAN                -  National Agrarian Institute
ICAP               -  Agricultural and Livestock Credit Institute
ICR                -  Implementation Completion Report
IDB                -  Interamerican Development Bank
ha                 -  hectares
MAC                -  Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MTC                -  Ministry of Transport and Communications
O&M                -  Operation and Maintenance
PERL               -  Public Enterprise Reforrn Loan (Ln 3223-VE)
PSR                -  Public Sector Reform Loan
SAR                -  Staff Appraisal Report
SAL                -  Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln 3091 -VE)
SECAL              -  Sector Adjustment Loan
SICASA                 Training System for the Agricultural Sector
TAL                -  Technical Assistance Loan (Ln 3225-VE)
TPL                -  Trade Policy Loan (Ln 3092-VE)
UA(s)              -  User Association(s)
Vice President:             Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:           Andres Solimano
Sector Director:            Maritta Koch-Weser
Task Manager:               Jonathan Parker



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3420-VE)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ..........................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................................                           ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction ................................................ 1I
A. Project Objectives and Description               .......................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives .................................................3
C. Imnplementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ............... 5
D. Project Sustainability .................................................7
E. Bank Performance ................................................8
F. Borrower Performance ................................................9
G. Assessment of Outcome ...............................................9
H. Future Operation ................................................ 10
I. Key Lessons Learned ................................................                 10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
1 . Summary of Assessments .12
2. Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
3. Project Timetable .14
4.   LoanlCredit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .                       15
5.   Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation                            16
6. Studies Included in Project .17
7. Project Costs .18
8. Project Financing .19
9. Status of Legal Covenants .20
10.  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .................................. 22
11.  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ......................................               23
12.  Bank Resources: Missions ......................................                   24
APPENDIXES:
A. Mission's Aide Memoire ......................................                       25
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ......................................           30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3420-VE)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Sector
Investment Project in Venezuela, for which Loan 3420-VE in the amount of US$300
million was approved on December 3, 1991 and made effective on June 26, 1992.
2.    The loan was closed on June 19, 1998, eighteen months later than the original
closing date. Total disbursements reached only US$64.4 million. The first cancellation of
the loan amount (US$140 million) took place on January 18,1996, the second one
(US$41.95 million) on April 4, 1997, the third (US$ 47.35 million) on May 1, 1998, and
the fourth (US$6.3 million) on October 27, 1998.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Jonathan Parker, Task Manager and Sector Leader,
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit, assisted by Juan
Morelli, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program. The report was reviewed by Robert
Crown, Project Advisor, LCOQE.
4.    Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's completion mission of June 1998.
The Borrower has reviewed the report and does not wish to make any additional comments;
its contribution to the ICR is contained in Appendix B.



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3420-VE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    With abundant land resources, Venezuela has considerable potential for
efficiently expanding and diversifying agricultural production and exports and increasing
rural incomes. During the 70s and 80s, however, inconsistent policies, the adverse effect
of macroeconomics framework and the negative protection vis-a-vis the manufacturing
sector had hampered the agricultural development. Since 1989 the Bank was involved in
assisting the Government in a program of policy and institutional reform aimed at
creating an adequate environment conductive to growth. In this context the Bank was
requested to assist in deepening and broadening agricultural policy reforms, particularly
with respect to trade, pricing and credit, and in strengthening sector investment and
institutional capacity for project selection, supervision, and expenditure control. This loan
was the Bank's second investment operation and the first in Venezuela's agricultural
sector since 1974 and the combination of policy reforms and investment financing
embodied in the project was seen as a significant support to the government's objective
of efficient and sustained agricultural growth.
Project Objectives and Description
2.    Project's objectives, would be accomplished by carrying out a reform program to
restructure the incentive system; expanding public sector expenditure on agricultural
infrastructure and services to improve productivity; increasing the availability of credit to
assist the private sector adjustment to the new incentive structure and increase exports;
and, strengthening the sector's institutional framework and project planing capabilities to
facilitate implementation of the reform program and enhance efficiency in the use of
public resources. The proposed operation would have three major components: (a) sector
policy reform to deepen and complement the policy measures already introduced
through a program of reform in the areas of: agricultural trade, pricing, marketing, credit
and the legal and regulatory framework with regard to land titling and tenancy; (b) a four
year (1992-95) sector investment program (rural roads, drainage, irrigation, rural
electrification, plant and animal health, land cadastre, medium- and long-term credit for
on-farm investments, restructuring of public sector credit institutions, technical assistance
and training); and (c) institutional strengthening to improve the efficiency of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAC) and other sector institutions.
i



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
3.    The original project objectives were clearly defined, but unrealistic in terms of: (i)
the number and scope of policy actions agreed as conditions of loan effectiveness and
covenants for an investment loan operation; (ii) the borrower's lack of experience with
Bank investment loans and institutional implementation capacity; and (iii) insufficient
preparation work on the investment components. The Agricultural Sector Investment
Project (ASIP) was originally prepared as a quick disbursing Sector Adjustment Loan
(SECAL) to consolidate policy reforms in the agricultural sector, as a follow-up to
previously approved adjustment loans. However, just prior to when negotiations were to
begin in 1991, oil prices rose significantly because of the Iraq War. The rapid inflow of
foreign exchange led to the decision that a quick disbursement operation was not
appropriate. The SECAL was then transformed into an investment operation to support
the anticipated supply response to the policy reforms. The Project would finance a
variety of specific investments in productive infrastructure for commercial agriculture;
while maintaining the originally prepared extensive matrix of policy conditionality.
4.    The matrix of policy conditionality included among other things, the following:
(a) virtual elimination of non-tariff barriers for agricultural commodities; (b) severe
reduction and simplification in the structure of tariff levels; (c) complete phase-out over
time of fertilizer subsidies; (d) transfer of the management and eventually the ownership,
of publicly owned agricultural storage facilities to the private sector; (e) removal of
guaranteed domestic prices and the public purchases of commodities which supported
them; (f) the removal of marketing board monopolies for coffee and cocoa; and (g) the
elimination over time of interest rate subsidies for agricultural credit and of forced
lending to agriculture. Almost every item of this very wide sweeping reform agenda
(except for (d) and (g)) was accomplished ahead of schedule and maintained until the
summer of 1994. However, during 1994 two important rural credit programs were
launched which provided large subsidies to agricultural borrowers in response to an
economy-wide financial crisis. Additionally, price controls on retail food items were re-
imposed and minimum producer prices have been re-established. The project
conditionalities involving (g) were not met until 1998.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    In general the Project had a negligible achievement of its original physical
objectives and only achieved partially its sector, financial, institutional, and public sector
objectives. The project failed to expand public sector expenditure on agricultural
infrastructure and services to improve productivity, and to increase the availability of
credit to assist the private sector to adjust to the new incentive structure and to increase
exports. The government continued to use non-tariff barriers such as health import
permits, licenses and import quotas to defend producer prices. Government's
participation in a price band scheme together with other Andean Pact members, added
new distortions to economic behavior. Interventions in many important crops, caused
price deviations from their opportunity costs, resulting in markets that do not clear, and
inefficient production and investment decisions. Actions concerning the new national
cadastre, land titling and tenancy component only began in 1997 and little was achieved
as a result. Achievements in respect to the expansion and improvement of productive
ii,



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
infrastructure, including rural roads, irrigation and drainage, have been minimal, though
about half of the rural electrification objectives were achieved.
6.    Since the beginning of the Project, the political system has proven unstable and
the three administrations struggled with the implications of falling oil prices during this
period. From the beginning the reforms were controversial and under intense criticism.
The financial crisis of early 1994, when very high interest rates prevailed, provided an
opportunity around which lobbyists for renewed interventions in the sector were able to
rally.
7.    Project sustainability is considered uncertain. Venezuela, as other Andean
countries, uses a price band system as a protectionist device. However taken as a whole,
the agricultural reforms enforced since 1989 provide a basis for the future transformation
of the sector, as they reduced substantially the level of public intervention in agriculture
input and output markets. The new incentive regime favored some shifts in production
activities toward areas with comparative advantage, and previous artificially supported
crops began to decline. Also, a number of changes in the public sector agencies were
adopted which, if maintained and consolidated, would alter the institutional landscape of
the sector. However, the process is slow and fragile and is under constant threat of
reversal. . On the political side, a new Government took power in January 1999, adding
further uncertainty about the possibility of maintaining and deepening the reforms.
8.    Both the Bank's and Borrower's performances in identification, preparation and
appraisal are considered deficient, as the Project was obviously over-dimensioned for the
capability of the Borrower to implement it. Supervision by the Bank, which was for the
most part timely and flexible in responding to the Borrower's changing needs, was
satisfactory. The borrower also failed to maintain some of the reforms claiming that for
political reasons, temporary measures should be taken in response to the financial crisis.
There was a clear lack of strong political leadership in pursuit of project objectives. The
project was badly weakened too by the continuous administration changes in MAC and in
the defused responsibility for implementation. Continuing delays were caused by the
inefficient and cumbersome budget allocation and disbursement processes.
9.    There was a long delay in start up, because so little of the project had been
prepared. and disbursement only achieved 23% of the original loan amounts (US$300
million), in spite of two year extension of the closing date. Almost all disbursements
other than the first tranche of the credit component took place in the last two years. The
reforms of the early nineties established conditions, which could induce significant
changes led primarily by the private sector's response to the new economic environment.
Concerning agricultural credit policy and availability, the outcome is also negligible,
though some of the agreed reforms were implemented after the loan account was closed.
In sum, based on the project's current status and reasonable estimates about its
operational phase, the project's outcome is rated as deficient.
. . 



Venezuela. Agricultural Sector Investment Project
Findings and key lessons
10.   The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a) to be successful, a loan instrument must be consistent with the project's rationale
and objectives; objectives and instruments should be carefully analyzed together
during development of the project concept;
(b) the size and scope of the loan/project must also be matched to the implementation
capacity of the Borrower;
(c) implementing agencies' ownership should be confirmed through involvement in
preparation work. Such a commitment is fundamental for effective implementation
and sustainability. Management of MAC changed too frequently losing its
commitment to the project;
(d) in an operation such as this one, a substantial portion of the investments that are to
be financed should be clearly identified and the preparation work well advanced
before negotiations;
(e) project risks that are identified at appraisal should be closely monitored and
credible solutions found if those risks do materialize;
(f) continuing changes in local project management severely handicap implementation
and weaken borrower ownership.
(g) The Bank and the Borrower should identify and respond more quickly to project
shortcomings and restructure or cancel components, which can't meet this project
objectives.
iv



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3420-VE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    At the time of appraisal, agriculture and agroindustry accounted for about 15-20%
of non-petroleum GDP and about 15% of non-petroleum and basic metals exports. About
13% of total population were rural. With abundant land resources, the Country has
considerable potential for efficiently expanding and diversifying agricultural production
and exports and increasing rural incomes. During the 70s and 80s, however, inconsistent
policies, the adverse effect of macroeconomic framework and the negative protection vis-
a-vis the manufacturing sector had hampered the agricultural development. In 1989 a
new Govermment took office and ambitious economic reform measures were adopted,
including some directly affecting the agricultural-food sector. Since then, the Bank was
involved in assisting the Government in a program of policy and institutional reform
aimed at creating an adequate environment conductive to growth. In this context the
Bank was requested to assist in deepening and broadening agricultural policy reforms,
particularly with respect to trade, pricing and credit, and in strengthening sector
investment and institutional capacity for project selection, supervision, and expenditure
control.
A. Project Objectives and Description
2.    Project's Objectives. The project would support the Government's objectives of
increasing sector efficiency and achieving sustainable agricultural growth and exports.
This would be accomplished by: (i) carrying out a reform program to restructure the
incentive system; (ii) expanding public sector expenditure on agricultural infrastructure
and services to improve productivity; (iii) increasing the availability of credit to assist the
private sector adjust to the new incentive structure and increase exports; and (iv)
strengthening the sector's institutional frarnework and project planing capabilities to
facilitate implementation of the reform program and enhance efficiency in the use of
public resources.
3.    Project Description.  The proposed operation would have three major
components: (a) sector policy reform to deepen and complement the policy measures
already introduced in the areas of: (i) agricultural trade; (ii) agricultural pricing; (iii)
marketing, especially in relation to the divestiture of storage facilities, and the role of
public agencies involved in the marketing of basic commodities; (iv) the agricultural
credit system; (v) the legal and regulatory framework with regard to land titling and
tenancy; (b) a four year (1992-95) sector investment program  including:  (i)
construction and equipment for rural roads, drainage, irrigation, rural electrification and



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
some fisheries infrastructure (about 35% of project costs); (ii) construction and
equipment for plant and animal health and quarantine facilities; (iii) aerial photography,
cartography, land delineation and other services for the completion of the land cadastre;
(iv) medium- and long-term credit for on-farm private sector investment (about 47% of
project costs); (v) the financial restructuring of the Agricultural Credit Fund (FCA) and
the public sector credit institutions; and (vi) technical assistance and training for the
institutional strengthening program; and (c) institutional strengthening to improve the
efficiency of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAC) and other sector
institutions by improving their capacity to select, design, evaluate and supervise projects,
and to improve the organization of the sector and the quality of its human resources
through training.
4.    The total cost of the project was estimated at US$900 million equivalent (Tables 7
and 8). A Bank loan of US$300 million was scheduled and an Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) loan would provide parallel financing in the amount of
US$200 million (later increased to US$300 million). The remaining costs would be
provided by local sources, including US$80 million from sub-borrowers and Financial
Interrnediaries (FIs). More specifically, the program would finance: (a) improvement
and/or expansion of productive infrastructure (about US$315.3 million); (b) improvement
of animal and plant health services (US$16.9 million); (c) completion of the national land
cadastre (US$84.3 million); (d) medium and long-term credit for on-farm private sector
investment (US$422.8 million); (e) restructuring of the FCA into a new second-tier
agricultural credit institution, including the clearance of FCA's portfolio arrears from
previous rediscounting operations with public sector banks and funds (the compensation
of FCA for the resulting losses was estimated at about US$54 million); and (e)
consultancy services, training, computers and other equipment for institutional
strengthening of MAC and FCA (US$6.5 million).
5.    Evaluation of objectives. The original project objectives were clearly defined,
but unrealistic in terms of:  (i) the number and scope of policy actions agreed as
conditions of loan effectiveness and covenants for an investment loan operation. (Table
9); (ii) GOV's experience with Bank investment loans and institutional implementation
capacity; and (iii) insufficient preparation work on the investment components. After the
1973 oil windfall, Venezuela choose not to borrow from the Bank and subsequently the
Country's per capita income increased to levels above the Bank's graduation limit. By
mid-1980's as a result of the debt crisis and sustained decline in economic output, the
GOV required assistance and was declared eligible to borrow. The ASIP was originally
prepared as a quick disbursing Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL) to consolidate policy
reforms in the agricultural sector, as a follow-up to previously approved adjustment
loans, which had been successfully implemented by the time of loan approval'.
However, just prior to negotiations beginning in 1991, oil prices rose significantly
because of the Iraq War and the rapid inflow of foreign exchange led to the decision that
a quick disbursement operation was not appropriate. The SECAL was then transformed
1 Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL), US$300 million, 1990-93; Public Enterprise Reform Loan
(PERL), US$350 million, 1990-94; Technical Assistance Loan (TAL), US$30 million, and Social
Development Project (SDP), 1990-98.
2



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
into an investment operation to support the anticipated supply response to the policy
reforms. The Project would finance a variety of specific investments in productive
infrastructure for commercial agriculture; while maintaining the originally prepared
extensive matrix of policy conditionality.
6.    This matrix included among other things, the following: (a) virtual elimination of
non-tariff barriers for agricultural commodities; (b) severe reduction and simplification in
the structure of tariff levels; (c) complete phase-out over time of fertilizer subsidies
(previously at 90%); (d) transfer of the management and eventually the ownership, of
publicly owned agricultural storage facilities to the private sector; (e) removal of
guaranteed domestic prices and the public purchases of commodities which supported
them; (f) the removal of marketing board monopolies for coffee and cocoa; and (g) the
elimination over time of interest rate subsidies for agricultural credit (except through the
special ICAP prograrn of direct credit to small farmers), and the elimination of forced
lending to agriculture. Almost every item of this very wide sweeping reform agenda
(except for (d) and (g)) was accomplished ahead of schedule and maintained until the
summer of 1994. During 1994 two important rural credit programs were launched which
provided large subsidies to agricultural borrowers in response to an economy-wide
financial crisis. Additionally, price controls on retail food items were re-imposed and
minimum producer prices were re-established. The policy conditions for accessing the
second tranche of the credit component in (g) above, was not met until 1998.
7.    The key project risks identified at appraisal were related to the overall
macroeconomic adjustment program as well as to specific aspects of the agricultural
reform program. The transitional adjustment costs to particular groups of producers who
carry considerable political influence was seen as the major internal risk to the reform
program. Availability of credit was to be enhanced through the foreseen agricultural
credit reforms.  However, interest groups' resistance to phase-out subsidies was
underestimated. The measures for minimizing these risks were inadequate, as proven
during implementation. Project design failed to recognize implementation capacity as a
risk factor, and to establish appropriate implementation arrangements, which appeared
inadequate after start-up. The multiplicity of components and implementing agencies,
many outside the political control of MAC, made the management and control task
extremely difficult. The risk of not succeeding in this was largely overlooked.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
8.    In general the Project had a negligible achievement of its physical objectives and
only achieved partially its sector, financial, institutional, and public sector objectives
(Table 1). It is acknowledged, however, that with more time and determination,
Government may in fact achieve more than this after loan closing. IDB is continuing to
finance several of the project components for another 18 months, but the recent change in
government administration makes its continuing commitment to project objectives
uncertain at this time.
9.    With regard to government's reform of sector policies to restructure the incentive
system, virtually all the important policy conditions were met prior to loan effectiveness
3



Venezuela. Agricultural Sector Investment Project
and maintained until mid 1994, when several "back-tracking" measures including price
controls were reinstalled and two important "temporary" rural credit programs were
launched with large subsidies to borrowers. The project also failed to expand public
sector expenditure on agricultural infrastructure and services to improve productivity.
There was no increased availability of credit to the private sector to help it adjust to the
new incentive structure and to increase exports. Most of project targets were not met as
shown by the indicator summary in Table 5. On the strengthening of the sector's
institutional framework and project planing capabilities to facilitate implementation of
the reform program and enhance efficiency in the use of public resources, little was
accomplished.
10.   Considering agricultural trade, pricing and marketing policies, significant reforms
were carried out before effectiveness. After the period of protection experienced between
1984-89, the sector's extensive networks of explicit and implicit subsidies were almost
dismantled and production was increasingly exposed to a sector-neutral market-based
incentive structure.  The ad-valorem tariff structure for agricultural products was
simplified and lowered. Virtually all products now enter under one of only three ad-
valorem tariff rates: 10, 15 and 20 percent. However, the government continued the
current practice to use non-tariff barriers as health import permits, licenses and import
quotas to defend producer prices. The participation with other Andean Pact members in
the price band scheme for 13 distinct primary commodities together with price controls
for downstream processed products, added new distortions to economic behavior. These
practices preclude market-clearing prices and are inconsistent with project objectives,
GATT/WTO commitments and with the objective of privatizing publicly-owned storage
facilities, since it creates strong disincentives for storage.  Interventions in many
important crops including maize and sorghum, caused problems resulting in markets that
do not clear and inefficient production and investment decisions. On balance, important
reforns were introduced, but significant distortions continue to deter a more efficient
allocation of resources.
11.  In regard to the divesting of storage facilities, although several of the smaller ones
have been put up for sale, preparation for the privatization has been extremely slow. The
strategy and mechanisms for privatization have yet to be fully determined and little
progress has been made. Although several state marketing agencies continue to exist,
including the Supply and Agricultural Service Corporation (CASA), the Coffee
Marketing Fund (FONCAFE) and the Cocoa Marketing Fund (FONCACAO); they were
downsized and their marketing monopolies were removed. FONCAFE and FONCACAO
continue to operate as marketing entities but with diminished market-shares.
12.   Agricultural Credit has long been subject to a significant degree of intervention
including subsidies and portfolio requirements which forced banks to loan fixed
percentages to agricultural producers.  Some rationalization of the existing public
institutions took place with the transformation of the Fondo de Credito Agropecuario
(FCA) from a first-tier to a second-tier lending institution, the liquidation of the
Agricultural Development Bank (BANDAGRO) and the closing down of the credit
operations of FONCAFE and FONCACAO. However, the Small Farmer Credit Agency
(ICAP) continues to operate with highly subsidized credit (at nominal rates as low as 3%,
4



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
even when market rates reach above 70%). The failure to eliminate interest rate subsidies
and forced lending to agriculture until early 1998, precluded the disbursement of the
second and third trenches of the credit component and resulted in the cancellation of the
component by 1996.
13.   Concerning the new national cadastre, land titling and tenancy component, actions
did not begin until 1997, because of institutional and technical deficiencies. Since then
the principal activities being carried out included preparations for aerial photography and
field survey work for the cadastral work in eight states. At present about 10 million ha
have been completed with orthophoto maps (70% of the original target) and an additional
21 million ha are being prepared. No delineation of rural properties or issuing of titles
were achieved as foreseen by the targets set at appraisal (13.1 million ha delimited and
168.113 titles).
14.  In respect to the expansion and improvement of productive infrastructure,
including rural roads, irrigation and drainage, rural electrification and other activities
agreed with the Bank, achievements have been minimal. The best performance was for
rural electrification where about 51% of the target were attained. Rural roads (2%),
drainage (14%) and irrigation (0%) could be considered as a complete failure. The
institutional strengthening component failed to improve the implementing agencies
capacity to design, prepare, evaluate and supervise the ASIP investment activities.
However, significant training and technical assistance activities were developed in the
last years, which might result in increased capacity for future projects. A new Training
System for the Agricultural Sector (SICASA) is now operating well for several sub-
sectors and agencies. Also, after several Bank efforts and technical inputs, a new public
sector policy to develop the irrigation sub-sector by incorporating the project's
recommendations has been adopted by the government and can be considered as a project
direct outcome: under the new policy, five irrigation systems were transferred in 1997 to
users' associations. Table 6 shows the main studies developed under the project and their
result. It seems that as a result of the continuos changes in local project management
there was a lack of supervision and follow-up of the recommendations of such studies
and of other institutional strengthening activities.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.   The project has had a poor record of implementation and has been consistently
rated as unsatisfactory by the Bank's supervision missions. Implementation of the
investment components was extremely slow since start-up, even though most of policy
conditionality was substantially met before effectiveness and maintained until mid 1994.
The project objectives were changed just prior to negotiations from a fast disbursing
policy loan to a sector investment project, however there was not sufficient time during
the extended negotiations to allow adequate preparation and reappraisal of the redesigned
project. This situation resulted in a lack of ownership by the implementing agencies and
long delays in disbursement. MAC and its regional offices were responsible for
managing the project, but implementation was also carried out by other ministries and or
independent agencies. By loan effectiveness none of them seemed organized for
effective implementation. Additionally, during implementation project management at
5



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
higher levels was never able to gain from experience, due to rapid turnover of political
appointees.2.While the project design allowed for financing technical assistance training
for institutional development, little was done to strengthen implementation capacity.
Most of these funds were used for economic policy studies and scholarships for foreign
study. At the end of 1993 only the initial deposit (US$15 million) to the Special Account
had been disbursed. Implementation remained slow and by the end of 1997 the Bank had
reimbursed only US$21.8 million in project expenditures from the loan account. After
several cancellations, extensions of the closing dates, and the addition of two activities
not foreseen at appraisal, but consistent with project objectives, the project disbursed only
US$64.4 million (21% of the original approved loan amount).
16.   As originally designed, the Bank's disbursement on the credit component was not
conditional on policy changes in rural financial markets. After long negotiations with the
borrower, it was agreed to divide the credit portion of the loan into three tranches in order
to introduce disbursement conditions to reinforce the substantial policy changes
completed or in process with the support of the FSAL. Since the conditions for the
second tranche were not met until 1998, only the first trench was disbursed and the
component was cancelled in 1996.
17.   During implementation the project faced a difficult operating environment.
Economic policy was generally unable to cope with the boom and bust cycles generated
by the oil sector, resulting in periodic bursts of inflation and recession. The political
system was under great stress and instability during the three Administrations since start-
up, with the Presidency having little control of Congress. The political costs associated
with maintaining stability and support for the reform program resulted in pressures from
different economic and political groups and labor unions to "appropriate" their share of
the economic rents resulting from the "booming" oil market. From the beginning the
reforms were controversial and under intense criticism. In early 1994 a financial crisis
occurred when a number of large banks failed. The resulting tight liquidity and high
interest rates provided an opportunity around which lobbyists for renewed interventions
in the agricultural sector were able to rally.
18.   The project's poor performance, reflected a more general implementation problem
with the Bank's portfolio in Venezuela during the 1990-96 period when it was considered
one of the worst in the region. Disbursement rates were extremely low due primarily to
systemic problems (especially lack of counterpart funds) and weak public administration.
The project as well as the portfolio was handicapped by three problems: (i) delays in the
preparation and legislative approval of the annual budget and public credit law (which
authorizes the level of new indebtedness and annual disbursement level for each project);
(ii) linking the financing of counterpart funds to the sale of domestic bonds by the
executing agencies; and (iii) delays within the executing agencies and the Controller
General in the processing of payment orders to withdraw counterpart funds and funds
from the Special Account.
2
During implementation there had been 6 Ministers of Agriculture and 6 Coordinators of the project Unit, each with
different approaches and priorities.
6



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
19.   The first extension of the closing date was granted in June 1996 to support the
government's request that it be given more time to carry out priority investments. At the
time, it was agreed that only three of the project's original investment components would
be financed through the remaining 18 months: irrigation, cadastre and institutional
strengthening. The other six components were cancelled with some continuing to be
financed through the parallel loan from the IDB. On July 9, 1997 an earthquake in the
State of Sucre caused substantial damage to rural infrastructure.  The government
requested a second extension of the closing date to permit completion of contracts for the
Rural Census and completion of procurement for the rural cadastre; ninety vehicles and
financing the reconstruction efforts of damaged infrastructure in Sucre. The latter
implied resuming the financing of previously abandoned components (rural
electrification, drainage and rural roads). On these grounds a third extension from April
30, 1998 to June 19, 1998 was granted to complete expenditures on these items which
works were finally successfully completed.
20.   After the earthquake, the irrigation systems, rural roads and electrification
network in Sucre were reconstructed in a short period of time with financing from the
Project (US$10 million). This was possible due to a more dynamic, new project
management team and simplified and more flexible procurement processes to deal with
the emergency. MAC is transferring the operation and maintenance (O&M) of these
works to local authorities and users' associations under new policies and procedures to
encourage sustainability, in line with project objectives. The rural census (phase I) was
not originally foreseen in the project design. It is part of the most important rural
statistical scheme ever implemented in Venezuela and was also completed in a very short
period. This was accomplished on schedule by using the private sector to carry out the
field work and process the data. Sustainability of the first phase will depend on
completing the second one. MAC intends to finance the latter, which will provide the
grounds for conducting periodic surveys for the Statistical Program for the Agricultural
Sector (PESA) and for the agricultural sector's future planing and development.
D. Project Sustainability
21.   Sustainability of the project's sector policy reforms is considered uncertain. The
present decline of oil prices is bringing a sharp deterioration in Venezuela's terms of
trade and the fiscal situation. Venezuela, as other Andean countries, continues to have
the levels of protection for agriculture provided by its price band system. The attempt to
stabilize prices rather than incomes through macroeconomic means leads to a high cost in
terms of efficiency. On the political side, the elections to be held by the end of 1998 adds
further uncertainty about the possibility of deepening the reforms. The present policy
framework inhibits the development of new agriculture activities beyond the 121 items
that are implicitly protected.
22.   However taken as a whole, the agricultural reforms enforced since 1989 provide a
basis for the future transformation of the sector, as they reduced substantially the level of
public intervention in agriculture input and output markets. Closer integration with world
markets occurred and most agricultural prices fell much more closely into line with true
opportunity cost of resources.  The new incentive regime favored some shift in
7



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
production activities toward areas with comparative advantage (beef, rice, tropical fruits
and vegetable, coffee, and cacao). Previous artificially supported crops began to decline
(maize, sorghum, pork and milk). As part of the Project's policy conditionality for
financing rehabilitation works in the irrigation component, MAC developed an irrigation
sector policy, including inter alia, a cost recovery policy, and the demonstrated economic
and environmental feasibility of investments. Under this changing environment, the
MAC itself is substantially reducing its operational and service role, and cutting its staff
to one third its previous size. It is decentralizing functions to state and local levels of
government and concentrating in areas of policy and regulation. The use of economic
analysis for physical investments introduced by the project increases the probability of
their success. While some positive changes have been taking place, the process is slow,
fragile and under constant threat of reversal.
E. Bank Performance
23.   The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal is considered
deficient, as the Project was obviously over-dimensioned for the capability of the
Borrower to implement it. Supervision by the Bank, which was for the most part timely
and flexible in responding to the Borrower's changing needs, was satisfactory. However,
the Bank's overall performance was deficient considering the design flaws, the lack of
borrower's ownership of project's investment plan and the over-scaled targets and
expectations set at appraisal.
24.   The Project was the Bank's second investment operation and the first in
Venezuela's agricultural sector since 1974. The combination of policy reforms and
investment financing embodied in the Project was seen as a significant support to the
government's objective of efficient and sustained agricultural growth. Given the lack of
experience of the borrower in working with multilateral agencies, a more realistic
assessment of implementation capacity should have been made at appraisal. The long-
term process required for institutional strengthening, and the country's volatile political
and economic situation, were underestimated. In hindsight the Bank was overly patient
with the Borrower's lack of commitment to project and should have pressed for
cancellation sooner. Supervision missions should have reacted stronger and earlier to
MAC's slow response to agreed recommendations and/or conditionalities. The large
number and complexity of the project components combined with the lack of an early-
warning system to identify and respond to project shortcomings made it very difficult to
supervise.
25.   Supervision efforts to overcome the lack of project preparation work and to assist
the government in dealing with the Borrower's changing needs were remarkable. The
Bank agreed to be flexible in numerous situations, accepting minor amendments to
permit the addition of new activities and investments (agricultural census, irrigation pilot
projects, Sucre reconstruction works); and extending closing dates to allow for the
completion of on-going investments.
8



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
F. Borrower Performance
26.   Borrower's performance was judged by the completion mission and confirmed
with IDB representatives, to be overall deficient, though implementation performance
improved during the last two years. As in other oil-exporting countries Bank influence
has been shallow and tenuous and government's interest in Bank recommendations has
been negatively correlated with oil revenues. As these increased from time to time, the
policy-reform dialogue became less substantive and "back-tracking" on policy
conditionality occurred. Both the government (Borrower) and MAC (Implementing
Agency) performed below expectations, though in the first half of the project
implementation period the compliance to policy covenants could be rated as satisfactory.
However, the borrower failed to maintain some key reforms claiming that for political
reasons, temporary measures had to be taken in response to the financial crisis.
27.   The project was badly weakened too by the almost continuous changes in project
administration in MAC and in the restructuring of implementation units, and by the
failure to keep in place a sufficiently competent technical and managerial team. Under
this environment, institutional strengthening activities (training, technical assistance and
studies) failed to support the agencies' capacity since MAC was unprepared to use its
output.  Consultants worked isolated and uncoordinated, as there were no real
counterparts to own results. The project experienced significant delays caused by the
inefficient and cumbersome local budget process. Changing staff and management
seldom understood Bank procurement guidelines, which differed from local ones, thereby
causing delays. MAC also failed in establishing the expected monitoring and evaluation
procedures and the audit reports criticized several accounting procedures. Due to MAC's
low efficiency and lack of budget allocations, priority was given to works requiring
simpler procurement procedures and paperwork. Due to the policies of the Contraloria,
difficulties in using funds from the Special Account were also a major stumbling block
adding delays to implementation. A summary of the mission's evaluation of each project
component is included in Table 5.
G. Assessment of Outcome
28.   Table 1 provides the summary evaluation of the Project. The overall assessment
of the project's outcome is deficient, due to almost three years of delay in start up, and
the disbursement of only 21% of the original loan amount, even after a two year
extension of the closing date. Almost all disbursements other than the first tranche of the
credit component took place in the last two years.  Thus despite these recent
accomplishments, which related primarily to new components (Census and Sucre
reconstruction works), the project accomplishments were negligible if compared to its
original targets. Concerning sector policy, though only partially attributable to the
project, the economic and sector reforms of the early nineties established conditions,
which could induce significant changes, led primarily by the private sector's response to
the new economic environment.
9



Venezuela.- Agricultural Sector Investment Project
29.   Concerning agricultural credit policy and availability, the outcome is also
insignificant. In sum, based on the project's current status and reasonable estimates
about its impact, the project's outcome is rated as unsatisfactory.
H. Future Operation
30.   Despite recurrent political resistance and several elements of policy "back-
tracking" from market-liberalizing reforms, competitive forces have begun to replace
government intervention in playing the dominant roll in price formation and industry
development. Rural credit is also showing signs of change since in July 1998 subsidies
and forced financing to the sector were eliminated. Under the new irrigation and
drainage policy, MAC is beginning to transfer the O&M of the systems to the users'
organizations. The cadastre, land titling and tenancy activities continue to be financed
until the end of 1999 by IDB, but to attain land identification and titling targets will need
further time and resources. The future of new rural roads and the maintenance of the
ones built by the project will depend on the Ministry of Transport and Communications
and on the decentralization of these activities to regional and local levels of government.
Animal and vegetable health infrastructure and improving of services are being
completed with the extended IDB portion of the loan. Rural electrification will depend in
the near future on the private sector since CADEAFE is in the process of privatization.
MAC is reducing its size and functions, redefining its new regulatory and police role.
However, the future operation of the wide range of activities covered by ASIP will not be
clear until the new government is in office.
r. Key Lessons Learned
31.   The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a)   to be successful, a loan instrument must be consistent with the project's
rationale and objectives; initially this project was prepared as a fast
disbursing policy based loan, but was changed to an investment project at
negotiations. Linkages between objectives and instruments should be
carefully analyzed together during development of the project concept;
(b)   The size and scope of the loan/project must also be matched to the
implementation capacity of the Borrower;
(c)   Implementing  agencies' ownership  should  be  confirmed  through
involvement in preparation work. Such a commitment is fundamental for
effective implementation and sustainability;
(d)   In an operation such as this one, a substantial portion of the investments that
are to be financed must be clearly identified and the preparation work well
advanced before negotiations, or there will be long delays in
implementation.
10



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
(e)   Project risks identified at appraisal should be closely monitored and
credible solutions found if those risks do materialize;
(f)    Continuing changes in local project management (6 ministers and 6 project
managers in six years) severely handicap implementation and weaken
borrower ownership; and
(g)   The Bank and the Borrower should identify and respond more quickly to
project shortcomings and restructure or cancel components, which can't
meet the project's development objectives.
11



Venezuela. Agricultural Sector Investment Project
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achielvement of objetvsSbtnil                                      ata                elgbeNot,
Sector policies
Financial objectives
Institutional development
Physical objectives                                                                              V/
Poverty reduction
Gender issues                                                                                                    V
Other social objectives                                                                                        V/
Environmental objectives
Public sector management
Private sector developmnt                                                                        V
B3. Project sustainabi!itYLilyUiky                                                                          nrti
C. Bank performanceHibystfatyDecet
Identification
Preparation assistance                                                                                        V
Appraisal
Supervision                                                                              g
D. Borrower Performance                             Righ  s;tis"tory                Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                                                                                                   Vi
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)                                                                                     V/
E Assessment of outcome                          ilysaisfctStsfacofient                                      Hi
12



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                             Purpose                         Year of       Status
_____________________________                _ _approval
Preceding operations
1. SAL (Ln 3091) Principal US$402    Structural Adjustment Ln to restore competitiveness in  1989  Closed June
million. Disbursed US$400.9       the economy by removing distortions & discretionality         1993
in allocation of resources
2. Trade Policy (Ln 3092) Principal   Improve domestic efficiency and international   1989      Closed June
US$353 million. Disbursed US$351.1  competitiveness. Encourage production of tradable           1993
goods through neutralizing productive incentives
3. Public Enterprise Reform (Ln   To support policy, institutional and legal reforms  1990      Closed June
3223) Principal US$350 mill.      directed at reducing the dominance of public sector,          1994
Disbursed US$242.5                improving environment for private sector developm.
4. Financial Sector Adjustment (Ln   Liberalize the financial sector policy environment,  1990  Closed June
3224) Principal US$300 million    reduce Govermment's direct rol in financial                   1993
Disbursed US$293.3                intermediation and strengthen competitiveness of IFIs
5. Pre-Investment & Institutional  To provide source of financing for inducing projects;  1990  Closing
Development (Ln 3225) Principal   improve Gov.'s cap. To identify, select, implement &          June 1999
US$30.mill. Disbursed US$21.6 mill   monitor dev. projects; institutional strengthening &
implement public enterprise reform program
7. Social Development (Ln 3270)   To assist the Govern. in developing a social sector  1990     Closing
Principal US$85 mill. Disbursed   strategy to redirect social expenditures into targeted        April 1999
US$82.2 mill                      and efficient programs
Following operations
1. Agricultural Extension (Ln 3862)   To assist poor farmers to enhance their productive  1995  Closing
Principal US$39 mill. Undisbursed  efficiency, their economic welfare and the                   December
US$34.3                           environmental sustainability of farming operations            2001
2. Public Sector Modernization &                                                      1998      Closing
Decentralization (Ln 4317) Principal                                                            March 2002
US$8 mill. Undisb.US$8
13



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
steps in Projelctycle                Dat Pljanned           Date Actual!
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                        June, 1990
Preparation                                                       June, 1990
Appraisal                                                         July, 1990
Negotiations                                                      August, 1991
Board Presentation                                                November. 1991
Signing                                                           February 26, 1992
First Amendment (Date Countersigned)                              June 22, 1992
Effectiveness                                                     June 26, 1992
Second Amendment (Date countersigned)                             January 28,1993
First Cancellation of Loan Amount                                 January, 1996
Second Cancellation of Loan Amount                                December, 1997
Third Cancellation of Loan Amount                     -           May, 1998
Midterm review                                                    n/a
First Extension Closing Date                                      June, 1996
Second Extension Closing Date                                     October, 1997
Third Extension Closing Date                                      May, 1998
Project Completion                            December 31, 1995   June 19,1998
Loan Closing                                    June 30, 1996     June 30,1998
1/ As indicated in the SAR
14



Table 4: Loan/Ci-edit Disbursemletis: Ciniulative E2stimaited and Actual
(US$ thoustn(Is)
FY92       FY93      FY94       FY95       FY96      FY97       FY98
Appraisal Estima(etl Amouot        20.0        80.0      170.0     250.0      300.0                  -
(Cumulative)
Formally Revised Amounit            0.0        15.0      34.58     34.58      35.28      38.4       70.7
(Cumulative)
Actual                              0.0        15.0      34.58     34.58      35.28      36.8       61.2
Actual as % of Estimate              0         19%       20%        14%        12%        12%       20%
Actual as % of Revised Estimilate                                                        96%        87%
Date of Finial Disbursenieit:  30/06/98
Note: US$140 million canceled as of January 18, 1996
US$41.95 million canceled as of Dccember 31, 1997
US$47.35 mDillion canceled as of May 1, 1998



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
I.:ey lrey   plementation
Indicators in SAR           stulad
1. Rural roads (Km)             67       427          2.911              2
2. Rural electrification (Km)  1.434     191          2.800              51
3. Drainage works (ha)        28.489   11.557        203.310             14
4. Irrigation works (ha)         0        0           88.600              0
5. Rural cadastre
base maps (ha)            10 mill  21 mill      14.2 million         70
cadastrale maps (ha)         0        0         17.5 million         0
small farm delineation (ha)  0        0         13.1 million         0
titles (n)                  0        0          168.113             0
6. Animal and plant health
Quality control labs          0        0             2                0
Diagnostic labs (plant & an)  24      2             25               96
Quarantine facilities        0        0             2                 0
7. Institutional strengthening
Training                   4.025      0           1.400             287
Technical assistance       5.000      0            200              2500
IL. ModifieIndicatrs
1. Rural roads (Kni)            67       427          1.000              7
2. Rural electrification (Km)  1.434     191          2.397              60
3. Drainage works (ha)        28.489   11.557         58.300             49
4. Irrigation works (units)      4        0             15               27
5. Rural cadastre
maps (ha)                 10 mill  21 mill     30 million           33
6. Animal and plant health
Units                      11        2            37                30
7. Sucre Emergency Plan
irrigation systems (ha)   3.716                   4.549             82
drainage systems (ha)      629                    656               96
rural roads (Km)                67                      87               77
rural electrification (Km)      40                      40               100
16



Venezuela: Agricultural Secior Investment Project
Table 6: Principal Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                   at Appraisal/Redefined               Status         Impact of Study
I. Institutional Strengthening
Transference of Irrigation  To define, prior to implementation of the  Done.     After several years of delays and
Systems to Water User       irrigation component, an irrigation sector           after the irrigation component
Associations                policy, including transference of the systems        was closed, a new National Plan
to users, cost recovery policies and                 for Irrigation has been
demonstrated technical, financial, economic          established and five systems are
institutional and environmental feasibility of       already transferred to User's
investments                                          Associations
Agricultural Development    To design a new law to be submitted to the    Done   The proposed new law is under
Law                         Congress                                             consideration of the Congress
Restructuring of the Ministry   Redefine the role of the MAC and the  Done       . MAC is reducing its size and
of Agriculture              needed new structure                                 functions, redefining its new
regulatory and police role.
Small Farmers' Credit       To analyze and define mechanisms to permit   Done    After years of delay, 2000
Program                     Agrarian Reform beneficiaries to have access         beneficiaries in 1997 and
to credit                                            Bs5.300 million disbursed in
credit through commercial banks
Food National Council       To participate in the definition of minimum  Done    Improved monitoring of the
food basket requirements for monitoring              social programs of the Agenda
GOV social programs                                  Venezolana
Final implementation designs   To improve animal and plant health services   Done  Under construction after years of
for animal and plant health                                                      delays
facilities
Unare Basin Development                                              Done        Medium and long term master
Project                                                                          plan under implementation
II. Other Studies
Rural Electrification       42 feasibility studies for small rural   Done        60% finished and 40% to be
electrification works (1.700 km of lines).           constructed
Cost of studies: US$580.000
Drainage Works              14 feasibility studies for rural drainage  Done      25% finished, 40% under
(3.800 ha). Cost of studies: US235.000.              construction with IDB funds
Irrigation Works            6 feasibility studies for rehabilitation and  Done   65% constructed
construction of irrigation schemes (15.265
ha). Cost of studies: US$276.000
17



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
Table 7: Project Costs
Appraisal E                            cti mateUS$M 4 (1   Actual/atest Est.  Actua/ApprisalEst.; 
Item               Local; Foreign i Tol         Local 1 AForeigan  TItal    Lcal   Foeign   tal
Costs    Costs               Csts     Costs               Csits    Costs
1. Productive Infrastructure  234.4     80.9     315.3     28.6      13.5      42.1      12.2     16.7      13.4
*  Drainage                   20.5       6.8      27.3      5.8       1.9      7.7       28.3     27.9    28.2%
*  Rural Roads                98.7      17.8     116.5      2.6       0.5      3.1       2.6       2.9      2.7%
*  Electrification            37.0      22.3      59.3      12.6      7.7      20.3      34.1     34.5    34.2%
*  Irrigation                 76.9      33.9     110.8      7.6       3.4      11.0      9.9       10.0     9.9%
*  Fisheries                   1.3       0.2      1.5        0        0         0         0         0        0%
2. Support Services
*  Plant & Animal Health       7.5       9.4      16.9      5.3       6.7      12.0      70.6     71.3    71.0%
3. Cadastre
*  Cadastre                   63.2      21.1      84.3     13.1       4.4      17.5      20.7     20.9    20.8%
4. Credit
*  Credit                     317.1    105.7    422.8      76.5      25.5     102.0     24.1      24.1    24.1%
5. Financial Restructuring of
Public Credit Institut.     54.1       0       54.1       0         0         0        0         -        0%
6. Institution Strengthening   0.8       5.7      6.5       4.1      29.2      33.3      512      512      512%
TOTAL                        677.2    222.8    900.0    127.6       79.3     206.9      18.8     35.6    23.0%
75%      25%       100%      62%      38%       100%      82%      18%
Based on Table 4b, Annex 4. Staff Appraisal Report
18



Tablc 8: Project Financinig
(US$ mllillioll)
Govcrnimlcnit             Inter-Aiiiericaii            Wol-kd Bank              T'otal                     @
Dcvelolpmmii t l3aiik(
Ainioiiiil                 Amiiouinit        %         Amioioit         %          Aiotiot                      ..
I1. Appraisal Estimate                                                                                       -          _
1. 1'roductive infraslrudcturc       10.7          25.'I         16.8          39.9          14.7          34.9         42.1
Drainiage                           2.1          27.3           4.0          51.2           1.6          20.8           7.7                      s:
Rural Roads                         2.2           71.0          0.8          26.0           0.1           3.0           3.1
ELlectrification                    3.2           15.8          11.9         58.6           5.2          25.6          20.3
Irrigation                          3.2           29.1           0             0            7.8          70.9          11.0
Fisheries                                                                                    
2. Support Services
I'lant and Animal 1ecalth           2.8          23.3           8.9          74.2          0.3           2.5           12.0
3. Cadastre                           4.2           24.0          12.0          68.6          1.3           7.4           17.5
4. Credit                             56.4          55.3          26.0          25.5          19.6          19.2         102.0
5. FIinancial Restr-uct. Credlit Insl.
6. Institutionial Strengtlenlinlg     0.8           2.4           2.3           6.9           30.2          90.7         33.3
Total                                   74.9          36.2          66.0          31.9         66.1          31.9          206.9



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Section  Covenant Present    Original      Revised        Description of           Comments
type    status   fulfillment   fulfillment       covenant
date         date
Loan        3.01(a)      10       NC                    -          To ca-ry the project with  -Borrower has failed to
Agreement                                                          due diligence and in    maintain compliance
conformity with approp.  with several items of
agric., financial & admin. conditionality. Second &
practices Provide funds &  third tranches of credit
other resources.       component canceled
3.01(b)     03        CP                              The Borrower shall enter  - Complied with
3.01(c)                                               with project entities and   partially. Funds were not
FCA (credit) into contract available as expected
arrangements and make
funds available
3.01(d)     10        C                               The Borrower shall      - Complied with
3.01 (e)                                              exercise its rights
3.01 (f)                                              w/project entities and
carry out programs
3.02        03       C      -             -           Procurement shall be    - Complied with
governed by Schedule 4
3.03         05      C      -             -           Government cause FCA   - Complied with
to notify upon suspen. or
temi ination of elegib.IFI
3.04 (i),    05      C      -             -           Several regulations     - Complied with
(ii), (iii)                                           regarding Subprojects to
be financed (credit comp
3.05 (i),    09      C      -             -           Submission of progress   - Complied with
(ii)                                                  reports, implementation
3.06 (a)                                              reviews and pari-passu
requirements
4.01 (a),    01      C                                Each project entity and    - Complied with
4.01 (b)                                              FCA maintain separate
(i) and                                               accounts. FCA financial
(ii)                                                  statements and audits
Loan        Part A.l.    01       C                                Before effectiveness two  - Complied with
Agreement                                                          phased plans to bring
Schedule 5                                                         milk &sugar prices in line
with internat. level
Part A.2.    10      C                                Maintain previous plans  - Complied with.
to A.8.                                               Eliminate license requir,  Arbitrary misuse of
put into effect stabilizat.  health permits for import
plans for 6 commodities,  has been reported
implement agreed import
tariff structure and health
permits with few agreed
exceptions
Part B.1    10        C     07/01/93      -           Bring fertilizer prices to   -Complied with
B.4.                        12/31/92                  opportunity cost level and
maintain adjustment
criteria
Part B.2.    10      C      -several      -           Eliminate within two    - Complied with
B.3 (a),                                              years all mandatory
20



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
Section  Covenant Present    Original       Revised         Description of            Comments
type     status    fulfillment   fulfillment       covenant
date         date
(b), (c).                                               administrative minimun
producer prices for agr.
commodities
Part B.5.    10       CD    -              -            To agree on irrigation  - Complied after delay
sector policy (cost recov,  when it was too late for
selection criteria, etc.)    implement component
Part B.6.    10       NC    -              -            To limit # and grade of   - Selected retail fooSl
food items subject to   items are subject to pri4
nominal retail food price  control
control and elirninate
them later
Part C. 1.    10      C      - several     -            Several steps aiming for  - Complied with after
C.2. (a)              CD                                divestment of ownership  some delays
and (b),                                                and/or control of storage
C.3.,C.4.,                                              facilities; limit rol of
C.5.,C.6.                                               CASA & eliminate
(a), (b)                                                purchasing & export
monopoly FONCAFE &
FONCACAO
Part D       10       C                                 Increase maximum rate   - Complied with
allowed to unable &
encourage IFIs to approve
subloans
Part E       10       C                                 To carry a study in     - Complied with
(a), (b)                                                alternatives (titling) and
execute recommnendation
to permit Agr. Reform
farmers to have access to
credit
Part F      10        C                                 Furnish to Bank annual   - Complied with
training programs
Part G      10        C      -             -            FCA to furnish to Bank   - Complied with
annual training programs
Covenant types:
1. =  Account/Audits
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from     8. = Indigenous people
beneficiaries                                    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds            10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4. =  Counterpart funding                              11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing          allocation
agency                                          12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
6. =  Environmental covenants                                 action
7. =  Involuntary resettlement                         13. = Other
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP =  complied with partially
NC =  not complied with
21



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
StatemnStt Number a Ttle                      onlcof cpae
OD 4.00 - Environmental policies
OP 10.02 - Financial Management          Financial aspects were not fully complied with.
Poor internal controls in DRI's accounting
system and insufficient monitoring resulted in
delays and inaccurate reports.
22



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
Table I1: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned          Revised            Actual
Stage of              __       
Project Cycle             Weeks   US$   Weeks   US$   Weeks    US$|
Preparation to Appraisal                        -                 -      16.3    48.442
Appraisal                                       -                 -      52.1    123.288
Negotiations through Board Approval         -                     -      23.1    56.419
Supervision                                                             200.2   509.853
Completion                                      -                 -      25.4    52.699
TOTAL                                                                  317.0   780.701
23



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of'        Monb          f         Dy  .         SaYkls        Ipeet ooie                   Tps
reojet cycle        Yer       Pros          Fed         RersitdPolm
_  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                       j _ _ S t a t u s   O bje ctiv e\
Throgh Appraisal
Preparation (FY 90)   7/91        6          11            E,E                                             _ -
Preparation (FY91)    7/92        12         56.5          E,E,E                                           _
Total Preparation             18          67.5
Appraisal through
Board Approval
FY 1992               12/92       5          22            E,E,E                                                  ll
Supervision 1         02/92      4           10            EEOW                 NR           NR 1
Supervision 2         06/92      4           9             EEEnC                 1            I
Supervision 3         08/92       3          13            WEI                   -            -
Supervision 4         10/92       2          10            E F                   2            1           2,3
Supervision 5         11/92       1          5             W                     -            -             -
Supervision 6         03/93       1          9             W                     -            -             -
Supervision 7         04/93       3          11            EWA                   2            1            2,3
Supervision S         06/93       6          11            EEEWFA                2            2            2,3
Supervision 9         09/93       3          5             E W En                2            2            2,3
Supervision 10        12/93       1          5             C                     -            -             -
Supervision 11        01/94       1          5             W                     _
Supervision 12        04/94       3          4             E A                   -            -             -
Supervision 13        08/94       1          8             E                     3            2            2,3
Supervision 14        10/94       2          9             E F                   3            2            2,3
Supervision 15        03/95       4          9             ELOW                  3            2            2,3
Supervision 16        05/95       1          2             E                     3            2            2,3
Supervision 17        08/95       3          8             E WA                  3            2            2,3
Supervision 18        03/96       1          4             E                     3            2            2,3
Supervision 19        04/97       2          5             E M                   3            3            2,3
Supervision 20        05/98       1          5             N                     3            3            2,3
Completion            06/98       2          5             E F                   3            3            2,3
Il    .Total Project   I _ _   71              243                                                                   l
Skills Represented:                                                       Types of Problems
E = Economist                                                              I = Financial
N = Engineer                                                               2 = Managerial/Administrative
A = Agronomist                                                             3 = Institutional/Governmental
I  Institutional Development Specialist
F = Financial Analyst                                                      Performance Ratings
I = Highly Satisfactory
0 = Operations Analyst                                                     2 = Satisfactory
W = Water Institutional Development Specialist                             3 = Unsatisfactory
C   Credit Specialist
En = Environment Specialist
M = Marketing Specialist
24



Mission's Aide Memoire
VENEZUELA
Agricultural Sector Investment Project
Loan 3420-VE
PROJECT COMPLETION MISSION
Aide Memoire
1.    A mission composed of Jonathan Parker, Task Manager, and Juan Morelli, FAO
Consultant, visited Caracas during the week of June 15-19, 1998 to gather information to
prepare the Implementation Completion Report for this project. The Mission interviewed
current management, and where possible previous management and staff associated with the
Project. Meetings were also held with KPMG Alcaraz Cabrera Vazquez (the project's
independent auditors), Interamerican Development Bank (cofinancier) and the Interamerican
Institute for Agricultural Cooperation (financial and administrative agent for institutional
development component). The Mission would like to express its appreciation to the Minister
of Agriculture and the staff and management of the Project Unit (O.E.P.F.I) for their
cooperation and support.
Initial Conclusions
2.    Annex One (attached) provides the Mission's initial summary evaluation of the
Project. The overall assessment of the Project's outcome is deficient, due to the long delay
in start up, and the disbursement of only 23% of the original loan amount after a two year
extension of the closing date. Almost all disbursements other than for the credit component
took place in the last two years. Thus despite these recent accomplishments, which related
primarily to two new components (Census and Sucre Reconstruction), the Project
accomplished very little of its original physical objectives.
3.    In general the Project had a negligible achievement of its physical objectives and
only achieved partially its sector, financial and institutional, and public sector objectives. It
is acknowledged however that with more time and determination, Government may in fact
achieve more than this after loan closing. IDB is continuing to finance several of the
project components for another 18 months, but a change in administration next year makes
Government's continuing commitment to project objectives uncertain. The sustainability of
the Project's achievements are uncertain at this time.
4.    The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal was judged
deficient, as the Project was obviously over-dimensioned for the capability of the Borrower
to implement it. Supervision by the Bank, which was for the most part timely and flexible in
responding to the Borrower's changing needs, was satisfactory. Borrower's performance
25



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
was judged by the mission, and confirmed with IDB, to be overall deficient, though
implementation performance improved dramatically during the last two years. A summary
of the Mission's evaluation of each project component is also included in tabular form in
Annex One.
Key Lessons Learned
5.    Initially this loan/project was prepared as a fast disbursing policy based loan, but was
changed to an investment project at negotiations. To be successful, a loan instrument must'
be consistent with its objectives. A substantial portion of the investnents that are to be
financed must be clearly identified and the preparation work well advanced before
negotiations, otherwise there will be long delays (in this case almost three years) in
implementation. The size of the loan/project must also be matched to the implementation
capacity of the Borrower. Continuing changes in local project management (6 ministers and
6 project managers in six years) severely handicap implementation. In situations such as
this, the Bank's supervision should stress flexibility in dealing with the Borrower's changing
needs.
Borrower's Contribution
6.    In order to complete this ICR as scheduled, the Bank will neeed to receive the
Borrower's contribution by August 31, 1998. A proposed outline of the Borrower's Final
Evaluation Report, to be included as an annex to the ICR, is included in the Attached Annex
Two. Also in Annex Two are: a proposed outline for the Borrower's Operational Plan and a
listing of the Operational Statistics the Bank needs to complete the ICR.
Independent Audit
7.    The Mission met with KPMG Auditors and discussed the results of the 1996 audit
report. The Mission was told that the delay was primarily due to a poor accounting system
which required a reconciliation of accounts to produce the proper financial statements. The
final report with clean opinions will be issued by the end of June. Work on the 1997 audit
report will begin immediately, and take about three months to complete. The Mission
recommended that IPMG's contract be extended to include 1998 as well. The auditors
confirmed that O.E.P.F.I. was completing the overhaul of its accounting system with
improved software and plan of accounts. This should make the completion of financial
statements more timely.
26



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
Disbursements
8.    In order to respond to the Minister of Finance's request to submit disbursement
requests after the Closing Date, the Mission advised O.E.P.F.I. to provide a chronogram of
payment requests by Category and amount.
June 17, 1998
27



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
ANNEX 1. Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives       Substantial            Partial           Negligible      Not Applicable
Sector policies                          OE                                                         E El
Financial objectives                     D                   i "                  D                 O
Institutional development                                   E l v/      _         O                 [ L
Physical objectives                                          O                                    O
Poverty reduction                        I]                   Ol                  O               3/
Gender issues                            I]                   O                   O         
Other social objectives                  O                    O                   3
Environmental objectives                  ]                                       O                 ] /
Public sector management                 O                  E  V                  El 
Private sector developmnt                E]                   Li                   v                        I
B. Proiect sustainabhilitv                   Likely                     Unlikeiv               Uncertain
___O__'_---'_ L---l                                                                                 '/
C. Bank oerfornance                    Highiv satisfactorv            Satisfactorv             Deficient
Identification                                 O                                                7.__
Preparation assistance                         O                          a                         /
Appraisal                                      El                         O                       f
Supervision                                    O                         WVO
D. Borrow%er Performance               Highlv satisfactorv            Satisfactorv             Deficien
Preparation                                    E                                                 - ,1
Implementation                                 O                          O El
Covenant compliance                            O                          O                      1 
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome          [       4ihlrv           Satisfactor        DeficientHi
satisfactorv                             .unatisfactorv
L                 g                   O               GV O28



ANEXO  1.T'labla 2: ltesuaineii tic resiltituloes tdel lI'T'SA por coillpoilCieC                                                `
Comnponente  Logro tic Objetivos                Factorcs que afectaroii la imnplemeintaci6ii                      Sustentabilidad esperada
Crddito         I'oco signilicalivo.     Marco Politico poco prol)icio para reforinas. La direcci6n y     Improbable. Al cierre, FCA no logr6 ser
Persisten aiin ci'ddilos   administraci6n de FCA no apoya las reformas y se observa      elegible para desembolso del 2o. y 3er. tramo y
agricolas c/subsidios.   reducida capacidad inistilucional.                              es poco eficienite (relaci6n subprds/costos FCA)
Canmiinos        Parcial. Se alcanz6     Procedimnientos adminiistrativos lentos, escasa e inoportuna     Probable en caminos construidos, improbable
rurales         20% de inetas fisicas y  asignaci6n de recursos y miala coordinaci6n caite coejectiores    en coniiinuidad del programa para nuevos
50% para 1999 c/BID   (MTlC y MAC-OIIFI)_                                               caminios
Riego          I'oco significalivo. Se   Malco tlolilico poco propicio para reformas. IFalia de trabajo de   Probable. Se observan cambios t6cnico-
alcanz6 1% (IC elas    preparaci6n pievio, capacidad tecinica y coniprojiniso/capacidad   institucioniales y filos6ficos positivos: 5
fisicas, pero se adoplan  institicional (lel coejeculor (D)IA-MAC) inexistenite. Metas   sistemas transferidos y plan operativo incorpora
objctivos inilovadoies   sobreditnensionadas para capacidad exisleine                    enfoque propiciado por el proyecto)          -
Riego Sucre     Significativo            Subcoimpoiiclc nio prrovisto et) SAR. RehabiliRacion ejecutlada    Irobable si obras son tranisferidas a usuarios
________________ Objetivo cuinplido     eni respuesta a terrenioto. DIA-MAC iitestra nueva dinaimica    con asistencia tdcnica  el      c      en
Drenaje        Parcial, avanlsc de 50%   Falta do capacidad instituciolaal (IAN y luego DIA-MAC)         Baja por inicutiiplimilienito de condicionantes de      %
el)n metas, pero sill   Nueva dinAmica enl i'ltiiinos ails por cainbios dcl responsables    capacitaci6n a tuniojies de usuarios y posterior     8
transkrcncia a usuarios cei DIA                                                         transferencia de obras construidas
Catastro         Parcial. solo se lha    Falta de capacidaid inistituicionial (DC-MAC), alia rowaci6n (le  Baja por no culhinaci6n y financiamiento
realizado la etapa de    persoial y desacuier-dos enlre l'restatario y Bauco en gerencia    incierto de etapas siguientes que incluyen:
J_ots aercas            del componente                                                   deliritaci6n y fitulaci6n de tierras
lecirifPcaci6,i  I'arcial, avanice 4% y      Ialta dc Irabajo de preparaci6n denior6 inicio de ejecuci6n y  Probable por incorporaci6n de criterios de ev.
rural           nejoras nctodof6gicas  reducida disponibilidad do rocursos iinpidi6 cumpfir iictas       ecolnoica y poplanes de privatizaci6n
Sanidad animal  13arcial. Metas lisicas    Inestabilidad institucional, falta (do hiabajo de preparaci6n previo  Probable si se instiumilenita capacitaci6n
y vcgclid        avauzando con 1311)     y de asignaciOn} stiiciente dIl l-Cciusos
I'esca          Insigniricante           No se dispuso de los estudios de flictibilidad y clisenos       No aplica
Fortalecieniicno  Parcial. Bue avanice    Bajas remsluneiaiones y alla rolaci6n de persoinial a capacitar  IProbable si plales de reestructuraci6n del MAC
liistitwciolial  pero inipacto a(in      rediujeloro  inipacto. Conwiiitiidad de personal eni fortalecimienito   es instrmiientado.
iniel loh               y at11o1(110111 Ii.lci iuaice il kOIgrada penn i11fier  buena dimicni.
Ceniso Agricola  Signiticativo           Subcomponente nio previsto en SAIt. Deniloras atribuibles a    Probable si las rases A y B son completadas
administraci6n peruo privatizaci6n dle eJCuCi6n faciflt6 avanice    _____________________________
Reibri as de    Salislactolio. hIAego de  Condicionalidades relacionadas con relormas miuy anibiciosas    Iiicieiio, pOr cl'isis sociOeColn6mIica, Ilievas
politicas       retrocesos se este       Inestabilidad politica-inistitucional entre 1992-93. Cailbios de    clecciones y posible Gobierno populista
ag~ricolas      avnvanZaiido en relormas  (Gobierno y ecrisis socioelo6emicas indujeron re=rocesos_



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
ANNEXTWO
Borrower's Contributions to the ICR
1.    A Final Evaluation report (FER) for the Project should be prepared by O.E.P.F.L
and provided to the Bank by August 31, 1998. If the report is ten pages or less, it will be
included as an Annex to the Bank's ICR. If the report is longer than this it should have a
summary of less than ten pages, which would be included in the ICR instead.
The FER should include the following:
(a)   An assessment of the Project's original objectives and design,
implementation and operation experience.
(b)   An assessment of project results and major factors affecting outcomes.
(c)   An evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and
implementation of the Project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may
be relevant in the future.
(d)   An evaluation of the performance of the Bank and any cofinanciers during
the evolution and implementation of the Project, including the effectiveness of the
relationship among the borrower, the Bank and cofinanciers, with special emphasis
on lessons learned.
2.    An Operational Plan for sustaining the benefits and accomplishments of the
Project should be prepared by O.E.P.F.I. and provided to the Bank by August 31, 1998.
The Plan should include, among others, the following:
(a)   The Borrower's plan for restructuring the Ministry of Agriculture.
(b)   O.E.P.F.I.'s plan for improving its accounting and control systems for
project management.
(c)   The Borrower's plan for privatization of grain storage facilities.
(d)   MAG's plan to complete the second phase of the agricultural census.
(e)   MAG's plan, if any, to complete the land delimitation and titling objectives
in the original project.
30



Venezuela: Agricultural Sector Investment Project
(f)    Borrower's plan for making rural electric services sustainable including the
possible privatization of some CADAFE services.
(g)   MAG's plans for transfering ownership and responsibility for maintenance
of: (i) the Sucre irrigation and drainage works to their beneficiaries; (ii) rural roads
to municipalities.
(h)   MAG's plans for continuing sector policy reforms: BID financed study to
evaluate impact of protection measures and recommend actions.
3.    Operational Statistics needed to complete the ICR are listed in the Bank's Letter
of May 29, 1998. This information should be provided to the Bank by August 31. 1998,
and are listed below:
(a)    Key indicators for project implementation and operation;
(b)    Studies included in the Project, purpose, status, and impact;
(c)   Project costs including appraisal estimates, restructured costs, and current
estimate for completion (1999);
(d)   Project financing, including appraisal estimate (same as C above)
Additionally it is recommended that O.E.P.F.I. undertake an economic and financial re-
evaluation of selected (representative) subprojects in various sectors, such as credit
(subjoins), rural roads, rural electrification, etc.
*31



Borrower's Contribution to the
MINISTERIO DE AGRICULTURA Y CRIA
OIRECrUON GENERAL SECTORAL OFICINA EJECUTORA DE
PROYICTOS CON FINANCJAIIENTO INTERNACIONAL
O.LP.F.I
DGSOEPPO_ 0  86
Ciudadano                                                          4     TCaracas,    14  C.  1998
Jonathan Parker
Task Manager Proyecto PITSA
Banco Mundial
Presente.
Como alcance al oficio N 715 de fecha 04/09/98, tengo el agrado de dirigirme a usted en la
oportunidad de enviarle anexo para su consideraci6n, el Informe Final de Evaluaci6n (IF-),
correspondiente al Plan de Inversiones para la Transformaci6n del Sector Agropecuano
(PITSA), con algunas correcciones menores reali7as al documento enviado en la fecha antes
referida y que serviran para una mejor comprension del documento eiaborado.
Sin otro particular al cual hacer referencia, quedo de usted.
At met 
Director General SF nal OEPF   .  -,
Anexo lo indicado
LAP/rds
MundialO.doc
32



Informe Final de Cierre del Proyecto
Plan de Inversiones para la Transformaci6n del Sector Agropecuario
(PITSA) (BIRF 3420 - VE)
A.- Antecedentes
El Plan de Inversiones para ia Transformaci6n del Sector Agropecuario (PITSA), fue aprobado en Gaceta
Oficial a travds de una Ley Programa de fecha 30 de diciembre de 1991; estimandose en esa Ley una
ejecuci6n durante el periodo comprendido entre el momento de promulgaci6n de la Ley hasta el 31 de
diciembre de 1995.
Se aprob6 un financiamiento proveniente de las siguientes fuentes:
*  Prestamo otorgado por el Banco Intemacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento (Banco Mundial) hasta por un
monto de Trescientos Millones de D6lares Americanos (US $ 300.000.000).
*  Prestamo otorgado por el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID) hasta por un monto de Trescientos
Millones de D6lares Americanos (US $ 300.000.000) y un aporte local hasta por un monto de
Trescientos Millones de Dolares Americanos (US $ 300.000.000), para un total de Novecientos
Millones de Dolares Americanos (US $ 900.000.000).
Aun cuando es aprobado por la Rep6blica de Venezuela en diciembre de 1991, no es sino (2) dos meses
despues (26/02/92) cuando se firma el contrato y (6) seis meses despues (26/06/98) se aprueba la elegibilidad
del prestamo con el Banco Mundial, previa aprobaci6n de las condiciones de efectividad, especialmente las
referidas a las poifticas de reformas, efectuandose el primer desembolso casi un ano despues de haberse
aprobado el Prestamo, es deciren fecha 02/12/92.
Con el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo, se firma el contrato 696 - OCNE en fecha 18/12192, aprobandose
la elegibilidad el 01/12/93 y el primer desembolso se realiz6 casi (2) dos anos despues de la aprobaci6n del
Prestamo y mas de uno de la firma de este contrato, en fecha 24/12/93.
B.- Descripci6n del Proyecto, lmplementaci6n y Sostenibilidad
B.1 Descripci6n y Objetivos del Proyecto
La ejecuci6n del Programa PITSA contempl6 como objetivo general aumentar la eficiencia del sector
agropecuario y proporcionar una base estable de crecimiento econ6mico sostenido, a traves de sus
componentes de inversi6n publica, el cual ayudarfa a disminuir los costos de producci6n, contribuyendo
a incrementar ia productividad agricola y la capacidad de exportaci6n.
Incrementar la disponibilidad del credito y el fortalecimiento institucional, este ultimo para contribuir a
fortalecer la capacidad analitica del Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria y organismos adscritos, creando un
marco adecuado para la formulaci6n de politicas sectoriales.
Todo este Proyecto, se desarrollaria para apoyar un ambiente de reformas de politicas tendientes a
fortalecer el sector agricola y eliminar en gran medida las distorsiones presentadas en el sector.
En general, se buscaba compatibilizar las reforrnas estructurales iniciadas en el pais en 1989, buscando
como lo estableci6 el Octavo Plan de ia Naci6n, 'crear un ambiente propicio para la diversificaci6n
econ6mica y para el logro de altos niveles de inversi6n privada, mediante reformas de politicas e
institucionales" (BID, 1992').
'Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo. Informe del Provecto PITSA
33



El Proyecto se conform6 por los tres componentes antes mencionadas de Inversion Publica, Credito y
Fortalecimiento Institucional, que se estimaron inicialmente dentro de la matriz de gastos con el Banco
Mundial en US $ 300 miliones, incluyendo la categoria sin asignar.
Aunque inicialmente se estim6 como fecha de cierre del Prestamo con el Banco Mundial el 30 de junio de
1996, en marzo de ese mismo ano el Banco aprob6 una primera extensi6n por (18) meses hasta
diciembre de 1997 y posteriormente, como parte de un programa especial para atender dos proyectos
puntuales; el VI Censo Nacional Agricola y el Plan de Emergencia en el estado Sucre (como consecuencia
del terremoto), se extendi6 la fecha del cierre del prestamo, en primera instancia al 30 de abril de 1998 y
finalmente hasta el 19 de junio de este mismo ano, esta ultima prorroga para atender trabajos menores no
culminados para finales de abril.
B.2.- Implementacion y Sostenibilidad del Proyecto
1) Obras de Riego
Los objetivos alcanzados con este componente fueron poco significativos con relacion a las metas
propuestas inicialmente, ya que se alcanzaron a rehabilitar 609 hectareas de 2.458 estimadas, es decir,
s6lo un 25 % y se culminaron (7) estudios para la rehabilitacion y consolidaci6n de los sistemas de
riego en el pals.
Una de las razones principales de la baja ejecuci6n de este componente, fue el inicio del Programa sin
disponer de los estudios respectivos. De igual forma, se evidenci6 durante la vigencia del Programa
una falta de capacidad tecnica e institucional del coejecutor (Direcci6n General de Infraestructura
Agricola), a pesar de que a partir de 1992 se cont6 con el apoyo tecnico del "Bureau of Reclamation", al
cabo de la finalizaci6n de esta consultoria, no se avanz6 lo suficiente en cuanto a la ejecuci6n de obras
o culminaci6n exitosa de las primeras licitaciones, las cuales no se iniciaron sino hasta 1996.
Los logros positivos a resaltar son la adopci6n de procedimientos operacionales, asf como la
elaboracion de un Plan Nacional de Riego y Saneamiento de Tierras, a traves del financiamiento del
Programa de Fortalecimiento Institucional, el cual servira de base para [as inversiones futuras a
realizar.
Este estudio incluye un plan completo a mediano y largo plazo de las condiciones de casi todos los
sistemas de riego existentes, tanto publicos como privados, asi como recomendaciones para la
transferencia a los usuarios del mantenimiento y operaci6n de los sistemas, la cual se inici6 en el a no
1997, habiendose transferido a ia fecha los sistemas de riego Guanare (estado Portuguesa), Guanapito
(estado Guarico), Taiguaiguay (estado Aragua), Bocon6 y Santo Domingo, ambos en el estado
Barinas.
2) Obras de Drenaje
Dentro de este componente se alcanz6 a eiecutar financieramente con recursos del Banco Mundial v
aporte local US $ 1,6 millones, equivalente a una meta fisica de 11.884 hectareas saneadas.
Sin embargo, bajo el financiamiento del BID y la contraparte local se han alcanzado a ejecutar 33.210
hectareas mas y actualmente se estan ejecutando 11.577 hectareas, con lo cual se habra alcanzado al
final del programa aproximadamente 40.066 hectareas saneadas, que representa un 69 % con respecto
a las metas totales del Programa previstas inicialmente.
Asimismo, se alcanz6 a realizar (76) estudios (subproyectos), de los cuales fueron financiados (14) con
recursos del Banco Mundial, el resto se financi6 con recursos nacionales.
Inicialmente, el Instituto Agrario Nacional (IAN) fue el designado como coejecutor del subcomponente,
No obstante, en 1993 ante una reestructuracion del Instituto, la Direcci6n General de Infraestructura
Agricola del MAC se encarga de las responsabilidades del componente, por lo que se retras6 el inicio
34



de la ejecuci6n del Programa; los continuos cambios del personal tecnico y directivo contribuyen de
igual forna para que no se iniciasen, sino hasta 1995, las primeras licitaciones y contrataciones de
obras.
A partir del aho 1996, luego de la reformulacifn del prestamo, s6lo se ha contado con los recursos
aportados por el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo y ia contribuci6n local para ejecutar las obras y
estudios respectivos. Durante esta ejecuci6n, se ha podido demostrar la capacidad tecnica del
componente para realizar licitaciones y culminar las obras exitosamente y en plazos reducidos.
La sostenibilidad esperada de las inversiones realizadas es poco probable, dado que los objetivos
iniciales planteados a trav6s de la organizaci6n de usuarios y posterior transferencia de las obras, no se
han podido alcanzar, debido a la falta de interes por parte de los usuarios, la poca influencia de las
autoridades regionales del MAC en las zonas de influencia de los subproyectos, asi como los
constantes cambios en la tenencia de la tierra.
Actualmente, se estan realizando gestiones a traves del CONARSAT (Comisi6n Nacional de Tierras y
Saneamiento de Tierras) para organizar e instruir a los usuarios de las tierras objeto de saneamiento de
los proyectos en ejecuci6n en 1998 (en los estados Delta Amacuro y Zulia), para asegurar el
mantenimiento de las obras en buenas condiciones.
3) Catastro Rural
A pesar de lo valioso de los objetivos previstos en este componente, los alcances con respecto a las
metas originales s6lo alcanzaron financieramente a US $ 1,3 millones. Ademas de los problemas
iniciales de tipo tecnico esbozados por el Banco Mundial para el inicio de las actividades del
componente hasta 1995 y el anuncio del Banco Mundial de financiar s6lo los bienes y servicios del
Proyecto hasta diciembre de 1997 (fecha de cierre), trajo como consecuencia la no- ejecuci6n de las
actividades que se previeron en el Plan Anual de Inversiones 1997 (PAI), que se estimaron en US $
50,0 millones, incluyendo la ejecuci6n de actividades durante el primer semestre del ano 1998.
Asimismo, la capacidad tecnica del componente ha significado retrasos importantes en la ejecuci6n de
las actividades previstas tanto con recursos del Banco Mundial como del resto del financiamiento, por
lo que aun cuando en estos momentos se estan desarrollando los procesos de tomas de imagenes, la
dinamica de los mismos no ha sido la esperada para alcanzar el total de las metas previstas en el
tiempo restante del Programa.
A traves del financiamiento del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo y el correspondiente aporte
nacional, se esta realizando desde 1996 una cobertura catastral de 31.000.000 de hectareas, a traves
del proceso de Toma y Producci6n de Im6genes Ortorectificadas Digitalizadas (Ortofotomapas), de las
cuales se han ejecutado a la fecha aproximadamente un 23% y en ejecuci6n el monto restante, por lo
que en terminos de la elaboraci6n de los mapas catastrales, para 1999 se deben alcanzar un 35%
adicional de las metas iniciaies, es decir 18.000.000 de hectareas mas.
Entre tanto, para la fecha del presente informe se esta desarrollando un proceso de precalificaci6n de
empresas para llevar a cabo la Identificaci6n Predial en cinco (5) estados, a saber: Barinas, Guarico,
Portuguesa, Yaracuy y Zulia sobre una superficie de un mill6n de hectareas (1.000.000 has.).
Dentro de la extensi6n lograda con el Banco Mundial para ejecutar algunos proyectos puntuales hasta
abril de 1998, se adquirieron (50) vehiculos para apoyar la gesti6n tecnica de operaci6n y supervisi6n
de los procesos de agrimensura legal e identificaci6n predial a ser ejecutados por este componente.
Para el ahio 1999, se cuenta hasta el momento con recursos provenientes del financiamiento con el
BID por aproximadamente US $ 8,2 millones, los cuales se dirigiran en su mayoria a la ejecuci6n de
una mayor superficie de la ldentificaci6n Predial.
En cuanto a la sostenibilidad, el alcance del resto de las metas propuestas, la cobertura de la
Identificaci6n Predial y la adjudicaci6n de titulos de propiedad, dependeran de la culminaci6n de las
actividades catastrales ya adelantadas por el componente Catastro Rural.
35



Por lo que se estima, que si bien es cierto que existe una gran probabilidad de alcanzar e incluso
superar las metas previstas inicialmente en cuanto a la elaboraci6n de los mapas de base y catastrales,
la identificaci6n predial y la elaboraci6n de los titulos definitivos necesitaran de un periodo que abarca
mas alla del estimado para la culminaci6n del Programa con el BID, es decir, a diciembre de 1999.
4) Vialidad Agricola
Los objetivos alcanzados a traves de este componente con el financiamiento del Banco Mundial, fueron
muy deficientes, ya que s6lo se alcanzo a ejecutar un 3% de las metas reformuladas de 1.000
kilometros de rehabilitaci6n de carreteras y un monto de US $ 16.300.
Al igual que en otros componentes, el inicio de la ejecuci6n se vio retrasado por no contar co ios
estudios para llevar a cabo los procesos licitatorios y posterior ejecuci6n de las obras.
Adicionalmente, la falta de capacidad tecnica en el componente durante los inicios del Programa y la
faita de definici6n de las autoridades del Proyecto en cuanto a la facultad del Ministerio de Transporte y
Comunicaciones o el de Agricultura y Cria para ejecutar las obras, produjo una paralizacion de este
componente por mas de dos ahos, lo cual provoc6 la decisi6n del Banco Mundial de no continuar con el
financiamiento del componente, durante la reprogramaci6n de 1996.
En el ano 1997, se logr6 culminar las primeras obras despues de ahos de paralizaci6n, y a la fecha de
elaboraci6n de este informe se han rehabilitado 67 kil6metros de vias agricolas, incluyendo los
ejecutados con el financiamiento del Banco Mundial y actualmente se ejecutan 427 kil6metros con
financiamiento del BID, aportes del Gobierno Central y de las Gobernaciones, quedando programados
para la ejecuci6n hasta la finalizaci6n del Programa aproximadamente 300 kil6metros adicionales.
Con lo que se alcanzarfa a ejecutar aproximadamente 790 kil6metros, es decir un 79% de las metas
reprogramadas y un 28% de las metas iniciales, lo que refleja que de haberse contado a tiempo con los
recursos de contraparte local en el inicio del Programa, de haberse planificado mejor la elaboraci6n de
los estudios y una mejor gerencia del Proyecto, se podrian haber superado las metas iniciales, dadas
las cantidades de necesidades en materia de Vialidad Agricola en el pais.
La continuidad de las operaciones de mantenimiento y operaciones de las vias rehabilitadas depende
por el momento del Ministerio de Transporte y Comunicaciones. Hacia el futuro, esta planteado el
traspaso a los gobiemos locales y regionales de estas actividades, asi como ia construcci6n de nuevas
vias.
5) Sanidad Animal y Vegetal
El financiamiento del Banco alcanz6 solamente a realizar las dotaciones de los laboratorios de
diagn6stico fito y zoosanitario, debido a la reprogramaci6n del aho 1996 con el Banco Mundial, el resto
de las metas fisicas se han adelantado con el financiamiento local y del Banco Interamericano de
Desarrollo, incluyendo las obras de rehabilitaci6n de (11) laboratorios regionales de diagn6stico y se
encuentran en ejecuci6n dos mas, con lo que se alcanzara a superar las metas iniciales planteadas de
(12).
Asimismo, se han comenzado a ejecutar con el financiamiento del BID la construccion de (14)
inspectorias sanitarias, (1) laboratorio de diagn6stico central y (1) laboratorio nacional de control de
insumos agropecuarios y (2) laboratorios de diagn6stico vegetal, con lo que se alcanzara para finales
de 1999 a culminar las obras civiles de (18) de las (23) construcciones planeadas inicialmente.
Al mismo tiempo, se esta avanzando en el establecimiento de una red de informatica para la
interconexi6n de todos las unidades del SASA al nivel regional. Todas estas inversiones fortaleceran a
corto plazo la emisi6n de permisos sanitarios que faciliten el comercio nacional e internacional y
generaran una capacidad de servicios mas eficientes por parte del SASA.
36



6) Electrificacion Rural
Al igual que otros subcomponentes, la falta de preparaci6n inicial de proyectos para iniciar los procesos
licitatorios retras6 de manera importante el inicio de los procesos de licitaci6n y conIlev6 a la exclusi6n
del financiamiento por parte del Banco Mundial en la reformulacion del Proyecto en 1996.
Por lo que a partir de esa fecha, se ha contado s6lo con el financiamiento del BID y de la Republica,
alcanzandose a la fecha importan.es logros cuantificados en 1.434 kil6metros de tendidos electricos,
estando en ejecuci6n 191 kil6metros mas y una meta fisica por ejecutar entre los anios 1998 y 1999 de
952 kil6metros hasta el final del programa.
Podemos decir que de los componentes de infraestructura agricola, y a pesar de un inicio muy lento
que llev6 a cumplir de manera parcial (817 kil6metros) las metas con el financiamiento del Banco
Mundial, este es el mas exitoso de los componentes de infraestructura agricola. No s6lo poro.fs
proyecciones de logro de las metas fisicas de aproximadamente 90% con respecto a las originales, si
no tambien por la gran capacidad operacional y tecnica para ia ejecuci6n con la que cuenta en este
momento la empresa CADAFE, con un personal altamente capacitado.
Adicionalmente, se han preparado a la fecha (57) estudios, y que han servido de guia para la
incorporaci6n de criterios de evaluaci6n econ6mica y financiera en todos los proyectos ejecutados por
la empresa, no s6lo aquellos correspondientes al Programa PITSA.
Los gastos de mantenimiento y operaci6n de las inversiones son realizados por CADAFE y sus
empresas filiales, estando planteado en el futuro la privatizaci6n de la empresa, por lo que de
realizarse la misma, la sostenibilidad de las inversiones dependera de estas empresas privadas.
7) Fortalecimiento Institucional
En terminos de cumplimiento de las metas fisicas alcanzadas, este componente podria considerase
exitoso, ya que se superaron significativamente las metas iniciales planteadas en terminos de horas de
consultoria y de capacitaci6n.
A traves de este componente, se lograron financiar importantes proyectos de asistencia tecnica para el
fortalecimiento del Ministerio y sus organismos adscritos, como por ejemplo el Plan Nacional de
Alimentaci6n, la reorganizaci6n del Sistema HWr6ulico Guarico - Tiznado, Proyecto de Desarrollo de la
Cuenca del Unare, los consultores a cargo de la Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto, Proyectos para el
Establecimiento de un Mercado de Mayoristas en el estado Barinas, Reestructuraci6n del MAC y el
financiamiento del Proyecto del VI Censo Nacional Agricola. Adicionalmente, se logr6 la dotaci6n de
equipos y accesorios de computaci6n para el Ministerio y organismos adscritos, incluyendo el respaido
al CIARA para el inicio del Programa de Extensi6n Agricola, cofinanciado por el Banco Mundial.
Asimismo, al momento de realizar este informe se estan realizando con financiamiento del BID, los
estudios sobre Politicas de Precios, Comercio Agricola y Desarrollo de la Capacidad Analitica del
Sector Agricola, el cual sera ejecutado por el International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI),
Balance y Perspectiva de la Politica Agropecuaria, Tenencia de la Tierra. los cuales contaran con el
apoyo tecnico del IICA, que una vez concluidos, ayudaran a determinar las areas prioritarias y de
desarrollo del sector y las politicas para los venideros anos, con lo cual se dara el cumplimiento de la
clausula referida al regimen de comercio agricola, sustentaci6n de precios y mercadeo, aun pendiente
de cumplimiento.
8) Credito
Este componente ejecut6 con el financiamiento del Banco Mundial US $ 19,6 millones, lo cual se logr6
durante los dos primeros ahos de ejecuci6n efectiva del proyecto. A partir de 1994, y como
consecuencia de ia crisis financiera que afect6 el pais, la actividad crediticia del pais estuvo casi
paralizada, por lo que este componente fue excluido del financiamiento en la reprogramaci6n realizada
en 1996 por el Banco Mundial.
37



A pesar de las reducciones establecidas en el Programa, incluyendo la de 1997 con el BID, este
componente representa la mayor proporci6n dentro de la matriz de financiamiento del programa,
alcanzando al presente un 41% del total de los gastos.
A pesar de ello, no es sino hasta julio de 1998, cuando el BID da cumplimiento a las condiciones para
acceder al segundo tramo de financiamiento de hasta US $ 40 millones, con io cual se han ejecutado a
la fecha un monto aproximado de 115,9; incluyendo US $ 56,4 de aporte local.
Asf mismo, es importante destacar las medidas de politicas adoptadas para acceder al financiamiento
de este componente (eliminaci6n de la tasa preferencial agricola y la cartera obligatoria, saneamiento
de cartera, etc), reestructuraci6n del FCA, Foncafe y Foncacao.
A pesar de ser un componente de muy rapida ejecuci6n, sus logros se vieron efectados por las
condicionantes contractuales que a lo largo del prestamo se exigieron para acceder a cada uno de los
tramos de financiamiento.
9) Pesca
Aunque la asignaci6n inicial de este componente fue de US $ 1,5 millones, para realizar trabajos de
rehabilitaci6n del muelle de Punta de Piedras en el estado Falc6n, por decisi6n del Banco ante la no-
culminacion de los terminos de referencia para la elaboraci6n de los trabajos de ingenieria, se decidi6
en marzo de 1996, con la reprogramaci6n del prestamo, la eliminaci6n de este componente, por lo que
simplemente no se alcanz6 meta alguna de las planteadas originalmente.
10) Plan de Emergencia de Sucre
Este proyecto que form6 parte especial de una excepci6n del Banco Mundial en convenimiento con la
Republica, se dirigi6 a atender y rehabilitar la infraestructura productiva de una zona del estado Sucre,
la cual fue afectada por un terremoto que desbast6 extensas zonas en julio de 1997.
A traves de la ejecuci6n del Programa se pudo rehabilitar el Sistema de Riego Caraco y otros
pequenos sistemas de riego, incluyendo el desazolve de algunos cahos, rehabilitaci6n de las obras de
vialidad agricola y de ia electrificacion rural. En total se ejecutaron aproximadamente US S 10 millones.
El Plan puede considerarse exitoso debido al alcance del mismo y al tiempo de ejecuci6n, en este
proceso se cont6 con el compromiso de todos ios entes relacionados, la "flexibilizacion" de los procesos
de procura (comparacidn de precios), con un proceso que permiti6 la incorporaci6n de un numero
significativo de empresas, asi como la capacidad tecnica de los encargados del Proyecto, lo que
permiti6 alcanzar en un gran porcentaje las metas iniciales previstas.
11) Censo Nacional Agricola
Este proyecto se considera exitoso, no s6lo por el alcance de la ejecuci6n financiera y su contribucion a
alcanzar una rapida ejecuci6n, sino que desde el punto de vista tecnico se logr6 hacer el levantamiento
de la informaci6n de campo de lo que se estima el Proyecto Estadistico Agropecuario mas importante
realizado en el pais y que fue realizado a traves del concurso de empresas prvadas.
Se recaudo la informaci6n de campo al nivel de parroquias y municipios en todos los estados del pais,
contandose con el control de calidad del Banco Central de Venezuela y la Oficina Central de
Estadisticas e Informatica, asi como el asesoramiento tecnico de la FAO, con lo que se asegur6 una
informaci6n util y confiable, que pudo realizarse debido al apoyo y la disponibilidad de los recursos
financieros del Prestamo.
C.- Resumen de los Objetivos Alcanzados e lnversi6n Efectiva del Proyecto
En terminos generales, los objetivos alcanzados dentro del financiamiento del Banco Mundial se consideran
parciales, con muy baja ejecuci6n que alcanza a la fecha una estimaci6n de US $ 66 millones, lo que
38



representa s6lo un 22% del costo del proyecto financiado con esta lnstituci6n y casi un 56% del monto
reestructurado en 1996 de US $118 millones.
Contandose con alcances satisfactorios en los componentes de Fortalecimiento Institucional y dos proyectos
iniciales no considerados en el Plan Inicial, como lo fueron las obras de Sucre y el Vy Censo Nacional Agricola,
lo que ayud6 de manera importante al logro de la ejecuci6n de aproximadamente US $ 35 millones desde junio
de 1996, incluyendo un monto de desembolsos pendiente por presentar al Banco a ia fecha, de
aproximadamente US $ 7,8 millones.
Las proyecciones de la ejecuci6n del total del Proyecto, incluyendo la contraparte del BID y aporte local,
alcanzan a un monto aproximado de US $ 315 millones, con lo que se alcanzara, en un periodo de (8) anos,
incluyendo la prorroga del BID hasta diciembre de 1999, un porcentaje cercano al 35% del Programa original
de US $ 900 millones.
A pesar de estos resultados se ha podido avanzar en materia de reformas sectoriales, institucionales, en la
provisi6n de infraestructura agricola, en la reestructuraci6n del Fondo de Credito Agropecuario, Fondo Nacional
del Cacao, Fondo Nacional del Cafe, el fortalecimiento de areas de comercio para la provisi6n de servicios
como los del SASA, culminaci6n del VI Censo Nacional Agricola, punto de partida para la utilizaci6n de
estadisticas econ6micas confiables, utiles como herramienta para la toma de decisiones y para la puesta en
marcha del Sistema de Estadisticas Continuas, son consecuencia de las inversiones hechas a traves del
Programa, que si bien es cierto se cumplieron (o se cumpliran) en algunas areas de manera parcial, tendra su
impacto en los pr6ximos anos, especialmente en las areas antes senaladas.
D.- Factores que Afectaron la Ejecuci6n del Proyecto.
Indudablemente, la complejidad del diseno del Proyecto tuvo mucho que ver con el desempeno alcanzado, la
cantidad de componentes, la estructura institucional que incluia una red interinstitucional de organizaciones, en
la cual no se consider6 la complejidad del producto con relaci6n a lo que se pretendia alcanzar, asi como el
complicado manejo administrativo de este tipo de proyecto.
La existencia de una cantidad de condicionalidades para alcanzar la elegibilidad del prestamo, que en muchas
ocasiones no podian cumplirse de manera inmediata o que dependian de acciones fuera del alcance de la
Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto.
La alta rotaci6n del personal tecnico encargado del Proyecto, de los Coordinadores y de Ministros, asi como
factores politicos externos (cambios de Presidente, crisis politica y financiera, inestabilidad econ6mica, etc).
Durante los primeros anos de ejecuci6n, se evidenci6 la falta de una gerencia adecuada del Proyecto por parte
de la Unidad Ejecutora, asi como un mayor soporte y credibilidad en el Proyecto de los Ministros a cargo.
Otro factor determinante fue la demora en la obtenci6n de ia contraparte local, de manera oportuna, los aportes
se otorgaron en forma de bonos de Ia deuda publica, de dificil y muy retrasada disponibilidad, que trajo consigo
desfases importantes de los proyectos, especialmente en las inversiones de infraestructura.
Falta de un seguimiento adecuado de parte de la Unidad Ejecutora y del Banco Mundial, para revisar
continuamente la capacidad de ejecuci6n del Proyecto en funci6n del tiempo restante para la culminaci6n del
Proyecto.
Aunque siempre se cont6 con el apoyo de los "Task Manager" a cargo del Proyecto, hubiese sido importante
contar con el personal tecnico capaz de tomar decisiones en la sede de la Representaci6n Local, la cual dio un
importante apoyo en los ultimos meses de ia ejecuci6n del Proyecto, especialmente con la coordinaci6n del
Plan de Emergencia del estado Sucre.
La escasez de "cultura" de proyectos con financiamiento multilateral por parte de otras instituciones ligadas a ia
ejecuci6n de los mismos, como el Ministerio de Hacienda, Cordiplan, Ocepre, Contraloria General de la
Republica, Congreso Nacional, etc, fue otro factor determinante en la buena marcha de los Proyectos,
especialmente durante ia elaboraci6n de los presupuestos anuales y el seguimiento de la ejecuci6n.
39



E.- Actuaci6n del Banco y del Ejecutor
E.A.- Actuaci6n del Banco
El proceso de identificaci6n del Proyecto durante la elaboraci6n lo consideramos deficiente, dada su
complejidad y el sobredimensionamiento de los alcances planteados en el informe de proyecto.
El diseno se bas6 en realidades muy diferentes durante la etapa de formulaci6n y la etapa de
ejecuci6n, por lo que falto una gerencia mas adecuada para ajustar el proyecto a objetivos realistas, en
funci6n de los retrasos que venia mostrando la ejecuci6n inicial.
Al principio del Proyecto fait6 una gerencia tecnica mas adecuada, debido a que en los componexes
como Obras de Riego y Catastro Rural, no se tuvo claro el verdadero alcance.
El Banco siempre present6 criticas a la capacidad tecnica y se sugiri6 durante mucho tiempo la
contratacion de una firma consultora intemacional para el manejo del componente Catastro Rural y no
es sino hasta marzo de 1996, cuando el Banco acepta en forma definitiva el plan de ejecuci6n del
Programa a traves de la DGS de Catastro Rural.
En el caso de Riego, siempre se plantearon dudas con respecto a la elaboraci6n adecuada de los
estudios, lo que se tradujo en retrasos significativos en el otorgamiento de las "no objeciones."
Sin embargo, la capacidad del Banco para flexibilizar procedimientos fue satisfactoria durante la etapa
final del Proyecto, lo cual contribuy6 de manera determinante para culminar exitosamente dos
proyectos no contemplados inicialmente, como lo fueron el Plan de Emergencia de Sucre y el VI Censo
Nacional Agricola, este ultimo dentro del componente Fortalecimiento Institucional.
Durante el mes de julio de 1998, se presentaron problemas con la disponibilidad para enfrentar los
gastos de la etapa final del Proyecto, aun cuando se habia enviado con anterioridad al Banco una
solicitud del flujo de efectivo con la respectiva programacion, incluyendo los uitimos pagos del
Pr6stamo en fecha posterior al cierre del Prestamo el 19 de junio de 1998. Sin embargo, nos fue
informado a finales de julio de la imposibilidad de hacer nuevas reposiciones a la cuenta especial, por
lo que a la fecha existen compromisos-pendientes de cancelar por Bs. 1.248,5 millones
(aproximadamente US $2,2 millones), que se estan tramitando a traves de algun mecanismo que no
contravenga los procesos administrativos y procedimentales del Banco y legales de nuestro pais.
E2.- Actuaci6n del Prestatario
La actuaci6n del prestatario durante la etapa de elaboracion tecnica del proyecto y durante los primeros
anos de ejecuci6n se considera deficiente, por negociar condiciones poco realistas del proyecto, aun
conociendo las particularidades del pais y la poca o casi inexistente expenencia en la ejecuci6n de este
tipo de proyectos, asi como en comprender el sobredimensionamiento del mismo y la fa!ta de visi6n
para ajustarlo durante la ejecuci6n, a metas alcanzables en funci6n del tiempo restante para el cierre
del prbstamo.
Durante los dos ultimos ahos se hicieron esfuerzos notables en la Gerencia del Proyecto que contaron
con el apoyo de entes importantes del Gobiemo como el Ministerio de Hacienda, Congreso de la
Republica y Cordiplan, para lograr el maximo aprovechamiento de los recursos disponibles y alcanzar
parte de las metas planteadas inicialmente, que se preven alcanzar con posterioridad a la fecha de
cierre del Prbstamo con el Banco Mundial, dada la extensi6n lograda con el BID hasta diciembre de
1999.
40



F.- Lecciones Aprendidas
La experiencia del PITSA y de otros proyectos con similares caracteristicas en cuanto a
sobredimensionamiento de los alcances, y con condicionalidades de dificil cumplimiento por parte de la Unidad
Ejecutora, deberian evitarse de cualquier otro proyecto a ejecutar en el futuro.
La experiencia nos dice que quienes negocien estos prestamos deben ser personas con conocimientos en la
ejecuci6n de proyectos y de la realidad del sector. Por otra parte, se impone que los proyectos deban ser
'focalizados' en areas especfficas y ajustadas a metas alcanzables.
Para alcanzar el exito, es importante el apoyo de las altas autoridades de los organismos, disponer de
autonomia financiera de la Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto, asi como indispensable es la  continuidad
administrativa del personal gerencial y tecnico a cargo del Proyecto.                     ;
El aprendizaje mas importante de la ejecuci6n de este proyecto, es que se han podido capitalizar experiencias
muy importantes, por lo que en este momento se cuenta con una capacidad institucional de buen nivel para
Ilevar a cabo exitosamente este tipo de proyectos en el futuro.
La etapa final del programa cont6 con una alta ejecuci6n y consecuentemente un numero creciente de
desembolsos, lo cual requiri6 de una programaci6n especial de desembolsos y de recuperaci6n del anticipo,
esto conllev6 a que no se previeran situaciones como las presentadas con los ultimos pagos del programa por
Bs. 1.248,5 millones, que reflejaron la falta de experiencia en este tipo de cierres administrativos por parte del
Ejecutor y del Banco Mundial, dado que es el primer cierre de pr6stamo en Venezuela en los ultimos anos.
41



