Docun
The Wo
FOR OFFICIA
LA./~~~~~~~L C4i- M
Report No. 9250-VE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 6, 1991
Agriculcure Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonization.



CURRENCY EOUJIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Bolivar (Bs)
US$1.00 = Bs55.161/
Be 1.00    US$0.0181/
ABBREVIATIONS
BANDAGRO        -  National Agricultural Bank
CADAFE          -  Electricity Administration and Development Corporation
CASA            -  Supply and Agricultural Service Corporation
CORDIPLAN       -  Planning and Coordination Ministry
FCA             -  Agricultural Credit Fund
Fl              -  Financial Intermediary
FONCACAO        -  National Cacdo Fund
FONCAFE         -  National Coffee Fund
FONCREI         -  Industrial Credit Fund
FONDEFRU        -  Fruit Development Fund
FSAL            -  Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3224-VE)
FUNDAYACUCHO    -  Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho Foundation
IAN             -  National Agrarian Institute
ICAP            -  Agricultural and Livestock Credit Institute
IDB             -  Inter-American Development Bank
MAC             -  Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MARNR           -  Ministry of Environment and Renewable Natural
Resources
MTC             -  Ministry of Transport and Communications
FERL            -  Public Enterprise Reform Loan (Loan 3223-VE)
SAL             -  Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 3091-VE)
TAL             -  Technical Assistance Loan (Loan 3225-VE)
TPL             -  Trade Policy Loan (Loan 3092-VE)
GOVERNMENT'TS FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Exchange rate as of June 1, 1991.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Paae No.
I.      LOAN-AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                1
II.  THE AGRICPLTURAL SECTOR ...... ...  4
Structure and Potential.                                                    4
Institutional Framework  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Agricultural Policy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Bank Assistance to Venezuela . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
II.   THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Rationale for Bank Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Project Objectives .................... .  10
Project Description  ........  ..  ...  ..  ...  .                       .    10
Detailed Description . . c . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
- Sector Policy Reform Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
- Agricultural Sector Investment Program  . . . . . . . . . .   17
- Institutional Strengthening Program  . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
DOzbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
Accounts and Audit .....  ..  .            .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..    .   24
Organization, Management and Monitoring            . . . . . . . . .   24
Implementation of the Credit Component . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Poverty Alleviation Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
Environmental Aspects  .....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   27
Benefits, Fiscal lmpact and Risks ............ .   28
IV.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMEXNDATION  . . . . . . . . . . .   30
ANNEX 1 - Statistical Data
Table 1 - Project Cost Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
Table 2 - Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36
Table 3 - Disbursement Schedule  .                . . . . . . . . .    37
Table 4 - Allocation of the Bank Loan by Expenditure
Category    . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . .   38
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mi&nior vhich visited Venozuela in October 1990. Tho
mission comprised Messrs./Mmes. V. Ferrer (Team Leader/Sr. Economist), A. Velarde (Financial Analyst), E.
Wallentin (cons.) and C. Lecaros (cons.). The report was updated based on the agreements reached during loan
negotiations which were concluded in August 1991, and on a post-appraisal mission (R. Ruivivar, Sr.
Operations Office;) which visited Venezuela in September 1991. The responsible Department Director and
Division Chief are Mr. Armeane M. Choksi and Ms. Phyllis Pomerantz, respectively.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEX 2 - Agricultural Policy Matrix . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
ANNEX 3 - Import Restrictions on Agricultural Commodities  .  44
ANNEX 4 - Agricultural Sector Investment Program
Table 1 - MAC Capital Formation, 1985-1990 . . . . . . . . .  45
Table 2 - Budgetary Allocations to the Agricultural Sector
(1979-1990)  .*........            ... .......    46
Table 3 - MAC Investment Program, 1989-91  . . . . . . . . .  47
Table 4 - Agricultural Sector Investment Program, 1992-95  .  48
Table 5 - Physical Targets by Major Component, 1992-95 . . .  50
Table 6 - Location of Proposed Investment Programs . . . . .  51
ANNEX 5 - Agricultural Credit Fund (FCA) . . . . . . . . . .  53
Table 1 - Staff Composition by Specialties . . . . . . . . .  61
Table 2 - Audited Financial Statements, 1986-1989  . . . . .  62
Table 3 - Summary of Loan Portfolio, 1986-1989 . . . . . . .  63
Table 4 - Summary of Supervision Activities, 1988-1990 . . .  64
Table 5 - Summary of Past Lending Operations, 1986-1990        65
Table 6 - Analysis of Loan Approvals, 1988-September 1990      66
Attachment - Eligibility Criteria for Participating
Financial Intermediaries  . . . . . . . . . . .  67
ANNEX 6 - Selected Documents in the Project File . . . . . .  68
MAP    IBRD No. 20575



VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
1. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
XSorrowert           The Republic of Venezuela
Executing agency:   The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAC)
Loan Amount:         US$300.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Eifteen years, including a five-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlendinc  Terms:    For the credit portion of the loan, Bank funds would be
on-lent to the Agricultural Credit Fund (FCA) in dollar
equivalent bolivares on the same terms as the Bank loan,
and by the latter to participating financial
intermediaries (FIs), at terms designed to cover fully the
cost of these funds, including foreign exchange risk and
administrative costs. For subloans financed by the
initial US$20 million of the credit portion of the loan,
the FIs would charge the administered interest rate for
agricultural lending, currently equal to 84% of the
variable non-preferential lending rate of commercial
banks. For the remaining US$106.8 million of loan
proceeds for credit, the interest rate on subloans would
be freely negotiated between the FIs and subborrowers.
Cofinancing:         Inter-American Development Bank, US$200.0 million
equivalent.
Prolect Obiectives
and Description:    The project would support the Government's objectives of
increasing sectoral efficiency and achieving sustainable
agricultural growth and exports. This would be
accomplished by carrying out a reform program to
restructure the incentive system; expanding public sector
expenditure on agricultural infrastructure and services to
improve productivity; increasing the availability of
credit to assist the private sector adjust to the new
incentive structure and increase exports; and,
strengthening the sector's institutional framework and
project planning capabilities to facilitate implementation
of the reform program and enhance efficiency in the use of
public resources.



-2-
Proiect Benefits
and Risks:  The sector reform program to be supported by the Bank loan would
result in: (a) improved efficiency in the use of private and
public resources allocated to the sector and in the intersectoral
allocation of resources including credit; (b) improved
competitiveness in agricultural production through increased
reliance on market signals and reduced public sector regulation
and intervention; and (c) strengthened public finances through the
conversion of private sector rents into public sector revenues by
substituting tariffs for quantitative restrictions and eliminating
input and credit subsidies. The major risks to the success of the
program relate to the overall macroeconomic adjustment program, as
well as to specific aspects of the agricultural reform program.
The risk that the project could be sidetracked by political
pressures is mitigated by three factors: the Government's
continued commitment to pursue difficult macroeconomic reforms;
the debt accord last year with the commercial banks; and the
strong support of the international financial community. The
transitional adjustment costs to particular groups of producers
who carry considerable political influence constitute the major
internal risk to the reform program. To mitigate the costs to the
producers and to permit the private sector to adjust to the new
incentive structure, the project would provide credit and improved
public infrastructure and services while reducing the level of
subsidies and protection. The measures to strengthen MAC and
other sector institutions would also help to consolidate the
process of change.



-3-
Estimated Costs: a/
Proiect Component              Local      Forgian    Ttal
-      (US$ million)------
Productive Infrastructure                 234.5        80.8      315.3
Plant and Animal Health Services            7.5         9.4       16.9
Land Cadastre                              63.2        21.1       84.3
Credit                                    317.1       105.7      422.8
Financial Restructuring of Public
Sector Credit Institutions               54.1                   54.1
Institutional Strengthening                 0.8       __.          6.6
677.2      222.8      900.0
financing Plan:
Governmrent                               400.0b/      --400.0
Inter-American Development Bank           110.9        89.1     200.0
IBRD                                      166.3       133.7     300.0
677r.2     222.8      900.0
Estimated Disbursefenats:
FY           1992      1993       1994       1995       1996
Annual              20.0     60.0       90.0        80.0       50.0
Cumulative          20.0     80.0      170.0       250.0     300.0
Economic Rate of Return:  Estimated at no less than 12%, based on criteria for
selection of individual subprojects
Map: IBRD No. 20575
a/ Includes US$45.0 million equivalent in taxes.
/ Includes US$42.3 million from subborrowers and US$38.1 million from
participating financial intermediaries for the credit component.



- 4 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Structure and Potential
2.01        Agriculture has been and continues to be an importar  .ector in
the Venezuelan economy, not only because of the political sensitivity of
issues concerning food self-sufficiency and food prices, but because of the
sector's direct influence on the economic stability of the country through
cust-of-living and real wage effects. Agriculture and agroindustry account
for about 15-20% of non-petroleum GDP and about 15% of non-petroleum and basic
metals exports (1988). While the rural population of about 2.4 million is
only 13% of the total population, Venezuela has a strong agricultural
tradition. Furthermore, with its abundant land resources, the country has a
large potential for efficiently expanding and diversifying agricultural
production and exports and increasing rural incomes.
2.02        Of Venezuela's 92 million ha, about half is suitable for
agriculture but only 31 million ha are being used. Of these, only about 2.1
million ha were cropped in 1989, with the rest being used primarily for
extensive livestock. The area cropped is equivalent to only about 20% of the
9 million ha of soils suitable for cultivation. Climatic and physical
characteristics of the country add to the productive potential. The country
lies within the tropical zone but has widely varying altitudes, temperatures
and rainfall, coupled with a long coast line.
2.03        Because of the abundance of land, an extensive form of
agricultural development has taken place, resulting in a relatively small
number of landholdings, about 400,000. The average farm size of 80 ha is
considerably larger than that in neighboring countries, and Venezuela's land
distribution is highly skewed, with the largest 1% of the farms accounting for
almost 50% of the agricultural area. By contrast, small farmers, defined as
those with 20 ha or less account for 74% of the farms but only 4% of the
agricultural land. Many of these small farmers received land under the
agrarian reform program but they do not hold title to the land and cannot sell
it or use it as collateral for loans. This has deterred farmers from
undertaking long-term investments, particularly in irrigation. However, in
the past 20 years there has been rapid urbanizat'.on and progressive
industrialization. This has resulted in a slow but steady intensification of
agricultural production, reflecting the increasingly relative scarcity of
rural labor (which declined from 21% of the labor force in 1975 to about 14%)
compared not only to land, but also to capital and other inputs (the latter
two accentuated by a policy of subsidizing interest rates and agricultural
inputs). This trend towards intensification of agriculture is expected to
continue, but will depend on the development and diffusion of appropriate
technological packages through improved research and extension, and on the
expansion of agricultural infrastructure (particularly roads and irrigation).
Institutional Framework
2.04        The country's agricultural institutions include the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (MAC), a number of autonomous entities linked to
MAC, the Ministry cf the Environment and of Renewable Natural Resources
(MARNR) and the Agricultural Department of the Planning and Coordination



Ministry (CORDIPLAN). MAC has overall responsibility for policy development
and planning in the secLJr, and has recently strengthened its capacity in this
regard (para. 3.32). It also provides directly support services and
productive infrastructure through several General Directoratee, inter alia
extension, irrigation, fisheries .-id plant and animal health. The Ministry's
support services are complemented by services provided by a number or
autonomous entities which include: the National Agrarian Institute (IAN),
responsible for agrarian reform; the Agricultural Storage Company (ADAGRO) and
the Supply and Agricultural Service Corporation (CASA) and the Agricultural
Commodities Marketing and Export Company (COMEXAGRO) responsible,
respectively, for storage (ADAGRO's activities are being consolidated into
CASA) and for buying and selling of surplus commodities aad for importing on
behalf of the Government; and the National Coffee and the National Cocoa Funds
(FONCAFE and FONCACAO) and the Fruit Development Fund (FONDZFRU), responsible
for extension and marketing of these commodities. FONCAFE and FONCACAO hold a
monopoly on the export of coffee and cocoa and, until recently, provided
credit. The sector entities also include three public sector credit
institutions: the Agricultural and Livestock Credit Institute (ICAP), which
provides credit directly to small producers, the Agricultural Credit Fund
(FCA), a second tier bank which provides long-term agricultural credit through
participating financial intermediaries (FIe), and the Agricultaral Development
Bank (BPNDAGRO), a commercial bank which lent primarily to medium and large
producers, and is currently under liquidation. The MARNR is responsible for
two areas related to agriculture, the construction and management of
multipurpose dams which could be used for irrigation, and forestry through the
Venezuelan Autonomous Forestry Service (SAFORVEN) and the National Forestry
Council (CONAFOR). The National Reforestation Company (CONARE) is a public
company responsible for plantations which can enter into joint ventures with
private enterprises and other agencies of the Government. Finally, CORDIPLAN
is responsible for ensuring that sector planning is consistent with overall
planning and with the available resources. The private sector also provides
support services to agriculture, especially in the areas of research through
some universitiep, the Foundation for Service to Agriculture (FUSAGRI) and for
extension through some producers' associations.
Agricultural Policy
2.05        Over the past 20 years, inconsistent sectoral policies, the
negative effects of the macroeconomic framework and relative negative
protection vis-a-vis the manufacturing sector have hampered agricultural
development. This was certainly the case up to 1984 through policies aimed at
controlling the exchange rate and maintaining low prices for locally produced
agricultural goods which resulted in low profitability for agricultural
enterprises (despite the existence of some input and credit subsidies) and a
decline in area harvested.
2.06        From 1984-1988, however, there was renewed emphasis on ways to
improve agricultural growth. The policy was carried out by attempting to
maintain high producer prices/profits but low and stable consumer prices.
Imports and exports were controlled and budgetary allocations for productive
infrastructure and support services were increased. The underlying assumption
of the policy was that: (a) farmers would increase supply in response to
price/profit incentives and to the improved services and the expansion of



productive infrastructure, and (b) the increased supply of agricultural
commodities would lower prices to consumers even without (or with reduced)
access to imports or the salutary effects of exterrnal compftition. The
critical element of the policy was that resources would be available to
simultaneously finance subsidies and improved public services and
infrastructure until inefficiencies in the sector could be rectified and the
productive capacity expanded.
2.07        To increase the incenti,es to dome  .ic production and maintain low
and stable consumer prices, the following policy instruments were used:
(a) quantitative import restrictions ("contingentamiento") to induce local
agroindustries to purchase domestically produced commodities at the minimum
(high) prices set by the Government on the basis of domestic production costs;
(b) a preferbntial exchange rate for the importation of raw materials
(principally wheat, sorghum, crude vegetable oils, soyameal and soybeans),
certain agricultural 3 -uts and powdered milk for the purpose of lowering the
retail price of foodstuffs; (c) direct agricultural input subsidies to lower
the cost to farmers and agroindustrialists of fertilizers, animal feed, water
for irrigation (tariff recoveries have averaged about 10% of operation and
maintenance costs and no capital costs) and credit; (d) direct consumer
subsidies for corn meal and milk; (e) price controls on the wholesale and
retail levels for a range of foodstuffs based on production cost estimates
given by the manufacturing firms and marketing margins considered "normal" by
the Government; (f) export prohibitions to prevent subsidized, pri-e-
controlled outputs and inputs from leaving the domestic market; and (g) active
intervention in the agricultural marketing chain, including the operation of
storage facilities and the marketing and export of coffee and cocoa.
2.08        Overall, the agricultural sector achieved a high average annual
rate of growth of 6.3% in the per4 d, compared to an annual growth rate of GDP
of 4.2%. However, the above policy resulted in highly distorted relative
prices and in a high degree of Government intervention in the sector; it also
entailed large subsidies. For 1987 alone, the combined subsidy was estimated
at Bs 13.8 billion or almost US$1 billion, .th direct subsidies and transfers
through the budget amounting to about US$200 million. The combined subsidy
was equivalent to about one-third of agricultural value added in 1987 and 2%
of GDP. In addition, the policies were not effective in keeping retail and
wholesale food prices low and stable. On a base of 100 in 1984, retail food
prices reached 289 in 1988 compared to 206 for the average of all retail
products. Retail prices also increased by much more than average household
income, implying a large lose in food purchasing power, affecting
predominantly the lower income groups.
2.09        The planned increase in public expenditure to enhance public
services and expand productive infrastructure did not materialize.
Agricultural public sector expenditures declined in real terms by 6% per annum
from 1984-1988. During the same period, the share of agriculture in total
public expenditure decreased from 5.1% to 4.2%. Moreover, the bulk of the
agricultural budget (78% in 1984 declining to 55% in 1988) was spent on direct
credit subsidies, equity support to public sector agricultural financial
institutions and subsidies to agricultural inputs, primarily fertilizer. Only
a relatively small percentage of the budget was allocated to fixed capital
investment.



2.10        Agricultural credit policy during the period 1984-88 combined
selectivt  credit controls on commercial banks and lending through specialized
public sector institutions, both at subsidized interest rates. About 90% of
agricultural Credit during this period was provided by private commercial
banks *rnder a requirement that at least 22.5% of all commercial bank credit
had to be directed to agriculture (17.5%) and agroindustry (5%). Agricultural
financing was also provided by MAC through budgetary transfers channelled to
BANDAGRO, ICAP and FCA. Interest rates on agricultural loans were generally
negative in real terms. Nominal interest rates ranged from 3% per annum in
the case of ICAP '1o 9% for commercial banks, compared to an inflation rate of
over 20% per annum from 1984-88.
2.11        As has been the experience elsewhere with subsidized credit, the
above credit policy resulted in various inefficiencies and distortions in
financial markets in Ve ezuela, an inequitable sharing in the credit subsidies
(with medium and large farmers as the principal recipients) and non-viable
specialized credit institutions. With regard to the latter, poor management
also contributed to low loan recovery (in some cases not more than 50%). As a
result, these institutions are in a critical financial situation and are
almost totally dependent on budget transfers fiom the Government to continue
to operate.
2.12        In general, the policies of 1984-1988 proved unsuccessful and
unsustainable, and the overall result was a weak agricultural sector, not a
strong one.  While the agricultural trade and pricing policy followed during
this period stimulated a rapid expansion of agricultural output, this growth
was built on subsidies and administrative discretion instead of underlying
economic fundamentals. Growth resulted mainly from bringing marginal lands
into production rather than through increased productivity of existing land,
and resources were misallocated to the production of import-competing crops
(e.g., sorghum, maize and some oilseeds) in which the country does not have a
comparative advantage. The maximum retail price policy limited the supply or
caused the outright disappearance of most of the products covered by price
controls. The Government's efforts through the budget to improve the
productive capacity and productivity of the sector also proved relatively
ineffective. In an environment where resources were perceived as abundant,
there was little incentive for public sector institutions to use budgeted
resources efficiently or to strengthen their planning and evaluation capacity.
Public sector institutions also proliferated during the period often with
overlapping functions and with little capacity for self-financing.
2.13        The Government which took office in February 1989 adopted a
package of economic measures aimed at redressing macroeconomic and debt
imbalances, liberalizing trade (particularly in the manufacturing and
agroindustrial sectors) and, in general, making the economy more competitive
by reducing regulations and allowing for a greater influence of market forces.
The main measure taken was the urnification and floating of the exchange rate
on March 14, 1989, with the rate moving immediately to a level close to about
36 B0/US$, and slowly crawling to 50 Bs/US$ by late 1990. The unification and
floating of the exchange rate had pervasive implications for resource
allocation throughout the economy.



2.14        The new Government also took the following measures which directly
affected the agricultural/food sector: (a) fertilizer prices were increased,
reducing the subsidy from more than 90% of the cost of the product, to about
50%; (b) the animal feed and generalized food subsidiea were eliminated, and
the remaining direct subsidies (on rice, cornmeal and milk) were targeted on
children and low income groups; (e) some agricultural products (principally
sesame seed, peanuts, potatces, rice and some legumes) were taken ou- of the
minimum price regime under the import restriction policy; (d) a program was
begun for the eventual elimination of most quantitative restrictions, and the
progressive reduction and aimplification of tariffs on the importation of
manufactured products. Additionally, protection through quantitative import
restrictions was reduced to less than 15% of the value of domentically
manufactured products and maximum ad-valorem tariffs fer all imports were
reauced to 50% by March 1990; (e) credit subsidies through preferential
interest rates were reduced; preferential interest rate)s on direct lending by
Government-owned financial :.atermediaries and other preferential credtts were
linked to the market by basing them on the average non-preferential lending
rate of the six largest commercial banks. Preferential interest rates on
agricultural credits and on credits to other activities are now 85% and 90%,
respectively, of this reference rate. Preferential rates are now about 33% in
nominal terms for agricultural credits whereas they were previously 15-20% and
strongly negative in real terms; (f) the commercial bank portfolio allocation
to agriculture and agroindustry was reduced from 22.5% to 17.5% of each bank's
portfolio (by excluding agroindustry); and (g) the list of products subject to
maximum retail prices set by the Government wad sharply reduced. Decree No.
296 of June 15, 1989 retained retail price controls on a limited number of
food items, including wheat flour for industrial or household use, pastas made
of wheat flour, rice, pre-cooked maize flour (both -Afined and semi-refined),
canned sardines, powdered "popular" milk (introduced for sale in low income
areas only), unrefined sugar, mixed vegetable oil, pasteurized whits cheese,
several legumes (black beans, cowpeas, pigeon peas, lentils, green peas),
infant formulas and dehydrated soups.
2.15        The tough but necessary policy reforms undertaken by the
Government in 1989 and 1990, particularly the unification of the exchange
rate, have begun to lay the basis for efficient and sustainable agricultural
growth. While value added in the agricultural sector declined by about 5%
between 1988 and 1989 (compared with about an 8% decline for the overall
economy), and stabilized in 1990, a strong recovery is projected for 1991,
aided by a substantial increase in the production of commodities where
Vonez.i.a is considered competitive (e.g., rice, fruits).  Before the start of
the reform program supported by the project, however, the sector continued to
be highly regulated; in particular, storage activities and some of the major
agricultural commodities by share of sector production (maize, sorghum, palm
oil, sesame, sugar and milk) were still highly protected through the use of
quantitative trade restrictions. Tight controls also still existed on imports
of other primary agricultural and agroindustrial products. This resulted in
domestic prices much higher than import parity levela, with nominal protection
coefficients considerably above one, taking into account transport costs and
differences in quality. About twelve food items retained nominal retail price
controls and were subject to export restrictions. Trade restrictions thrc1gh
import prohibitions or licenses covered an estimated 74% of domestic
agricultural production and were used to back the system of producer pricee,



- 9 -
and to protect other groups of farmers whose products were not subject to
minimum producer prices, such as fruit producers. Of the 378 import positions
in the sector in 1990, 117 were on the prohibited list, 113 were subject to
Government delegation of its sole authority to import through licensing, and
264 were subject to health licenses (nine requiring health certificate from
the Ministry of Health and 255 requiring health certificate from the
Venezuelan Ministry of Agriculture). Only 20 import positions were in the
free import list. Prior licensing was the most commonly used method to
quantitatively restrict imports of agricultural products for protective
purposes, although for some agricultural products health licenses were
administered as a protective measure as well.
Bank Assistance to Venezuela
2.16        Between 1961 and 1974, the Bank approved 13 loans to Venezuela,
totalling US$383 million, of which US$342 was disbursed. IBRD loans to
Venezuela included support for agricultural development (two projects),
transport (four projects, including an airport loan), power (four projects,
including part of the Guri hydroelectric project), telecommunications (two
projects), and water supply (one project). Most projects were viewed as
relatively successful, and funds were fully repaid as of June 1989.
2.17        After the 1973 oil windfall, Venezuela chose not to borrow from
the Bank and subsequently the country's per capita income increased to levels
above the Bank's graduation limit. However, the Bank maintained a Resident
Mission in Caracas through 1979 and provided technical assistance to help in
the appraisal of proposed projects and in general economic analysis.
Confronted by the onset of the debt crisis and a sustained decline in economic
output in the mid-2980s, Venezuela again sought a borrowing relationship with
the Bank and was declared eligible to borrow in 1986. As described earlier,
the new administration of President P6rez introduced a strong program of
economic reforms and requested substantial technical and financial support
from the Bank and the Fund. In response, the Bank initiated a substantial
lending program to support the Goverrment's efforts to create a policy
environment for sustainable growth. The initial elements of the support
program were the US$402 million Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) and the
US$353 million Trade Policy Loan (TPL) approved in June 1989. These were
followed by the US$300 million Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL), the
US$350 million Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL), the US$30 million
Technical Aseistance Loan and the US$100 million Social Development Project.
To date, implementation of the reforms supported by these operations has been
satisfactory. The proposed loan would be the first since 1974 for the
agricultural sector. Complementary investments in technology generation and
diffusion and irrigation are under preparation.



- 10 -
III. THE PROJECT
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01        Since 1989, the Bank has been assisting the Government in a broad-
ranging program of policy and institutional reform aimed at creating a policy
environment conducive to sustainable growth. In the context of this ambitious
reform program, agricultural policy reforms have been partial in nature and
relatively slow in implementation primarily because of the political
sensitivity of the sector and the importance of the commodities that would be
affected by the reform program. Through its support for the proposed project,
the Bank would assist the Government in deepening and broadening agricultural
policy reforms, particularly with respect to trade, pricing and credit. The
Bank would also be supporting the Government in its efforts to strengthen
sectoral investment and institutional capacity for project selection,
planning, implementation, supervision, and expenditure control.
Proiect Objectives
3.02        The project would support the Government's objectives of
increasing sectoral efficiency and achieving sustainable agricultural growth
and exports. This would be accomplished by carrying out a reform program to
restructure the incentive system; expanding public sector expenditure on
agricultural infrastructure and services to improve productivity; increasing
the availability of credit to assist the private sector adjust to the new
incentive structure and increase exports; and, strengthening the sector's
institutional framework and project planning capabilities to facilitate
implementation of the reform program and enhance efficiency in the use of
public resources.
Proiect Descriiotion
3.03        The proposed operation would have three major components:  (a) a
sector Dolicv reform Proaram to deepen and complement the macroeconomic policy
measures already introduced. Specifically, the policy reform program would
address major sector issues in the areas of: (i) agricultural trade; (ii)
agricultural pricing, including producer, input and retail food pricing; (iii)
agricultural marketing, especially in relation to the divestiture of storage
facilities and the role of public marketing institutions; (iv) the
agricultural credit system; and (v) the legal and regulatory framework,
especially in regard to land titling and tenancy; (b) an agricultural sector
investment oroaram carried out over a four-year period to enhance the sector's
supply response by improving agricultural productivity and reducing production
costs. The investment program would help: (i) improve the sector's productive
infrastructure (mainly rural roads, rehabilitation/consolidation of existing
irrigation schemes, dr&inage, small rural electrification works) and
supporting services (animal and plant health); (ii) provide term credit to
finance private agricultural investments; (iii) complete the land cadastre to
regularize land tenancy and titling in the country; and (iv) restructure
existing public sector agricultural financial institutions; and (c) an
institutional strengthenina -roaram to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of the Ministry of Agriculture and other sector institutions.
This would be done by improving the capacity to design, prepare, evaluate and
supervise investment activities, as well as by increasing cost recovery,



- 11 -
particularly in irrigation schemes, and by improving the c:l,  iization and the
quality of human resources serving the sector.
Detailed Description
Sector Policy Reform Program
3.04        The specific elements of the Government's short- and medium-term
sector policy reform program and objectives to be supported by the proposed
loan are set out below and summarized in a Policy Matrix (Annex 2).
3.05        Agricultural Trade.  In July 1990, during project preparation, the
Government adopted the following nidjustment measures: (a) all 117 tariff
positions were removed from the prohibited list; (b) some 70 agricultural
tariff positions were removed from the list requiring prior licensing;
(c) tariffs were assigned to all agricultural import positions, including
those removed from the prohibited and licensing lists. Four tariff levels
were introduced, 1%, 10%, 20% and 30%. This tariff range and the number of
tariff rates are within the interim limits previously announced in the
Government's overall trade policy reform for 1990 (0-50% tariff range and not
more than six tariff rates); (d) restrictions on many agricultural exports
were eliminated, but export controls were retained on six food items in the
"cesta basicall (rice, legumes, sugar, milk, cornmeal and sardines); and (e)
responsibility for providing health permits for the importation of many
agricultural food products was transferred from MAC to the Ministry of Health.
3.06        Since July 1990, further import liberalization has been carried
out. of the 382 agricultural tariff positions in April 1991, only 42
positions (corresponding mainly to milk, eggs, animal feedgrains, oilseeds,
po7ultry and sugarcane) remained subject to prior import licensing. However,
these commodities accounted for about 40% of the value of agricultural
production in 1989 (see Annex 3). Export controls on cornmeal have also been
ended.
3.07        As a condition of Board presentation, the Government has removed
prior licensing restrictions for the export of rice and legumes. As
conditions of loan effectiveness, the Government has agreed to (a) contract a
consultant to improve the administration of the health permits system;
(b) eliminate prior licensing for all agricultural imports, except for tariff
positions corresponding to milk and sugar plus not more than 2% of the value
of agricultural production; (c) implement an action plan that would bring,
within two years in the case of milk and one year in the case of sugar,
domestic prices for these products in line with international prices or with
the average domestic price of a set of exporting countries selected between
the Borrower and the Bank; and (d) implement and maintain a mechanism for
commodity price stabilization exclusively for sorghum, yellow corn, white
corn, wheat, rice and oilseeds, until a market-based system for price
stabilization has been introduced and put into effect. The Government also
provided assurances at negotiations that it would (a) not later than three
months after loan effectiveness, implement and maintain a system for
administering health permits; (b) by October 31, 1992, eliminate prior
licensing for all agricul'_ural imports except milk and sugar; (c) continue
implementing the import tariff structure agreed pursuant to the terms of its



- 12 -
letter to the Bank dated May 16, 1989 in the Trade Policy Loan (Loan 3092-VE),
i.e., 10-40% tariff levels in 1991 with a maximum of six tariff rates, 10-30%
in 1992 with a maximum of four tariff rates and 10-20% in 1993 with a maximum
of three tariff rates; and (d) limit export licensing to only a small group of
basic food items for an agreed period, and subsequently phase it out.
3.08        Aqricultural Producer Prices.  During project preparation, the
Government eliminated many administered minimum producer prices. Only some of
the commodities which are still subject to import licensing have retained
mandatory administered minimum producer prices. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that it would (a) prior to loan effectiveness,
eliminate mandatory administered minimum producer prices for additional
agricultural commodities that have been freed from the import license
requirement; (b) by October 31, 1992, eliminate all remaining mandatory
administered minimum producer prices for agricultural commodities other than
milk and sugar; (c) by the end of the one-year action plan designed to align
the domestic price of sugar with international prices or with the domestic
price of a group of exporting countries, eliminate the administered minimum
producer price for sugar; and (d) by the end of the two-year action plan
designed to align the domestic price of milk with international prices or with
the domestic price of a group of exporting countries, eliminate the
administered minimum producer price for milk.
3.09        Agricultural Input Prices.  As part of the reform program, the
Government has reduced or eliminated many agricultural input subsidies (para.
2.14), but subsidies remain for fertilizer and water for irrigation. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would (a) prior to
loan effectiveness, ensure that fertilizer prices are consistent with any
action program to be agreed between the Government and the Bank under the PERL
(or, alternatively, if no such program has been agreed, implement an action
program designed to bring domestic fertilizer prices to the opportunity cost
of fertilizers by not later than July 1, 1993); and (b) from December 31, 1992
onwards, adjust all fertilizer prices in accordance with the applicable action
program. Under the PERL, the Government has reached agreement with the Bank
on an action program which includes a commitment to increase the price of
fertilizers to 70% of opportunity cost by .sanuary 1992. Since mid-September
1991, fertilizer prices have been increased from 60% to 70% of the opportunity
cost of fertilizers, or about three months ahead of the action program that
has been agreed under the PERL. With regard to subsidies for irrigation
water, discussions between the Bank and the Government on irrigation sector
policy, including cost recovery policy, are being pursued in the context of
preparing a freestanding irrigation loan. The cost recovery policy being
discussed would aim at the recovery of operations and maintenance and
rehabilitation costs for irrigation schemes that would be modernized or
rehabilitated, and at full cost recovery, including capital costs, for new
schemes. An appropriate irrigation sector policy would be essential to
ensuring the efficiency and sustainability of irrigation and large drainage
works included in the sectoral investment program to be supported by this
project. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that prior
to including irrigation and large drainage works in the investment program, it
would reach agreement with the Bank on an irrigation sector policy, including



- 13 -
inter alia, a cost recovery policy. Additionally, the works would have to be
shown as feasible in all respects (financial, economic, institutional and
environmental).
3.10        Retail Price Controls.  During project preparation, the Government
deregulated all domestic wholesale prices; however, controls on nominal retail
prices of twelve food items were retained initially (para. 2.14). Since then,
price controls on six items (wheat flour, pastas, powdered milk, white cheese,
infant formula and dehydrated soups) have been lifted. Prior to Board
presentation, price controls on rice and legumes have also been lifted. The
Government provided assurances at negotiations that it would (a) limit retail
price controls to only a small group of basic food items agreed between the
Government and the Bank, and eventually phase out all such controls; and (b)
ensure that while any food item remains under price control, its price would
be adjusted to prevailing market conditions to prevent domestic shortages from
occurring.
3.11        Agricultural Marketina.  The Government has traditionally
intervened at various levels of the agricultural marketing chain. At present
these interventions include the running of storage facilities by CASA and the
marketing and export of coffee and cocoa.
3.12        Storaae Facilities and the Role of CASA.  After the riots of
February 1989, which were partially attributed to food shortages resulting
primarily from food stock speculation, the present administration created a
new marketing parastatal, CASA. Its general mandate is to guarantee the
adequate supply of food by intervening, if necessary, in any aspect of food
marketing. However, except for CASA's role in rehabilitating and
consolidating storage facilities, the functions and powers of CASA to carry
out its mandate are vague and ill-specified. Also, CASA has received very
little financial support either in the form of equity capital, or through the
budget.
3.13        During project preparation, the Government stated that its policy
was to divest its ownership of all storage facilities and to ensure that CASA
did not become another source of large, untargeted subsidies. Toward this
end, it has prepared terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for a study
of agricultural storage facilities (silos and cold storage) aimed at
formulating a program of divestiture of these facilities. During loan
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would (a) prior to
loan effectiveness, contract the consultants for the storage study; (b) carry
out the study pro otly in order to provide to the Bank, not later than six
months after loas   :fectiveness, an action plan for the divestiture of storage
facilities, and subsequently implement the action plan in accordance with the
agreed timetable; (c) complete preparation, not later than October 31, 1992,
of the bidding and/or tender documents or other preparatory action for the
sale of at least 25% of the aggregate value of all storage facilities to be
divested under the action plan; and (d) ensure that any storage facility to be
sold is adequately managed untJ' its sale.
3.14        With regard to the future role of CASA, the Government
provided assurances during negotiations that it would (a) prior to loan
effectiveness, make available to the Bank for review CASA's plan of operations



- 14 -
and proposed budget for 1992; (b) limit the role of CASA to (i) importing
foodstuffs only in case of emergencies; (ii) assisting in the establishment
and operation of central wholesale markets; (iii) providing technical
assistance to producer and consumer food marketins, cooperatives; (iv)
requiring that any marketing program aimed at loweting the cost of basic food
items for lower income segments of the population (popular markets, basic
basket program) be self-sustaining, with the financing from the Government'e
budget limited to CASA's salaries for its core staff and related
administrative costs; and (v) managing the storage facilities until their
divestment; and (c) ensure that CASA's plan of operations and budget for 1992
are consistent with the agreed role of CASA and carry out such plan.
3.15        The Coffee and Cocoa Subsectors and the Role of FONCAFE and
FONCACAO. Since 1975, the Government has exercised tight controls on coffee
and cocoa trade and marketing. Until March 1990, importing green and
processed coffee and cocoa required prior licensing. Exports have also been
prohibited except through FONCAFE and FONCACAO. Domestic marketing of coffee
is handled through three types of marketing enterprises: &bout 36 producer-
owned private firms known as PACCAS in which FONCAFE has a minority equity
participation, about 13 coffee producer cooperatives and two non-cooperative
producer associations. There are also about 70 registered coffee millers
which process coffee for the domestic market. FONCAFE sets the price the
marketing enterprises pay to the coffee farmer, and negotiates the volume of
sales and prices to the millers and to foreign buyers. The marketing
enterprises then sell the coffee they bought from the farmers on the terms
negotiated by FONCAFE. Thus, FONCAFE totally controls the marketing
mechanisms. Since the marketing enterprises buy at prescribed prices and sell
at quantities and prices determined by FONCAFE, their "unit" profit is a fixed
fee, and their total profit can only vary depending on the ability of the
enterprises to buy larger volumes of green coffee. Hence, competition between
marketing enterprises is limited to the level and quality of services
provided, rather than through price. While the prices of coffee and cocoa
received by farmers in 1989 were substantially in line with border prices,
both crops received a 35% export incentive which was not passed on to farmers.
Despite this windfall to FONCAFE and FONCACAO, the level and quality of coffee
and cocoa research and of extension services have been inadequate due to
institutional problems and poor organization in both institutions. In the
case of FONCAFE, these institutional problems are compounded by the near
bankrupt financial situation of the institution. Overall, the inadequacy of
public services has negatively affected productivity and incomes of coffee and
cocoa farmers, who constitute one of the poorest segments of the rural
population in Venezuela.
3.16        During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that prior
to loan effectiveness it would: (a) terminate the domestic marketing controls
and export monopoly of FONCAFE and FONCACAO; and (b) submit to the Bank a
satisfactory action plan for the restructuring of FONCAPE and FONCACAO,
including a detailed timetable of actions and proposed new functions and
organizational structures, and subsequently implement such restructuring plan
in accordance with its timetable.



- 15 -
3.17        Agricultural Credit.  In the context of the FSAI, the Government
has initiated a series of measures to liberalize and rationalize interest
rates and credit allocation, and to streamline the development banking
functions for agricultural financing. These initial actions included: (a) a
substantial reduction of the agricultural portfolio requirement on commercial
banks from 22.5% to 17.5% (with a further reduction to 12% expected in 1992);
(b) the introduction of a system of variable interest rates on preferential
non-agricultural and agricultural loans by commercial banks, with rates not
less than 90% and 85%, respectively, of market rates (defined as the average
lending rate of the six largest commercial banks on non-preferential credit),
resulting in a substantial reduction in credit subsidies; (c) the issuance of
a decree liquidating BANDAGRO; and (d) the formulation of an action plan to
create a new second-tier agricultural lending institution that would absorb
all the assets and liabilities of the Fondo de Credito Agropecuario (FCA), and
the assets and liabilities related to the credit operations of FONCACAO and
FONCAFE.
3.18        At present, FCA operates as an autonomous second-tier
rediscounting institution under MAC. Details on FCA's performance are
presented in Annex 5. Initial steps have been taken to strengthen the
institution, including the appointment of a new President and general manager.
FCA has developed its basic institutional capabilities, including project
evaluation/supervision and information management, with technical assistance
received under an ongoing IDB loan. However, to function better as a second-
tier institution, FCA needs to improve its operational efficiency and
asset/liability management, and be more selective in the choice of
participating financial intermediaries (FIs). In the short term, emphasis
would need to be placed on improving FCA's credit policy and procedures, on
training and promotional activities of both FCA and the FIs, and on upgrading
FCA's data management systems.
3.19        As of December 31, 1989, FCA's outstanding loan portfolio,
involving 17,000 subloans, amounted to US$96.1 million equivalent, 50% of
which is accounted for by state-owned FIs, including BANDAGRO (31%), ICAP
(12%), FONCAFE (4%), FONCACAO (1%) and IAN (2%). About US$47.0 million
equivalent, or 43% of FCA's loan portfolio, corresponds to loans to FIs which
are faced with financial difficulties and are under intervention or
liquidation. BANDAGRO, a state-owned commercial bank which is under
liquidation, accounts for 73% of these loans; development finance companies,
17%; and private commercial banks, 10%. Given this situation, FCA has
initiated a program to determine the level of arrears, and has agreed to
formulate and adopt an action plan for its entire portfolio with assistance
from the external auditors. The actions would include write-offs, provision
for losses, suspension of refinancing operations and compensation for losses
arising from loans provided to state-owned FIs.
3.20        Under the project, the agricultural financial reforms initiated
under the FSAL would be deepened and consolidated. Bank financing for the
credit component of the project would be tranched in accordance with progress
made in carrying out these reforms. As conditions of disbursement of the
first US$20 million of the credit component, the Government agreed that (a) in
compliance with the FSAL, legislation would be submitted to the Congreas
creating a new second-tier agricultural credit institution that would absorb



- 16 -
the assets and liabilities of FCA and the assets and liabilities related to
the credit activities of FONCAFE and FONCACAO, and that such legislation, when
enacted, would permit further liberalization of agricultural credit markets;
(b) FCA's outstanding portfolio, particularly the loans through BANDAGRO,
FONCAFE, FONCACAO and ICAP would be audited, evaluated and settled, with any
uncollectible accounts written-off and FCA compensated for any resulting
losses; (c) a timetable and action plan for the liquidation of BANDAGRO would
be prepared; (d) FCA's Operating Regulations satisfactory to the Bank would
be issued; and (e) FCA would contract a systems consultant to assist in
improving its data management systems, and a financial specialist to help in
developing and implementing systems and procedures for loan management and
financial planning.
3.21        As conditions of disbursement of the second tranche of the credit
component (US$50.0 million), the Government agreed that (a) the above
legislation creating a new second-tier credit institution has been enacted,
and that such institution would be legally, financially and administratively
capable of implementing the credit component through its completion;
(b) agricultural interest rates would be deregulated, and FCA's Operating
Regulations would be revised accordingly; (c) public sector institutions
lending to the agricultural sector for purposes similar to FCA's would lend
under comparable terms and conditions, i.e., at interest rates that reflect
the full cost of resources used to finance the loans, or, if the resources
come from the Government's budget or are internally generated, at full market
rates; and (di a decree would be issued phasing out portfolio requirements on
commercial banks for agricultural lending over a six-month period. Given the
uncertainties about when condition (a) can be met, and the fact that FCA is
effectively functioning as a second-tier institution, the Bank agreed during
negotiations that if the law creating a new second-tier institution had not
been enacted by the time that the initial tranche (US$20.0 million) has been
disbursed, it would consider waiving this and only this condition if:
(a) interest rates on subloans are virtually equal to those that are freely
negotiated between FIs and subborrowers; and (b) FCA is able to continue to
perform satisfactorily as a second-tier credit institution.
3.22        As a condition of disbursement of the third and final tranche of
the credit component (US$56.8 million), the Government agreed that portfolio
requirements on commercial banks for agricultural lending would be completely
phased out. Other assurances provided by the Government during negotiations
are that (a) prior to loan effectiveness, FCA would prepare a training and
promotion program for 1992; (b) by September 30 of each year during the
execution of the project, FCA would prepare annual promotion and training
programs; and (c) the ceiling of 60% for the market interest rate would be
raised, if necessary, to provide a reasonable spread to participating FIs.
3.23        Legal and Reaulatorv Framework.  Some provisions of the Agrarian
Reform Law, by restricting greatly the ability of agrarian reform
beneficiaries to transfer their title, have had the effect of inhibiting on-
farm investment. Without the ability to transfer title, agrarian reform
beneficiaries have been unable to receive investment credit (except limited
amounts of highly subsidized credit offered through official credit
institutions) to finance capital improvements or to introduce new technology



- 17 -
in their landholdings. AccesB to credit for agrarian reform beneficiaries, as
well as other farmers, has also been inhibited by the lack of a land cadastre.
3.24        The Government provided assurances at negotiations that not later
than six months after loan effectiveness, it would complete a study on
alternatives to permit Agrarian Reform beneficiaries to access credit given
present constraints on title transfer, and that by October 31, 1992, it would
carry out the recommended actions agreed with the Bank. The public sector
investment program to be financed by the Bank loan includes the improvement
and/or completion of the national land cadastre system.
Agricultural Sector Investment Program
3.25        Following rapid budgetary increases in the period 1985-1987,
allocations to the agricultural sector for investment and recurrent
expenditures were drastically reduced in real terms in 1988 and 1989, from
Be 4.7 billion in 1987 (about US$615 million at the 1987 exchange rate) to
Bs 2.1 billion in 1989 (about US$250 million at the 1989 exchange rate). Fixed
capital formation, primarily for productive infrastructure (irrigation,
drainage, rural roads) within the agricultural budget declined even more
drastically from Bs 1.3 billion in 1987 in real terms (US$165 million, or
about 27% of total agricultural budget) to Bs 91 million in 1989 (US$ll
million, or about 4% of the agricultu:-al budget) (Annex 4, Table 1). While
the new Venezuelan administration's first two budget years (1990 and 1991)
sharply reversed this trend, the agricultural budget for 1991, equivalent to
about US$283 million at the projected 1991 exchange rate, is still
considerably lower than the 1987 budget allocation. Investment expenditure
under the 1991 budget has also rebounded strongly from 1989 levels in real
terms, to about US$198 million and a proposed allocation for fixed capital
formation of about US$57 million at 1991 exchange rates, representing about
20% of the total agricultural budget submitted to Congress. But the proposed
figure for fixed capital formation in 1991 is still below the corresponding
figure for 1987 of US$165 million equivalent (Annex 4, Tables 1 and  .
Compounding the problems created by the budget cuts were: (i) the short-term
downward impact on private investment caused by the substantial reduction of
subsidies; (ii) the reduced availability of credit; and (iii) the increased
external competition resulting from trade liberalization reforms initiated by
the Government in 1989. This explains in large measure the 5% decline in 1989
agricultural GDP, and the serious concern about the ability of the sector to
achieve and sustain satisfactory levels of growth.
3.26        As indicated in the VIII Development Plan of the Nation, the
Government plans to increase the amount and efficiency of public investment in
the agricultural sector. The objectives of the Government's sector investment
program over the next few years are to cushion the short-term transitional
costs of the reform program and to increase the competitiveness of the sector.
The investment program would help improve the sector's productive
infrastructure while expanding term credit to the private sector to permit the
realignment, rehabilitation and modernization of the productive structure in
line with the new incentives. This would help reduce production costs and
increase agricultural profitability.



- 18 -
3.27        The agricultural investment program to be financed under this
operation for the period 1992-1995 would amount to US$900 million equivalent
(Annex 4, Tables 4a and 4b). The size and composition of this investment
program were determined by the need to improve or rehabilitate productive
infrastructure, improve and expand Government services, such as animal and
plant health control and cadastral services, and facilitate credit to the
private sector. The investments would be carried out in areas where
agriculture is well established as the leading economic activity, i.e., there
would be little, if any, expansion of agriculture into new areas. These are
also predominantly areas with physical and soil characteristics well adapted
to the cultivation of commodities such as rice, cotton, fruits, vegetables, as
well as livestock for which Venezuela appears to have a comparative advantage
in production (Annex 4, Table 6). More specifically, the program would
finance: (a) improvement and/or expansion of productive infrastructure, rural
roads, irrigation, drainage, rural electrification and some fisheries
infrastructure (about US$315.3 million equivalent or 35% of the total
investment program); (b) improvement in plant and animal health services
(US$16.9 million, or 1.9%); (c) completion of the national land cadastre to
improve the land tenure and titling situation (Us$84.3 million, or 9%);
(d) medium- and long-term credit for on-farm private sector investment for the
establishment of profitable agricultural crops, contracting of private
agricultural extension services and the construction and equipping of small
irrigation schemes and other on-farm infrastructure to permit the
restructuring and intensification of agricultural production (US$422.8
million, or 47%); (e) the restructuring of FCA into a new second-tier
agricultural credit institution, in line with the agreements reached under the
Bank's FSAL, including the clearance of FCA's portfolio arrears from previous
rediscounting operations with public sector banks and funds (BANDAGRO, ICAP,
FONCAFE and FONCACAO). Compensation of FCA for the resulting losses is
estimated at about US$54.1 million equivalent, or 6% of the total investment
program, and would be financed exclusively from Government counterpart funds;
and (e) consultancy services, training and computers and other equipment to
inter alia strengthen MAC's policy and project planning capacity and to help
transform FCA into an efficient second-tier agricultural credit institution
(US$6.5 million, or 0.7%)
3.28        Planned public investments for 1992, the first year of the
program, total about US$182 million equivalent, mainly for about 640 km of
rural roads; 35 small rural electrification works; 40 small drainage schemes;
and cadastral activities (aerial photography/cartography and land delineation)
on about 5 million ha (Annex 4, Table 5). Under the coordination of the newly
created MAC directorate for project planning, monitoring and evaluation (para.
3.32), the executing agencies, with the support of consultants, have
substantially completed the economic evaluation and engineering design of
their respective projects proposed for 1992. The methodologies being used to
evaluate these projects were also reviewed and found to be generally
satisfactory. The executing agencies, with the support of consultants to be
financed under the program, are capable of planning, implementing and
supervising their respective components of the investment program.
3.29        The 1992 investment program also includes medium- and long-term
agricultural credit to the private sector of about US$98 million, an amount
which is reasonable given the lack of term credit, especially credit beyond 5



- 19 -
years, in Venezuela and increased demand for such credit to finance
agricultural investment projects. The financial and economic evaluation of
illustrative farm investment models likely to be financed under the credit
component of the project indicates that the margin of profitability, under
realistic yield and price estimates, is satisfactory. The 1992 program also
includes preparation studies on the rehabilitation and consolidation of
existing public irrigation schemes, which would be supervised by the Bank in
the context of preparation work on a future freestanding irrigation project.
The rehabilitation and consolidation works are expected to be initiated in
1993 (para. 3.09).
3.30        Implementation and financing of many of the investments to be
initiated in 1992 would continue beyond 1992. The investments proposed for
1993 and subsequent years are within the parameters indicated in the VIII
Development Plan of the Nation, and are acceptable in principle, pending their
economic evaluation. The Government provided assurances at negotiations that
individual investments included in the annual investment program to be
financed by the Bank loan would be subject to a feasibility study in
accordance with a methodology and criteria satisfactory to the Bank. The
annual investment program, as a whole, would have to be economically sound,
i.e., consistent with the global framework of policies set by MAC,
particularly the policies to be supported by the Bank loan.  Assurances were
also provided by the Government that (a) any individual project costing above
US$20 million would be submitted to the Bank for prior approval before
including it in the annual agricultural investment program, and (b) by October
31 of each year, it would exchange views with the Bank on individual projects
and the overall investment program to be carried out the following ye.r.  It
was further agreed that no disbursement of the Bank loan against any
productive infrastructure project would be made unless it has been included in
an economically sound annual investment plan, or if its cost exceeds UF$20.0
million, unless it has received prior Bank approval.
Institutional Strengthening Proar
3.31         This component would aim to strengthen the framework for
effective design and implementation of agricultural policies and to improve
the capacity of MAC to select, design, evaluate, implement and monitor
projects by improving its organization and information technology systems and
increasing the number and quality of its staff. The component would help (a)
improve the efficiency of intra-sectoral allocation of resources through the
budget, by helping direct investment to those activities with demonstrated
financial and economic profitability; (b) improve budgetary control of
development activities and investment in the sector; and (c) strengthen FCA's
efficiency in providing credit services as a second-tier rediscounting
institution. The sector's procurement regulations and procedures would also
be improved.
3.32        During project preparation,  MAC created a new directorate for
project planning, monitoring and evaluation within the General Planning
Directorate. This new directorate is charged with coordinating the
preparation and evaluation of the sector investment program to be supported by
the Bank loan (para. 3.42). It consists of two divisions, one for project
planning, staffed with four professionals and one for project monitoring and



- 20 -
evaluation, staffed with two professionals. Training of these staff, as well
as of other MAC and FCA staff, would be part of the institutional
strengthening component of the project. This component would also include 120
months of consultant time, as detailed in Table 1 below. Equipment and
software systems would also be provided to improve MAC and FCA's systems
analysis capability. TermAs of reference for all the consultants were
finalized prior to Board presentation. Hiring of the consultants for items
A.2, B, C.2, C.3 and C.4 below, and the preparation of a training program for
MAC and FCA staff in 1992, would be conditions of loan effectiveness (para.
3.22).  The Government also provided assurances at negotiations that: (a) by
September 30 each year during project execution, annual training programs for
MAC and FCA staff would be prepared; and (b) the remaining consultants would
be hired by no later than the dates indicated in Table 1. Prior to disbursing
the Bank loan for training activities and information technology systems under
the MAC and FCA institutional strengthening component, the Government and the
Bank would also need to reach agreement on an overall plan for training
activities.
Table I
Institutional StrenRtheninj Comoonent
Consultancv Requirements
Area                               No. of Months          Deadline for HirinR
Local        International
A. Trade and Policy Reform
1. ImplementationofTrade Policy        6             3                 December31, 1992
2. Health Permits                      -             4                  Loan effectiveness
3. Price Stabilization-Price Bands     -             4                  December31, 1992
4. Price Stabilization-Market Based
Mechanisms                            6              6                December 31, 1992
Subtotal                          6             17
B. Storage Facilities                                    30                Loan effectiveness
C. MAC Institutional Strengthenins
1. Agricultural Statistics             8             2                 December31, 1992
2. Project Evaluation                  6             -                  Lopn effectiveness
3. Project Monitoring                  6             -                  Loan effectiveness
4. Financial Planning and Control      8                                Loan effectiveness
5. Organization and MW-hods            I                                D December 31, 1992
Subtotal                         29             2
D. FCA Institutional Strenethenine
1. Management Infornation Systems                    12                December 31, 1992W-
2. Financira Planning & Management                   24                 December 31, 1992f
Subtoal                                          36
TOTAL                           35            85
1f Also a condition of disburement of the credit component (pam. 3.20(e))-
Proiect Costs
3.33          Total project costs are estimated at Us$900 million including
about US$45.0 million equivalent in taxes, at June 1991 prices and exchange
rates. The foreign exchange component amounts to US$223 million, or about 25%



- 21 -
of total project costs (Annex 1, Table 1). Because this operation would be
financing an agricultural investment program comprised mainly of small
individual projects to be implemented over the period 1992-1995, separate
physical or price contingencies have not been calculated.
Prolect Financina
3.34        The proposed Bank loan of US$300 million would finance over 33% of
total project costs, equivalent to 60% of the project's foreign exchange costs
and 25% of the local costs. The balance of the foreign exchange and local
costs would be financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), through
a parallel loan of US$200 million, and by the Government (US$400 million
equivalent, including US$42.3 million from subborrowers and US$38.1 million
from participating FIs for the credit component) (Annex 1, Table 1). The
Government would be the borrower and would bear the foreign exchange risk
(both mult.-currency and own currency), except for the credit component where
the own currency risk (i.e., the exchange risk between the US dollar and the
bolivar) would be paesed on fully to FCA (para. 3.46). For each component of
the sector investment program, the financing percentages of the Bank and the
IDB, in the aggregate, would be proportional to their respective loan amounts,
i.e., if the Bank's financing percentage is 30% of component costs, the IDB's
financing share would be 20% (Annex 1, Table 2). The Government would ensure
that all executing agencies receive adequate counterpart funds, on the basis
of the annual investment budget, and that such funds are made available
promptly as needed.
Procurement
3.35        The selection and appointment of consultants for studies and
technical assistance under the institutional strengthening component would be
consistent with the August 1981 Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executina Aaency. Civil works to be
contracted under the project would be generally small and only some drainage
works are expected to be of a size large enough to warrant ICB. However, to
the extent possible, civil works and equipment would be grouped and procured
either through ICB or LCB. Thus, contracts for equipment and works under the
public sector investment component would be awarded according to the following
procedures: (i) through ICB for equipment and vehicles valued above US$200,000
equivalent and for civil works valued above US$500,000 equivalent; (ii)
through LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank, for equipment items valued at
between US$25,000 and US$200,000 equivalent, and for civil works valued at
between US$35,000 and US$500,000 equivalent; and (iii) on the basis of price
quotations solicited from at least three eligible suppliers or contractors for
minor equipment items valued below US$25,000 equivalent and US$500,000 in
aggregate, and for minor civil works valued below US$35,000 equivalent and not
exceeding US$30.0 million in aggregate. Equipment and vehicles manufactured
in Venezuela may be granted the usual margin of preference in ICB procurement.
As a condition of loan effectiveness, the model bidding documents to be used
for the procurement of goods and works through ICB and LCB procedures would be
prepared in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
3.36        Most individual subloans under the agricultural credit component
are unlikely to exceed US$300,000 equivalent, while individual contracte for



- 22 -
farm machinery, irrigation equipment and storage infrastructure works are
unlikely to exceed the equivalent of US$100,000. Such contracts would
ordinarily be awarded following the commercial practices of the private
sector. However, since at this stage the Bank cannot ascertain whether
private sector commercial practices are acceptable, subloan appraisals by FIe
would specifically discuss the procurement procedures and award criteria for
the selection of suppliers/contractors and ensure that these are governed by
efficiency and economy while observing the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of Bank
guidelines in cases of direct contracting. The FIu would maintain appropriate
records of procurement actions under their subloans during project
implementation and FCA would be responsible for ensuring that all FIs comply
with these requirements.
3.37       The Government provided assurances at neyotiations that the
procurement procedures outlined above would be followed. In order to ensure
that bidding procedures and award criteria are consistent with Bank
guidelines, further assurances were also provided that the following would be
submitted to the Bank for prior review and approvals (a) all procurement
documentation for all contracts under ICB; and (b) procurement documentation
for the first two LCB contracts for g-ods and the first two LCB contracts for
works.   With respect to procurement under the credit component, assurances
were also provided by the Government at negotiations that prior to
disbursement of the Bank loan for the first subloan of each FI, it would
provide to the Bank the relevant contracts, together with a full disclosure of
the procurement procedures and award criteria used for that subloan.
Table 2
PROJECT PROCUREMENT
(USS million)
PROCUREMENT MErHOD
TOTAL
ICB        LCB         Other       N.A.
Civil Works            2.0       222.7        30.7        -            255.4Y
(0.8)     (89.2)       (12.2)      (-)         (102.2)
Cadastre               9.3        75.0         -          -            84.3
(3.7)     (30.0)       (-)         (-)          (33.7)
Materials & Equipment  43.1       34.7         0.5         -           78.3
(19.0)     (15.0)       (0.3)       (-)         (34.3)
Consultants & Traininp  -          -           5.0        -             5.0
(--)   (-)      t~~~~~~~3.0)  ()(3.0)
Credit                             -          422.8        -           422.8
(-)        (-)        (126.8)      (-)         (126.8)
Financial Restructring of Public
Sector Credit Institutions  -     -           -          54.1          54.1
_   _                    ~~~~~~~~~~(-)  ( )
Total                  54.4       332.4       459.0       54.1         900.0
Total Financed by Bank  (23.5)   (134.2)      (142.3)     (-)          (300.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the estimated amounts to be financed by the Bank.
LI Includes USS13.0 million in consultant services.
b/ Institutional strengthening component.



- 23 -
Disbursements
3.38        The proposed Bank loan of US$300 million would be disbursed over
four and a half years (Annex 1, Table 3).  TVo loan would be disbursed against
74% of the loans of FCA made to FIs (equal to 60% of the cost of investment
projects under the credit component); 100% of the ^xpenditures for consultants
and training; 100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles and equipment; 90% of
expenditures for locally procured vehicles and equipment; and 80% of
expenditures for civil works (Annex 1, Table 4). The final date for
submission of subloan proposals for the Bank's approval would be June 30,
1995. All disbursements would be against statements of expenditures except
for contracts awarded through ICB, the first two LCB contracts for goods and
the first two LCB contracts for works, and the firat subloan and related
contracts financed by each FI, for which submission of full documentation
would be required in accordance with Bank guidelines. As the Bank and the IDB
would finance the same components and type of expenditures in proportion to
their respective loan amounts (para. 3.34), the executing agency would submit
through the MAC contracts and statements of expenditure for disbursement from
the two loans in such a way that the loans would disburse at a rate of 60
(Bank): 40 (IDB). The Government provided assurances at negotiations that the
loans would be disbursed accordingly and that it would review with the Bank at
the latter's request, the status of disbursements of both loans and, if To
requested by the Bank, take remedial action. To support the early
implementation of the proposed policy and investment package, the loan
includes retroactive financing of up to US$10 million for all eligible
expenditures with respect to all project components made in accordance with
Bank procurement guidelines after approval by the Venezuelan Congress of the
public credit law authorizing th'. loan.  The loan would not be disbursed
against the restructuring of put4lic sector financial institutions. The
project is expected <:o be complet:c by Decei.-ber 31, 1995. The Closing Date
would be June 30, 1996.
3.39        Disbursement of funds t: executing agencies which are not
administrative dependencies of thie A- ernment would require prior signature of
contractual arrrngements with the Gov-,;rnment. Thus, as a condition of
disbursement for the rural electrific 'ion, cadastre, credit and training
components, the Government would sigr r.ntractual arrangements with the
Electricity Administration and Develocmert Corporation (CADAFE),the National
Land Institute (IuN), FCA, and the Gran Hiriscal de Ayacucho Foundation
(FUNDAYACUCHO), respectively, regulating the use and transfer of funds and
specifying the obligations of these agLncioa with respect to the carrying out
of their respective components. For the credit component, the contractual
arrangement would include the conditions under which credit would be granted,
the repayment terms of the loan to FCA to c'ver the Bank's commitment fee and
the multi-currency risk borne by the Government.
3.40        The Government would establish a Special Account in the Central
Bank. The Bank would deposit an initial US$15 million in the Special Account
upon receipt and approval of the initial withdrawal application. Subsequent
replenishment by the Bank into the Special Account would follow normal
procedures by which Bank funds would be disbursed against actual expenditures.



- 24 -
Accounts and Audit
3.41        Project accounts would be maintained by MAC, CADAFE, IAN,
FUNDAYACHUCHO, the Ministry of Tr'nsport and Communication and FCA in
accordance with sound accounting principles and methods consistently applied.
The Special Account, the individual project accounts and statements of
expenditures, and, in the case of FCA, its financial statements, would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. In the
course of the annual audit of FCA's project accounts and financial statements,
the auditors would carry out such test checks which, in their professional
judgment, were needed to confirm whether expenditures at the Fl and
subborrower level have been made for the stated purpose. The annual audit by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank of the financial statements of Flu
would also be a requirement for their eligibility to participate, or to
continue to participate, in the credit component. The audited reports
concerning FCA, the consolidated report of the audits of the other accounts,
of the statements of expenditures and of the Special Account would be
submitted to the Bank within four months (for FCA) and six months for the
others, respectively, at the close of each fiscal year. During negotiations,
the Government provided assurances on these accounting and auditing
arrangements.
Organization. Management and Monitoring
3.42        Overall responsibility for management and implementation of the
agricultural policy reform, investment and institutional strengthening
components would rest with MAC. CORDIPLAN and the Ministry of Development
would be closely involved with MAC in the implementation of the agricultural
policy reform, particularly in the trade reform aspects of the program. Prior
to loan effectiveness, a Project Unit, satisfactory in form and substance to
the Bank, would be established in MAC, reporting to the Minister of
Agriculture, to coordinate the implementation of the project and monitor
project progress. The Project Unit coordinator has been designated and is now
preparing a manual of operations for the project, including the procedures for
seeking reimbursements from the Special Account at the Central Bank. The
Project Unit would submit consolidated six-monthly progress reports for all
the components by March 31 and September 30 of each year during project
execution, as well as a project evaluation report six months after the loan
closing date. The General Directorate of Planning in MAC, in coordination
with the Project Unit, would be responsible for preparing, during the
execution of the project, the annual investment program to be agreed with the
Bank for each subsequent year. The Government provided assurances at
negotiations that the Government would discuss with the Bank the annual
investment programs by October 31 of each year (para. 3.30 (b)), and that the
Project Unit progress reports would be submitted to the Bank by the dates
above. Also, beginning on March 31, 1992, and every March thereafter, the
Government, together with the Bank, would undertake an in-depth review of
implementation aspects and actions agreed under the project.
3.43        IAN would be primarily responsible for the execution of cadastral
activities in cooperation with the Cadastre Directorate in MAC. CADAPE and
its affiliates would be responsible for the execution of rural electrification



- 25 -
works. The execution of rural road investments would be carried out by the
Ministry of Transport and Communication to ensure consistency of standards and
maintenance of the road network. FCA would be responsible for implementing
the credit component while FUNDAYAC'CHO would be responsible for administering
the training activities under the project.
Implementation of the Credit Component
3.44          All participating FIs would sign participation agreements with
FCA that would specify, inter alia, the lending and repayment terms;
procurement and disbursement procedures; the FI's acceptance of
responsibilities for appraisal and supervision of subprojects; and the FI's
agreement to provide at least 10% of the value of each subproject from its own
resources and would lend to subborrowers up to 90% of subproject investment
costs. FIs would also be required to report to FCA any subloan repayment that
becomes 60 days overdue, and to participate in any staff training program
provided by FCA for FIs. Participation agreements would be renewable
annually, subject to a satisfactory review by FCA of the Flo' continued
adherence to all eligibility criteria and their compliance with the
participation agreement. FCA would promptly advise the Bank of the renewal of
agreements and any changes in the list of FIs. Satisfactory eligibility
criteria for FIs have been prepared (Annex 5, Attachment 1). Signature of a
participation agreement with the applicable FI would be a condition of
disbursement of the credit component in respect of that intermediary.
3.45        Appraisals would be carried out by FIs and reviewed and approved
by FCA. Selected FIs that establish project units and demonstrate
satisfactory application of guidelines would be authorized to approve subloans
under US$150,000 equivalent. FCA would have authority to approve subloans
under US$300,000; subloans exceeding this amount would require Bank review and
approval. FCA's maximum financing for any one subborrower would be
US$3.0 million equivalent, including any outstanding amounts from previous
subloans. The methodology for evaluation of investments would depend upon the
size of subloan. For rCA financing over US$300,000, both economic and
financial rates of return would be calculated; for financing between
US$150,000 and US$300,000, a financial rate of return would be calculated.
All approved subprojects would have financial and/or economic rates of return
of at least 12%. In addition, an evaluation of market potential as well as
the technical and managerial capacity of subborrowers in the above two
categories would have to be carried out. For FCA financing of less than
US$150,000, a streamlined cash-flow analysis of the subborrower would be
undertaken, and the past performance of the subborrower would be considered,
where applicable.
3.46        Onlendina Terms.  The Bank funds would be onlent by the Government
to FCA in bolivares to refinance loans made by FCA to participating FIo.
Government lending to FCA for this purpose would be denominated in bolivares
and payable in terms of the US$ equivalent in bolivares at the time of each
disbursement with a variable interest rate equal to the interest rate on the
Bank loan plus a spread consisting of a variable fee that would cover the
commitment fee on the Bank loan and the multi-currency risk on the Bank funds.
The variable fee would be adjusted semi-annually based on a methodology



- 26 -
acceptable to the Bank, and would be stipulated in the contractual arrangement
between the Government and FCA together with the repayment terms of the loan
to FCA. The repayment terms of the loan to FCA would conform to the repayment
terms of the Bank loan to the Government.
3.47        The FCA would onlend funds in bolivares to FIs to refinance
subloans made for eligible investment projects. FCA loans to FIs would bear
an interest rate, which is variable monthly, at least equal to the average
remunerated deposit rate of the commercial banks, which is freely determined
(subject to a current ceiling of 60%) and, in principle, reflects market
expectations about the future course of the Bs US$ exchange rate. It is
expected that such interest rate would be sufficient on average, over the term
of the FCA loans, to cover FCA's funding and administrative costs (including
the nominal interest rate on the Bank loan and the variable fee payable by FCA
to the Government) and risk, including the dollar exchange risk. If
experience were to invalidate this expectation, a higher interest rate would
be charged to ensure full coverage of FCA's funding and administrative costs
and risk. The repayment terms of the FCA loans to FIs would conform, to the
extent possible, to the repayment terms of subloans refinanced by the FCA
loans.
3.48        The first FI subloans to subborrowers, refinanced by FCA with up
to US$20.0 million of the Bank loan, would have an interest rate equal to the
regulated interest rate applicable to agricultural loans, currently set at 84%
of the interest rate on non-preferential commercial bank loans (MAC Resolution
No. 231 of August 7, 1991). Given a non-preferential lending rate of about
38.7% (July 1991), FIs would make subloans with an interest rate of 32.5%, and
refinance them with FCA at 31.5%, leaving the FIs with a spread of 1.0%.
Under MAC Resolution No. 231, the FIs are guaranteed a minimum spread of 5%.
The difference between actual and minimum spreads would be financed wholly
with the Government's counterpart contribution to the project, and not with
the Bank loan. The maturity of each subloan would be determined individually
by the Fls, based on the cash flow projections for the corresponding
subproject, and would be approved by the FCA. Subloans would have maximum
maturities of 15 years, including up to four years of grace.
3.49        As one condition of disbursement of the Bank loan for the credit
component above US$20 million, the Government would deregulate interest rates
on agricultural lending (para. 3.21). After this condition has been met,
interest rates on subloans of FIs to subborrowers, and hence spreads, would be
freely negotiated between them. It is expected that the spreads would vary by
FT, subborrower or investment project. Competition among the FIs for
subborrowers would also help set a limit to the size of the spreads to be
charged by the FIs. Under the FSAL, interest rates have been freed up to a
ceiling of 60%, which is currently non-binding. The Government provided
assurances at negotiations that the ceiling of 60% would be raised, if
necessary, to provide a reasonable spread to the FIs (para. 3.22).
Poverty Alleviation Aspects
3.50        The project would help alleviate poverty through the policy
reforms and the public sector investment program. The present policy of



- 27 -
retail price controls has been ineffective both in keeping retail prices low
and in adequately supplying the urban poor with the food products under price
control. This has negated the impact desired by the Government through its
interventions. Under the policy of temporarily retaining nominal (i.e., non-
binding) retail price controls for a few key commodities in the "cesta basica"
and maintaining only those subsidies which are well targeted to children and
the poorer segments of the population, food shortages should not be an issue.
Concurrently, the trade policy to be adopted under the project would limit
possible price increases through gradual reductions in tariffs and greater
access to imports. The combined effect of the program would be to improve the
nutritional status of the urban poor. In the rural areas, pockets of poverty
are concentrated largely among coffee and cocoa smallholders due largely to an
inadequate level and quality of agricultural research and extension. One of
the objectives of the project would be to liberalize domestic and external
trade of the two commodities (para. 3.16). FONCAFE and FONCACAO would be
restructured by conce.trating their efforts on the generation and transfer of
agricultural technology in order to help increase the productivity of the
coffee and cocoa farmers and diversify their production. With an expanded
investment program in productive infrastructure, and greater credit
availability expected from the financial and credit reforms, incomes of poor
farmers are expected to increase.
Environmental Aspects
3.51        The Bank's Environmental Issues Paper on Venezuela dated
February 8, 1990, identified four major policy areas in the agricultural
sector which had negative effects on the environment: irrigation policy (low
water fees leading to overuse and to salinity problems), credit policy
(subsidized interest rate for the livestock subsector and for land clearing
leading to land underutilization), forestry policy (annual logging permits and
low stumpage fees) and fertilizer and pesticide policy (overuse due to large
subsidies). The report also identified the need to strengthen the
environmental assessment capacity of MARNR. In regard to agricultural policy,
the project includes measures to redress their negative effects on the
environment. During preparation of the irrigation component of the investment
program, a dialogue with the Government on inter alia increased cost recovery
and water fees has been initiated. Bank financing of the irrigation component
would be conditioned on agreement on an irrigation policy, including cost
recovery policy (para. 3.09). Specific reforms of fertilizer and credit
policies are also proposed under the operation (paras. 3.09, 3.20-3.22). The
subsidy to pesticides has already been eliminated. Forestry policy issues,
particularly with respect to fees and concessions, are complex and require
careful study before undertaking additional actions. Work is beginning in
this area. The proposed investment program would consist of individually
small infrastructure works. The rural road component envisages the
rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance of existing infrastructure, and
not the construction of new roads. Thus, the sector investment program is not
expected to affect the environment adversely. Nevertheless, in accordance
with the new environmental law in Venezuela, MARNR wouid review the projects
in the investment program to ensure that they conform with the land use plan
for the specific regions, and propose mitigating measures in those cases where
the expected environmental impact is negative. While MARNR is gearing up for



- 28 -
its increased responsibilities, the capacity of its environmental assessment
unit is still limited. Therefore, in order to ensure that possible
environmental issues are identified at an early stage and promptly addre'.ed
by MARNR, the Government, as a condition of disbursement of the infrastructure
and credit components, would (a) prepare an action plan and timetable,
satisfactory to the Bank, to strengthen the environmental evaluation and
monitoring capacity of MARNR; and (b) carry out initial steps to implement the
action plan.
Benefits, Fiscal I.nPact and Risks
3.52        While it is difficult to quantify precisely the benefits of the
loan, the overall economic rate of return is expected to be not less than 12%
because this would be the economic criterion, whenever applicable, for
including any individual project in the investment program. The impact of the
policy reform program is expected to be as follows: (a) improved efficiency
in the use of private and public resources allocated to the sector, and in the
inter-sectoral allocation of resources including credit; (b) improved
competitiveness in agricultural production through increased reliance on
market signals and reduced public sector regulation and intervention; and (c)
strengthened public finances through the conversion of private se_tor rents
into public sector revenues, by substituting tariffs for quantitative
restrictions and by eliminating input and credit subsidies. The beneficial
effects of the reform program would include the diminished intervention of the
Government in agriculture and more efficient patterns of production of the
sector consistent with its comparative advantage. By increasing the clarity
and transparency of the rules governing transactions in the sector and
rationalizing the role of the public sector, the changes would also provide
added incentives to private investment. The institutional strengthening of
MAC and other sector institutions would lay the basis for a more effective
utilization of the expanded flow of resources to the sector through the
budget. With an appropriate policy framework in place and the institutional
strengthening program underway, the medium-term public sector investment
program would effectively reduce agricultural production costs, improve
productivity and therefore competitiveness and profitability, thus promoting
the expansion of agricultural production and exports.
3.53        The overall fiscal impact of the project is expected to be
positive. Although public sector expenditures under the project would
increase, they would be substantially offset by the increased revenuer, from
tariffs and the reduction in the fiscal cost of input and credit subsidies.
Moreover, the revenue base would increase as agricultural output and incomes
increase in response to the improved incentives and public investment support.
3.54        The major risks to the success of the project relate to the
overall macroeconomic adjustment program as well as to specific aspects of the
agricultural reform program. The risk that the project could be sidetracked
by political pressures is mitigated by three factors: the Government's
continued commitment to pursue difficult macroeconomic reforms; the debt
accord last year with the commercial banks (which will provide increased
financial flexibility and resources to the economy); and the strong support of
the international financial community. The transitional adjustment costs to
particular groups of producers who carry considerable political influence,
constitute the major internal risk to the reform program. The design of the
operation, which pro-ides for the implementation of a less distortionary and



- 29 -
costly price stabilization scheme to reduce excessive price variability, while
reducing levels of protection, would mitigate the adjustment costs to the
producers of presently non-competitive commodities. A second mitigating
factor would be the support to the private sector, in the form of increased
credit availability and improved public infrastructure and services, to assist
it in edjusting to the new incentive structure. Finally, the institutional
measures introduced under the project to strengthen MAC and other sector
institutions would help consolidate this process of adjustment.



- 30 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REAC, D AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01        Conditions of Effectiveness of the loan are:
(a)   hiring of consultants for the institutional strengthening
component indicated in Items A.2, B, C.2, C.3 and C.4 of Table 1
in para. 3.32 (para. 3.32);
(b)   preparation of ICB and LCB model bidding documents for the
procurement of goods and works, in a form satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.35);
(C)   establishment of a Project Unit in MAC to coordinate the
implementation of the project and monitor project progress, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.42);
(d)   eliminate prior licensing and administered minimum producer prices
for all agricultural imports, except for tariff positions
corresponding to milk and sugar plus no more than 2% of the value
of agricultural production (paras. 3.07 and 3.08 (a);
(e)   implement an action plan that would bring, within one year in the
case of sugar and two years in the case of milk, domestic prices
for these products in line with international prices or with the
average domestic price of a set of exporting countries selected
between the Borrower and the Bank (para. 3.07);
(f)   implement and maintain a mechanism for commodity price
stabilization, exclusively for sorghum, yellow corn, white corn,
wheat, rice and oilseeds, until a market-based system for price
stabilization has been introduced and put into effect (para.
3.07);
(g)   make fertilizer prices consistent with any action program to be
agreed between the Government and the Bank under the PERL (or,
alternatively, if such program has not been agreed, with an action
program which would bring fertilizer prices to the opportunity
cost of fertilizers by not later than July 1, 1993) (para. 3.09
(a));
(h)   provide to the Bank for review CASA's plan of operations and
proposed budget for 1992 (para. 3.14 (a));
(i)   eliminate the domestic marketing controls and export monopoly of
PONCAFE and FONCACAO on coffee an6 cocoa, and present to the Bank
a satisfactory action plan for the restructuring of these
institutions, including a detailed timetable of actions and
proposed new functions and organizational structures, and
subsequently implement such restructuring plan in aucordance with
its timetable (para. 3.16); and
(j)   prepare a training and promotion program for FCA, and a training
program for MAC, for 1992 (paras. 3.22 and 3.32).



- 31 -
4.02        Conditions of Disbursement for the credit component are:
(i) signing of an agreement between the Government and FCA providing inter
alia for the transfer of Bank loan funds to FCA at terms designed to cover the
cost of the Bank loan to the Government, including the multicurrency exchange
risk and commitment fee (para. 3.39); and (b) signing of a participating
agreement between FCA and the applicable FI with respect to disbursements to
that FI (para. 3.44). Other disbursement conditions of the credit component
include:
(a)   for the initial US$20.0 million (para. 3.20): (i) in accordance
with the FSAL, submission of legislation to the Congress which
would create a new second-tier agricultural credit institution
based on FCA and which, when enacted, would permit further
liberalization of agricultural credit markets; (ii) audit,
evaluation and settlement of FCA's outstanding portfolio,
particularly the loans through BANDAGRO, FONCAFE, FONCACAO and
ICAP, with any uncollectible amounts written-off and FCA
compensated for any resulting losses; (iii) preparation of a
timetable and action plan for liquidating BANDAGRO; (iv) issuance
of FCA's Operating Regulations satisfactory to the Bank; and
(v) hiring of a systems analyst and a financial specialist to
assist FCA, respectively, in improving its data management systems
and in developing and implementing financial planning and loan
management systems and procedures;
(b)   for the second tranche of US$50.0 million (para. 3.21):
(i) enactment of legislation creating a new second-tier credit
institution based on FCA, which would be legally, financially and
administratively capable of implementing the credit component
through its completion; (ii) deregulation of agricultural interest
rates and corresponding adjustments in FCA's Operating
Regulations; (iii) agricultural lending of public sector
institutions at terms comparable to FCA terms, i.e., at interest
rates that reflect the full cost of resources used to financing
the loans, or, if the resources come from the Government's budget
or are internally generated, at full market rates; and (iv)
issuance of a decree phasing out over a six-month period portfolio
requirements on commercial banks for agricultural lending; and
(c)   for the final tranche of US$56.8 million (para. 3.22):  the
complete phase-out of portfolio requirements on commercial banks
for agricultural lending.
4.03        Conditions of Disbursement for the other components and
subcomponents are as follows:
(a)   productive infrastructure component - no disbursement against any
productive infrastructure project unless it has been included in
an economically sound annual investment plan, or if its cost
exceeds US$20.0 million, unless it has received prior approval
from the Bank (para. 3.30);



- 32 -
(b)   productive infrastructure, cadastre and training subcomponents -
signature of contractual arrangements between the Government and
the applicable legal entity (para. 3.39);
(C)   institutional strengthening component - no disbursement against
the training activities and information technology systems unless
a plan for training activities has been agreed (para. 3.32); and
(d)   productive infrastructure and credit components - preparation and
initial implementation of an action plan and timetable,
satisfactory to the Bank, to strengthen the environmental
evaluation and monitoring capacity of MARNR (para. 3.51).
4.04        During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
would:
(a)   not later than three months after loan effectiveness, implement
and maintain a system for administering health permits for imports
(para. 3.07);
(b)   not later than six months after loan effectiveness, (i) complete
an action plan for the divestiture of agricultural storage
facilities and subsequently implement the action plan in
accordance with agreed timetable (para. 3.13 (b)), and (ii) carry
out a study on alternatives to permit agrarian reform
beneficiaries to have access to credit given present constraints
on land title transfers (para. 3.24);
(c)   by October 31, 1992:  (i) eliminate prior licensing for all
agricultural imports except milk and sugar (para. 3.07); (ii)
eliminate all remaining administered minimum producer prices for
agricultural commodities except milk and sugar (para. 3.08 (b));
(iii) finalize preparation of bidding and/or tender documents or
other preparatory action required for sale of a number of
facilities accounting for no less than 25% of the aggregate value
of all agricultural. storage facilities agreed for divestiture
under the action plan required in para. 4.04 (b)(i) above (para.
3.13 (c)); and (iv) implement the recommendations of the study to
be carried out pursuant to para. 4.04 (b)(ii) above, which have
been agreed with the Bank (para. ".24);
(d)   continue to implement the import tariff structure agreed under the
Trade Policy Loan, pursuant to the terms of the Borrower's Letter
to the Bank dated May 16, 1989, i.e., 10-40% tariff levels in 1991
with no more than six rates, 10-30% in 1992 with no more than four
tariff rates, and 10-20% in 1993 with no more than three tariff
rates (para. 3.07);
(e)   limit export licensing and retail price controls on food items to
a only small group of basic food items for an agreed period, phase
them out at the end of the period, and, in the interim, ensure



- 33 -
,,hat remaining retail price controls are adjusted to prevailing
market conditions to prevent domestic shortages (paras. 3.07 and
3.10)p
(f)   eliminate the administered minimum producer price for sugar at the
end of the one-year action plan for sugar referred to in para.
4.01 (e) above (para. 3.08 (c));
(g)   eliminate the administered minimum producer price for milk at the
end of the two-year action plan for milk referred to in para.
4.01 (e) above (para. 3.08 (d));
(h)   from December 31, 1992 onwards, adjust all fertilizer prices in
accordance with the applicable action program indicated in para.
4.01 (g) above (para. 3.09 (b));
(i)   ensure that CASA's plan of operation and budget for 1992 are
consistent with the agreed role of CASA and carry out such plan
(para. 3.14 (c));
(j)   ensure that any storage facility to be sold is adequately managed
until its sale (para. 3.13 (d));
(k)   limit the role of CASA to the functions in (a)(i)-(iv) in para.
3.14 (para. 3.14 (b));
(1)   cause annual promotion and training programs for FCA to be
prepared by September 30 of each year during project execution
(paras. 3.22 (b) and 3.32);
(m)   cause annual training programs for MAC to be prepared by September
30 of each year during project execution (para. 3.32);
(n)   carry out a feasibility study, including an economic evaluation in
accordance with the methodology and criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, for investments to be included in the annual investment
program to be financed by the Bank loan (para. 3.30);
(0)   submit all individual projects with a cost above US$20 million
equivalent to the Bank for prior approval before including them in
the annual public sector agricultural investment program and, by
October 31 of each year during the execution of the project,
exchange views with the Bank on individual projects and the
overall agricultural investment program to be carried out the
following year (para. 3.30);
(p)   prior to including irrigation and large drainage works in the
annual investment progrvm to be financed by the Bank loan, agree
with the Bank on an irrigation sector policy, including inter
alia, a cost recovery policy, and demonstrate the technical,
financial, economic, institutional and environmental feasibility
of the works to be financed (para. 3.09);



- 34 -
(q)   hire the remaining consultants for the institutional strengthening
component by the dates shown in Table 1 of para. 3.32 (para.
3.32);
(r)   use model bidding documents acceptable to the Bank, follow the
procurement procedures outlined in para. 3.35-3.37 and submit to
the Bank for review and approval, procurement documentation where
contracts are above US$200,000 equivalent for good. and US$500,000
equivalent for civil works, the first two contracts for good. and
civil works, irrespective of their amounti1 and the first subloan
and related contracts by each FI (paras. 3.35-3.37);
(s)   disburse the Bank and the IDB loans at the rate of 60:40, and
review at the Bank's request the status of disbursement of both
loans and, if requested, take remedial action (para. 3.38);
(t)   submit to the Bank the yearly audited reports of FCA project
accounts and financial statements, the consolidated report of the
audits of the other project accounts, statements of expenditures
and Special Account for the project within four months of the
close of each fiscal year for FCA, and within six months for the
rest (para. 3.41);
(u)   cause the General Planning Directorate in coordination with the
Project Unit in MAC to submit the annual investment programs in
4.04 (o) above and the Project Unit to submit progress reports by
March 31 and September 30 of each year (para. 3.42);
(v)   undertake, together with the Bank, by March 31, 1992, and every
March thereafter, an in-depth review of implementation aspects and
actions agreed under the project (para. 3.42); and
(w)   raise the interest rate ceiling of 60%, if necessary, to provide a
reasonable spread to FIs (para. 3.49).
4.05        Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan to the Republic of Venezuela for US$300 million equivalent. The
terms would be standard.



- 35 -
YWUOLA
AOLICUL L *              CSO  1SU   PROJCT
~~~~~~~.......... ........,_ . _
PROJCT COST SWIAI
...................................................................................................................................................
Fortgp    Total                                      loralg    Total
Loool   tortegu    Total    Excbhage  Cost           Local    Vo0real      Total  tEohaqa   Coete
........ as millton-3  ................ -SS *iluon--........S                                    I
A.  CIVIL VUO
DrUni40                                              1,093.0      191.3   1,273.0        15.0      2.4        19.7         3.5      23.2     15.0       2.4
Rural Reads                                          3,172.3      912.5   4,0$5.0        15.0    12.3        94.0         14.4    110.4      13.0      12.3
UaettilUeatou                                          U92.9      122.3      515.2       15.0      1.4        12.4         2.2      14.9     15.0       1.6
Irrgation1 3,992.2                                                703 *   4,492.0        15.0      9.5       72.5         12.5    65.3       15.0       9.5
1tibta  t.                                              70.4        12.5      93.0       15.0      0.2         1.3         0.2       1.S     15.0       0.2
Plant Iealtb                                           275.0       46.3      32315       15.0      0.7         5.0         0.9      5.9      13.0       0.7
IMa HealtiL                                            51.4        9.1       *0.5       15.0      0.1         0.9         0.2       1.1     15,0       0.1
Cadeatar                                             3.475.3   1,158.9   4.635.0         25.0      9.4       93.2         21.1     $4.3      25.0       9.4
Subtotal Civil Works                                  14,510.J   3,155.9  17,949.2         17.4    34.3       249.3         17.     22.7       17.9      34.3
I.  CONSULtANTS2  snutto
Rug*a  leads                                           254.2       44.1      320.3       20.0      0.4         4.7         1.2       5.5     20.0       0.4
aurel Elaetri*ioatlem                                   49.0       49.0       97.9       50.0      0.2         0.9         0.9       1.6     30.0       0.2
ZrritatIom                                               0.0      192.9      152 9      100.0      0.4         0.0         3.3      3.7    100,0        0.4
Plant Healt                                              0         54          s.       10  0      0 1         010                   1      100         01
Animl Healtb                                              0.0      39.6       59.6      100.0      0.1         0.C         1.1       1.1    100.0       0.1
................................................................................................
Subtotal Coneltanta' services                            305.2      410.5      713.7       57.4      1.4         5.5         7.5    1U.0       57.4       1.4
C. mATUEL  ANID EQVt
Drainga                                                 43.0      190.0      225.0       90.0    O.           0.9         3.3      4.1      90.0       0.3
Iurel  lecttirUiation                                12191.2   1,056.5   2.347.7         45.0    4*7         23.5         19.2     42.7      45.0       4.7
ZruiUatln                                              243.S      971.2   1,219.0        90.0      2.3        4.4         17.7     22.2      50.0       2.3
Plant Healtch                                           43.1      172.4      213.7       90.0      .4         0.5         3.1      3.9      50.0       0.4
Anima  Iealth                                           42.9      171.4      214.3       90.0      0.4         0.5         3.1       3.9     90.0       0.4
Inetitutionl Strenthennt  (mAc and e     CA)            17.2       46.9       54.0       50.0      0.2        0.3          1.3       1.6     50.0       0.2
Subtotal Maltrale and EuIpmet                          1,453.2   2,424.5   4.307.7         40.9      *.7        30.4        47.7    7U.3       40.9       *.7
D.   HSMUTZONAL 6Ti* IOTmm
Plant Bealth (TraIning)                                  0.0       56.0       356.0     100.0      0.1         0.0         1.0       1.0    100.0       0.1
Azimal 1ealtb (Training)                                  0.0      39.6       55.6      100.0      0.1         0.0         1.1       1.1    100.0       0.1
me                                                       25.3     102.1      127.9       $0.0      0.3         0.3         1.9       2.3     90.0       0.3
ICA                                                       0.0      30.5       30.5      100.0      0.1         0.0         0.6       0.6    100.0       0.1
................. ;.............:;.........:;............... ;.................................................................._
Subtotal lnettutiounl Strngtenin                          2..5      247.2      272.7       90        0.9         0.5         4.5       5.0     90.6       0.4
S. eUDtT                                                17,442.0   5.514.0  23,25.0          25.0    47.0        317.1       105.7    422.5       25.0     47.0
7.   tUC2IAZL IZTRUCtOU          Or PL2C S50O0          2.97901         0.0   2.978.1        0.0      6.0        54.1         0.0      54.1       0.0      6.0
TOTAL Pl5JtCT COSTS                               17,244.6  12,233.0  49,499.4         24.0   100.0       977.2       222.9    900.0       24.5    100.0
.....................................................................................................................................................
Source  Are* 4. Table 4
AiAIITSLS UUIOs A:..L59
Hqvehbt 1. 1991



- 36 -
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECr
PROJECr FINANCING
(USS million)
INTER-AMERICAN
GOVERNMENT             DEVELOPMENT    WORLD                      TOTAL
BANK              BANK
AMOUNT  %                AMOUNT %    AMOUNT %  AMOUNT X
Civil Works                           107.8       33             88.2    27         130.7    40       326.7   100
Credit                                211.5"    5OW             84.5     20        126.8     30      422.8   100
ConsultantsY                            4.3       33              3.5     27         5.2    40        13.0    100
Materials & Equipment                  22.7       28             21.8    28         34.3      44      78.3    100
Financial Restructuring of Public
Sector Credit Institutions            54.1      100             -        -          -       -        54.1    100
3VAitutional Strengtheninr'             -         -               2.0    40          3.0     60        5.0    100
TOTAL                               400.0       44            200.0    22        300.0      34      900.0   100
I/ Inludes US$42.3 million (10% from gubborrowers and US$38.1 million (9%) from participating Fi.
h/ For productive infrastructure and support services.
c/ Consultant services and training.
Nowmbr 1, 1991



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
FISCAL                 INITIAL        QUARTERLY           TOTAL
YEAR    OUARTER       DEPOSIT      DISBURSEMENT        CUMULATIVE
(US$ M)     (US$ M)    %       (US$ M)    %
1992        Jan         15.0          0.0     0.0       15.0     5.0
Apr                      5.0      1.7       20.0     6.7
1993        Jul                     15.0      5.0       35.0    11.7
Sep                     15.0      5.0      50.0    16.7
Jan                     15.0      5.0       65.0    21.7
Apr                     15.0      5.0       80.0    26.7
1994        Jul                     22.0      7.3      102.0    34.0
Sep                     22.0      7.3     124.0    41.3
Jan                     23.0      7.7      147.0    49.0
Apr                     23.0      7.7      170.0    56.7
1995        Jul                     20.0      6.7      190.0    63.3
Sep                     20.0      6.7     210.0    70.0
Jan                     20.0      6.7     230.0    76.7
Apr                     20.0      6.7      250.0    83.3
1996        Jul                     13.0      4.3      263.0    87.7
Sep                     13.0      4.3     276.0    92.0
Jan                     12.0      4.0     288.0    96.0
Apr                     12.0      4.0      300.0   100.0
No"WAst 1, 1991



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Table 
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
ALLOCATION OF THE BANK LOAN BY EXPENDTIURE CATEGORY
EENDITURE CATEGORY   AMOUNT OF THE LOAN                   % OF  XPENDITURE
ALLOCATED               TO BE FINANCED
(US$ 000)
Civil Wor                               122,300              80% of expenditures
Equipment                                30,900              100% of foreign expenditures and
90% of local expenditures
Consultants & Trainingb'                  2,700              100% of expenditures
Credit                                  114,100              74% of amounts disbursed by the
second-tier institution
Unallocated                              30,000
1d Includes cadastre and consultant services.
hi Institutional strengthening.
N.s_ 1. 1991



Page I of 5
VENEZUElA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL POUCY MATRIX
ISSUEJOB)ECITVE                                                                AClIONS
1. OAir  mrl Trade Rezs n                                                  Action Airedy TI.e
A. Prohibitions (Nota I) nd quantitative import restrictions         - All 117 sgricultul positiam in the prohibited list (Noe I) hIv behm
(Nota 2) were applbd to 117 and 113 agncultuml tariff             eliminated.
positions respectively, which altogether accounted for about
74% of value of production in 1989; 264 agriculturl tariff        - Only 42 agricultural eiff positions cor_qodiS to mik produt.
position (70%) required haltb pemits (Notas 3 and 6).             eggs, aIal feedgna  (yellow com. rorghan. olkeeda (aeyb ,
peanuts, copr, maflower, cotton, mame  d oil palm). chiclum ad
B. Tariff anrcture for all agriculural positions (including products  augne remai ubject to prior import licning (Now 2). Tes
uwing price tabilization mechaniam) ha been aetablshed as         commodities acoune for about 40% of the value of agricult
follow: 0-50% in 1990 and no more than six rates, 10-40% in       production in 1989.
1991 snd no more than six rtes, 10.30% in 1992      no more
then four rtes; 10-20% in 1993 and no more than three mtes.       - Most export restrictions on agriculturl oup   udi ip* have bem
eliminated, but export controls have been retUied on three ooc _odi
C. Many export probibitions to prevent aubsidized. pike-controLd     (sugar, milk, ad sadia).
outpU ad inputs from lenving domestic maket
- Responsibility for providing bceath peumits for the impost of may food
products ba been tansfered from MAC to the Ministy of HeddL
Conditiori of Loan Effectivenes
- Hire coihn_t to improve the administration of he   pen   qy
- Emate prior licesig for all agriculal iport, excq* t riff
poitions corresponding to milk ad sug  phw not more t    2% of the
value of agricultual production in 1989.
- Imlement n action plan thot would bring, within two yea  in the cm
of milk, aud one year in the ce of sugar. domestic prioce for thes
products in line with intenaonal prices or with the everae domtic
price of a set of sected exporting counties.
- Impment and manta a medianhin for eomoity price stbilization
exchwively for srhum, yellow corn white corn. wheat, rice end
oilsedr, until a  utet-bued sym for price sbiliza    ba been
itroduced ad put into effect.
To be Met Three Months After Loan Effeedvem
* Impenet and mantain  a ydem for admi_   ing health pent.
To be Met bv October 31. 1992
- Eliminae prbr licensig for all agricubu im; a except mlk -d
Other AsCRaOs a t Negotiations
- Continue to impemai agreed impost taflf 'ume, iLa.. 10J40% in
1991 with no more thwsix st. 10.30% in 1992 witno more d
four rates Ad 10-20% in 1993 wO noane than the rat.
- lmit export ioaickg to only a  _m  group of bak food iteu for a
agreed period, ad subsequnly ple it oU.



- 40 -
Page 2 of S
O.  Asrlcu1r  Producer Prices                                              Actions Alfeady Taken
Minimum producen' prices have bee adminisatively et on the             Many  _admind minimum producer pries have been elinated.
bai of production cos of motn inefficient fannem and some ar         Only some of the conmmodites which ae a l subject to inport ibemmtg
above border prices. Minimum prices have been enforced through       have retained administred minmum prodwcer pricb.
import quot restrictions (-contingentaniento').
Conition of Effectiveni
E3mnte admtered minmu  producer pricee for addibioal
gricuhual cnodis that abve been freed from the iapost lice
requirent.
To be Met by October31  1992
- Elin4te a11 remamm admnustered  _inmn producer prices for
4riculhurl coamiodibes except olk alnd apr.
To be Met by the End of de Action Plan for Suer
- Eliminate the admiistered minim  producer price for  r.
To be Met by the End of the Action Phn for Mik
- Eliminte the admi_stered  inimnu. producer prke for tik.
m. Aaricutal  tam Priins                                                   Acto  Alredy Taken
A. Ferdlizer priCem remaian ubidized and out of line with world       In mid-September 1991. fertlizer prices wene hicread fran 60% to
prices.                                                           70% of the oppornmity codt of fertlizer, or abou thtee monrl ahead of
the acton progr  agreed under the PERL
B. Irigation wer charges represent presty 1O Xof operating
nd mnaintenance cost. No capital costs are recovered.             Condition of Effectivene
- Make fertilizer prices consitent with ny act7on prm  to be agreed
between the Government and the Bank under the PERL for if no such
progrm hs beeo agreed, implement a program designed to bring
fertilizer prices to the opportunity coat of fertilizer not later than July 1.
19931.
Other Aunc at Neattition
- Prior to including Irion san lerge drainqge wotb in the investmen
program to be financed by the Bk lo, agee with the BDnk on a
irrigation sector policy, inchluing.  Win. a cost recovety policy. ed
demonstrate the technicaL financial, economic, inat rAl and
environmet feaiility of the works to be finaned.
- From December 31, 1992, onwart adjuat ll fetilize price in
accordance with any action prgram to be agreed under tbe PERL [or ff
no such program   has been agreed, with an action progrm designe to
bring fertilizer prices to the opportunity ot of fertilizers not leter tl
July 1, 1993).
IV. Azriulb    Relae Pricne                                               Actio  Aldy Tae
A. Mwtimn rete prices are applied for a nwmber of food               - Since 1959. retail price ooois have bee lfted for eight food ilm,
produde                                                           kaving only four which re till sct to price controls.
Asurances at Neaotiation
- limit nomin relail pr   onbol only to a eall g1    y of bowic food
im  for   agreed period, nd  _asequaly phue  out contols.
- Enure that while any food item remain  ider pre controL h price
would be adjutd to previling market conditi to prevat dom_ic
shortae7s.



- 41 -
ANNEX2
Page 3 of 5
V. A4rkuhua MKa t                                                          Actioa Aledv Taken
A. The adm_stion has creaed a new panatstal. CASA, with                - Termt of refcrene for a tudy of grkcullml ouge   wcUWes (mica and
the puhme of. inter ails. consoliating and rehabilitating          cod atome) aimd at fonrmtaing a divestue prgrm for the facdlte
exiting ato4ge f cilities.                                         b  been ptepretd.
B. Coffee and caco ubectorn and role of FONCAFE and                    - Import restrction on coffee ad cacao have been elinate.
FONCACAO.
Coodho of Low loovaes
* Hiring of co_auan for ady on arkcuhahl orae faclim.
* Provide CASA's plan of openatio  and pposed budget for 1992 to dhe
Bak for eview.
- Rimime the expott woopoly ad domtic u.zctg oola on
coffee and cocoa of FONCAFE od PONCACAO.
- Runib to the Bank an ao plmn for the restructuring of PONCAFE
and FONCACAO, ichdimg a detaled  idedbe of ato   d popodsed
new fumtom nd organ rabonal iructa of tme ec"e .
To be Met Six Months Afte La 
- Compkt an action plan for the divetiure of  oe  falie ad
sibaequenly implmnt action plan in accordae witb agreed dnmable.
To be Met by October31. 1992
- Fmai  biding and/or teder donea or other prpaatoy action for
ma  of at klt 25 % of the agggate value of ai storge foclies agreed
under the ction plan.
Other Aumaces at Netotiatona
- Carry out action plan for te reactuwing of FONCAFE ad
FONCACAO in accossnee with the agr    timetable.
- Ensur tat CASA's pln of operaions and budget fori12 ae
conitnt with the agreed role of CASA and catry out such plaL
-Lim the role of CASA only to agred function.
-Ensre that may stooge fcity to be soUl is adequately magd utu
its Ile.



- 42 -
ANNOC 2
Pose 4 of S
Vi  61c       lCredi                                                      Actions Ahvadv Taken
Agriclural fncil ector i under exceuive Goverment                    - In the cootext of the FSAL, ind ate subsidies on agricukual lobs
inventio In the deterination of interest rates cnd credit            havc been reduced from about 50% to 15%; the agriculurl pottfolio
allocation trugh public awtor rmial institutions.                    requiumet on commercial bcntr has been reduced from 22. 5% to
17.5%, with.  fwuher reductin to 12% expected in 1M92; ed on action
picn hb been fonmued to ctes  new  econd-tir agcukal credit
kstitution dth  would aborb ell tbe dw    licbli of be FCA md
the esw  Ad liailiti    related to the cedit activities of IONCAFE nd
FONCACAO
Condition of L1o  Effective
* Prepare FCA' trining ad promotion progrm  for 1992.
Condition of D   tbursemet of Initial USS20.0 million of the Cdit
- Submit kgislItion to tbe Congress that would crete. new secontd tier
agricultural credit institution (based on FCA and the cdit activities of
PONCAFE and FONCACAO) and at tbe ne time pennit futher
hlalation of agricull credit marketa.
- Audit and evahate FCA's outstading portfolio, prtulkrly the
portfolio with BANDAGRO, ICAP. FONCAFE and FONCACAO, with
any uncoletble amounts written off and FCA compemaed by the
Govenment for any euhling lbm.
I maue FCA's Operting Regulation.
Prepa  timetble and action pih for the liquiation of BANDAGRO.
Contac a sytms speciist anda fiancl specialist to ast FCA.
Conditions of Disbunement of Second Trenche of the Credit Comnonent
(US$50.0 million)
- Esablish a aecond-tier agricultural crdit institution tht would absorb
the ase  and liabilities of FCA, FONCAFE and FONCACAO ad woul
be kgally, fiAncilly and administratively capble of executing te credit
hponet through its completion.
* Deregult asriuua inter rates, ad make corresponding
adjustmenb in FCA's Operting Regulation.
- Isue a decree phaing out over a six-month period the portfolio
requirements on commercil boks for agricuulr lending.
- Ensure that public sector intitrtioss lending to the agriculrl ector
for purpos  aimihar to FCA's would kld under comparble teans  d
condiions, i.e., t interet te ta reflect the full cot of resourc   ed
to fiance the lom, ot if resowues come from the Govemmente budge
or are inteaWly generated, at fu ll maket rat.
Condition of Diunment of Third Tranche of the Crit Cowmona
(USS56. 8million)
- Compketly phase aot portfolio requactub on co_mdcl buis for
agricuturl lnding.
Otber Amuran  at Negotlalio.
- Prepae annual triing md promtion prgram for FCA by
September 30 of each year duri  project executo
- Raie the m t i t rate cei4in of 60%, if nece y, to provides
reasonable sped  to pazic  g ftncil it      a



- 43 -
ANEX
Page S of S
VII. L.aIs ad RmuXlutor Ftu.work                                                     a Kea
ExhL  laws do not permit an eflicit utilization of lnd ad           - COny out sdy not 1ila thl six MOAd. afte _ WRb effesivM  an
d"muves on-fam investmnent.                                          shemaives to peemit egtim tefonm banellelades to bave wom to
credit given prima combalab on u.Sd dde trufet.
To be Met by October31. 1992
- lIphmat the _eco.msASdtloe of dth   dy.
No_,br 1, 1991



------ -------------------------------------------------------
w'!gSi3a 1* I I! Z! UZZ ZZ! -I
i :      |   -0  S.-  t: o *                                                --I  
*              II i I                                                                        ,
,.   ?  ^  I    I    I   ~ ~~I  I    I        I      I                        :               :   
2    'I
i-                                        - -j  I  - -   - -  - -ti- -                          :
;<  -w   ''-'-----T'-----------0-------------------------- -'- '
.  r'    il             Vie rt                 i      l*   1                                   Z  a -
fi.  |  3i| W ;*"         I_ w1  Ws *o oje i                   * 9      [   ao    j    .l*|  *t i    E I 
D  .    |  t     |   l  t     ----- - -- - - - - - -                 *   ----     - --- - - -  0 
~~~I                                                                 I                          .  
, _    _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  __._     _   _  _ _ _   _ _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _   I    I
*   S  j                a     , ,i,,:    :    l       ,    _, ,,            ,,y,,_   
j  ~ w           -: .a;i  --:j.*.t.wSS :|t.      -   _  S                                   S ;IW.I    w :Ct     
a     t   * s*  .  *   h1 *.    * -||-"*  .   .                       wwb:   
j, Fa  a    j                                a                 ,i ji @ i    w t 
|  |i i                                                    :           
,                                  aa
F VT
c XHNNW
* .    '1H*1~'HHH*   I                                            *~Hi ~~I iIIj



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
M.A.C. CAPITAL FORMATION 1985-1990L'
(Millions of Bolivars)
1985       1986      1987       1988     1989         1990       1991
CAPITAL FORMATION WORKS-
In current prices             425.8    1,946.8   2,426.2    1,848.4    369.3       2,453.6   2,850.2
In 1984 prices                379.0    1,522.1    1,286.9      792.0      90.5       460.3    439.5
Index (1990=100)                82.3      330.7     279.6      172.1      19.7       100.0      95.5
Mano:
MAC Total Budget             4,452.7    5,456.2   8,924.8   7,753.3   8,757.4    11,854.5  18,431.2
Fixed Capital Formation        112.4      127.9     188.5      233.4    408.1        533.0    648.5
Deflator (1984= 100)
1' 1989 - preliminary; 1990 - estimate; 1991 - Budget Law Proposal
L Line 70 of the MAC budget.
Source: MAC and October 1990 mission.



AOICOMLURAL SEtSOR D3V1ESTI PROJECT
Budgetary Allocation to Agricultural Sector (1979-1990)
(1(11on Es)
Inatitution                                1979       1980         1981        1982        1983         1984        1985         1986        1987         1988        1989         1990 at
liuinstry of Agriculture                   488.90      675.50    4,549.70    2,986.60       1929.10    3,310.30    2,326.70    3,143.20    6.156.10    5.748.10    3,123.50    3,973.20
Iastltuto Agrerlo Uacional (IUS)          276.00       602.00      602.00       395.00      268.40       265.60      318.50       323.10      413.40      392.90       953.80      983.40
Instituto do Credito Agricola y
Pecuaria (rCAP)                          720.00       694.00    1,004.10       700.00      700.00       700.00      841.50       748.60      746.80       758.90    1,500.00    2,539.50
Corporacion doe Mrcado Agricola (CPA)    840.00        723.70       757.00      794.60      451.20       345.60        5.00
Banco de Doearrollo Agropacuarlo
(BASAG)                                  127.40       227.40      537.10        40.00      113.00      500.00       500.00      320.00       150.00      125.00       225.00      425.00
Fondo do CredIto Agropecuario (FCA)       247.00       450.00      220.00        85.00                               200.00       603.50      450.00                 1,COO.00    1,800.00
Fondo Nacional del Cafe (FONCAFE)          142.40      450.00       195.00       95.00       20.50        15.00       16.50        12.10      530.00       201.00      329.00      538.00
Fondo Nacionsl del Cacao (IOWCAC&o)         18.40       84.40       54.00        34.00        6.40         4.40        6.30         6.90        6.70         2.00       51.80       50.00
Fondo Nacional de luwYstigaelonas
Agropecuarias (FONAIP)                    103.90      167.30       144.70      129.70       105.50      126.10      170.60       204.00      264.60       340.90    1,137.90      704.60
CASAL                                                                                                                                                                     -        200.00
Otbers bI                                  139.90      453.70       124.90       41.70       42.20        49.60       67.60        94.80      207.20       184.40      436.60      859.40
Total                                3,103.20    4,528.00    8,188.50    5,301.60    3,636.30    5,316.60    4.452.70    5,456.20    8,924.80    7,753.20    8,757.70   12,073.20
National Budget                         50,958.1   72,868.10   94,544.10   86,e84.40   79,238.30  103,114.00  113,114.00  125.180.60  181,820.60  186,318.50  183,305.50  443,718.10                    4-
Agriculture Sector                                                                                                                                                                                      C'
as S of National Budget                     6.10         6.20        8.70         6.10        4.60         5.10        3.90         4.40        4.90        4.20         4.80        2.70
Annual Crowth Rates (1984-88) - Agriculture Sector Budgets -6S p.s.
- National udgets -I1 p.c.
*1 1990 8udget La (do., not Include additions).
b/ Inclwdes FPDEOD, CIA, COAUE, FlDEPR, cGEzCO, COllC4L, ruDAICEmDIS, USIVERSIDADES,
COIOOCIMD?   VWERCA, PAR. n.R        . AlIrFIDA.
Sourc, Kiiatry of Agriculture
&s\Lotu*\an4tb6
81rmber 19, 1990
(0:3.
(DZ



AGNICULTUIL SNCTO   _ SM     ?  IWlCT
H.A.C. INVESTH? POGAM I89-91
1989       1990        1991        90189      91190          1989       1990       1991         90189      91,90
CHilllon  of  0lovers)          (Percentwse Change)      (millions of 1989 Bolivarc)        (Porentage Chane)
50  PDCKASE OF ICCUNT AID 3U?RT                            4.9       52.2        78.8        965.32      51.02          4.9       40.0       49.6         715.9?      24.1?
610 CNTR1IUT1MWS FMU  DUUS1IW  UDITu1ES                  807.6      681.9       730.2        -15.6X       7.12        807.6      522.2      459.7         -35.3?     -12.02
- Instituto Nacionel Agrerio (CAN)                 568.3       425.0      601.3         -25.2?      41.5?       568.3       325.5      378.5         -42.7?      16.32
- Fado Mal. de low. Agropecuerias (PIRODC)         238.9       101.6        0.0         _57.5?    -100.0?       238.9        77.8        0.0        -67.42    -100.0?
- FID  Smll Farmrt Project iu Estado Sucre          0.0        85.3      117.9           n.S.      38.22         0.0        65.3       74.2           n.s.      13.62
- Fondo Uscional del Cacao                           0.0        50.0        0.0           n.S.    -100.0?         0.0        38.3        0.0           U.s.    -100.0?
- Fondo de Desarrollo Fruticole                      0.4        20.0       11.0       4900.0?      -45.02         0.4        15.3        6.9       3729.3?      -54.8?
70 CAPITAL FOIUATIN WIS                                  369.2    2,453.6    2.850.2         564.62      16.22        369.2    1.879.1    1.794.2         409.02      .4.52
- Dcearrollo Integral del Ares lejo 1iego            0.0    2,446.6    2.767.9            n.a.      13.12         0.0    1,873.7    1,742.4            n.e.      -7.0X
- Ordinary Sudgetery Allocation                   0.0    1,045.6       861.5          n.c.      -17.6?         0.0       800.8      542.3          n.*.      -32.32
- Esploymnt Law                                   0.0       773.5        0.0          u.s.    -100.0?          0.0       592.4        0.0          n.m.    -100.0?
- Investmet Law                                   0.0       627.5    1,906.4          u.s.      203.8?         0.0       480.6    1,200.1          n.e.      149.72
- Others                                           369.2         7.0       82.3        -98.1?    1075.7?        369.2         5.4       51.8         -98.5?     866.42 ?
-a
880 CAPITAL T2ANSPmS TO PDBLIC SECTOR                    300.0      725.0      992.2         141.7?      36.9?        300.0      555.2       624.6         85.1?       12.5?
- Coupuia Nacional de Reforestecion                300.0       525.0      492.2          75.02      -6.22       300.0       402.1      309.8          34.0?     -22.92
- C.A.S.A. (Cesta ,seics)                            0.0       200.0      500.0           n.*.     150.0?         0.0       153.2      314.8           n.c.     105.5?
920 FIPNCIAL INVESTHERr IN P1 LIC UTMTIES              2,725.0    4,856.2    5,202.3          78.2?       7.1?      2,725.0    3,719.2    3,274.9          36.5?     -11.92
- Instituto de Credito Agricola y Pecuario       1,500.0    2,539.5    3,252.3           69.3?      28.1?      1,500.0    1,944.9    2,047.3          29.7?       5.32
- Foad* de Credlto Agropecuario                  1,000.0    1,800.0    1,950.0           80.05       8.32     1,000.0    1,378.5    1,227.5           37.92     -11.02
- fudasgro                                         225.0       325.0        0.0          44.4?    -100.OS       225.0       248.9        0.0          10.62    -100.02
- Otbhr Zntitiee                                     0.0       191.7        0.0           n.S.    -100.01         0.0       146.8        0.0          u.I.    -100.0?
TOTAL ASRICULTUB NINISTI  (mAS) SUbzT                7,161.7   11,854.5   14,156.2          65.5?      19.42      7,161.7    9,078.8    8,911.4          26.8?      -1.8?
(excl. Fertilizers Subsidy)
TOTAL INVESII?                                       4,206.7    8,768.9    9,853.7         108.5?      12.42      4,206.7    6,715.7    8,203.0          59.62      -7.62
-  aflnncla  Intes_jt                            1,481.7    3,912.7    4,651.4          164.11      18.92     1,481.7    2,996.6    2,928.1          102.2?      -2.3n
- Financial Inestment                            2,725.0    4,856.2    5,202.3           78.2?       7.11     2,725.0    3,719.2    3,274.9           36.5?     -11.9?
TOTAL  1MVESIII  (as 2 of total budget)                 58.72      74.01       69.62                                 58.72      74.0X       69.6?
- NonfLancial Inem nt                               20.7?       33.02      32.91                                 20.7?       33.02      32.92
-  Fiancial Iunstmet                                38.02       41.02      36.72                                 38.02       41.0?      36.7?
Fortiliers Subsry O(.A.C. budget)                  1,596.0        0.0    4,275.1
n.o. - not applicable
Note i 1990 Includes modfications as of October 5, 1990.
Sources MAC end miesion,
AsA14T39
November 1990



- 48 -
tabte 4a
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM, 1992-95 tc)
................ ........................... .................................. .........
(Os million)
....-.......................................................................................................
1992        1993        1994         1995       TOTAL
...... .............. ................................. i;...............
GRAND TOTAL                      10,000.0    14,507.6    13,201.8    11,790.0    49,499.4
I.  PRODUCTIVE INFRASTRUCTURE                    2,283.6     4,167.6      5,714.6     5,177.2    17,343.0
I.A.  Drainage                                 310.0       450.0        500.0       240.0      1,500.0
- Civil Works                            263.5       382.5        425.0       204.0      1,275.0
- Materials and Equipment                 46.5        67.5         75.0        36.0        225.0
I.B.  Rural Roads                            1,403.9      1,701.4     1,750.0     1,550.0      6,405.3
- Consultants                             70.2        85.1         87.5        77.5        320.3
* Civil Works                          1,333.7     1,616.3      1,662.5     1,472.5     6,085.0
I.C.  Rural Electrification                    486.7       939.3      1,005.6       829 2      3,260.8
- Consultants                             14.6        28.2         30.2        24.9         97.9
* Civil Works                            121.7       234.8        251.4       207.3       815.2
- Materiats and Equipment                350.4       676.3        724.0       597.0     2,347.7
I.D.  Irrigation                                 0.0     1,076.9      2,459.0     2,558.0      6,093.9
- Consultants                              0.0        32.3         73.8        76.8        182.9
- Civil Works                              0.0       807.7      1,904.8     1,979.6     4,692.1
- Materials and Equipment                  0.0       215.4       491.8        511.8     1,219.0
I.E   Fisheries                                 83.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         83.0
- Civil Works                             83.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        83.0
11.  SUPPORT SERVICES                               371.4        278.6       197.1        81.5        928.6
II.A  Plant Health                             238.1        178.6       124.6        53.9        595.2
* Consultants                             22.4        16.8         16.8         0.0         56.0
* Civil Works                            129.4        97.1         64.7        32.3        323.5
- Materials and Equipment                 86.3        64.7         43.1        21.6        215.7
11.8  Animal Health                            133.3        100.0        72.5        27.6        333.4
- Consultants                             23.4        17.6         17.6         0.0         58.6
- Civil Works                             24.2        18.1         12.1         6.1         60.5
- Materials and Equipment                 85.7        64.3         42.8        21.5        214.3
III. CADASTRE                                      1,158.4      1,559.5     1,293.1       624.0      4,635.0
- Aerial Photography and Cartography           417.0        561.4         0.0         0.0        978.4
- Land Delineation                               0.0          0.0       142.2        68.6        210.8
small Farm Delineation                        741.4       998.1      1,150.9       555.4      3,445.8
IV.  CREDIT                                       5,365.5     6,071.9      5,918.2     5,900.4    23,256.0
V. FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING OF PUBLIC SECTOR        641.9      2,336.2         0.0          0.0     2,978.1
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                     179.2        93.8        78.8          6.9       358.7
VI.A.  M.A.C.                                  142.7         93.8        78.8          6.9       322.2
-Consultants                                    36.9         31.9        26.9         6.9        102.6
- Direccion de Planificacion                  10.0          7.5         7.5         0.0         25.0
- Direccion de Politica de Mercadeo           10.0          7.5         7.5         0.0         25.0
- Direccion de Riego                           0.0          5.0         5.0         0.0         10.0
- Otres Direcciones                           10.0          5.0         0.0         0.0         15.0
* Audit of Project Accounts                    6.9          6.9         6.9         6.9         27.6
- Materiats and Equipment                       50.0         20.0        10.0          0.0        80.0
* Training                                      55.8         41.9        41.9          0.0       139.6
- Direccion de Planificacion                  10.0          7.5         7.5         0.0         25.0
- Plant Health                                22.4         16.8        16.8         0.0         56.0
* Animat Health                               23.4         17.6        17.6         0.0         58.6
VI.S.  F.C.A.                                   36.5          0.0         0.0          0.0        36.5
- Consultants & Training                  30.5         0.0          0.0         0.0         30.5
Materials and Equipment                  6.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          6.0
Source: MAC Project Directorate
(a) June 1991 prices
Sept.bwer 1991



- 49 -
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM, 1992-95 (a)
. ..................................................
(USS miLlion)
1992        1993         1994         1995       TOTAL
...................... ......................................... 
GRAND TOTAL                         181.8        263.4        240.2       214.5        900.0
............ ................................... .................................................................................
1.  PRODUCTIVE INFRASTRUCTURE                        41.5         75.4        104.1        94.3        315.3
I.A.  Drainage                                    5.6          8.2         9.1          4.4         27.3
Civil Works                              4.8          7.0          7.7          3.7        23.2
- Materials and Equipment                  0.8          1.2          1.4          0.7         4.1
I.8.  Rural Roads                                25.5        30.9         31.8         28.2        116.5
- Consultants                              1.3          1.5          1.6          1.4         5.8
- Civil Works                             24.2         29.4         30.2         26.8       110.6
I.C.  Rural Electrification                       8.8         17.1        18.3         15.1         59.3
Consultants                              0.3          0.5          0.5          0.5         1.8
- Civil Works                              2.2          4.3          4.6         3.8         14.8
- Materials and Equipment                  6.4         12.3         13.2         10.9        42.7
I.D.  Irrigation                                  0.0         19.2        44.9         46.7        110.8
- Consultants                              0.0          0.6          1.3          1.4         3.3
* Civil Works                              0.0         14.7         34.6        36.0         85.3
- MateriaLs and Equipment                  0.0          3.9          8.9          9.3        22.2
I.E   Fisheries                                   1.5         0.0          0.0          0.0          1.5
- Civil Works                              1.5          0.0          0.0          0.0         1.5
II.  SUPPORT SERVICES                                  6.8          5.1          3.6         1.5         16.9
II.A  Plant Health                                4.3         3.2          2.3          1.0         10.8
- Consultants                              0.4          0.3          0.3          0.0          1.0
- Civil Works                              2.4          1.8          1.2          0.6         5.9
- Materials and Equipment                  1.6          1.2          0.8          0.4         3.9
11.8  Animal Health                               2.4          1.8         1.3          0.5          6.1
C onsultants                               0.4          0.3          0.3          0.0          1.1
CiviL Works                              0.4          0.3          0.2          0.1         1.1
- Materials and Equipment                  1.6          1.2          0.8          0.4         3.9
III.  CADASTRE                                         21.1         28.4         23.5         11.3        84.3
- Aerial Photography and Cartography              7.6         10.2         0.0          0.0         17.8
- Land Delineation                                0.0          0.0         2.6          1.2          3.8
- Small Farm Delineation                         13.5         18.1        20.9         10.1         62.7
IV.  CREDIT                                           97.6        110.4        107.6       107.3        422.8
V.  FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING OF PUBLIC SECTO          11.7         42.5          0.0          0.0        54.1
CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                       3.3          1.7          1.4          0.1         6.5
VI.A. M.A.C.                                      2.6          1.7          1.4         0.1          5.9
-Consultants                                      0.7          0.6         0.5          0.1          1.9
- Direccion de Planificacion                    0.2         0.1          0.1          0.0          0.5
Direccion de Politica do Mercadeo             0.2          0.1         0.1          0.0          0.5
- Direccion de Riego                            0.0         0.1          0.1          0.0          0.2
Otras Direcclones                             0.2          0.1         0.0          0.0          0.3
Audit of Project Accounts                     0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1          0.5
Materials and Equipment                         0.9          0.4          0.2         0.0          1.5
- Training                                        1.0          0.8         0.8          0.0          2.5
- Direccion de Pltnificaclon                    0.2          0.1         0.1          0.0          0.5
- Plant Health                                  0.4          0.3         0.3          0.0          1.0
- Animal Health                                 0.4         0.3          0.3          0.0          1.1
VI.6.  F.C.A.                                     0.7          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.7
- Consultants & Training                   0.6          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.6
- Materials and Equipment                  0.1          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.1
,          ..............................................................................................
Source: RAC Project DIrectorate
(a) June 1991 prices and exchange rate.
September 1991



VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PRCJECT
PHYSICAL TARGETS BY MAJOR COMPONENT, 1992-95
TOTAL COSTS
(USSR)                                  PHYSICAL TARGETS
1992    1992-95                   1992                            1992-95
PRODUCTIVE INFRASTRUCTURE
Drainage                     5.6      27.3   42 subprojects (25,810 ha)          75 subprojects (203,310 ha)
Rural Roads                 25.5    116.5   44 subprojects (845 km)               148 subprojects (2,911 kms)
Rural Electrification        8.8      59.3   32 subprojects                      85 stbprojects
Irrigation                    --    110.8   ----                                 88,600 ha
SUPPORT SERVICES
Plant Health                 4.3      10.8   Construction and equipping of nine diagnostic laboratories;
1 laboratory for quality control of pesticides and other
chemicals; and i quarantine facility. Training of 38 staff.
Animal Health                2.4       6.1   Rehabilitation and reequipping of nine diagnostic laboratories
and quarantine facilities; and construction and equipping of one
irput quality control laboratory.  Training of 58 staff.                                            
LAND CADASTRE                 21.1      84.3
Aerial Photography                           5.2 m ha                             14.2 m ha
Land Delineation                             4.2 m ha                            17.5 a ha
Small Farm Delineation                       3.2 m ha                            13.1 m ha
Titles                                       24,290 (a)                          168,113
Source:  MAC and Executing Agencies (November 1991).
(a) 1992-93
VI Z
1H m
(D X
tjn 4J



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Table 6
Page I of 2
VENEZUELA
,GRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Location of Proposed Investment Programs
ITEM                      FEDERAL ENTITY                    AUTONOMOUS MUNICIPALITY
Rice                      Portuguesa                        Peez, Turin, Esttloer
Guarico                           Miranda
Cocoa (Cacao)             Yaracuy                           San Felipe, Boltvar
Carabobo                          Valencia, More,  elJuma
Arague                            Girardot, Mariao
Sucre                             Andres Eloy Blanco
Monagas                           &olfvar, Maturn
T.F.D. Amacuro                    Tucipita (Dept.)
Tgchira                           Panamericano
Merida                            Tovar, Pinto Salina, Alborto Adriani, Andrds
Bello, Justo Brickao, Miranda
Zulia                             Coldn, Sucre
Trujillo                          Rafael Rangel
Sugar Cane                Yaracuy                           Bolfvar, Yum re, Bruzuel, Sen Felipe, Urachiche
Portuguesa                        Agua Blanco, Araure, Esteller, Guanare, Paez,
Papelon, San Genaro de Boconoito, Turen
Lara                              Tcrres, Moran, Jimdnez, PaLavecino
Sucre                             Andres Floy Blanco, Montes, Ribero
Fruits                   Monagas                            Acosta, Pier, Caripe, Maturm, Bolrvar, Aragua de
Maturm
Yaracuy                           Bolfvar, Sucre, San Felipe
Anzogtegui                        Sim6n Rodriguez
Lora                              Irribaren
Zulia                             Sucre, Col6n
Trujillo                          Rafael RangeL
Tichira                           Panamericano, Libertador, Garcfa de Hervis,
Ayacucho
Guarico                           Monagas, Miranda, Mollado, El Sombrero
Araqua                            Zamora
Mdrida                            Justo Briceao, Miranda
FaLc6n                            Silva, Acosta
Coffee                   Trchira                            Junin, Cdrdoba, Uribante, Ayacucho, Jiuregut
Mcrida                            Andres Bello, Antonio Pinto Satina, Sucre, Tovar
Trujilto                          Bocono, Escuque, Trujlilo
Portuguesa                        Sucre, Jose Vicente de Undo, Ospino, Araure
Lara                              Andres Eloy Blanco, Moran, Irribaren
Monagas                           Caripe, Acosta, Codeao, Piar
Grass Seed                Anzoetegui                        Aragua, Froites, Siewn Rodriguez, GCsnipa,
I ndepndenci a
Barinas                           Berinws, Obispo, Boltver
Guarico                           Cameguan, Miranda, Infante, Chaguarame, Las
Mercedes, Ribas
Lars                              Uni6n, Irriberen, Palovecino, Crespo, Torres
Monagas                           Cedefo, Ezequiel Zamora, Maturn
Boltvor                           Piar, Sifonte, Rosio, Heres, Rael Leoni



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Tabte 6
Page 2 of 2
Beef Cattle               Apure                               Pedro Camejo, Achagua, Muaoz, RdmAo Gallego,
Paez, Biruaca
Barinas                            Botfvar, Ezequiel Zamora, Obispo, Barinas,
Pedraza, Arismundi, Sosa, Rojas, Alberto Arveto
TorreaLba
Guarico                            Miranda, Camaguan, Las Mercedes, Chaguaramos,
Mel Ldo, Monagas, Ribas, Zaraza, El Socorro, Santa
Maria de Ipire
BoLvar                             Cedeso, Roscio, Sifonte, Piar, Rail Leoni, Heres,
Sucre
Monagas                            Maturtn, Cedeso, EzequieL Zamora, Libertador,
SotiLLt
Cojedes                            Anzostegui, Falcdn, Ricaute, Girardot, EL Pso,
Tinaco
Fattening                 Monagas                             SotiLLo, Cedeso, Ezequiel Zamora, Libertador,
Maturmn
Bolrvar                            Rail Leoni, Sifonte, Heres, Rosio, Piar
T.F.D. Amacuro                     Tucupita (Dept.)



ANNZX 5
Page 1 of 8
YENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Aaricultural Credit Fund
1.          This annex provides an overview of second-tier agricultural
lending in Venezuela, focusing mainly on the performance of the Fondo de
Credito Agropecuario (FCA), a second-tier lender attached to the Ministry of
Agriculture. It contains two parts: the first part reviews the operations of
FCA, including its lending policies and procedures; the second part deals with
the proposed institutional reforms, which would form part of the plan of
action to transform FCA into a new second-tier agricultural lending
institution linked to the Ministry of Finance and supervised by the
Superintendency of Banks. In the context of the Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan (FSAL), FCA, operating as a rediscount facility for private commercial
banks, would consolidate the lending operations of Banco de Desarrollo
Agricola (BANDAGRO), Fondo Nacional del Cafe (FONCAFE) and Fondo Nacional del
Cacao (FONCACAO), and permit the elimination of these institutions or, at
least, of their credit activities.
A. Onerations of Fondo de Credito Aarooecuario (FCA)
Institutional Profile
2.          Establishment and Role.  Established in 1974, FCA is a Government-
owned, autonomous entity under the Ministry of Agriculture, with the mandate
to provide term lending, through financial intermediaries, for investment
projects in agriculture, livestock, forestry and fisheries. The law creating
FCA spells out the scope of FCA's activities. As a second-tier institution,
FCA currently lends through several private commercial banks and finance
companies.
3.          Administration.  FCA is governed by a Board of Directors, composed
of FCA's President (Chairman) and four members. The President, who is FCA's
legal representative, is appointed by the President of Venezuela; the other
Board members are also appointed by the Government. Overall policy decisions
and all loan approvals are made by the Board of Directors. FCA is managed by
a general manager, who is appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture at the
recommendation of the Board of Directors, and supported by three main
departments, covering administration, project evaluation and supervision and
finance.
4.          Since the appointment of FCA's new President in September 1990,
management has initiated a series of actions designed to reorganize the
institution, including the appointment of a new general manager and new
directors for each of FCA's departments and the creation of an international
department to handle external programs. FCA's managers are still in the
process of adapting to their responsibilities and it is too early to gauge the
broad results of the changes in the departmental management.



- 54 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 8
5.          Staff.  As of September 30, 1990, FCA has 399 employees, of which
292 worked in FCA's headquarters, and 107 in 12 branches located throughout
the country (Table 1). It has 128 professional staff members with university
degrees in agronomy, economics and business administration. About one half of
headq'iarters' staff are engaged in lending operations - the balance in
accounting, administration and support functions. The branches' staff mostly
carry out technical assistance and supervision activities.
6.          Staff development has been largely ignored over the past years and
little attention has been given to training. FCA lacks sufficient financial
specialists and its staff is large in comparison to its lending operations,
which has resulted in high operating expenses, amounting to about 4.5% of
average portfolio and 17.3% of total loan approvals in 1989 (Tables 2 and 5).
7.          Management Information System (MIS).  FCA started to upgrade its
information system in 1985. Much of the process in loan preparation and
evaluation has been automated and the existing credit control records reveal
operations under financing lines and sources.   However, while basic data are
available, much of the information analysis, including financial planning, is
carried out on an ad-hoc basis. Important planning data such as financial
projections and structure of assets and liabilities should be produced as a
recurring and standard feature of operations in order to facilitate management
decision-making.
Resource Position
8.          Apart from portfolio recovery, the main sources of funds available
to FCA are retained income, contributions from the Government and funds from
special programs. FCA was established with an initial Government contribution
of Bs 2,000 million. Since its establishment in 1974, it has realized a net
income of Bs 389.2 million, which has been retained within FCA for lending
operations. Loans from the Government of Bs 751.1 million represent the
outstanding amounts in respect of the global line of credit from IDB and FIV
being channelled through FCA.
Financial Performance
9.          Structure of Assets and Liabilities.  FCA's audited financial
statements for 1986-1989 (Table 2) show that the structure of FCA's assets and
liabilities has remained basically the same, showing a debt/equity ratio of
0.2:1 and a current ratio of 14.4:1 in 1989, which are both satisfactory. on
the asset side, virtually all available resources are invested in the loan
portfolio, which amounted to Bs 4,804.6 million in 1989 (or 75% of total
assets). On the liability side, funding from the IDB project represents 45%;
FIV, 22%; bonds in circulation, 22%; and other liabilities, the remaining 11%.
In nominal terms, FCA's assets grew from Bs 4,899.9 million in 1986 to Bs
6,427.9 million in 1989, and equity from Bs 4,352.8 to Bs 5,315.1 million. In
real terms, however, total assets and equity showed negative growth during the
period. FCA's profitability has been very modest, with return on equity
amounting to less than 1% during 1987-1989. Interest from investments
represent about 66% of total revenues in 1989, with interest from loans



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 8
representing only 25%, reflecting the recovery problems of FCA, as described
below.
10.         Portfolio ComRosition and Quality.  Private commercial banks and
development finance companies account for about 50% of FCA's portfolio of
US$96.1 million equivalent (Bs 4,804.6 million) as of December 31, 1989, with
the remaining 50% represented by state-owned institutions, including BANDAGRO
(31%), ICAP (12%), FONCAFE (4%), FONCACAO (1%) and IAN (2%) (Table 3). About
US$47.0 million equivalent, or 43% of FCA's total loan portfolio as of
December 31, 1989 corresponds to loans with participating financial
intermediaries (PFIs), including commercial banks, which are faced with
financial difficulties and are under intervention or liquidation.   Of
particular concern with regard to the quality of FCA's portfolio is the status
of the outstanding loans with BANDAGRO, which the Government has decided to
liquidate. BANDAGRO accounts for 73% of the outstanding portfolio with PFIr
under intervention or liquidation; development finance companies, 17%; and
private commercial banks, 10%. Recognizing the need to take corrective
measures, FCA staff, together with the external auditors, has initiated a
program of visits to FCA's clients to determine the level of arrears. At
present, FCA does not receive periodic reports on status of arrears from the
financial intermediaries. This is a major shortcoming which should be
remedied by requiring such reporting and the preparation of an action program
based on their reports. FCA has agreed to formulate and adopt a recovery
plan, setting up procedures and an appropriate timeframe.
Quality of Proiect Work
11.         Over the years, and particularly during the execution of an Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) global line of credit in 1987-1990, FCA has
developed a business system to meet requirements effectively. The main
elements of the business system--subproject appraisal and supervision--have
been designed to support FCA's role as a second-tier rediscounting mechanism
of long-term financing.
12.         Loan Processing.  The participating financial intermediaries
(PFIs) ensure the gathering and evaluation of the required information. Such
information includes, among other documents: (i) completed application form,
giving particulars of the subloan to be discounted; (ii) project appraisal
report; (iii) technical inspection report; and (iv) latest financial
statements of the client. PFIs reportedly take one month to process a loan
application, while FCA takes another month to review and release
disbursements. While the overall subloan processing time is comparable to
that of commercial banks elsewhere, there is scope for reducing the processing
time.
13.         Subproiect Preparation and ApDraisal.  FCA has developed a
detailed appraisal manual to standardize the evaluation of investment
projects. PFIs rely largely on consultants (accredited by FCA) to prepare
appraisal reports.  All appraisals are reviewed at FCA's headquarters.   The
criteria being applied for the evaluation of investment projects generally
meet the standard established by the Bank for project appraisal. However, to



- 56 -
ANNX 5
Page 4 of 8
streamline the appraisal procees, the depth and sophistication of subproject
appraisal and review has to vary to fit the size and nature of subprojects.
Currently, FCA requires a cash flow analysis and the calculation of the
internal financial and economic rates of return for all projects. Its
appraisal team, under the supervision of a technical manager, includes ten
professionals (including 3 analysts on contract) specialized in agronomy and
economics. Some analysts, however, seem to lack the experience in using the
appraisal guidelines. The training program is expected to upgrade the
appraisal capability of FCA's technical staff and that of the PFIs.
14.         Subproiect Supervision and Monitoring.  FCA's supervision
portfolio comprises some 17,000 projects. Mainly due to lack of organization
and planning, FCA could only visit a limited number of clients. During 1988
and 1989, 9,165 and 4,281 supervision visits were made, representing 55% and
25% of total clients, respectively (Table 4). Supervision visits made by FCA
and the PFIs focus on follow-up of loans during the disbursement period to
ensure proper utilization of funds. FCA would need to closely collaborate
with PFIs in supervising subloans, enabling FCA to concentrate only upon
reviewing problem subprojects. FCA recognizes the need for more extensive
operational feedback and information on subproject performance to help measure
the impact of its lending at beneficiary level. The upgrading of the
information system should help improve FCA's supervision and monitoring
process.
Lendina Policies
15.         Price Policy. After charging fixed interest rates on its
portfolio since its inception, (ranging from 3% to 7.5%, and eventually, 14%
annually), FCA has moved since October 1990 to a system of variable interest
rates linked to commercial bank non-preferential lending rates. This change
was consistent with the interest rate reforms agreed under the FSAL, which
included an increase in agricultural lending rates of commercial banks to 85%
of the average interest rate on non-preferential commercial bank loans. Since
by law FCA is required to charge an interest rate lower than that of
commercial banks, the rate of interest on subloans made by commercial bank.
and financed with FCA resources has been established at 84% of the non-
preferential lending rate. In July 1991, the non-preferential lending rate
was about 38.7%; therefore, the rate of interest on subloans financed by FCA
was about 32.5%. Since the cost of FCA funds to participating banks was equal
to the average rate on remunerated bank deposits, about 31.5%, the spread to
participating banks was only 1.0%. In order to provide incentives for banks
to participate in FCA's credit programs, a minimum guaranteed spread has been
offered to participating banks. Given the large spread between non-
preferential lending rates and deposit rates in recent months, the guaranteed
spread has been set since August 1991 at 5.0% (MAC Resolution No. 231 of
August 7, 1991). Under the project, interest rates on agricultural lending,
including that financed by FCA, would be deregulated, and spreads would be
freely negotiated between participating banks and subborrowers.



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 8
16.         Risk Policy.  As a second-tier lender, FCA does not assume the
credit risk; it rests entirely with the respective PFIs. PFIs are responsible
for making principal and interest payments to FCA on time, whether or not they
receive payment from their clients. Under its current Policy Statement, FCA
requires PFIs to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of 15:1 (the legal
requirement in Venezuela) to have continued access to FCA's funds. To further
protect FCA's fin' cial condition and provide current information on
subproject status, FCA's Policy Statement should assure that PFIs would have
access to FCA only if they have demonstrated to FCA in writing on a semi-
annual basis that FCA portfolio contain loans affected with arrears over 60
days and other loans with refinancing over the past 360 days which total less
than 15% of FCA's outstanding portfolio. Under the ongoing Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) project with FCA, the Government assumes the foreign
exchange risk. Under the proposed project, the Government would assume the
multi-currency risk on the Bank loan but would charge FCA a fee for assuming
this risk, while FCA would assume the own currency (Bs US$) risk. It is
expected, however, that the interest rate on the FCA loans to participating
banks (which would be at least equal to the average rate on remunerated bank
deposits) would be sufficient to cover FCA's funding and administrative costs
(including the nominal interest rate on the Bank loan and the fee payable by
FCA to the Government) and risk, including the own currency risk. If
experience were to invalidate this expectation, FCA's lending rate to
participating banks would be increased to cover fully funding and
administrative costs and risk.
17.         Small Producer Financing Schemes.  FCA offers credit guarantees of
up to 50% of a subloan eligible for rediscounting, aimed primarily at smaller
producers that do not have sufficient collateral. Using it own resources, FCA
covers the credit risk corresponding to subloans in default. In addition,
under its current regulations, FCA's financial participation in any particular
project can be as high as 100% of total project costs. Insurance is also made
available to small producers by a company in which FCA is a 95% shareholder
(Aseguradora Nacional Agricola). As a complementary measure, the Government,
recognizing the difficulty of small producers in obtaining institutional
credit due to lack of collateral, has been exploring various mechanisms that
would provide credit access to small producers, including the establishment of
a guarantee fund.
18.         Under the proposed project, PFIs should be required to provide at
least 10% of subloans to the agricultural sector, which would form part of
their portfolio requirements for agricultural financing. This would serve as
an incentive to PFIs to mobilize more resources on their own and, in turn
provide greater financial assistance to agricultural producers. This would
form part of the portfolio requirements of PFIs for agricultural financing,
and would be included in FCA's Policy Statement.



- 58 -
ANNEX S
Page 6 of 8
Lendina Profile
19.         To date, FCA has managed lines of credit with its own resources
(loan repayments, interest and Government contribution) and with the US$64.0
million loan from IDB and a Bs 360 million loan from Fondo de Inversiones de
Venezuela (FIV) under a global credit program. IDB accounted for the bulk of
disbursements since 1987 (Table 5).   Due mainly to disbursement problems
undar the IDB project arising from the inflationary condition in 1989,
commitments and disbursements during 1989 declined substantially from Bs
1,287.2 million and Bs 817.4 million in 1988 to Bs 793.4 million and Bs 560.8
million in 1989. Table 6 provides an analysis of commitments made during
1988-1990, as summarized below.
20.         Customer Focus.  The largest portion of FCA's financial resources
is being committed to a small number of projects. About 77% of the 1988-1990
commitments of FCA's resources went into only 708 projects, or 22% of the
number of loans made during the period. The remaining 23% of the commitments
were distributed to smaller operations. The average subloan size amounts to
US$21,000 equivalent.
21.         Loan Maturity.  Most of the loans have a maturity between 9 and 15
years, with 70% of the 1988-1990 commitments falling into this category. Less
than 1% of the commitments had a maturity of less than 3 years; 23.6% had a
maturity of 3 to 6 years; and 6.3% had maturity of 6 to 12 years.
22.         Regional and Sectoral Distribution.  The largest proportion of
FCA's lending program (21% of 1988-1990 commitments) is being channelled to
the state of Zulia, followed by Monagas (8.3%), Tachira (7.2%) and Guarico
(5.8%). Livestock has been the largest recipient of FCA lending, accounting
for over 30% of the commitments during 1988-1990. Commitments for coffee and
cocoa subprojects were 15% of the total.
23.         Financial Intermediaries.  FCA's lending operations are
concentrated in 25 private commercial banks (70% of total commitments in 1988-
1990, with the remaining 30% distributed among Instituto de Credito
Agropecuario (ICAP) (11.7%), FONCACAO (10.9%), BANDAGRO (3.8%) and FONCAPE
(3.2%). In terms of the number of loans, FONCAFE represents the largest
portion of commitments (47.4%), followed by the private banks (24.5%) and ICAP
(14.9%).
Procurement and Disbursement
24.         Clients are normally required to submit quotations; however, FCA'5
subloan appraisals do not provide an adequate rationale for the procurement
procedu,res to be used. Satisfactory procurement guidelines should be included
in FCA's Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures. In general, existing
disbureement procedures help to ensure that funds are used for their intended
purpose.



- 59 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 8
Accounts and Audits
25.         Accounts are subject to control by FCA's internal auditor, and
FCA's records and accounts are audited annually by external auditors. For the
past two years (1988 and 1989), FCA's accounts have been audited by Perez-Mena
& Associates, a Venezuelan auditing firm. Their audit reports were qualified
regarding the year-end balance of FCA's loan portfolio, the level of provision
for losses and FCA management's confirmation that the 1988 financial
statements include all necessary information to reasonably present FCA's
financial position and results for 1988.
B. The New Agricultural Second-tier Lending Institution
26.         The Government has decided to use FCA as its principal instrument
for stimulating agricultural investment activities through a rediscounting
facility for private commercial banks. As such, FCA would need to undertake
better management of its financial and human resources and establish sounder
operating policies. It would need to develop an improved financial
information system, continuously monitoring the effects of its policies and
operations while improving the quality of future financial planning. The most
urgent tasks to be accomplished with respect to FCA's portfolio, policy
statement, systems and procedures and promotion and training program are
summarized below.
27.         Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures.  The policies and
regulations that would govern the new institution would be set forth in its
Statement of Policies and Regulations. It would specify, among other things:
(i) FCA's objectives in financing agricultural investment subprojects;
(ii) type of subprojects FCA would finance; (iii) the terms and limits of
financing; (iv) the criteria for subproject appraisal; and
(v) responsibilities of financial intermediaries receiving financing from FCA.
28.         Portfolio.  Final decision would be made regarding FCA's
outstanding loans to BANDAGRO, ICAP, FONCAFE AND FONCACAO, which represents
about 50% of FCA's total portfolio.   Upgrading of FCA's portfolio is,
therefore, largely dependent on the outcome of the above decision. As
indicated earlier, FCA would formulate and adopt an action plan (detailed
follow-up and collection procedures) for its entire portfolio with assistance
from its external auditors. FCA would take appropriate actions for write-
offs, provision for losses and suspension of refinancing operations as part of
its action plan to clean up its portfolio. The Government would compensate
FCA for any losses that may arise from any of the above loans.
29.         Systems and Procedures.  Major effort would be made to improve the
information system based upon analysis of data needs of FCA's management,
operating units and branches and upgrade use of computers within FCA to
provide management with necessary data for evaluation, control and planning.
30.         Promotion and Training Program.  As a second-tier institution,
FCA's performance depends largely upon the quality and extent of services
provided by the eFIs. Consequently, its training activities would have to be



- 60 -
ANNEX E
Page 8 of 8
directed not only toward its own staff but also commercial bank personnel. In
the future, more efficient procedures and improved delegation of
responsibilities to the financial intermediaries would require adjustments and
improvements in FCA's project work, which would need to place increased
emphasis upon its support and promotional role vis-a-vis the PFIs and
potential clients. The coordination of a training program would need to be
institutionalized in FCA's organizational structure.   Promotional activities
would need to be stepped up through wider diffusion of FCA's future credit
program.



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Table1
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
Fondo de Credito Ag;opecuario (FCA)
Staff Composition by Specialties
As of September 30, 1990
...... .......... ............. ............................ .. .. ..... ......... ... ...... ......... ..............
Presidency
and Other        Technical      Finance    Administration      Regional
Offices (a)       Department   Department   Department           Offices     Total
......- - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - -       .......... .. .. ....... ...........  w. .... .... ..  .....
Engineer Agronomists                   1             14                                           28       43
Agronomists                                           1                                            1        2
Agricultural Economists                1              1                                            1        3
Veterinarians                          1                                                           4        5
Civil Engineers                                                                                    1        1
Economists                            15              1             6                  1           1       24
Accountants                            6              1                                2                    9
Lawyers                                6              1                                                     7
Architects                                            1                                                      1
Systems Analysts                                                                       3                    3
Livestock Specialists                  1              1                                           28       30
Miscellaneous Specialists             24              2             5                  1           7       39
Administrative Staff                  68             17            22                 50          22       179
Other                                                                                 39          14       53
T o T A L                         123            40            33                  96         107      399
Source: FCA
(a) Including the Planning Office



VENEZUELA                                                                           VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SEC IOR INVESTMENT LOAN                                               AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAM
Fondo de Credito Agropecuario CFCA)                                                Fondo de Credito Agropecuario (FCA)
Audited Financial Statements, 1986-1989                                            Audited Financial Statements, 1966-1989
(Bs million)                                                                       (as million)
BALANCE SHEET                                                                       INCOME STATEMENT
AS OF DECEMBER 31                        1986     1987      1988     1989          FOR PERIOD ENDING
_ ........_....................... .......... .........................          DECENMER 31                   1966     1987     1988    1989
ASSETS                                                                                                 _--
REVENUES
Loans (Net)                           3,687.7  4,094.9  4,726.4  4,804.2
Investments                           1,154.7    979.1    708.6  1,518.6           Interest on loans             54.0     39.9     35.5      64.2
Fixed Assets                             41.4     41.5     44.1      46.4          Interest on investments      102.1    114.6     87.0    170.9
Other Assets                             16.1     23.7    85.1       98.7          Other income                   1.0      4.1      5.5      25.6
TOTAL ASSETS                          4,899.9  5,139.2  5,564.2  6,467.9           TOTAL REVENUES               157.1    158.6    128.0    260.7
LIABILITIES                                                                        EXPENSES
Payables                                 20.2     27.2      23.6     81.8          Interest Expense              26.6     24.5      18.4     14.2
Bonds                                   497.0    414.5    332.0    249.5           Personnel Costs               42.6     56.3     63.4      90.8
IDB Loan                                  0.0     13.7     96.3    500.0           Other Admin. Costs            29.0     35.4     39.9      63.4
FIV Loan                                 17.9     38.2    181.8    251.2           Provision for Losses           0.0     12.5      0.0      60.4
Other Liabilities                        12.0      14.5     20.9    30.3           Depreciation                   1.9      2.5       2.0      2.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES                       547.1    508.1    654.6  1,112.8           TOTAL EXPENSES               100.1    131.2    123.7    230.9
EQUITY                                                                             NET INCOME                    57.0     27.4      4.3      29.8
Capital                               4,024.7  4,275.6  4,549.9  4,925.6              =    =----------
Retained Earnings                       271.1    328.1    355.4   359.7            Adninistrative Costs as X of
Net Income                               57.0     27.4      4.3      29.8             Average Loan Portfolio               2.71     2.4X      4.5X
Administrative Costs as X of            2.1X     2.01     3.61
TOTAL EQUITY                          4,352.8  4,631.1  4,909.6  5,315.1              Average Total Assets
Average Loan Portfolio              3891.3  4410.7  4765.3
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY          4,899.9  5,139.2  5,564.2  6,427.9           Average Total Assets                 5019.6  5351.7   6016.1
Reserve for Losses                      714.1    726.7   722.8    711.5
Source: FCA
===_=========__===_===--===_=-===A3= LAAG
Current Assets/Current Liabilities       36.4     24.0      17.8     14.4          October 1990
Debt to Equity                            0.1      0.1      0.1       0.2
Equity to Total Assets                   88.8X    90.11    88.21    82.21
Return on Assets                          1.21     0.51     0.11      0.51
Return on Equity                          1.31     0.61     0.1X      0.61
M L



- 63 -
ANNEX5
Tabte 3
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
Fondo de Credito Agropecuario (FCA)
Suuiry of Loan Portfolio, 1986-1989
(ts mitlion)
1986     1987     1988     1989
Public Banks and Other
Financial Institutions
Instituto de Credito Agropecuario (ICAP)                 546.8    534.4    588.1    646.5
Fondo Nacional del Cafe (FONCAFE)                         76.7     53.8        76    236.7
Fondo Nacionat del Cacao (FONCACAO)                         20     35.1      37.7     54.8
Othor                                                    333.2    206.2   366.8    317.0
-9767 _5"  T1r  TI5M
Private Banks and Other                                  526.6    699.0    797.2  1,018.6
Financial Institutions
Instituto Agrario Nacionat (IAN)                         130.7    126.8    126.8    126.8
Other                                                    311.5    558.7    857.2    743.3
Sub-total                                           TXY 3  Z214. 70 -7I ZT 8 8      37
Financial Institutions under Intervention
Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario (BANDAGRO)            1,771 4  1,939.5  1,767.3  1,737.4
Bnco de los Trabajadores de VenezueLa                     15.3      14.5     14.5     10.0
Banco Camercial de Maracaibo                             232.7    228.9    212.8    146.4
Sociedad Financiera de los Andes (FINANDES)                0.0       0.0    201.3    201.7
Sociedad Financiera de Falcon                             47.2     46.6      46.2     16.2
Other                                                      0.3       0.3      0.3      0.3
Sub-total                                           TM9   242     472W7- ,TPF
Financial Institutions under Liquidation
Banco Fomento Comercial de Venezuela                      85.0      81.2     77.6     34.2
Banco Nacional Descuento                                  33.8      32.0     31.4     20."6
Banco de Comercio                                          9.2       9.1      8.8      8.7
SACCO, Sociedad Financiera                                72.6     68.7      64.3     64.0
CRENCA                                                    53.0     52.9      51.1     31.4
Sociedad Financiera del Zulia                             45.3      45.7     42.3     27.9
Sociedad Financiera de Oriente (SOFIDOR)                  22.4      22.2     15.8     14.1
Sociedad Financiers Agro-industrial (SOFAIN)              30.0      28.7     28.4     22.2
Sociedad Financiera de Comercio                           28.0      27.9     27.9     27.9
DICSA, Sociedad Finanriera                                 9.1       9.4      9.4      9.0
Sub-total                                           _VWX    377.8  7357 0           J
Gross Loan Portfolio                                 400.8   4821.6  5449.2   5515.7
Provision for Losses                                  714.1    726.7    722.8    711.5
Net Loan Portfolio                                  3,686.7  4,094.9  4,726.4  4,804.2
t======  =am==-==  ===u5==  =======
Source: FCA
October 1990



- 64 -
ANNEX 5
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Fordo de Credito Agropecuario (FCA)
SUMMARY OF SUPERVISION ACTIVITIES
1988-1990
. . ......... .............. .. .... ..... . ... .. . .. .. . . . .. . .. . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . .
1988                             1989                             1990 (a)
-- - - - - -   --  -- - -  -- -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  .. ... .. . ......... .............
TotaL    No. of  Visits as X    TotaL   No. of  Visits as X    TotaL    No. of  Visits as %
RegionaL Office     Clients  Visits   TotaL CLients  Clients  Visits   Total ClWents CL,ents Visits   TotaL Clients
Aragua                 1,U01      755         75.4K     1,011      511         50.5%     1,029      316         30.7X
Barinas                1,105      356         32.2X     1,118      424         37.9%     1,128      201         17.8K
Bolivar                  436      308         70.6X       443      452        102.0X       449       81         18.0X
Falcon                  908       338         37.2X       925      120         13.0X       943      123         13.0X
Guarico                1,300      381         29.3X     1,325      266         20.1X     1,343       56          4.2X
Lra                      950      242         25.5X       964      319         33.1%       975      219         22.5X
Monagas                2,790    1,357         48.6X    2,842       143          5.0%    2,860       271          9.5X
Portuguesa             1,971      959         48.7%    2,001       300         15.0K    2,030       161          7.9X
Tachira                2,382    1,933         81.2K    2,382       650         27.3K     2,406      154          6.4K
TrujiLLo                 968       80          8.3%       959      115         12.0K       963      107         11.1K
Yaracuy                  891      623         69.9%       894      242         27.1%       910       98         10.8%
Zutia                  1,883    1,833         97.3%     1,901      739         38.9%     1,919      135          7.0X
TotaL              16,585    9,165         55.3%    16,765   4,281          25.5K    16,955    1,922         11.3%
... ... ... .... .. ... .... ........ .............. .. . . .. . . .. . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .
Source: FCA
(a) Through September 15, 1990.



- 65 -
ANNEX 5
TabLe 5
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
Fondo de Credito Agropecuario (FCA)
SUMMARY OF PAST LENDING OPERATIONS, 1986 - 1990
(Bs thousand)
. . ....  .................. ....    .... ............. ................... .......................................... ...........
1986        1987        1988        1989      1990 (a)
Commitments              536,190     717,654   1,287,177     793,365   1,252,546
Disbursements            434,639     642,128     817,387      560,847     523,617
Own Resources         434,639     102,556      29,010       3,702       32,378
Global Credit Line          0     539.572     788,377     557,145      491,239
(IDB)
Source: FCA
a/ Through August/September 1990.



- 66 -
US 5
Table 6
v=UA
AGRICOLTrUL SuCTR "IUVISTh"T LOAN
*ond  d.  Crd.to Agropecuarlo (FCA)
ASALYSIS Of LOAN APPROVALS, 1988 - September 1990
(aS thousand)
1988                                     1989                                1990                                     Total
.......................... ..... ......             ..........  ........................ ~-. . -   @o=....................... ........   ................................      
No.          I   Asuant            X      No.       X   Aount                   No.   2        Amount                  No.   t        terunt           I
_._   __   __.___. .................    _   ____.  ._ __._______-_--------------------------------__-__.______-__-________-____-__-------------------------------------------------_-____-------_.-__------__----_--_-.-_----_-___.__-___ _____ _
By Site
Op to 100.000                   482   19.72       32.519    2.51         11    2.61         746    0.1O       0    0.02             0    0.02       493   is.7n       33,235    1.0I
100.001 to   500,000    1,234   50.32    290,355   22.41             105   2442S    29,.72        3.81     11    4.3n        4,447    0.42    1.350    43.02       324.474    9.7!
300.001 to 1,000.000         422   17.22    282,764   22.02           134   31.32    92.682    11.7n    29    11.32         22,078      1.82     s5s   i1.7n    387.524   11.9!
1.000,001 to 1.300.000         312   12.72    553,513   43.02          175   40.92   340.622   45.52   208   80.92           727,925   38.12        695   22.22  1.642,058   49.32
Over 1,500,000                    I    0.0o      128.024    9.92          3    0.7!   309,443   39.02         9    3.52      498,098   39.82         13    0.42    93,547   28.12
Total                     2,451  100.02  1,287.177  100.O0          428  100.02   793,365  100.02   257  100.02  1.252.546  100.02   3,134  100.02  5,333,088  100.0!
ly Du,ation
Less thea 3 years                34    1.42        $,10    0o.n           7    1.42      5,042    0.62        4    1.42         1,817    0.12        45     1.42       15,469    0.52
3 to  6 years                 380   13.52    286,151   22.22          176   41.12    187.791   23.7!    77   30.02          311.514   24.92        633   20.21      783.436   23.61
4 to  9 years                 5      2.42       39,683    4.42         22    3.12    37.918       4.82    29   11.32       113,349     9.02       109     3.32    210,930    4.32
9 to 12 years               1,772   72.32    448,134    52.02         208   48.42   350,311   44.22   133   51.82    551.742   44.02   2.1L3   67.42  1,571,149   47.12
12 to 15 years                  15     4.S3       97.816     7.4         11    2.42   172,733   21.82         7    2.7!    249.595    21.53         177    5.62    540,144   14.22
Over 15 years                    48    2.01      165,581   12.92          4    0.92      39.566     5.02       7    2.7n        4,729    0.42        59     1.9x    209.878    4.32
Total                     2,451  100.02  1,287,177   100.02         428  100.02   /93.365  100.O0    257  100.O   1,252.546  100.02   3.136  100.02  3.333.088  100.02
By Grace Pertod
Lass than 2 years               524   21.42    471.511   34.41          228   53.52   3644,94   71.22   147   57.22    504.679   40.32              899   28.7n  1,54L,084   44.22
2 to 3 years                    899   54.7!    364,606   28.S5          111   25.92   149,415    18.82    91   35.42    384,355   30.82    1.101   35.12    902,376   27.12
3 to 4 years                    754   30.S8      331.884   25.82         56   13.12    33.492    4.22        17   64.4       357,942   28.64        827   26.42    723.518   21.72
4 to S yasrs                    274   11.22    117,174       9.12        30    7.o0      9,455      1.22      2    0.82        3,570    0.32        304     9.82     130,401    3.92
Over 5 years                      0    0.02             0    0.02         3    0.7Z    35.709    4.5          0    0.02             0 o       0.0     3    0.12       35,709      1.12
Total                     2,451  100.O0   1.287.177  100.02         428  100.0Z   793.363  100.02   237  100.02  1,232,546  100.02   3.136  100.02  3,333,088  100.02
By Location
Aragus                           38    1.62       20,347      1.42        4    0.91       3,201    0.42      11    4.51       71.394    s.n          53     I.n       93.144    2.92
Barinas                         149    4.92      108,218    8.42         21    4.92    25.003    3.22        19    7.42       94,931      7.62      200    *.7n    22.152    6.82
lolivar                          26     1.11      11.967    0.92          7    1.64       6.801    0.92       8    3.11       37,628    3.02         41     1.32    536.396    1.7
?alcon                           54    2.22       54,616     4.21        24    5.61    28,703    5.62    27   10.52           53.496    4.32        los     3.32      134,815    4.12
Guarico                         134    5.32      104,410    8.11         37    8.62      41,891    3.32       14    5.42      48.076    5.82        185     5.92      194.377    5.82
Lars                            218    8.92       43,922    S.12         32    7.52    44.711    5.42         16    6.2       54,610    4.41       266    8.52    165,243    5.01
aonages                         IS8    6.42      184,005   14.3t         38    8.91    55,229       7.o0       6    2.32       36.095    2.92       202    6.42    275,329    8.32
Portuguese                      190    7.82       45,33     3.12        40    9.32    36,394    4.42    23    8.92           45,338    3.62        253     6.12    147,345    4.42
Tachira                         310   12.61    128,726   1O.02           34    7.92    33,797    4.32        I9    7.42       78.418    6.32        363    11.64     241.141    7.22
Trujillo                        200    8.22       54.096    4.22          2    0.521      1,S5    0.22         3    1.22        9.922    0.82       203     4.52       45,403    2.02
Tarscuy                         li     4.92      53,490    4.22         20    4.7       14,308     1.82    15    5.82          4133      5.,4      154    4.92    112.83I    3.42
Zulta                            49    2.0S       38.593    4.62         25    5.82    197,704   24.92       28   10.92    446,074   35.62          102    3.32    702.371   21.12
Other                           786   32.12    377,154   29.32          144   33.64    304,138   38.32    68   26.52    231,029   18.41             998   31.81    912.321   27.42
Total                     2.451  100.02  1.287.177  100.02          428  100.02   793.365  100.0I          257  100.02  1.252,546  100.OS   3,136  100.02  3,333,068  100.02
By tEconomic Activlty
Livestock                       292   11.91    354.270   27.n           110   25.7n   193,457   24.42   130   50.62    481,438                      132   17.02  1,031,385   30.92
poultry                          19    0.82       28,197    2.22          5    1.22    20.043    2.52          3    1.2X      16,327      1.32       27    0.92        44.567    1.92
rFihery                          22    0.91       44.430    5.51          9    1.92    44,703    5.62        13    5.12       83,299       .n        43     1.41    172,432    5.22
Fruits and Vgetatbles            51    2.12       22.853     1.82        14    5.n       10,411    1.2    29   11.32    117,743          9.41       94     S. 1    151,239    4.S5
Cofft. and Cocoa              1.674   48.42      410,551   31.92        121   28.32    77.581    9.82         10    3.91      20.604      1.64               0.02    508,736   15.31
Other                           391   16.02    424.8U4   33.02          148   39.32   446.750   56.32    72   28.01    533.133   42.64              431   20.12  1,404,729   42.12
Total                     2,451  100.0I    1,287,177   100.02       428  100.OX   793,365  100.02   257  100.02  1,252,546  100.02    3.136  100.0-  3.333,048  100.02
ay Financial lnterdSiary
IC4P                            277   11.32    180.227   14.02          130   30.41   108.829       3.7n    40   23.52        99,724      8.02      467    14,92    388,60   i1.n
FOOCACAO                        251   10.22       91.020      7.12       53   12.4t    17.073    2.21          0    0.02            0    O.0       304    9.7n       10.093    3.22
FOOCAFl                       1,420   57.92    306,492   23.82           83   15.22    5.4609    7.11          0    0.02            0    0.02    1,485   47.4t    363,101   10.92
U1NDC41                          i9     4.02     104,990     8.32        12    2.82      18.557     2.52       1    0.41        1.849     0.12      112    3.41       127.396    3.82
Private l$ank                   404   14.32    602.448   44.82          164   39.31   592,197   74.64   194   74.32  1.150.973   91.92              768   24.51  2.343,618   70.42
Total                     2,451  100.02  1,287,177  100.02          428  100.01   793,365  100.0I          257  100.0I   1.252,544  100.02   3,136  100.02  3,333,088  100.02
Soure. FCA
October 1890



- 67 -
ANNEX 5
Attachment 1
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Eligibility Criteria for Participatine Financial Intermediaries
In order to qualify for participation under the loan, participating
financial intermediaries (PFIs) would undergo full appraisal by Fondo de
Credito Agropecuario (FCA), which should demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Bank that the PFIs have complied with the following requirements in
addition to the normal criteria established by the Superintendency of Banks,
including the changes, as implemented under the Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan (FSAL):
(i)   adequate management, satisfactory administrative procedures and
appropriate organization;
(ii) sound investment and lending policy;
(iii) technical staff capable of preparing, evaluating and kupervising
subprojects, and carrying out all other activities involved in
lending Bank funds; and
(iv) a sound financial condition.
v:\.O\DCR%A=iUWANr



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
VENEZUELA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
1.   Proposals/Modifications to Tariff Positions
2.   Summary Report on Project Investment Identification, Selection and
Contracting
3.   Conceptual Base for the Investment Program
4.   Agricultural Sector Investment Program, 1989-91
5.   Project Proposals for the 1992-95 Sector Investment Program (Productive
Infrastructure and Animal and Plant Health Services)
6.   Fondo de Credito Agropecuario
7.   Agricultural Production Value 1984-1989
8.   Accounting Prices for Economic Analysis
9.   Tariff-based Commodity Price Stabilization Schemes - The Case of
Venezuela
10. Price Stabilization Scheme - Mechanisms
11. Comparison of Alternative Stabilization Policies in Venezuela
12. Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants



II                                                                                       I                                                                                         I.
7?'f                          -                              f6                                                        64                                                          60'
ARLUA
CURAqA0                 BO. AIRE                                                                                          GRANADA
r            E*Q ~~C-d. 0->h
TOBAGO
M-         OAlA        AiJ                                                                                    TRtNrDAo
l /
VENEZU   EL IA                                                                                                                                      A 5   < 
QlVfQS ) ^ " ^. ro T   E  
0                                           I00
VENEZELAO                                                                                ,2 -A      
aA-A- * 
ffi  i   0 lo z0  200 
~~~ \\                                                                                                                        r 
c -             I                              r                              I                                                            I                                                       _ ,_150__2>'



