Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4887-PH 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Bicol Power Restoration Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION 
 
Dated February 28, 2008 
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 28, 2008, between NATIONAL POWER 
CORPORATION (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twelve million nine hundred forty 
thousand Dollars ($12,940,000)
 (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee 
not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
remains unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty 
(30) days, then the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as 
provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:  EPIRA, or any of 
the 
Project Implementing Entity’s Constitutive Documents has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely 
the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of: Any event specified in Section 
4.01 of this Agreement occurs. 
ARTICLE V- EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the President of the Borrower.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
President 
National Power Corporation 
Quezon Avenue, Corner BIR Road 
Diliman, Quezon City 
Metro Manila, Philippines
Page  4
3
Cable address:                 Facsimile: 
 
NAPOCOR                     (632) 924-5230 
Manila                         
    
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Bert Hofman 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION 
 
By /s/ Margarito B. Teves 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to support the stabilization of power supply in the 
Bicol region by replacing or repairing critical electricity transmission infrastructure 
damaged by typhoons in 2006. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
1. 
Restoration and Strengthening of the Bicol Transmission System
 
(a) 
Supply and installation of 56 steel transmission towers and line materials for the 
typhoon- damaged portions of the double circuit Naga-Labo 230 kV 1-795MCM 
ACSR transmission line. 
 
(b) 
Supply and installation of 32 steel transmission towers and line materials for the 
typhoon-damaged portions of the double circuit Tiwi Plant C-Naga 230 kV 2-
795MCM ACSR transmission line. 
 
(c) 
Supply and installation of 30 steel transmission towers and line materials for the 
typhoon-damaged portions of the double circuit 230 kV ACSR transmission lines 
in three sections of the transmission system (i) Tiwi Plant A-Daraga (1
–
795MCM); (ii) Naga-Daraga (1–795MCM); and (iii) Bacman-Daraga (2–
795MCM). 
 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Borrower shall establish and maintain until completion of the Project, a 
project coordinator to manage the Project, assisted by qualified and experienced 
staff with terms of reference and in adequate numbers, in each case acceptable to 
the Bank, and provided at all times with adequate funds and other resources as 
shall be necessary to accomplish its functions, responsibilities and objectives.
 
2. 
The Borrower shall:  (a) ensure that the Project Implementing Entity shall adopt a 
Project Management Manual, acceptable to the Bank; (b) ensure that the Project 
Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Management Manual; and (c) not waive, amend or abrogate, or allow to be 
amended, waived or abrogated, any provision of the Project Management Manual 
or any component thereof, without the prior consent of the Bank.
 
B.
 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the Project Implementing Entity, 
the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project 
Implementing Entity as a grant under a Subsidiary Agreement among the 
Borrower, the Project Implementing Entity and PSALM, acceptable to the Bank.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions.
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. Safeguards
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity shall take all 
measures and actions set out in the Environmental Impact and Management Plan 
for the elimination or offsetting of adverse environmental impacts under the 
Project.  The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementing Entity shall 
Page  7
6
include in each Project Report provided for in paragraph 1 of Section II(A) of 
this Schedule 2, a summary of any environmental issues encountered and 
proposed mitigation measures developed and/or implemented during the period 
covered in such Project Report. 
 
2. 
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project 
Implementing Entity shall apply the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan, 
including: 
 
(a) 
taking all appropriate measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of 
land or assets of people and to avoid the displacement of such people;  
 
(b) 
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of residents is 
unavoidable for a Project activity, ensuring that all Displaced Persons 
thereunder shall have been compensated and provided with resettlement 
and rehabilitation measures in accordance with the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Plan prior to the implementation of such Project activity;  
 
(c) 
maintaining operational procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on a regular basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to 
the Bank, the carrying out of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Plan;  
 
(d) 
submitting all changes, amendments and waivers to the Land Acquisition 
and Resettlement Plan to the Bank for no-objection; and 
 
(e) 
preparing and furnishing to the Bank, as part of the Project Report 
provided for in paragraph 1 of Section II(A) of this Schedule 2, a report, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on 
the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out pursuant to 
subparagraph (c) above, including compensation,  together with any 
additional measures proposed to further the progress in the carrying out 
of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan; and promptly take all 
such measures, taking into account the comments and the views of the 
Bank thereon. 
 
3. 
In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project 
Implementing Entity shall, as set out in the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Plan, through a process of informed consultation and participation, involve 
concerned Indigenous Peoples in the design and implementation of the Project so 
as to avoid, or if not possible, minimize adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples.
 
Page  8
7
Section II. 
Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
the indicators set forth below in Annex 1 to this Schedule 2.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one(1) calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish, or cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and 
furnish, to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements for the Project and its entity 
financial statements (with the consolidated financial statements of the Project 
Implementing Entity) audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 
5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall 
cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited Financial 
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period.
 
4. 
Without limitation on the foregoing paragraph 3, until such time as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project 
Implementing Entity shall include the Project in the scope of work for its internal 
audit using procedures acceptable to the Bank.  Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree in writing, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project 
Implementing Entity shall undertake such internal audit once in each calendar 
semester during Project implementation and shall submit a copy of the audit 
report to the Bank within thirty (30) days after the end of each calendar semester. 
 
Page  9
8
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.  
 All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
 
Goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding subject to the 
additional provisions set out in Annex 2 to this Schedule 2.
 
C. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Page  10
9
Category 
 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods and works 
(a)  For Part 1(a) of the Project 
(b)  For Part 1(b) of the Project 
(c)   For Part 1(c) of the Project 
 
4,759,363 
 
3,973,666 
 
2,994,244 
 
100% of Foreign 
Expenditures and 66% of 
Local Expenditures for 
goods and works  
(2)  Unallocated 
 
1,212,727  
TOTAL AMOUNT 
        12,940,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made:for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,350,000  equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after April 1, 2007, 
for Eligible Expenditures.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is July 30, 2008.  
Page  11
10
ANNEX 1 TO SCHEDULE 2 
Performance Indicators 
 
Project Development Objective (PDO) 
Project Outcome Indicators 
The objective of the Project is to support the 
stabilization of power supply in the Bicol region 
by replacing or repairing critical electricity 
transmission infrastructure damaged by 
typhoons in 2006. 
Re-establishment of remaining 50 GWh 
unsupplied energy in the Bicol region by 
February 2008. 
 
Improved power system reliability in Bicol 
evidenced by a reduction in the Luzon SISI 
minutes lost to 10 minutes.
*
Intermediate Outcomes 
Intermediate Outcome Indicators 
Part I - Transmission System Restoration 
 
The transmission system with the capability to 
deliver an additional 50 GWh of electricity.  
 
118 new 230-kV towers in place by March, 
2008. 
 
Outputs 
Output Indicators 
Part I - Transmission System Restoration 
 
Procurement of 118 230-kV towers and related 
materials. 
 
.
Accelerated contracting for 230 
–kV towers 
with tendering beginning   April 2007. 
 
.
*
The SISI (System Interruption Severity Index) is defined by the Energy Regulatory Commission as the 
total delivery point unserved energy (in MWh/60) divided by System Peak load (see ERC Case 2005-041RC 
June 2006 Regulatory Reset for TransCo Final Determination Section 8.6 ERC Analysis and Decision). 
Page  12
11
ANNEX 2 TO SCHEDULE 2 
 
Special Procedures for National Competitive Bidding  
in
 
the Republic of the Philippines
 
A.  National Competitive Bidding acceptable to the Bank (Requirements in addition to 
Philippines Bidding Documents, PBD
)
:
1. 
Eligibility screening shall not be applied.  However, bids that do not contain any of 
the following documents will not pass the documentary compliance check: (a) 
evidence of the required financial, technical or production capability; (b) audited 
financial statements; (c) credit line, or cash deposit certificate; (d) bid security; and 
(e) authority of the bid signatory.   
2. 
In the case of prequalification, if any bidder is denied access to the bidding process 
for reasons unrelated to its financial and technical qualifications to perform the 
contract, prior concurrence of the Bank shall be sought.  
3. 
A ceiling may be applied to bid prices, with prior concurrence of the Bank in 
advance of bidding.  However, the Approved Budget Estimate may be disclosed in 
the advertisement or in the bidding documents.  
4.
 
Domestic or regional preferences will not be applied in the evaluation of bids, and 
other preferences in effect in the Philippines will not be used except with the prior 
concurrence of the Bank. 
5. 
Suppliers and contractors will not be required to purchase only local goods or 
supplies or materials.  
6. 
In case of contracts for prior review, modifications exceeding fifteen percent (15%) 
of contract amount and material changes in the conditions during implementation 
require prior Bank concurrence.   
7. 
Foreign suppliers and contractors shall be allowed to participate, if interested, 
without first being required to associate with, or enter into joint venture with, local 
firms.  Moreover, foreign bidders shall be allowed to bid, even without registration, 
licensing, and other government authorizations, leaving these requirements for after 
award and before signing of contract.   
8. 
For works contract, the experience qualification requirement shall be: (a) at least one 
(1) previous contract at eighty percent (80%) of the estimated cost of the contract 
being procured; and (b) an annual turnover from all works averaged over the last  
three (3) years equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of the 
contract being procured.
 
B. 
Conditions for the Application of the ABC (Approved Budget for the Contract) as 
Contract Ceiling under Bank Loan Financing
:
1. 
Bidding Documents are obtainable free of charge on a freely accessible website.  If 
payment of Bidding Documents is required by law, payment could be made upon the 
Page  13
12
submission of Bids. Failure to pay for the Bidding Documents prior or upon 
submission of the Bids should not lead to the automatic rejection of the Bids. 
2. 
The implementing agency has procedures in place to ensure that the ABC is based 
on the Engineer’s Estimate and that the Estimate reflects the quality, supervision and 
risk factors associated with the type of job proposed. 
3. 
The implementing agency has trained cost estimators on estimating prices and 
analyzing Bid variances. 
4. 
The implementing agency has established a system to monitor and report Bid prices 
relative to the ABC and Engineer’s Estimate. 
 
Page  14
13
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan Payable
(Expressed in Dollars)
April 15, 2013 
340,000 
October 15, 2013 
350,000 
April 15, 2014 
360,000 
October 15, 2014 
370,000 
April 15, 2015 
380,000 
October 15, 2015 
395,000 
April 15, 2016 
405,000 
October 15, 2016 
415,000 
April 15, 2017 
430,000 
October 15, 2017 
440,000 
April 15, 2018 
455,000 
October 15, 2018 
465,000 
April 15, 2019 
480,000 
October 15, 2019 
495,000 
April 15, 2020 
510,000 
October 15, 2020 
520,000 
April 15, 2021 
535,000 
October 15, 2021 
555,000 
April 15, 2022 
570,000 
October 15, 2022 
585,000 
April 15, 2023 
600,000 
October 15, 2023 
620,000 
April 15, 2024 
635,000 
October 15, 2024 
655,000 
April 15, 2025 
675,000 
October 15, 2025 
700,000 
Page  15
14
APPENDIX 
 
I. Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of 
shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person, 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
4. 
“Environmental Impact and Management Plan” means the plan, dated July 12, 
2007, adopted by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity and included 
in the Project Management Manual, acceptable to the Bank, for screening, 
managing and monitoring environmental and social impacts under the Project, as 
such plan may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the 
Bank. 
 
5. 
“EPIRA” means the Republic of the Philippines Act No. 9136, also known as the 
Electric Power Industry Reform Act of 2001, as may be amended from time to 
time. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 17, 2007). 
 
7. 
“Guarantee Agreement”, for the purposes of and within the meaning of the 
General Conditions, means the agreement, dated the date hereof, between the 
Guarantor and the Bank providing for the guarantee of the Loan, as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time. 
 
8. 
“Guarantor” means, for the purposes of and within the meaning of the General 
Conditions, the Republic of the Philippines, which is a party to the Guarantee 
Agreement. 
9. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan” means the plan, dated June 29, 2007, 
adopted by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity and included in the 
Page  16
15
Project Management Manual, acceptable to the Bank, for the compensation, 
rehabilitation and resettlement assistance to Displaced Persons, as such plan may 
be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank 
 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s procurement plan 
for the Project, dated January 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
12. 
“Project Agreement”, for the purposes of and within the meaning of the General 
Conditions, means the agreement, dated the date hereof, between the Project 
Implementing Entity and the Bank, as such agreement may be amended from 
time to time. 
 
13. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means, for the purposes of and within the 
meaning of the General Conditions, TransCo, which is responsible for 
implementation of the Project. 
 
14. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Constitutive Documents” means the articles of 
incorporation of the Project Implementing Entity as authorized by Section 8 of 
EPIRA. 
 
15. 
“Project Management Manual” means the manual dated October 23, 2007 setting 
out the implementation and management arrangements for the Project including: 
(i) implementation arrangements; (ii) the procurement procedures set forth in 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and standard procurement 
documentation; (iii) reporting requirements, financial management procedures, 
expenditure verification procedures, and audit arrangements and procedures 
consistent with those set forth in Section II of  Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (iv) 
monitoring and evaluation criteria including the Project Performance Indicators 
as set forth in Annex 1 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (v) the Environmental 
Impact and Management Plans; and (vi) the Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Plan. 
 
16. 
“PSALM” means the Power Sector Assets and Liabilities Management 
Corporation, established pursuant to Section 49 of EPIRA. 
 
17. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to be entered into among the Borrower, the Project 
Page  17
16
Implementing Entity and PSALM, pursuant to which the Borrower shall make 
the proceeds of the Loan available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
18. 
“TransCo” means the Project Implementing Entity, National Transmission 
Corporation, the wholly owned subsidiary corporation of PSALM, established 
pursuant to Section 8 of EPIRA and the Project Implementing Entity’s 
Constitutive Documents.
 
