Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4887-PH 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Bicol Power Restoration Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK  
 
FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
NATIONAL TRANSMISSION CORPORATION 
 
Dated February 28, 2008 
 
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 28, 2008, entered into between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (
“Bank”) and NATIONAL 
TRANSMISSION CORPORATION (“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) in 
connection with the Loan Agreement (“Loan Agreement”) of same date between NATIONAL 
POWER CORPORATION (“Borrower”) and the Bank and the Guarantee Agreement 
(“Guarantee Agreement”) of the same date between the REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES 
(“Guarantor”) and the Bank.  The Bank and the Project Implementing Entity hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement or the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II - PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  
To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions, and shall provide promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.  
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
3.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Representative is the President of the Project  
 Implementing 
Entity. 
 
3.02. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
Page  3
2
3.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Address is: 
 
National Transmission Corporation  
Power Center 
Quezon Avenue, Corner BIR Road 
Diliman, Quezon City 
Metro Manila, Philippines  
 
Facsimile: 
 
(632) 981-4610 
 
AGREED at Manila, Republic of the Philippines, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCITON AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Bert Hofman 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
NATIONAL TRANSMISSION CORPORATION 
 
By /s/ Arthur Aguilar 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  4
3
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements.
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall establish and maintain until completion of the 
Project, a project implementation team to implement the Project.  The Project 
Implementing Entity shall ensure that the project implementation team is staffed with 
qualified and experienced personnel (including a project manager) with terms of 
reference and in adequate numbers, in each case acceptable to the Bank, and  is provided 
at all times with adequate funds and other resources as shall be necessary to accomplish 
its functions, responsibilities and objectives.
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall:  (a) adopt the Project Management Manual, 
acceptable to the Bank; (b) carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Management Manual; and (c) not waive, amend or abrogate, or allow to be amended, 
waived or abrogated, any provision of the Project Management Manual or any 
component thereof, without the prior consent of the Bank.
 
B.
 
Subsidiary Agreement 
 
1.
 
The Project Implementing Agency shall perform its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.  Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions.
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance 
with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
D. Safeguards.
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall take all measures and actions set out in the 
Environmental Impact and Management Plan for the elimination or offsetting of adverse 
environmental impacts under the Project.  The Project Implementing Entity shall include 
in each Project Report provided for in paragraph 1 of Section II(A) of this Schedule 2, a 
summary of any environmental issues encountered and proposed mitigation measures 
developed and/or implemented during the period covered in such Project Report. 
 
2. 
In carrying out the Project, the Project Implementing Entity shall apply the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Plan, including: 
 
(a) 
taking all appropriate measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or 
assets of people and to avoid the displacement of such people;  
Page  5
4
(b) 
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of residents is 
unavoidable for a Project activity, ensuring that all Displaced Persons thereunder 
shall have been compensated and provided with resettlement and rehabilitation 
measures in accordance with the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan prior to 
the implementation of such Project activity;  
 
(c)
 
maintaining operational procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on a regular basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan; 
 
(d) 
submitting all changes, amendments and waivers to the Land Acquisition and 
Resettlement Plan to the Bank for no-objection; and 
 
(e)  
preparing and furnishing to the Bank, as part of the Project Report provided for 
in paragraph 1 of Section II(A) of this Schedule, a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the monitoring and 
evaluation activities carried out pursuant to subparagraph (c) above, including 
compensation,  together with any additional measures proposed to further the 
progress in the carrying out of the Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan; and 
promptly take all such measures, taking into account the comments and the views 
of the Bank thereon. 
 
3. 
In carrying out the Project, the Project Implementing Entity shall, as set out in the Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement Plan, through a process of informed consultation and participation, 
involve concerned Indigenous Peoples in the design and implementation of the Project so as to 
avoid, or if not possible, minimize adverse effects on Indigenous Peoples. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation.
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress the Project and 
prepare Project Reports for the Project in accordance with the provisions of Section    
5.08(b) of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 1 
to Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement.  Each such Project Report shall cover the period of 
one calendar quarter and shall be furnished to the Borrower not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of the period covered by such report for incorporation and forwarding 
by the Borrower to the Bank of the overall Project Report.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial 
condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  6
5
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Project Implementing 
Entity shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to above 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.  Each audit of these financial 
statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Project Implementing 
Entity.  The audited financial statements for each period shall be furnished to the 
Borrower and the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of the period.
 
4. 
Without limitation on the foregoing paragraph 3, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree 
in writing, the Project Implementing Entity shall include the Project in the scope of work 
for its internal audit using procedures acceptable the to Bank. Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree in writing, the Project Implementing Entity shall undertake such internal 
audit once in each calendar semester during Project implementation and shall submit a 
copy of the audit report to the Bank within thirty (30) days after the end of each calendar 
semester. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to the 
Loan Agreement. 
 
