Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  43660 
Project Name 
PH - Bicol Power Restoration Project 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
General energy sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P106262 
Borrower(s) 
National Power Company (NPC) 
Implementing Agency 
TransCo 
Republic of the Philippines 
Philippines 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
December 12, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
 
Date of Board Approval 
February 5, 2007 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
The Philippines, a set of islands with a population of about 82 million, is prone to typhoons, 
which have become more severe in recent years.  The Bicol region, with a population of over 
5
million, is one of 17 regions i
n
the Philippines.  Two “super-typhoons,”
1
Milenyo and Reming, 
hit the Bicol region in September and November 2006, respectively.  Typhoon Reming struck 
with unprecedented wind gusts, exceeding 230 kilometers per hour (km/hr), toppling or 
otherwise damaging 118 transmission towers supporting 230 kV transmission lines in the South 
Luzon transmission system.  During the first half of 2007, seven 500 kV towers, weakened 
during the typhoons of 2006, collapsed as a result of subsequent inclement weather. Three 
additional 500 kV towers collapsed in July 2.  The combined damage from both typhoons 
resulted in a two-day blackout in the South Luzon area
2
and a still ongoing power deficit in the 
Bicol region.   
The Sector
.
The project takes place in the context of a power sector with an evolving 
institutional structure.  Institutionally, the power sector in Philippines is structured around the 
Electric Power Industry Reform Act
 (
EPIRA) and the accompanying Implementing Rules and 
Regulations (IRR).  EPIRA provides, among others, for: 
a. 
Unbundling of the sector into generation, transmission, distribution, and supply; the 
generation and supply businesses are intended to be open and competitive. 
b.  Creation of the National Transmission Corporation (TransCo) to assume the transmission 
assets and functions of National Power Corporation (NPC). 
1
Defined as typhoons with wind speeds exceeded 200 km/hr. 
 
2
Based on the System Operator’s estimation of unsupplied energy
.
Page  2
2
c. 
Creation of the Power Sector Assets and Liabilities Management (PSALM) Corporation 
to own TransCo and other NPC assets and assume all the liabilities of NPC, with a 
mandate to privatize TransCo via concession and to dispose of other, mostly generation, 
assets. 
Although the blackout resulting from the typhoons was not large on a countrywide basis,
3
it had 
a
considerable economic impact on the Bicol region.  As Figure 1 shows, the entire transmission 
system serving the Bicol was out of commission in November 2006, with unsupplied energy 
during the blackout amounting to over 200 GWh.
4
A
deficit of 50 GWh, or about a quarter of 
the Bicol region’s power consumption, remains unserved due to incomplete restoration of the 
power sub-transmission and distribution capacity. The economic cost of the blackout and 
continued power deficit—excluding revenue losses to TransCo and the electricity cooperatives—
has been in excess of US$250 million. 
 
TransCo restored the bulk of its 230 kV power transmission to the Bicol region in late December 
2006, using Emergency Restoration Systems (ERS) to replace damaged permanent structures. 
However, the company has a limited number of these structures, some of which it had to transfer 
to the Bicol region from other regions.  Even with the ERSs, the Bicol region does not yet have 
full electricity service.  Full service restoration will require, in addition to the restoration of 
transmission towers, the repair of damaged 69 kV sub-transmission lines as well as medium-
3
The power system of the Philippines has a total installed capacity MW 15,600 with annual electricity generation of about 
56,510 GWh.
 
4
The loss of supply would have been worse had the Transmission Company (TransCo) not responded within two days in both 
cases to restore the vital 230 kV transmission interconnections at Naga and Labo, using temporary Emergency Restoration 
Structures (ERS), in order to restore supply the northern part of Luzon Island including the capital city of Manila. 
Figure 1: Illustration of Damaged Sections of the Transmission System  
Page  3
3
voltage distribution lines owned by various electricity cooperatives.  TransCo anticipates 
completed repairs in the power system (in both the transmission and distribution systems) by the 
end of 2007 or early 2008.  
On July 31, 2007, TransCo received approval from the government
5
for borrowing from the 
Bank to finance investments necessary for the restoration of five sections of the 230 kV 
transmission system under Part I, which the project loan will finance. 
2. Objectives 
 
The project’s development objective is to support the stabilization of power supply in the Bicol 
region by replacing or repairing critical electricity transmission infrastructure damaged by 
typhoons in 2006. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The main rationale for Bank involvement is that the project meets the eligibility criteria for a 
rapid response of the Bank to loan requests for the financing of investments necessary to repair 
actual or imminent damage resulting from natural or man-made disasters. This rationale is 
strengthened by the transmission system’s vulnerability from the ongoing and 2008 typhoon 
seasons. Bank’s dialogue during preparation focused TransCo’s attention on the need to have 
minimum preparedeness components as well, which will be financed by NPC (borrower) and 
implemented by TransCo (implementing agency).  The Bank has a long history of assisting the 
government in power sector development. This assistance includes support of the sector’s 
restructuring and privatization program and of efforts to promote increased access to electricity 
for rural communities in isolated areas. Furthermore, the Bank is actively involved in dialogue 
on power sector reform including the preservation of the transmission system’s assets during the 
transition period prior to planned operation by a private concession. In this period of institutional 
changes, TransCo is constrained in its ability to raise funds for any new investments. 
4. Description 
 
This loan will allow the Bicol region, which has the highest incidence of typhoons in the country, 
to regain the level of power supply available before the devastating typhoons of 2006.  The 
project consists of investments to repair severely damaged sections of the transmission system. 
Given the emergency nature of the project, approximately 80 percent of the total loan amount, 
amounting to US$10.3 million, will finance, retroactively, contracts for replacement of towers 
and associated materials in the 230 kV transmission system, which sustained most of the damage 
from the typhoons. Further, to accelerate construction work and prepare for next typhoon season, 
the Bank reviewed, and provided its concurrence with the bidding documents and bid evaluation 
reports for the three main supply and installation contracts during January to May, 2007, with 
construction works starting in June, 2007. 
 
5
Refer NEDA letter July 31, 2007, confirming its prior approval for TransCo to borrow up to Peso 646 million to 
fund 71 percent of the replacement 230 kV towers but also makes provision for an increase of the loan amount on  
submission of information supporting the additional reinforcement measures. 
Page  4
4
Overview 
 
The Bank financed project is part of a US$21.6 million program with two sub-project 
components: (i) restoration; and (ii) initial preparedness.  Part I contains four packages (Packages 
A, B, C, and D) of investments in equipment and their installation to repair typhoon damage to 
the 230 kV and 500 kV transmission systems, serving the Bicol region.  Part II consists of 
investments in equipment (ERSs) and consultant services to reinforce the transmission system in 
order to reduce potential damage and related power system disruption from future typhoons. It 
also covers the costs of Rights of Way (ROW) and resettlement.   
 
The Bank’s project supports financing for investments necessary for the restoration of five 
sections of the 230 kV transmission system under Part I (Packages A to C).  TransCo will use its 
own funds to finance restoration work for the 500 kV system under Part I (Package D) and the 
investments for the strengthening of the transmission system under Part II (Packages E1 and E2).   
 
Part I. Restoration of Power Transmission Capacity in the Bicol Area 
 
This part consists of three packages (Packages A, B, and C), to be financed by the Bank’s 
project, covering five sections of the Bicol area’s transmission system damaged immediately 
following the typhoons in 2006. After competitive bidding TransCo has awarded the contract to 
Kalpataru of India, which began the restoration work in May 2007 and expects to complete the 
work by the end of 2007. The Bank will provide retroactive financing for part of this work. In 
addition, Part I includes a fourth package (Package D), to be financed by government, to restore 
towers weakened during the 2006 typhoon season, which ultimately collapsed in May 2007. The 
packages consist of the following items:   
 
·
Package A
.
Supply and installation of 56 steel transmission towers and line materials for 
typhoon-damaged portions of the double-circuit, Naga-Labo 230 kV 795mm ACSR 
transmission line (estimated cost: US$5.49 million). 
·
Package B
.
Supply and installation of 32 steel transmission towers and line materials for 
typhoon-damaged portions of the double-circuit Tiwi Plant C-Naga 230 kV 2-795mm 
ACSR transmission line (estimated cost: US$4.48 million). 
·
Package C
.
Supply and installation of 30 steel transmission towers and line materials for 
typhoon-damaged portions of the double circuit 230 kV ACSR transmission lines in three 
sections of the transmission system: (a) Tiwi Plant A-Daraga (1-795mm); (b) Naga-
Daraga (1-795mm); and Bacman-Daraga (2-795mm) (estimated cost: US$3.48 million). 
·
Package D
.
Supply and installation of additional materials for restoring seven 500 kV 
towers (estimated cost: US$1.94 million).    
Part II 
–
Strengthening of the TransCo System Against Future Typhoons 
 
2. 
This part, to be financed by the government, consists of two packages (Package E1 and 
E2) covering additional ERS required for emergency use and development of an investment plan 
for reinforcing the transmission system against future typhoon damage. 
Page  5
5
·
Package E1
.
Supply of 11 additional sets of ERS structures to replace existing stocks 
borrowed from other TransCo stores. These structures need to be compatible with the 
proprietary ERS materials in stock at TransCo. Given the proprietary nature or the 
equipment, TransCo will procure this equipment through direct contracting, which the 
TransCo Board already has approved (estimated cost: US$1.7 million).  
·
Package E2
.
Consulting services to assist with planning investments for comprehensive 
transmission upgrading program.
6
Draft Terms of Reference (TOR) have been submitted 
to TransCo
’s Corplan group for final approval (estimated cost: US$0.50 million). 
·
Package F
.
Right-of-Way (estimated cost: US$0.68 million). 
Package G
.
Resettlement of displaced households (estimated cost: US$0.18 million).
 
5. Financing 
 
Bicol Power Restoration Project Financing Plan 
(In US$ million)
 
Foreign 
Cost 
Local Cost 
Total 
Bank Loan (Part I A,B,C including taxes and 10% 
contingencies) 
8.17 4.76 12.94 
TransCo Own Financing (Part ID&II, ROW, and 
Relocation)  
2.80 5.86 8.67 
Total Financing 
10.98 
10.62 
21.61 
6. Implementation 
When the transfer of debt and assets to PSALM is completed by the government, then the loan 
agreement between IBRD and NPC may be amended to change the borrower from NPC to 
PSALM and corresponding amendments and consents will be obtained from the government and 
from TransCo.   
NPC. 
 
The borrower, NPC, is a government-owned and controlled corporation created under 
Republic Act No. 6395.  NPC’s audited financial statements still include TransCo’s pending 
completion of legal requirements to transfer of the assets of the transmission operation to 
TransCo as per EPIRA.  The NPC deposits the funds it collects from TransCo into an account of 
NPC and from that account, provides TransCo with funds for its operations. The President of the 
Philippines appoints the members of the Board of NPC, with the Secretary of the Department of 
Energy as Chairman and the President of NPC as Vice Chairman. 
 
TransCo.
 
The Implementing Agency for the project, TransCo, is a government owned and 
controlled corporation, created in 2000 under Republic Act No. 9136 to acquire all the 
transmission assets of NPC. To date, however, the transfer of such transmission assets has not 
taken place.  Although TransCo’s financial statements are still consolidated with those of NPC, 
6
The proposed upgrading program is unlikely to be implemented before 2008, subject to ERC approval and after 
the time when the Concessionaire is expected to be in place.
 
Page  6
6
TransCo has its own financial management system and organization. NPC will enter into a 
Memorandum of Agreement with TransCo
,
for the project’s implementation.   
 
7. Sustainability 
 
As the Southern Luzon-Visayas corridor has been subject to an increased incidence of “super-
typhoons,” sustainability of the project activities is strengthened through the supply of 11 
additional sets of ERS to rapidly restore power in the event of future damage to transmission 
towers. Additionally, the development of a comprehensive transmission upgrading program will 
prioritize investments that will reinforce a transmission system capable of withstanding wind 
speeds above 200 km/hour. This will, in turn, reduce the prospects of severe damage and 
preserve transmission system assets in the interim period prior to TransCo’s privatization.  
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The most recent Implementation Completion Reports for Bank power transmission projects 
managed by NPC, have noted protracted delays in procurement and rated resettlement as highly 
unsatisfactory.  In addition, NPC has experienced financial problems that in the past have 
resulted in uncertain or unsustainable achievement of project objectives.  Given the emergency 
nature of the project and the fact that the procurement already has taken place for many of the 
components, the risk of protracted delays in procurement is low.  Due to past deficiencies in 
safeguards, the project’s appraisal has given considerable attention to evaluating related policies 
and procedures in place.  The project’s appraisal of standards for safeguards reviewed has found 
them overall, to be consistent with Bank policies.  In addition, the project’s supervision team will 
give close attention to the satisfactory achievement of the LARP.   
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
TransCo has an Environmental Management Division led by a well qualified Division Manager 
and social development specialists in its central and field offices.
7
The company’s process for 
environmental management meets the Bank’s minimum requirements specified under OP 4.01 
on Environmental Assessment.  The project is not likely to have any significant and irreversible 
negative impacts on environment, including natural habitats of wildlife and forests.  An 
environmental management plan (EMP), which includes a reforestation plan, has adequately 
provided for the mitigation of any impacts that the project may generate.
8
The project’s preparatory work has identified 47 families that face potential displacement.  The 
families have occupied the affected areas way after its original construction decades.  Some 
7
As an ISO14001- certified company, TransCo adopted, on January 5, 2004, its own Corporate Social Responsibility and 
Environmental Stewardship Program and has environmental management system in place. Prescribed in its Project Management 
Procedural manual, which became effective December 18, 2006, under the section on project development procedures, is a 
detailed procedural flow on conducting an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and securing an Environmental Compliance 
Certificate (ECC) and Certificate of Non-Coverage (CNC). This process is in accordance with the national rules and regulations 
prescribing the requirements such certificates. 
8
The transmission towers that the project will restore will largely follow existing transmission line rights of way (ROW) to 
reduce the intrusion onto private property. However, it is possible that the ROW for the Tiwi-Buhi and the Naga -Tayabas 
transmission lines may traverse the ancestral domain of indigenous peoples/cultural minorities. In any case, the appraisal found 
that land acquisition is likely to be small.
 
Page  7
7
however will be affected by the restoration of a few towers as the old towers will be replaced by 
new ones to be constructed on adjacent properties due to some unavoidable adjustments in the 
line alignments.  Although the owners of the affected land reportedly have received 
compensation in the past, the project shall ensure that the compensation for affected structures 
reflects a LARP that the appraisal team has reviewed and found consistent with Bank standards 
on compensation. Th
e
LARP for the project complies with the Bank’s related OP 4.12. 
 
A
review done during project preparation with the National Commission on Indigenous People 
(NCIP), Albay Provincial Officer, provided an indicative list of project affected persons, their 
properties and their location together with the type of land documents covering these properties.  
The review showed that none of the Tiwi Barangays with ancestrail domains (Joroam, Misibis, 
Taabong and Maayong) are affected by the restoration project.  A similar review for Buhi 
Barangays with ancestral domains (Sta Cruz, Ipil, Kaulam and Iraya) also showed the same 
results.  It has been agreed that in case any indigenous population is affected the Bank’s IP 
policy will be complied with, particularly in the area of consultation and compensation.   
 
Due to the emergency nature of the Project, the NCIP Officer in the area revealed that the Free 
and Prior Informed Consent/Certificate Precondition (FPIC/CP) requirement is not applicable to 
the BPRP.  For good practice, TransCo applied, and was granted on September 4, 2007, for a 
certification from the National Commission on Indigenous People (NCIP) confirming that the 
Free and Prior Informed Consent (FPIC) is not required for this emergency project.   
 
TransCo’s Social Engineering and ROW Management staff is skilled and experienced in 
implementing similar activities.  The budget required for its implementation is within TransCo’s 
overall approved budget 2007. 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Techno-Economic and Financial Evaluation of the Bicol Power Restoration Project, TransCo 
Luzon Division Project Planning & Development Department February 2007.  
Regulatory Reset for the National Transmission Corporation TransCo for 2006-2010, Final 
Determination ERC Case No. 2005-041RC, June 13 2006 
http://www.erc.gov.ph/
2006 Transmission Development Plan National Transmission Company TransCo 
http://www.TRANSCO.ph/frame.asp?doc=tdp/2006%20TDP%20Final%20april%202007.
pdf
Page  8
8
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Arturo S. Rivera 
Title: Sr. Energy Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-1131 
Fax: (202) 522-1648 
Email: 
Arivera2@worldbank.org
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
