                                                                                                                                                                                                        43988


Authorized
                                                                                                                                 INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
                                                                                                                                             APPRAISAL STAGE

          Disclosure                                                                                        I. Basic Information
                                                                                                            Date prepared/updated: 11/29/2007                                     Report No.: AC3103
                    Public
                                                                                                            1. Basic Project Data
                                                                                                            Country: Philippines                          Project ID: P106262
                                                                                                            Project Name: Bicol Power Restoration Project
                                                                                                            Task Team Leader: Arturo S. Rivera
                                                                                                            Estimated Appraisal Date:                     Estimated Board Date: December 18, 2007
                                                                                                            Managing Unit: EASTE                          Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery
                          Authorized
                                                                                                                                                          Loan
                                                                                                            Sector: General energy sector (100%)
                                                                                                            Theme: Natural disaster management (P)
                                    Disclosure                                                              IBRD Amount (US$m.):            16.08
                                                                                                            IDA Amount (US$m.):              0.00

                                              Public                                                        GEF Amount (US$m.):              0.00
                                                                                                            PCF Amount (US$m.):              0.00
                                                                                                            Other financing amounts by source:
                                                                                                                    Borrower                                                            8.54
                                                                                                                                                                                        8.54
                                                                                                            Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment
                                                    Authorized                                              Simplified Processing                         Simple []             Repeater []
                                                                                                            Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)
                                                                                                                                                                                 Yes [X]         No [ ]
                                                                                                            or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies)

                                                              Disclosure
                                                                                                            2. Project Objectives
                                                                                                            The project's development objective is to support: the restoration of critical electricity
                                                                        Public                              transmission infrastructure damaged by typhoons, and critical emergency preparedness
                                                                                                            measures and investments.

                                                                                                            3. Project Description
                                                                                                            The project's components consist of two parts. Part I contains four packages (A-D) of
                                                                                                            investments in equipment and their installation to repair damage to the 230 kV and 500
                                                                                                            kV transmission systems, serving the Bicol area, sustained as a result of typhoons during
                                                                              Authorized                    2006. Part II consists of investments in equipment and consultant services to reinforce
                                                                                                            the transmission system in order to reduce potential damage and related power system
                                                                                                            disruption from future typhoons.

                                                                                        Disclosure
                                                                                                             TRANSCO has received approval from the government for borrowing from the Bank to
                                                                                                            finance investments necessary for the restoration of five sections of the 230 kV
                                                                                                  Public    transmission system under Part I, which the project loan will finance. However,
                                                                                                            TRANSCO has not yet received approval for the loan to finance investments in
                                                                                                            restoration work for the 500 kV system under Part I or the investments for the
                                                                                                            strengthening of the transmission system under Part II. Tentatively, the financing plan

assumes that TRANSCO will finance these investments on its own. Project negotiations
will confirm the financing arrangements.



 Part I - Restoration of the Bicol Transmission System.

 This part consists of three packages (Packages A-C) that cover the five sections of the
Bicol area's 230 kv transmission system damaged immediately following the typhoons in
2006. The fourth package (Package D) covers seven additional towers for the 500 kV
system to replace those that collapsed several months after the typoon due to the
weakened structual integrity as a result of typhoon damage. These packages consist of the
following items:

 Package A: Supply and installation of 56 steel transmission towers and line materials
for typhoon- damaged portions of the double- circuit Naga-Labo 230 kV 795mm ACSR
transmission line. (Cost: US$5.7 million).

 Package B: Supply and installation of 32 steel transmission towers and line materials
for typhoon-damaged portions of the double- circuit Tiwi Plant C-Naga 230 kV 2-795mm
ACSR transmission line. (Cost: US$4.6 million).

 Package C: Supply and installation of 30 steel transmission towers and line materials
for typhoon damaged portions of three double- circuit, 230 kV ACSR transmission lines:
(a) Tiwi Plant A-Daraga (1-795mm); (b) Naga-Daraga (1-795mm); and Bacman-Daraga
(2-795mm). (Cost: US$3.6 million).

 Package D: Supply and installation of additional materials for restoring seven 500 kV
towers that in recent months have collapsed due to typhoon damage. (Cost: US$2.0
million).



 Part II - Strengthening of the TRANSCO system against future typhoons

 This part consists of two packages (E1 and E2), covering additional ERS required to
rapidly restore power in the event of future damage to tranmission towers and
development of an investment plan for reinforcing the transmission system against
typhoon damage. These packages consist of the following:

 Package E1: Supply of 11 additional sets of ERS to replace existing stocks borrowed
from other TRANSCO stores and thereby enhance the sytem's preparedness for restoring
power in the event of future damage to transmission towers. (Cost: US$2.6 million).

 Package E2: Consulting services to assist with planning investments for a
comprehensive transmission upgrading program. Transco has submitted draft terms of
reference (Annex 10) to ICC/NEDA for final approval. (Cost: US$0.5 million).

4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
The project will be located along the routes and right-of ways of the transmission lines
indicated in the Project Description Section discussed above.

5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
   Mr Bernard Baratz (ECAVP)
   Ms Maya Gabriela Q. Villaluz (EASRE)
   Ms Victoria Florian S. Lazaro (EASSO)


6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                                 Yes        No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                            X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                              X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                       X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                  X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                                   X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                            X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                            X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                           X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                                    X


II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management

A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues

1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
The scale of the project though quite big, is not expected to have any significant and
irreversible negative impacts on environment, natural habitats and forests. The electrical
distribution line will largely follow the existing transmission line ROWs to reduce
intrusion onto private property. An Environmental Management Plan has been prepared
and a Certificate of Non-coverage has been issued by the Department of Environment
and Natural Resources for the project because of the small-scale impacts expected from
the project. Vegetation initially identified to be cleared in the ROW is composed of
mostly shrubs, bushes and fruit trees. Any tree species with commercial and ecological
value will be replaced by TRANSCO as contained in their EMP. An inventory is being
prepared to determine the types of trees to be cut which will be addressed in their
reforestation plan. The necessary cutting permits will also be secured for the project.

 Land acquisition impact will be small and some 47 potentially displaced families have
been identified by the proponent. Some of these families had encroached along the ROW
and will now be moved away from it, thus minimizing any potential future risks. Though
many of the owners of the affected land have reportedly been compensated in the past,
affected structures, vegetations and trees that are now existing, and some claims of
unpaid tower occupancy and easement fees shall be compensated using a Land

Acquisition and Resettlement Plan (LARP) reviewed and found consistent to Bank
standards on compensation.

2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
As anticipated, the project activities will not generate any adverse long-term impacts to
the environment. Long-term social impacts of the project are expected to be positive such
as more stable power supply not only in the Bicol area but to all those affected by this
grid. Further, the project, through the LARP, will reduce potential risks to households
that over time did move along the ROW.

3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
The restoration project will have minimal adverse environmental impacts since the
activities will be limited to existing tower sites which stand on long-time cleared areas
and the surrounding areas have naturally re-generated and vegetation have flourished in
the vicinity of the long-standing towers.

4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
An environmental management plan (EMP) has adequately provided for the mitigation of
the significant impacts that may be generated by the project. It will address minor
impacts from civil works activities and a site health and safety plan have been prepared
and submitted by the National Transmission Corporation to the Bank, which the later
found acceptable. After construction the land disturbed will be restored and the line right
of way will be maintained to prevent the growth of tall vegetation which would endanger
the line. For the few new towers to be constructed adjacent to the toppled towers that
could no longer be restored, the potential impacts that may be generated due to land-use
conversion and habitat fragmentation will be minimized with the restoration of the
habitats disturbed including its re-vegetation and the limited use of the line right-way
for agricultural purposes only. A Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan (LARP) for the
project has been prepared and submitted to the Bank for its review, and has been found
to be generally acceptable.

 Institutional Arrangements

 TRANSCO has an Environmental Management Division led by a highly qualified
Division Manager with a staff complement of environmental and social development
specialists in its central and field offices. It is an ISO 14001 certified company and has
adopted in January 5, 2004, its own Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental
Stewardship Program and has environmental management system in place. Prescribed in
its Project Management Procedural manual effective December 18, 2006, under the
section on Project development procedures, is a detailed procedural flow on the conduct
of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and securing the Environmental
Compliance Certificate (ECC)/ Certificate of Non-coverage (CNC). This process is in
accordance with the national rules and regulations prescribing the requirements for the

conduct of an EIA study and securing the appropriate environmental certificate and meets
the Bank's minimum requirements specified under OP 4.01 on Environmental
Assessment. The Environmental Management Division will be responsible in monitoring
the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) by the contractors
during construction and will ensure that the lands affected are adequately restored and
maintained.

 Similarly, the Right of Way Management and Social Engineering Divisions (under it
even named department) of TransCo are manned by skilled and experienced staff in
handling mitigating measures for involuntary resettlement and issues pertaining to
indigenous peoples. A review done with the National Commission on Indigenous People
(NCIP) Albay Provincial Officer of the indicative list of project affected persons, their
properties and their location together with the type of land documents covering these
properties showed that none of the Tiwi barangays with ADs (Joroam, Misibis, Taabong
and Maayong) are affected by the Restoration Project. A similar review for Buhi
barangays with ADs ( Sta Cruz, Ipil, Kaulam and Iraya) also showed the same results.

5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The population served by the transmission lines needing rehabilitation represented by the
political bodies (Province of Albay, Camarines Sur and Camarines Norte), the 47
families with affected properties; national government, the rest of the power sector are
the stakeholders of this project. TRANSCO has met the potentially affected people in
public meetings and presented this restoration project. TRANSCO's Corporate Social
Responsibility and Environmental Stewardship Program is available in their website and
in their library. The EIA and EMP are available in TRANSCO's central and field offices
and the Department of Environment and Natural Resources and these are accessible to
the public. The LARP is also available in the TRANSCO's central and field office.



B. Disclosure Requirements Date

Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                      Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                     07/13/2007
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                 07/13/2007
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                  07/13/2007
  For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
  Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
  Was the document disclosed prior to appraisal?                      Yes
  Date of receipt by the Bank                                     07/27/2007
  Date of "in-country" disclosure                                 07/27/2007
  Date of submission to InfoShop                                  07/27/2007

* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources,
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:




C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)

OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?            Yes
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM)        Yes
review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the        No
credit/loan?
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process            Yes
framework (as appropriate) been prepared?
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector      Yes
Manager review the plan?
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's     Yes
Infoshop?
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a     Yes
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
groups and local NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities  Yes
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
policies?
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project Yes
cost?
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the         Yes
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the           Yes
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
documents?

  D. Approvals


Signed and submitted by:                            Name             Date
Task Team Leader:                 Mr Arturo S. Rivera              11/28/2007
Environmental Specialist:         Ms Maya Gabriela Q. Villaluz     11/28/2007
Social Development Specialist     Ms Victoria Florian S. Lazaro    11/28/2007
Additional Environmental and/or
Social Development Specialist(s):

Approved by:
Sector Manager:                   Ms Junhui Wu                     11/28/2007
 Comments:

