                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank



                                                            Report No: ICR00001003



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IBRD-48870)



                                           ON A

                                           LOAN

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$12.94 MILLION


                                           TO THE

                           NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION

             WITH GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES

                                           FOR A

                        BICOL POWER RESTORATION PROJECT



                                       June 30, 2009




Philippines Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective March 9, 2009)

                                   Currency Unit = PHP
                                   PHP 1.00 = US$ 0.021
                                   US$1.00 = PHP 48.58

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1 ­ December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABC     Approved Budget for the Contract      km            Kilometer
ACSR    Aluminum conductor steel reinforced   LARP          Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan
BPRP    Bicol Power Restoration Project       MCM           Thousand Circular Mils (wire Gauge)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy           MW            Megawatt
CNC     Certificate on Non-Coverage           NCB           National Competitive Bidding
COA     Commission on Audit                   NCIP          National Commission on Indigenous People
DOE     Department of Energy                  NEDA          National Economic and Development Authority
DOs     Development Objectives                NPC           National Power Corporation
DPL     Development Policy Lending            NGCP          National Grid Corporation of the Philippines
ECC     Environmental Compliance Certificate PAGASA         Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical, and
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment                     Astronomical Services Administration
EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return      PBD           Philippine Bidding Document
ERC     Energy Regulatory Commission          PHP           Philippine Peso
ERS     Emergency Restoration Structures      PSALM         Power Sector Assets and Liabilities Management
EPIRA   Electric Power Industry Reform Act    QAG           World Bank Quality Assurance Group
GOCC    Government-Owned and Controlled       ROW           Right of Way
        Corporation                                         Policy and Human Resources Development
                                              PHRD
GWh     Gigawatt-hour
                                              SAIDI         System Average Interruption Duration Index
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction
                                              SAIFI         System Average Interruption Frequency Index
         and Development
ICB     International Competitive Bidding     SISI          System Interruption Severity Index
ICC     Investment Coordination Committee     TransCo       National Transmission Corporation
IEC     Information, Education & Communication
kV      Kilovolt

                               Vice President:   James W. Adams
                             Country Director:   Bert Hofman
             Sustainable Development Leader:     Mark C. Woodward
                         Project Team Leader:    Salvador Rivera
                            ICR Team Leader:     Salvador Rivera
                                              PHILIPPINES
                                      Bicol Power Restoration Project




                                                        CONTENTS




Data Sheet ........................................................................................................................ i
1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17


Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
Annex 3. Economic Analysis........................................................................................ 22
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 23
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 24
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 25
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................... 26
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 27
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 28
MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Bicol Power
Country:                Philippines              Project Name:
                                                                           Restoration Project
Project ID:             P106262                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-48870
ICR Date:               06/30/2009               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           NATIONAL POWER
Lending Instrument:     ERL                      Borrower:                 CORPORATION
                                                                           (NPC)
Original Total
                        USD 12.9M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 11.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 National Transmission Corporation (TransCo)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/22/2007      Effectiveness:                               05/21/2008
Appraisal:            07/17/2007      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             02/07/2008      Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   07/30/2008        09/30/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                                100               100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                           100              100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                      James W. Adams
Country Director:          Bert Hofman                         Bert Hofman
Sector Manager:            Mark C. Woodward                    Junhui Wu
Project Team Leader:       Arturo S. Rivera                    Arturo S. Rivera
ICR Team Leader:           Arturo S. Rivera
ICR Primary Author:        Arturo S. Rivera


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 The project's development objective was to support the stabilization of power supply in
the Bicol region by replacing or repairing critical electricity transmission infrastructure
damaged by typhoons in 2006.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
 There were no revisions of the project development objectives and key indicators
throughout the project implementation period.




                                              ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally      Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval            Target     Completion or
                                               documents)            Values      Target Years
                  Reestablishment of capability to deliver an additional 50 GWh of unsupplied
Indicator 1 :
                  energy in region.
Value
quantitative or   232 MW Max Demand         251 MW MD                         254 MW MD
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/30/2006                07/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %          Percentage of Target: >100%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Improved power system reliability; reduction in SISI minutes lost
Value
quantitative or   17 minutes                15 minutes                        0.22 minutes
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/23/2007                04/30/2008                        10/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %          Percentage of Target: >100%
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                              Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                approval                      Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                      Target Years
                  New towers and line materials for the Naga-Labo 230 kV transmission line
Indicator 1 :
                  (Package A)
Value
(quantitative   56                        56                               56
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/27/2007                  04/24/2008                       09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Percentage of target: >100%
achievement)
                New towers and line materials for the Tiwi Plant C-Naga 230 kV transmission
Indicator 2 :
                line (Package B)
Value
(quantitative   32                        32                               32
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/27/2007                  04/24/2008                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Percentage of target: >100%
achievement)



                                                 iii
                New towers and line materials for the Tiwi Plant-A-Daraga, Naga-Daraga, and
Indicator 3 :
                BacMan-Daraga 230 kV transmission lines (Package C)
Value
(quantitative   30                        30                              30
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/27/2007                  04/24/2008                      04/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Percentage of target: 100%
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
         Date ISR
No.                             DO                         IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1     10/21/2008          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   9.45


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              iv
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1   Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 Country Background. The Philippines power sector has been evolving rapidly over the
past few years. Since the enactment of the Electricity Power Industry Reform Act (EPIRA) in
2001, and with its mandate to restructure the electricity supply industry and privatize the
National Power Corporation (NPC), significant efforts have been made to increase investment in
modernizing generation and transmission facilities. The complex process of privatization of
generation and transmission assets led by the Power Sector Assets and Liabilities Corporation
(PSALM) and the National Transmission Corporation1 (TransCo), both created under EPIRA
continues with perceptible progress and in close collaboration with development partners.

1.1.2 Given the vulnerability of transmission assets to natural calamities, it has become
increasingly evident that private sector investments must be accompanied by the application of
higher technical standards for transmission assets. This is especially true in the Philippines,
which is highly prone to typhoons that have become more severe in recent years. The Bicol
region, with a population of over 5 million, was hit by two super-typhoons (named Milenyo and
Reming) with wind speeds over 200 km/hr in the last quarter of 2006. The blackout resulting
from the typhoons had a considerable adverse economic impact on the Bicol region. The
economic cost of the blackout and continued power deficit, excluding revenue losses to the
National Transmission Corporation (TransCo) and the electricity cooperatives, was in excess of
US$250 million, more than 10 times the cost of the system restoration and strengthening
investments that the project supported.

1.1.3 Rationale for Bank Assistance. For over 20 years, the Bank has assisted the
government in power sector development and efforts to promote increased access to electricity
for rural communities. The Bank has been actively involved in dialogue on power sector reform,
particularly the preservation of the transmission system assets during the transition period prior
to planned operation by a private concessionaire. During this period of institutional change,
power sector institutions such as TransCo looked to the Bank to assist it in responding to the
constraints that it faced in its ability to raise funds for new investments and asset preservation.

1.1.4 At the time of project identification, there were two streams of activity in the power
sector that were relevant to the Bank's ability to contribute to sector development. First, on a
physical investment plane, TransCo was implementing a recovery strategy that focused not only
on repair of the damage to the TransCo system, but also on critical reinforcement of transmission
infrastructure in the Bicol region and other typhoon-prone areas in the transmission system,
combined with emergency measures to reduce power outages in the event of further damage
from typhoons. In parallel, it was recognized that with the increasing incidence of super
typhoons in the Southern Luzon-Visayas corridor, greater attention would have to be paid to
1
 The turnover of TransCo to the new concessionaire, National Grid Corporation of the Philippines
(NGCP), took effect on January 15, 2009, with a 25-year contract to operate, manage, maintain, and
upgrade the national grid of 21,329 circuit-km in Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao.


                                                   1
improving design standards for wind resistance by the transmission towers through an overall
tower-strengthening program that would increase system preparedness.

1.1.5 Second, on a policy plane, the project was an important element in the ongoing sector
reform and privatization process initiated with the creation of PSALM, which would take
ownership of all NPC generation assets, and TransCo, which would assume NPC's transmission
functions. Bank participation introduced a measure of comfort to investors to demonstrate that
not only was the process deserving of full support, but also that the institutional arrangements
were strong. The overall promotion of private interest in the power sector through the Bank's
intervention was seen as a perceptible contribution to efforts to remove infrastructure barriers
constraining economic growth; this was consistent with the objectives of economic growth and
social inclusion outlined in the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The Bank's strategy
also supported the country's efforts toward ensuring the availability of countrywide reliable and
accessible power supply, and electrification of unenergized barangays.

1.1.6 Most importantly, the project met the eligibility criteria for rapid response as specified in
OP8.00 for the financing of investments necessary to repair actual or imminent damage resulting
from natural or man-made disasters.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 The projects development objective was to support the stabilization of power supply in
the Bicol region by replacing electricity transmission steel towers and line materials damaged by
typhoons in 2006. The key project outcome indicators were (i) re-establishment of the system
with capability to deliver an additional 50 GWh of electricity through the construction of
118 new 230 kV towers; and (ii) improved power system reliability in Bicol, which was to be
demonstrated by a reduction of 10 minutes in system minutes lost, which was better than the
target of 15 minutes. The output indicator was a restored transmission system installed with
accelerated contracting.

1.3   Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

1.3.1 There were no revisions of the project development objectives or the key indicators.

1.4    Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 The project had several stakeholder-beneficiaries: (i) Luzon grid-wide beneficiaries of
reliable electricity through a restored and strengthened interconnected system; (ii) immediate
beneficiaries in the Bicol region who benefited from restoration of electricity, and increased
reliability of power; (iii) TransCo, which benefited from improved safety, reliability, and
efficiency of a stabilized power transmission system; (iv) the private sector, which gained
confidence in power sector investments through the Bank's lead; and (v) the overall economy,
which benefited from reduction in the economic costs of power outages and deficits, especially
commercial activities dependent on regular power supply. A non-material beneficiary was the
privatization process as the project came at a critical time in organizational restructuring, when a

                                                 2
clear and well-implemented investment was important in being able to improve investor
confidence in the power sector.

1.4.2 The primary target group comprised the residents of Bicol who had suffered power
shortages owing to the typhoon. At the time the typhoon struck, about 5 million Bicolanos in
3,359 barangays (out of 3,410) were being served by power from the grid.

1.5    Original Components

1.5.1 The project comprised two components: (i) a restoration subproject comprising of four
packages of investments in equipment and installation to repair typhoon damage to the 230 kV
and 500 kV transmission systems serving the Bicol region; and (ii) a preparedness subproject
that comprised investments in 11 emergency restoration structures (ERS) and consulting services
to assess reinforcement needs of the transmission system, thereby reducing potential damage and
power disruption from future typhoons. The Bank-financed investments covered only supply
and installation of the 118 steel towers and line materials to replace those damaged in the 230 kV
system in Bicol. TransCo financed an additional 7 towers to replace those damaged in the
500 kV transmission system. The preparedness component was undertaken and expanded by the
private concessionaire as a part of its Transmission Development Plan (TDP) in January 1, 2009,
with an estimated value of about US$7.8 billion over the life of the concession.

1.6    Revised Components

1.6.1 There was no major revision of the project components during project implementation.

1.7    Other Significant Changes

1.7.1 There were no significant changes in project design, scope and scale, implementation
arrangements, and funding allocations, except for (i) delays in implementation of Package A
(Naga-Labo) project activities caused by right-of-way (ROW) issues encountered at Tower 196
that necessitated extension of the project closing date by two months to September 30, 2008;
(ii) non-utilization of consulting services and acquisition of the 11 ERS due to the imminent
privatization by way of concession of TransCo, with the new concessionaire better positioned to
strengthen the entire grid and determine the need and location of needed ERS as part of
structured program; and (iii) reconstruction by TransCo of 10 500kV towers instead of 7.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1    Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

Background analysis

2.1.1 At the time of project preparation, the power sector in the Philippines was going through
a major restructuring and privatization process. PSALM, created as part of EPIRA to take
ownership of all NPC generation assets, liabilities, IPP contracts, real estate, and other
disposable assets, would take on NPC's borrower obligations once the transfer of debt and assets

                                                3
was completed as part of the ongoing privatization and reform process. TransCo, in the form of a
private concessionaire, would take over all transmission and sub-transmission activities.

2.1.2 In the transmission sector, the government had thrice unsuccessfully tried to attract
bidders for the TransCo Concession since it was conceived in 2002. The lack of success had
initially been due to the fact that the regulatory framework for the transmission business had not
been finalized, together with the lack of a transferable franchise and perceived inadequacy of
draft transaction documents in addressing investor concerns. The regulatory asset value of the
nation's transmission network was assessed at US$3.2 billion, making the Concession the largest
privatization endeavor for power transmission business in any developing country.

2.1.3 In light of the risk of an untested regulatory regime and the broad country and political
risks perceived by potential investors in the Philippines' power sector, the government requested
the Bank to make a Partial Risk Guarantee (PRG) available for bidders to make the transaction
more financeable. Together with ADB, the Bank offered a PRG up to US$250 million with a
possible tenor of 20-years to all the bidders as an option. The PRG covered country regulatory
and policy risks, and would protect the Concessionaire against the risk of non-payment by
PSALM/government of the termination payment triggered by certain events.

2.1.4 Within this context, PSALM conducted competitive bidding for the award of the TransCo
Concession in November 2007. PSALM received two very competitive proposals on a bid date
in December 2007, whereby bid prices far exceeded the regulatory asset value of the Transco
assets. A consortium of local and foreign investors was selected as the winning bidder with a
US$3.95 billion bid. The concessionaire took over TransCo operations in January 2009.

2.1.5 At the sectoral level, the project was expected to assist in the process of removing
barriers to achieving the objectives of economic growth and social inclusion through
infrastructure development as outlined in the CAS. Further, by financing investments that would
help to preserve the assets of the transmission system, the project would also indirectly support
one of the three main platforms for achieving the CAS objective, a strategy to promote private
sector investment.

Assessment of project design

2.1.7 The project objectives and design were well-defined and responded directly to the
country's priorities in the power sector. More importantly, the project was designed to be highly
responsive in its approach to the emergency nature of the project by placing all design
components within a very tight schedule and a rapidly changing sector institutional context,
applying a high level of retroactive financing, flexible procurement arrangement, rapid bid
evaluation and awards, minimizing loan conditionalities other than those essential to proper
project management, and most notably, coordinating very closely with an implementing agency.

2.1.8 Bid evaluation, awards and project processing. Preliminary discussions with the
government on this emergency support operation started immediately after the November 2006
Typhoon. Given the emergency nature of the situation, it was agreed that TransCo would
proceed with advance contracting of critical restoration packages. At TransCo's request, the


                                                4
Bank reviewed and provided its concurrence on the bidding documents and bid evaluation
reports for three supply and installation contracts in March 2007. Following a reconnaissance
mission in May, 2007, the Government submitted an official request to the Bank to finance the
project including additional components. Based on this request the Bank carried out its project
appraisal in July and proposed to focus the project only on those key restoration components.
Processing delays arose due to three main factors: (i) a long decision process among government
agencies on the scope of IBRD's funding; (ii) the uncertain outcome at that time of the ongoing
sector's privatization efforts and, reflecting that uncertainty, TransCo's uncertainty as to
inclusion of possible preparedness components in the project scope. These were eventually
financed by the government and the private concessionaire; and (iii) delays in presentation to the
Bank's Board due to governance issues on another project. While these factors were beyond the
project team's control, they did not prevent timely implementation in the ground.

2.1.9 Provision of retroactive financing. To partially cover these delays, an eighty percent of
the loan amount was provided as retroactive financing to cover disbursements pre-funded by
TransCo under the three contracts already reviewed and concurred by the Bank. This exception
to the 40 percent retroactive financing limit was allowed under OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to
Crises and Emergencies), and approved in accordance with OP 6.00 (Bank Financing).

2.1.10 Flexibility in procurement arrangements. The procurement of all three contracts that
covered the retroactive disbursements was conducted through National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures, using the Philippines Bidding Document (PBD) for procurement of goods, as
harmonized with the Bank. Under non-emergency conditions, ICB procedures would have been
used to award these contracts. However, the Bank agreed to raise the applicable NCB threshold
for the Philippines so that the contracts could be procured through NCB procedures. This action
was consistent with OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) which provides for
"increased flexibility for simplified procurement methods."

2.1.11 Further, the Bank also agreed to the imposition of the approved budget for the contract
(ABC) as a ceiling on bid prices under those tenders, after the implementing agency concerned,
the National Transmission Company (TransCo) had demonstrated its compliance with the
conditions set by the Bank for accepting that measure. Given that the applicable procurement
method was NCB, which is conducted in accordance with the procurement legislation of the
Philippines, no waiver to the Bank's Procurement Guidelines was required.

2.1.12 Responsiveness to institutional challenge. Project design took into consideration the
added complexity that sector institutions were facing in the transition arrangements under
EPIRA. NPC was the borrower for the project. TransCo, created under EPIRA to assume
NPC's transmission functions, implemented the project as it was the only agency mandated to
assume that responsibility. During project implementation, the transfer of debt and assets to
PSALM was completed. Recognizing that legal arrangements would change during the
transition process, the Loan Agreement between IBRD and NPC was designed to allow an
amendment that would change the borrower from NPC to PSALM and corresponding
amendments and consents obtained from the government and TransCo. Given the emergency
nature of the project and the need for speedy implementation, no financial covenants were
introduced except those related to proper financial management of the project.


                                                5
2.1.13 Facilitation of the privatization process. The formulation of the project was very timely.
The privatization process had been going through some difficulty owing to a succession of failed
bids and there was evident a need to generate confidence among private investors in generation
as much as transmission. The project, together with parallel Bank support in the privatization
process, increased the comfort level to accelerate private sector interest in the privatization
process.

2.1.14 Environmental and social factors were fully addressed in project design. The project was
categorized as B owing to the fact that although the scale of the project was relatively large, it
was not expected to have any significant and irreversible negative impacts on environment,
natural habitats and forest as the transmission towers would be aligned along the existing
transmission line rights of way (ROWs) to reduce intrusion onto private property. The
Environmental Management Plan and Certificate of Non-coverage were promptly issued by the
Department of Environment and Natural Resources because only small-scale and site-specific
impacts were expected from the project. It was established that none of the transmission towers
in the ecologically sensitive Quezon National Park would be affected. The environmental impact
assessment (EIA) and environmental impact and management plan (EIMP) adequately provided
for the mitigation of those minor impacts, and was made readily available to the public on
TransCo's website and library, as well as at its field offices and the Department of Environment
and Natural Resources.

2.1.15 In terms of social impact, the project anticipated the involuntary resettlement of only
47 households (45 houses and 35 structures), whose compensation was managed by TransCo
consistent with Bank safeguards requirements detailed in the Land Acquisition and Resettlement
Plan (LARP). The LARP was developed in full consultation with project-affected persons, with
the final document being readily available in TransCo's central and field offices. There were
some differences between TransCo and landowners on compensation levels that took close
negotiation to resolve, but agreement was reached in a relatively short time with no substantive
impact on project outcomes.

2.1.16 During the resettlement planning process, a review by the National Commission on
Indigenous Peoples (NCIP) of project-affected persons, their properties and location, together
with tenurial documentation covering those properties showed that none of the ancestral domains
in Tiwi or Buhi barangays would be affected by the project. As no indigenous populations were
affected, the Bank's Indigenous People's Policy was not triggered.

Government commitment and stakeholder involvement

2.1.18 The project demonstrated several features that led to successful implementation of the
project: (i) institutional readiness in staff capabilities and resources, especially in a post-typhoon
crisis situation; (iii) recognition of the need to use the project to strengthen private sector
interests that would reduce public sector allocation in the power sector; and (iii) understanding of
a long-term vision in the need for system sustainability with a tower strengthening program.
Stakeholder involvement was demonstrated by (i) close and continuing collaboration among
government, TransCo and the Bank on both sector and project-related issues; and (ii) full


                                                  6
participation of project-affected persons in the resettlement planning and implementation
processes.

2.1.19 TransCo staff was knowledgeable, responsive and proactive in its relationship with the
project processing team -- a critical element given the emergency nature of the project. Project
management training for NPC/TransCo staff, conducted in the United States, had earlier been
provided with Bank financing. TransCo's significant efforts to facilitate project processing were
clearly evident. In February 2007, TransCo notified the Philippines' Energy Regulatory
Commission (ERC) of its intention to apply the Force Majeure provisions in the ERC's
transmission wheeling rules. These rules permitted TransCo to obtain urgently needed funds to
restore the capacity of its damaged transmission lines. TransCo supported its application to ERC
with certification from the Department of Science and Technology that unusually strong
typhoons had caused the damage. Subsequently, both the National Economic and Development
Authority (NEDA) and the Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) supported TransCo's
application in March 2007, on an exceptional basis, so that it could seek funds for the proposed
project.

2.1.20 The need for immediate response to the emergency required full involvement of TransCo
in facilitating the procurement process. TransCo took the initiative in ensuring that Bank
standards were fully applied in project procurement Adopting and applying Bank parameters
ensured that there were no divergences in procurement practices and enabled the Bank process
and implement the project rapidly, as well as providing confidence needed to support the high
level of retroactive financing provided for the project.

2.1.21 The project benefited from active involvement of project-affected persons in the
resettlement planning phase. The LARP followed Bank guidelines in informing all affected
households that compensation would be provided for (i) all properties affected or damaged by
toppled towers and fallen transmission line conductors, including those within the working areas
of the new towers and those affected by stringing works; (ii) properties affected by slight
changes in ROW corridor due to repositioning of some of the towers. Disturbance compensation
was also granted to relocatee-households. During the processing period, information was
provided through consultations that covered all affected persons. Working closely with
landowners and tenants, TransCo was responsive to their demands by agreeing to full and
immediate payment and compensation adjusted for increased land values owing to
improvements.

Risk assessment

2.1.22 The principal risks identified at the time were institutional (inability of Transco to
complete the project on time and within cost), external (the possibility of typhoons during
implementation that would create more damage prior to project completion), and financial (the
possibility of higher costs owing to further typhoon damage; the perception of high levels of
corruption in the country; non-compliance with internal controls; and anomalies in accounts).

2.1.23 The institutional risk was assessed as low given that construction was expected to be well
advanced by the time the loan was approved, and it was considered unlikely that there would be


                                                7
any institutional risks that would affect the progress of the works. Implementation proved that
assumption to be correct for activities that were fully within TransCo's control. The only
exogenous difficulty related to the right-of-way issue and early rainy season that was resolved
with a slight delay in project completion.

2.1.24 The exogenous risk of typhoons that would affect project construction and cause delays
was real and significant, given that construction would take place during the typhoon season.
While it was not possible to predict that there would be no typhoons, risk mitigation was
considered adequate given that TransCo had the capability to temporarily restore power swiftly,
and that the company was studying measures to prevent or minimize future damage in critical
wind zones. The financial risk of higher costs of completion was assessed as moderate with cost
estimates including a 10 percent contingency.

2.1.25 The only relevant country issue at the time was the perceived high corruption in the
country. This was correctly assessed to be of moderate risk since it was mitigated by
involvement of TransCo's internal audit team, and the fact that small number of contract
packages financed by the project were reviewed and cleared by the Bank team.

2.1.26 Internal control anomalies (errors and delays in reconciling accounts and adjusting
balances, and outstanding balances) were recognized as financial risks related to transactions
prior to the reorganization of NPC in 2003. At the time, those issues were being addressed by
NPC/TransCo in coordination with the Commission on Audit (COA) with an internal audit team
intended to include the project in its scope of work, with reviews every calendar semester during
project implementation. The risk was correctly assessed as moderate as TransCo's system of
internal controls was assessed by the Bank and determined to be adequate. A task force formed
from the current internal audit team was assigned to verify, reconcile and record the adjustments.
The accounting risk was correctly assessed as low considering that the project would be
considered as a separate work order under which separate financial reports would be generated.
With that reporting structure, only one location and a few contracts, financial management was
relatively easy in project implementation.

2.2    Implementation

2.2.1 The project was implemented as designed, with only minor variation orders to cover
items not included in the original contract. The project completion date was extended by two
months to September 2008 owing to continued negotiation on some ROW issues, and a
transmission line section that could only be energized after the temporary power supply bypass
by another power restoration activity had closed. The issues were resolved promptly, and did not
affect final outputs or outcomes. Owing to the fast disbursement and short gestation of the
project, only two supervision missions were required, and there was no mid-term review. Project
implementation was facilitated by close and active working arrangements between the Bank and
TransCo. The supervision missions validated progress with visits to all project areas, and
reported adequate progress on all components. On TransCo's side, the number of TransCo-
financed reconstructed 500 kV towers increased from 7 to 10, exceeding the Bank's targets. The
non-utilization of government funds for the 11 ERS had no substantive impact on project
outcomes as it was undertaken by the private concessionaire's TDP.


                                                8
2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

2.3.1 NPC/TransCo has had a fully-staffed monitoring and evaluation group for many years, so
the institutional basis of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system was satisfactory. The
project M&E system selected sound basic indicators to track outputs and outcomes, based on
effectiveness in providing a stable supply of electricity; hence the key indicators related to
responsiveness to maximum demand and reduction in system interruptions. While TransCo was
responsible for overall reporting, the project management groups were responsible for data
collection, data collection instruments and field reports. Reports on contract activities were
produced on a quarterly basis, as were occupational health and safety, demand estimates
monthly, and the System Interruption Severity Index (SISI), produced annually. The SISI, a key
indicator, showed a tremendous improvement in system reliability during typhoons, with
interruptions decreasing from a high of 3,258 MW-minutes/MW in December 2006 (typhoon
Reming) to less than a minute in October 2008 (typhoon Pablo). There were no fatalities reported
during the project period. Although the environmental impacts and management plan required
regular environmental monitoring reports to be produced, there were no significant mitigative
measures recommended owing to the minor impacts ascribed to the project. As the project was
of a restorative nature and completed in a short time, there were no substantive or mid-course
corrections recommended as a consequence of findings by monitoring teams.

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Given that this was an emergency operation in response to a natural disaster, OP/BP 8.00
authorized the Bank to apply rapid response instruments. The overall financial management
system developed for the project was appropriate and satisfactory, reflecting innovative
approaches used for an emergency situation that nonetheless satisfied Bank requirements, with
no deviations or waivers from Bank policies and procedures on financial management and
disbursement. The system had four key features: (i) use of national competitive bidding, subject
to conditions agreed by TransCo; (ii) agreement to the imposition of Approved Budget for the
Contract as a ceiling on bid prices; (iii) fast-track procurement, with Notices of Award and
contract signing within two months of issuance of bid documents; (iv) exemption of eligibility
screening on a highly exceptional basis. The number of contracts was kept small at three
packages. The high level of retroactive financing at 80 percent was justified after careful
assessment of TransCo's contract and financial management capabilities. Although the borrower
was NPC, the Bank, recognizing the ongoing privatization process, agreed with PSALM that the
project would be implemented by TransCo under a project agreement.

2.4.2 The project complied with all Bank applicable safeguards policies on environmental
assessment, natural habitats, indigenous peoples and involuntary resettlement. Given that the
transmission lines were rebuilt within the original ROW, there were only minor construction-
related impacts to consider, with no modification to the natural environment that would need to
be replaced by establishing biodiversity offsets. Project implementation was made more efficient
with TransCo having an Environmental Management Division led by a highly qualified division
manager with an adequately-staffed complement of environmental and social development




                                               9
specialists in its central and field offices. TransCo is also an ISO 140012 certified company, with
its own Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Stewardship Program. The
institution has a fully functioning environmental management system in place.

2.4.3 On resettlement, full compensation was provided to all project-affected households. Of
47 households with 35 dwelling and related structures potentially identified for relocation and
compensation, only 29 structures were actually valued, compensated and relocated in
consultation with displaced persons. Notably, together with current entitlements, payment was
made for outstanding ROW claims that had not been settled since the original construction of the
affected transmission lines.

2.4.4 There were no ancestral domains affected by the project; hence, the Bank's Indigenous
People's Policy was not triggered. The project benefited from Transco's well-established Right
of Way Management and Social Engineering Divisions, which were assigned the responsibility
for resettlement issues and had staff experienced in handling mitigating measures for involuntary
resettlement and issues pertaining to indigenous peoples.

2.5     This project was an integral part of a recovery strategy that focused not only on repair of
the damage to the TransCo system but also on critical reinforcement of transmission
infrastructure in the Bicol region and other typhoon-prone areas in the transmission system,
combined with emergency measures to reduce power outages in the event of further damage
from the typhoon season. The first aspect was dealt with by expeditious restoration of services.
The second aspect requires TransCo to focus on higher levels of preparedness in typhoon
conditions, particularly super typhoons. The Bank supported TransCo in installing towers that
were capable of withstanding wind speeds of 270 km/hr in Zone I for the Bicol-Visayas corridor
and 240 km/hr for other typhoon-prone areas. Given that most of the transmission lines
vulnerable to typhoons can meet wind speeds of only 165-180 km/hr, TransCo has indicated that
it would initiate an overall tower-strengthening program through the new concessionaire,
particularly in the country's critical high-wind zones. The Bank should continue strategic
dialogue with TransCo's new concessionaire, NGCP, on possible opportunities to support
strengthening the transmission and particularly sub-transmission systems in typhoon-prone areas.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1      Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

3.1.1 The project was designed and implemented to directly support sector development efforts
that are top priority in the Philippines today, particularly removing transmission constraints to
increase the reliability and quality of power supply. The project demonstrated how a project can
be designed and implemented to meet these key priorities, particularly as an emergency
operation. The successful experience under the project demonstrates how the Bank, government

2
  ISO 14001 refers to the global environmental management standard that requires organizations to (i) identify and
control the environmental impact of its activities, products or services; (ii) improve its environmental performance
continually; and (iii) implement a systematic approach to setting environmental objectives and targets, to achieving
these and to demonstrating that they have been achieved.


                                                         10
and implementing agency can effectively and efficiently work together in responding to and
recovering from natural calamities.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 The project fully achieved its development objective of supporting the stabilization of
power supply in the Bicol region by replacing electricity transmission steel towers and line
materials damaged by typhoons in 2006. The key project outcome indicators were (i) re-
establishment of the system with capability to deliver an additional 50 GWh of electricity with
the construction of 118 new 230 kV towers; and (ii) improved power system reliability in Bicol,
demonstrated by a reduction in system minutes lost to 10 minutes or less, which was better than
the target of 15 minutes. The output indicator was a restored transmission system installed with
accelerated contracting. To achieve that objective, the project ensured that supply of electricity to
all consumers was restored to pre-typhoon levels. In December 2008, maximum demand in the
region reached 254 MW, exceeding the outcome target of 251 MW set at appraisal. The
replacement of 118 towers that met higher technical specifications fulfilled the project's
objective of meeting additional electricity requirements.

3.2.2 The improvement in Bicol's power system reliability in Bicol attributable to the
reconstruction of the towers was evidenced by a reduction in System Interruption Severity Index
(SISI) minutes lost to below 10 minutes, which exceeded the project target of 15 minutes. In
2006, typhoon Reming, packing maximum sustained wind (MSW) of 195 km/hr and wind gusts
over 230 km/hr caused an outage in Bicol of 3,258 SISI minutes. During the same year, typhoon
Milenyo, packing MSW of 130 km/hr and wind gusts up to 160 km/hr caused an outage of
966 SISI minutes. In June 2008, when only 2 of the 3 Packages financed by the Bank under the
project had been completed, typhoon Frank hit the Bicol region with MSW of 140 km/hr and
wind gusts up to 170 km/hr (similar to the strength of Milenyo). Although not all transmission
lines damaged by past typhoons had been fully restored, outage was reduced to 66 SISI minutes.
After project completion, typhoon Pablo hit Bicol in October 2008. Although Pablo's intensity
(MSW of 65 km/hr and wind gusts of 80 km/hr) was half that of Milenyo, outage was essentially
negligible at 0.22 SISI minutes. Annex 2 provides details of project outputs that reflect the
linkages between the outputs and the positive outcomes described in this section.

3.3    Efficiency

3.3.1 The economic benefit expected to be achieved by the project was the minimized
economic cost of unsupplied energy after replacing existing damaged towers with permanent
structure built to higher standards that would withstand super typhoons. The assumptions were
(i) the probability of a super typhoon similar to Reming in 2006 that caused a two-day blackout
at 200 GWh demand level, with a continued 50 GWh deficit lasting two days; (ii) an economic
cost of supply at about US$5 per GWh, not taking into account revenues lost to TransCo; (iii) the
towers would have a structurally sound life of 20 years; and (iv) the total project cost would be
about US$25 million, including all project components, ROW and resettlement costs, and
contingencies. Using the same methodology, post-project completion analysis shows that the
project would achieve higher economic internal rates of return (EIRRs) of about 16-100 percent,
which were above the appraisal estimates of 12-80 percent. The assumptions for benefits are


                                                 11
conservatively estimated for two reasons: (i) they reflect only the observable loss of economic
benefits resulting from unsupplied energy and do not account for the loss of unobserved benefits
such as the loss of consumer surplus due to suppressed demand; and (ii) the amount of electricity
unsupplied may be on the low side given that major service interruptions could last more than a
few days. Annex 3 provides details of the overall project economic analysis.

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

3.4.1 The project fully met its development objectives. The project directly addressed the
country's immediate power restoration needs, which complemented sectoral long-term priorities,
and was aligned to the Bank's overall country strategy outlined in the CAS. All target outcome
and output indicators were met or exceeded. Although there were delays in project preparation,
delays in project completion of two months did not have a substantive impact on project
outcomes. Commendably, the problems associated with ROW issues and transmission line
linkages were resolved relatively quickly with close attention by TransCo's experienced staff.
The performance indicators showed marked improvement in the transmission system after
project completion. The project was highly efficient, with recalculated rates of return above
appraisal estimates.

3.4.2 The positive demonstration effect of the Bank's support for the power sector at a time of
sector restructuring further justifies the project's overall highly satisfactory rating. There are
three notable dimensions of that demonstration effect: (i) the Bank's ability to work closely with
government, implementing agency and other stakeholders in moments of national crisis without
any dilution of its fiduciary and safeguards requirements; (ii) the Bank's ability to respond
quickly in restoring the damage caused by a natural disaster; and (iii) the level of comfort that
the Bank was able to provide to private sector interests at a time of sector restructuring.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 Bicol is the second poorest region (after the Autonomous Region of Muslim Mindanao)
in the country, with half the population below the poverty line of just over US$200 a year. Given
Bicol's vulnerability to typhoons and its high proportion of poor, there is a high possibility that
many residents run the risk of sliding into deeper poverty after a major disaster. Hence, the need
to have sustainable infrastructure is of great importance in ensuring that a good level of social
and economic development is maintained, and that adequate advantage is taken of commercial
opportunities in key areas such as rice cultivation, abaca production, fisheries and aquaculture,
small and micro-enterprises, tourism, etc. The project provided several economic benefits to the
local populations, including improved electricity supply that had a positive impact on
commercial and agricultural enterprises, and thus employment.




                                                12
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.2 The principal institution involved in the project was TransCo, which was created out of
NPC. TransCo ensured that procurement was accelerated, permits obtained expeditiously, and
implementation prompt. At the time of project design and implementation, the Bank Group was
actively involved in dialogue on power sector reform, the project complemented that
involvement in the preservation of the transmission system's assets during the transition period
prior to planned operation by a private concession. In this period of institutional change,
TransCo was constrained in its ability to raise funds for any new investments.

3.5.3 Overall, institutional responsiveness and adaptability was demonstrated in the short
period of time within which the project was formulated, notably four months to contract awards.
Although project processing took 14 months from project identification, appraisal, negotiation to
board approval, this was due to extenuating circumstances due to a management decision to
withhold Board presentation until governance issues on a transport sector loan to the Philippines
had been resolved.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

3.5.4 There were no other unintended outcomes and impacts caused by the intervention or
project.

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

3.6.1 Beneficiary surveys and stakeholder workshops were not required under the project.
However, close consultations were held with affected persons and civil society groups as part of
the environmental and social safeguards compliance process.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

4.1     Overall, the risks to the project's development outcome were low. The physical risk, that
of vulnerability of the transmission towers to typhoons, especially super typhoons, was mitigated
by the construction of towers to higher technical standards, which also marks the initiation of a
structured tower strengthening program by the new concessionaire that may require further Bank
financing. The financial risks were mitigated by having a reliable transmission system that
ensured steady financial inflows to TransCo. Social risks related to displacement and
resettlement were mitigated by the fact that there were only a few structures to be relocated, and
that agreement on compensation was reached through full consultation and participation of
affected persons. Environmental risks were minor and taken into account in the environmental
management plan. The implementation risks were low owing to the participation of an effective
and experienced institution, TransCo, which collaborated closely with the Bank and adopted its
standards of governance, and the full commitment of the government to the emergency
restoration project. The non-implementation of Component 2 (consultancies and ERS) did not
affect project development outcomes as it was considered that given the pace of the privatization

                                                13
process, the component was better left to the new concessionaire, which intended to develop
preparedness measures and ERS siting throughout the grid.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.1 During the identification and preparation stages, the Bank ensured that the project design
was responsive to borrower requirements and appropriate to the implementation capability of the
implementing agency to enable the project to achieve its development objectives. In spite of
uncertainties on the Governments agencies on the scope of Bank's borrowing, the Bank
responded to the critical restoration demands through accelerated project preparation such as
advance contracting and retroactive financing as per emergency situations. Together with the
simplified procurement methods employed, the Bank ensured that fiduciary arrangements and
controls were adequate. The Bank addressed safeguard concerns suitably with a high degree of
participation and consultation. The Bank recognized that the project was of considerable
importance to ongoing sector reform and privatization efforts, and the need to encourage further
confidence of private sector interests in the privatization process.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.2 Given that the project was fast-disbursing and of short gestation (4 months between
effectiveness and closing), only two supervision missions were required, with no mid-term
review and one Implementation Status Report (ISR) rated S. As the Bank had established a close
working relationship with the implementing agency, it was possible to monitor the
implementation of the project effectively. Particular attention was paid to the performance of the
project management groups (PMGs). The quality of supervision was enhanced with the
participation of specialists in financial management, procurement, environment and social
safeguards. The ICR mission in Ferbuary 2009, was well-staffed and visited all project areas
with representatives from the PMGs.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.3 The Bank's performance was assessed on the basis of (i) achievement of outcomes within
a very tight schedule for both processing and implementation; (ii) quality of project preparation,
which covered not only the degree of collaboration among the Bank, implementing agency and
Government, but also speed and a high degree of analytical rigor in project formulation; and



                                                14
(iii) careful supervision during implementation to ensure that the project met its objectives. The
rating reflects however delays in project processing from identification to Board approval.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.1 The project demonstrated the full commitment and exemplary capability of government
agencies to expedite project formulation, collaborate effectively, and resolve all issues that might
affect Bank financing for the project. Counterpart funds were provided expeditiously,
procurement activities processed with timely approvals, financial management conditions
adhered to, safeguards fully complied with, and Bank guidance sought as required. The
government also provided full support in implementation within a very tight schedule.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies' Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.3 TransCo performed very well as the project implementing agency. TransCo had had
experience in implementing Bank-financed projects. The most relevant past project was the 1995
Bank-financed restoration work on the 500 kV Naga-Tayabas transmission line damaged by civil
unrest, under which TransCo's project management performance was satisfactory. TransCo has
also demonstrated its capabilities in other multilateral-financed projects.

5.2.4 Apart from TransCo's successful implementation of the project, it made commendable
efforts during project preparation that enabled the Bank to provide its full support and lending to
the project, including retroactive financing. Those efforts included (i) close attention to and
coordination with diverse group of government agencies and industry participants that allowed
all legal and procedural requirements to be met noteworthy given that the industry institutions,
including TransCo, were undergoing transformation under the sector's restructuring under
EPIRA; and (ii) timely and close coordination with the Bank during its procurement processes,
including bid tendering, evaluation, and award. During implementation, TransCo's focus on
maintaining the project schedule was strong, especially the resolution of land acquisition issues
associated with the ROW. TransCo diligently controlled the cost of variation orders for items
not originally covered under contract. Cost overruns were significantly below the allowance for
contingencies estimated at appraisal.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.5 Overall borrower performance was rated as satisfactory given achievement of outcomes
within a very tight schedule, from project preparation to implementation. Complementing the
Bank's assistance in developing and implementing the project, the key drivers in achieving


                                                15
project outcomes and successful implementation is the collaborative performance of government
and the implementing agency.

6. Lessons Learned

6.1      While it is a general tenet that project quality is a reflection of project readiness, the need
for strong upstream collaboration becomes even more critical in an emergency project. The
project provides a good example of how borrowers and the Bank can efficiently and effectively
work together to respond to emergency situation, based on a clear assessment of its capacity and
agreed processes, resulted in fast and generally problem-free implementation. There are four
aspects that shaped the success of the project: (i) effective collaboration with a receptive
institution; (ii) Bank flexibility and responsiveness, but applied with careful assessment of
agency capabilities, and clear application of Bank financial and governance requirements;
(iii) effective safeguards management; and (iv) complementarity of Bank assistance with sector
reform processes.

6.2     Close collaboration with a receptive institution: although there was no flexibility in
the choice of TransCo as the implementing agency -- given its clear mandate as being
responsible for transmission assets -- the project team ensured that key institutional abilities
were fully reflected in collaborative arrangements. While the project was under preparation, the
emergency situation required TransCo to initiate procurement processes with the engagement of
a contractor and commencement of civil works, even when Bank funding was not yet in place.
To ensure that the project would qualify for Bank funding, TransCo closely coordinated with
Bank procedures, including adherence to the requirement to obtain No Objection Letters and
waivers from the Bank when necessary. The Bank's due diligence on procurement processes
concluded that TransCo had competent units (Bids and Awards Committee, with a Technical
Working Group) and established procedures responsive to Bank requirements.

6.3     Bank flexibility and responsiveness with careful assessment of agency capabilities,
and clear application of Bank financial requirements. The Bank provided a high level of
retroactive financing, but only after careful assessment of institutional capabilities. The Bank
determined that TransCo had (i) the institutional strength to be able to respond effectively to the
Bank's requirements; and (ii) the capacity to clear all national procedural requirements without
delay. Moreover, the Bank exercised flexibility in procurement and disbursement arrangements
by applying simplified procurement procedures, including application of NCB rather than ICB,
imposition of the Approved Budget as the contract ceiling, and agreement that eligibility
screening would not be applied owing to the impossibility of uploading a complete set of the bid
documentation. Nonetheless, in carrying out due diligence on procurement capabilities, the Bank
did require TransCo to comply with a set of requirements in addition to Philippines Bidding
Documents to ensure compliance with Bank requirements.

6.4      Ensuring appropriate levels of governance: the perception of high levels of corruption
in the country required that the project ensured appropriate levels of governance. At the same
time, it was important to avoid conditionalities that might impede speedy implementation. The
key lesson related to governance is that even in an emergency situation, it is necessary to ensure
early in project processing that accountabilities are clear in the institutional structure, and that


                                                   16
appropriate financial controls are set in place -- all of which predicate successful project
outcomes. The first aspect was addressed through careful review of TransCo's procurement
processes, and determination of flexible arrangements that met Bank standards. The second was
also a result of careful early assessment, but with the recognition that (i) there was a well-staffed
internal audit team that would bring the project within its ambit; and (ii) the Commission on
Audit was working with TransCo to address anomalies in accounts that would be resolved prior
to Bank appraisal of the next potential project with TransCo. Another noteworthy aspect was that
the number of contract packages was kept small.

6.5     Effective upstream safeguards management is important. Land acquisition in any
project often raises complex issues. In an emergency project, the possibility of such issues makes
project implementation more vulnerable to delays and even stoppages. The key to success is that
early in processing, detailed assessments have to be carried out, problems identified, and
solutions developed. It was recognized that the project did need to expedite clearance and
settlement of right-of-way (ROW) issues to avoid any delays. While assessment, consultation,
information dissemination, negotiation, and payments were expedited for the most part, the
legacy of pending claims came up in some cases in which tower occupancy fees had not been
paid during original construction. Pending claims associated with one tower eventually did cause
a delay in project completion of about two months, but this did not have a substantive impact on
overall project implementation. TransCo's range of options in dealing with land acquisition and
ROW issues, from the payment of occupancy fees to full purchase of properties, allowed for
flexibility in resolving problems. Nontheless, there still remain national-level issues in land
valuation techniques, tenurial documentation, and transaction costs in property and land titling
that are beyond the scope of the project, but simplification and careful review of which have
been recommended to acquiring agencies. Overall, the lesson is that even in emergency
situations, resettlement planning cannot be overlooked.

6.6    It is possible, even in emergency situations, to establish effective complementarity
with sector reform processes. By investing in a project even with an ongoing privatization
process, the project helped to strengthen investor confidence in the sector and institutions
associated with the sector -- TransCo (later to become NGCP) and PSALM both benefited from
investment by a major multilateral that has essentially provided a good measure of comfort to
prospective private sector interests.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies (see Annex 7)

7.1    The comments on the draft ICR were obtained from (i) NEDA (representing the
government) in an email that was coursed through NGCP; and (ii) TransCo/NGCP
(the implementing agency). These are attached in Annex 7.

Comments on Issues Raised by the Government

7.2     The issues raised by government on the draft ICR pertained to (i) safeguard compliance;
(ii) achievement of the development objectives; and (iii) project sustainability. All pertinent


                                                 17
issues were considered and included in the report. Two concerns were highlighted. First,
government recommended, as part of the project's lessons learned, that land acquisition issues
should be resolved prior to signing of the loan agreement to prevent delays in project completion
It was also recommended that TransCo, and implementing agencies in general, streamline ROW
acquisition policies, systems and procedures in both emergency and non-emergency operations.

7.3     Second, project sustainability was emphasized, particularly aspects such as operation and
maintenance. It was recognized that the project addressed physical sustainability in constructing
towers to higher specifications that were capable of withstanding super typhoons. As to long-
term sustainability, the project contributed to the government's efforts at asset preservation by
financing a crucial investment and providing the demonstration effect necessary to promote
confidence among private sector investors in the power sector. Confidence was further
strengthened when TransCo was turned over to the new concessionaire, NGCP, on January 15,
2009.

Comments on Issues Raised by the Implementing Agency

7.4     The issues raised by the implementing agency on the draft ICR pertained to (i) risk
assessment; (ii) assessment of government performance; and (iii) the economic analysis. All
pertinent issues were considered and included in the report. The comment on the economic
analysis by the implementing agency was that the total capital cost used in the economic analysis
was higher than the project cost at appraisal. For the purpose of the economic analysis, the
economic and financial costs of capital investments could vary due to shadow prices, taxes and
other factors. Nonetheless, with the higher cost used in the economic analysis, the projected
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) still exceeded the 15 percent minimum government
threshold.

(b) Co-financiers (NA)

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (NA)




                                               18
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                      Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage
                           Components
                                                                 Foreign    Local     Total    Foreign    Local      Total   of Appraisal
Part 1: Restoration of the Bicol Transmission System
  (Transmission Towers and Materials)
  Package A: Naga-Labo 230 kV Transmission Line                    2.94         2.54    5.48      2.94     2.40      5.34         97
  Package B: Tiwi Plant C-Naga 230 kV Transmission Line            2.72         1.76    4.48      2.72     2.16      4.87        109
  Package C: Three 230 kV Transmission Lines
    Tiwi Plant A-Darage
    Naga-Daraga
    Daraga-Bacman                                                 1.77         1.71     3.48     1.77      1.87      3.64        105
  Package D: Seven 500 kV Towers                                  1.00         0.94     1.94     2.55      1.53      4.08        210
    Subtotal Part 1                                               8.43         6.95    15.38     9.99      7.95     17.94        117
Part 2: System Strengthening & Improved Emergency Preparedness
  Package E1: Emergency Restoration Structures (ERS)               1.16         0.53    1.70     0.00      0.09      0.09           5
  Package E2: Consulting Services                                  0.39         0.11    0.50       -         -         -
  Package F: Right-of-Way Costs                                    0.00         0.68    0.68     0.00      0.70      0.70        103
  Package G: Relocation Costs                                      0.00         0.18    0.18     0.00      0.04      0.04         24
    Subtotal Part 2                                                1.55         1.50    3.05     0.00      0.83      0.83         27
    TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                           9.98         8.45   18.43     9.99      8.78     18.77        102
Contingencies (10%)                                                0.99         0.84    1.84       -         -         -          -
Subtoal Project Costs                                             10.98         9.29   20.27     9.99      8.78     18.77         93
Part 2 RVAT (12%)                                                  0.00         0.82    0.82       -         -         -
Part 2 Import Duties                                               0.00         0.48    0.48       -         -         -
    TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                           10.98        10.59   21.57     9.99      8.78     18.77         87
Front-end fee PPF                                                    -            -       -        -         -         -
Front-end fee IBRD                                                   -            -       -        -         -         -
    TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                                      10.98        10.59   21.57     9.99      8.78     18.77         87



(b) Financing (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                     Type of              Appraisal        Actual/Latest      Percentage
                         Source of Funds
                                                                   Cofinancing            Estimate           Estimate        of Appraisal
IBRD (Part 1 A, B, C including taxes and 10% contingencies)                                 12.94              11.71               91
TransCo Own Financing (Part 1 D & Part 2, ROW and Relocation)                                 8.63               7.05              82
   TOTAL FINANCING                                                                          21.57              18.77               87




                                                                          19
Annex 2: Outputs by Component

1.     The key output indicators of the project include the accelerated contracting for the 230
kV towers, with tendering starting in April 2007. Accelerated contracting included targets to
place contracts for all three components (Packages A, B, and C) within three months from
tendering and for the works to be completed 6 months.

2.      Due to the emergency nature of the project, bid tendering was further accelerated and bid
documents were issued on January 29, 2007. Notices of Award and contract signing with the
winning bidder were completed within two months (March 29, 2007). Vis-à-vis completing the
works in six months, there were delays. All three work packages were originally programmed to
be completed by November 27, 2007. Before the Banks loan became effective, the schedules of
the three packages were revised to be completed by January 26, 2008. Two factors accounted for
the short delay in project completion: (i) transmission line sections that could not be de-
energized to make way for repairs since these sections were also being used as bypass for other
power restoration projects; and (ii) ROW issues, particularly those related to pending payments
for earlier acquisition.

The output and intermediate outcome indicators are shown below:

Output Indicators

                                            Bid Tender-Award (Months)
                                                                                Actual/Target
Components                  Appraisal Target               Actual
                                                                                 (In percent)
Package A                           3                          2                      67
Package B                           3                          2                      67
Package C                           3                          2                      67

                                            Work Completion (Months)
                                                                                   Delay
Components                  Appraisal Target               Actual
                                                                                  (Months)
Package A                       1/26/2008                9/30/2008                   8
Package B                       1/26/2008                6/30/2008                   5
Package C                       1/26/2008                4/30/2008                   3

Intermediate Outcome Indicators
                                            Number of Towers
                                                                                Actual/Target
Components                  Appraisal Target               Actual
                                                                                 (In percent)
Package A                          56                          56                    100
Package B                          32                          32                    100
Package C                          30                          30                    100




                                                20
3.      From these project outputs, the following outcomes in system performance improvement
in the Bicol region were realized.

Bicol System Performance during Typhoons

                                       October 2006      December 2006   June 2008   October 2008
   Typhoon Name                          Milenyo            Reming         Frank        Pablo
   Maximum Sustained Wind (kph)            130                195           140           65
   Maximum Wind Gusts (kph)                160                230           170           80
   Bicol System Performance:
   SISI (minutes)                          965.86           3,257.86       66.03          0.22
   Frequency of Tripping per 100 ckm         1.15               0.74        0.60          0.08
   SAIDI                                 7,113.34          26,062.30      186.01          0.65
   SAIFI                                     0.63               1.08        0.61          0.11
   System Availability (%)                  83.39              70.30       99.35        100.00




                                                    21
Annex 3. Economic Analysis

1.      The economic benefit to be achieved by the project is the minimized economic cost of
unsupplied energy after replacing temporary, emergency structures -- incapable of withstanding
high wind speeds -- with permanent structures more resistant to typhoon damage, in order to
prevent further loss of supply that could result from future typhoons. This benefit would be
obtained not only in the Bicol region in Southern Luzon but also in the Northern Luzon area,
because damage to the Southern portion of the transmission system can disrupt the Northern
portion due to the build up of reactive power. Furthermore, the electricity grid that supplies the
Bicol region also forms part of the main 230 kV grid, feeding the main load center in Manila,
and any interruption of this supply could seriously hinder the economy.

2.      The economic analysis was conducted for the completion report on the same basis as at
appraisal, with the exception that the actual project cost, including all project components, right-
of-way and relocation costs, and contingencies is US$18.8 million, as compared to US$21.57
million that was estimated at appraisal. The reduction in actual project cost was mainly caused
by effective cost control and, apart from TransCo's reconstruction of ten 500kV towers instead
of only 7 estimated at appraisal, TransCo did not pursue its own investments in emergency
preparedness, which included procurement of consultant services and the 11 ERS as standby
equipment for future emergencies, because the new concessionaire would soon assume those
tasks under its mandate for maintaining the entire grid. These reductions in investment by
TransCo have no effect on the core investments of the project that would require additional
changes in the assumptions or methodology.

3.      More favorable returns. Comparing the costs and benefits over a period of 20 years,
the estimated economic internal rates of return (EIRRs) are more favorable than appraisal
expectations. With sensitivity analysis considering higher and lower probabilities to the
1 percent probability (from PAGASA) of a destructive typhoon hitting the Bicol region as well
as 50 percent reduction in the assumed economic cost of supply per GWh, the estimated EIRRs
at appraisal ranged 12 ­ 80 percent. After project completion, the EIRRs are now estimated at
16 ­ 100 percent. A comparison of EIRRs, by probability scenario and with lower economic
cost of supply, is shown below:

Summary EIRRs for the Project

                 Capital                                  Net Benefits: EIRR (%)
                  Costs
                  (US$      Scenario 1   (Prob=1%)    Scenario 2    (Prob=0.5%)    Scenario 3   (Prob=1.5%)
                 million)      Low          Base         Low            Base          Low           Base
 Appraisal
 Estimate         21.57       26%          53%            12%           26%          40%           80%
 Actual/Latest
 Estimate         18.8        33%          67%            16%           33%          50%           100%




                                                     22
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
Names                                               Title                         Unit
Lending
Preselyn Abella              Financial Management Specialist                     EAPCO
Edward Daoud                 Senior Finance Officer                              LOAFC
Victor Dato                  Infrastructure Specialist                           EASTE
Christopher J. De Serio      Senior Program Assistant                            EASTE
Demilour Reyes Ignacio       Program Assistant                                   EACPF
John R. Irving               Consultant                                          EASTE
Victoria Florian S. Lazaro   Operations Officer                                  EASSO
Rene SD. Manuel              Senior Procurement Specialist                       EAPCO
Galina Menchikova            Program Assistant                                   EASTE
Gia Mendoza                  Program Assistant                                   EACPF
Jose F. Molina               Sr. Financial Officer/Debt Cap                       BDM
Maya Gabriela Q. Villaluz    Senior Operations Officer                           EASRE
Ferdinand D. Vinuya          E T Consultant                                      EASTE

Supervision/ICR
Preselyn Abella              Financial Management Specialist                     EAPCO
Edward Daoud                 Senior Finance Officer                              LOAFC
Victor Dato                  Infrastructure Specialist                           EASTE
Demilour Reyes Ignacio       Program Assistant                                   EACPF
John R. Irving               Consultant                                          EASTE
Jose R. Escay                Consultant                                          EASTE
Victoria Florian S. Lazaro   Operations Officer                                  EASSO
Rene SD. Manuel              Senior Procurement Specialist                       EAPCO
Galina Menchikova            Program Assistant                                   EASTE
Gia Mendoza                  Program Assistant                                   EACPF
Jose F. Molina               Sr. Financial Officer/Debt Cap                       BDM
Maya Gabriela Q. Villaluz    Senior Operations Officer                           EASRE
Ferdinand D. Vinuya          E T Consultant                                      EASTE

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                               USD Thousands (including travel
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Staff Weeks
                                                               and consultant costs)
Lending
FY07                                            8                        39.57
FY08                                           26                       125.81
  Total:                                       34                       165.38
Supervision/ICR
FY07                                                                      0.00
FY08                                           2                         11.19
FY09                                           4                          0.00
  Total:                                       6                         11.19



                                          23
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

NA




                                      24
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

NA




                                       25
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     There are three sets of comments submitted by the Government (NEDA) and TransCo
(implementing agency) structured as follows:

1.1     Overall Rating. TransCo requested a reconsideration of the "Satisfactory" rating as
reflected. Referring to item 2 Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes, government
commitment and stakeholder involvement, under item 2.1.8, it states that "This project
demonstrated the full commitment and exemplary capability of government to expediently and
cohesively work together during crisis situations which led to the design of the project and
borrowing from the Bank." The statement seems to speak well regarding the government's
performance, thus, why the "Satisfactory" rating only.

1.2     Overall Project Cost. Annex 3 Economic Analysis, under item 2, we suggest to replace
the figure from US$23.5 million to US$21.57 million. Refer to Page 12, Annex 1. Project Cost
and Financing, under column Appraisal Estimate wherein the total financing required as
reflected is US$21.57.

1.3    Lessons Learned and ROW. NEDA recommended to include as lessons learned the
need to have ROW issues sorted out as much as possible in advance of project signing, even in
the event of emergency operations.

1.4     Sustainability. NEDA also suggested to have further elaboration on the Project's
sustainability issues.

Bank Team Response:

The team fully agrees with points 1.2, 1.3, and 1.4 and has incorporated the relevant revisions in
the final text. Concerning point 1.1, the team does feel that the government's commitment was
exemplary but also must recognize that Bank's ICR rating guidelines and standards still dictate a
"satisfactory" rating in this cases such as this.




                                                26
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

NA




                                       27
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report 06/21/2007
Emergency Operation Project Paper No. 40137-PH
Loan Agreement
Mission Aide Memoirs and Management Letters
Quarterly Progress Report No. 3 prepared by TransCo
PCR for Packages A and B prepared by TransCo
PCR for Package C prepared by TransCo
Transmission Development Plan, 2008.




                                            28
