Philippines: Bicol Power Restoration Project
                                                                                                         94126

                                                                                                       April 17, 2012




 Stable Power Supply for Residents of the Bicol Region


Overview
The Bicol Power Restoration Project demonstrates how the World Bank, government, and
implementing agency can work together in responding to and recovering from natural
calamities. Through the project, 5 million residents in 3,359 barangays or villages (out of 3,410)
in the Bicol Region of the Philippines now have a stable power supply that is resilient against
typhoons frequently affecting the region.



Challenge
The Bicol Region, with a population of over 5 million, was hit
                                                                    More Results
by two typhoons with wind speeds over 200 km per hour in
the last quarter of 2006. The blackout resulting from the

                                                                    5
typhoons had a considerable adverse economic impact on
the region. The economic cost of the blackout, excluding
revenue losses to the National Transmission Corporation

                                                                    million
(TransCo), a government agency managing the country’s
power transmission system linking the power plants to the
electric distribution utilities nationwide, and the electricity
                                                                    residents of the Bicol Region
cooperatives, reached more than US$250 million.                     now have stable power supply
                                                                    resilient against typhoons

Bicol is the second poorest region in the Philippines, with
half the population living below the poverty line. Given Bicol’s
vulnerability to typhoons and its high proportion of poor, there
is a high possibility that many residents run the risk of          MORE INFORMATION
sinking into deeper poverty after every major disaster.              Bicol Power Restoration Project
Hence, having a reliable infrastructure is of great importance
                                                                     Country Website
to ensure that the region’s economy continues to thrive and
generate jobs for local residents.                                   Country Overview

                                                                     Country Assistance Strategy
Approach                                                             Data and Statistics
The project provided financing to support the stabilization of
power supply in the Bicol Region by replacing or repairing
critical electricity transmission infrastructure damaged by
typhoons in 2006. The project was designed to be highly
responsive to the emergency nature of the project. All the
work was done within a very tight schedule, applying a high level of flexibility in terms of
procurement as well as minimizing loan conditionalities other than those essential to proper
project management. Because of this, the project was able to provide immediate response for
the residents of Bicol Region by repairing 118 electricity transmission steel towers and line
materials damaged by typhoons Milenyo (international code name Xangsane) and Reming
(Typhoon Durian) in the last quarter of 2006.

Results
The project restored power supply for 5 million residents in the Bicol Region by replacing
electricity transmission steel towers and line materials damaged by typhoons in 2006, with
indicators as follows:



      By the end of 2008, an improved electricity supply system was re-established with the
      construction of 118 new 230 kV towers that delivered an additional 50 GWh of
      unsupplied energy in region.

      Improved power system reliability in Bicol. The System Interruption Severity Index (SISI)
      SISI, a key indicator, showed a tremendous improvement in system reliability during
      typhoons, with interruptions decreasing from a high of 3,258 MW-minutes/MW in
      December 2006 (Typhoon Reming) to less than a minute in October 2008 (Typhoon
      Pablo).

Beneficiaries
The project’s immediate beneficiaries were 5 million residents in the Bicol Region who
benefited from the restoration and increased reliability of power supply after two super-
typhoons hit the country in the last quarter of 2006.
Bank Contribution
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) provided the state-owned
National Power Corporation (NPC) a US$12.94 million loan to finance the restoration of
electricity in the Bicol Region after it was devastated by typhoons in 2006. Given the
emergency nature of the project, approximately 80 percent of the total loan amount (US$10.3
million) was financed retroactively for replacement of towers and associated materials in the
230 kV transmission system, which sustained most of the damage from the typhoons.

Partners
The World Bank provided financing of US$12.94 million, or about 60 percent of the total project
cost, and the implementing agency, the National Transmission Corporation (TransCo)—a
government agency spun-off from the NPC and which manages the country’s power
transmission system linking power plants to electric distribution utilities nationwide—financed
the remaining US$8.67. The successful experience under the project demonstrates how the
Bank, government, and implementing agency can effectively and efficiently work together to
respond to an emergency situation that results in a fast and generally problem-free
implementation.
Toward the Future
The project’s recovery strategy focused not only on repair of the damages to Bicol Region’s
power infrastructure but also further addressed physical sustainability by providing permanent
structures that conformed to higher specifications and are capable of withstanding super
typhoons.
