Moldova: Getting Prepared for Outbreaks of Avian Flu and other zoonozes and Influenza
Infections
                                                                                                        94121
                                                                                                        April 17, 2012




 A Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic
 Preparedness


Synopsis
Aiming to improve the country’s response to managing epidemiological emergencies, the
Moldovan government prepared the ground to reduce their impact by establishing regional
laboratories and sampling stations capable of handling highly pathogenic material, providing
accurate diagnoses, developing inter-sector surveillance systems, importing critically needed
vaccines, and reducing response times to health emergencies.




Challenge                                               MULTIMEDIA
In 2005 outbreaks of the Highly Pathogenic
Avian Influenza (HPAI) surged in several Asian
countries and spread to Europe. Significantly for
Moldova, outbreaks in neighboring Romania and
Ukraine obliged those governments to cull
poultry. Moldova was at risk of the infection
spreading from contact between domestic birds
and migrating waterfowl and the growing cross-
border trade. The impact on the country, whose
poultry division represents 80 percent of the
livestock sector and for which poultry is a
nutrition staple, could have been disastrous.           MORE
At the end of 2005, the World Health                     Slideshow:  Equipping Moldova to Respond to
Organization (WHO) reported that 186 people              Infectious Disease Outbreaks
worldwide contracted HPAI and 105 died. The
infection rate increase led to concerns that the
virus could mutate to favor human-to-human transmission,
producing devastating effects on human health and                      More Results
livelihoods. As one of the poorest countries in the region,
Moldova lacked the necessary financial resources to respond
adequately to a highly probable outbreak, putting at risk
human health and the country’s economy.
                                                                      100%
Approach                                                              during the H1N1 2009 pandemic,
                                                                      a near 100 percent testing
The project was part of the “Global Program for Avian                 accuracy within 48 hours of
                                                                      sample collection was confirmed
Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and               by WHO-accredited laboratories
Response,” which supported several countries through an
Adaptable Program Loan. Since Moldova was a country at
risk, the Bank assisted the Government in preparing this
project in response to a potential crisis. The project
combined short-term investments in basic capacity-building
activities to ensure adequate public awareness, proper
                                                                    2,000
                                                                    patients were hospitalized and
equipment for emergency response teams, sufficient stocks           treated during the 2009
                                                                    pandemic
of vaccines, and the creation of a compensation mechanism
to encourage farmers to report possible outbreaks to limit
contagion. It also included long-term capacity building
measures aimed at the rehabilitation and modernization of          MORE INFORMATION
laboratory and hospital facilities, as well as enhanced
                                                                      Avian Influenza Control &
preparedness—involving sample collection, transport, and              Human Pandemic
testing—to deal with infected patients.                               Preparedness & Response
                                                                      Project (2006 – 2011)
Results                                                               Consolidated Agricultural
                                                                      Projects Management Unit
Key outcomes from September 2006 to May 2011:
                                                                      Ministry of Health of Moldova

                                                                      Ministry of Agriculture and
      An IT surveillance system was developed and                     Food Industry of Moldova
      installed, which strengthened the epidemiological               UNICEF
      surveillance and monitoring capacity in Moldova,
                                                                      Specialized website on AI
      providing real-time information at more than 250
      locations, and establishing six rapid response teams            The World Bank in Moldova
      for outbreak investigations. During the 2009 H1N1               Country Program Snapshot
      pandemic, the system allowed public health officials to
                                                                      RESULTS: Equipping Moldova
      better understand the magnitude and location of
                                                                      to Respond to Infectious
      infection flare-ups, and apply focused response                 Disease Outbreaks
      measures.

      Laboratory infrastructure was renovated, the
      necessary equipment and consumables for risk-based          
      sampling and testing obtained and training to
      laboratory staff provided, thereby improving Moldova’s capacity for diagnosing viral
      diseases in humans and animals, both nationally (at a central virology laboratory in
      Chisinau) and locally (at new regional laboratories in Cahul and Drochia). During the
      2009 pandemic, a near 100 percent testing accuracy within 48 hours of sample
      collection was confirmed by WHO-accredited laboratories.

      The capacity to transport and treat infected patients was enhanced by providing three
      modern ambulances, reconstructing and equipping an intensive care unit in Dr. Toma
      Ciorba Hospital in Chisinau, equipping 40 hospitals with intubation and respiratory
      equipment and medication, and training medical practitioners in the application of
      modern intensive care techniques. As a result, during the 2009 H1N1 pandemic more
      than 2,000 patients were hospitalized and treated.

      The improved general public awareness of the risks of HPAI and other influenza types
      led to behavioral and attitudinal changes. Assessments in 2010 indicated that 90 percent
      of people could identify the main influenza symptoms. Seventy percent of those reached
      by project-supported media interventions reported behavior and attitude changes for at
      least some key prevention practices.

Bank Contribution
The project was supported by International Development Association (IDA) funds of US$9
million, allocated to four components: animal health (US$4 million); human health (US$4
million); awareness and communications (US$1.5 million); and project management (US$1.0
million). IDA was the largest source of funding, amounting to 86 percent off the total project
cost.
Partners
IDA's involvement engendered partnerships which helped bring the country into the
international arena, with improved disease information exchange and the assurance of the
longer-term sustainability of project investments within the framework of overall reforms. The
Government of Japan and the European Union (EU) were partners in cofinancing the project,
contributing Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grants of US$0.5 million and
US$1 million, respectively. WHO deployed three specialists who led in the identification of the
human health component, and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) supported the
public awareness and information campaigns.

Moving Forward
The project-supported improvements in capacity and equipment/facilities can be adapted for
use in non-epidemic/pandemic settings for current public health needs, including testing,
intensive care, and ambulatory treatment of various infectious conditions. As they are not
expensive items to be safeguarded and set aside for emergencies, they are useful assets that
constantly generate public benefits. Laboratories focusing on animal health are playing an
important role in supporting the country’s food safety system and in the facilitation of Moldovan
animal exports to EU markets.

Beneficiaries
Magdalena Spanu, a 10-year-old, comes from a large household that rears chickens, ducks,
geese, rabbits, and pigs. She is proud to help her mother with household chores. She and her
older brother used to feed the poultry and collect the eggs. Sometimes her father would allow
her to help him clean the chicken pen. “I liked playing with little chicken, but since we learned
about avian flu I am not allowed to touch birds. I miss playing with chicken but I understand
this is for my own safety.”

 
