Document of
FILE COPY                          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2088-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A FOURTH
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
May 20, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officlal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



Currency Unit                                    Tunisian Dinar (D)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The
rate used in the appraisal report, which approximates the current rate,
is
US$ 1                      TD  0.425
TD  1                      US$ 2.35
TD  1,000                  US$ 2,350
TD  1,000,000              US$ 2,350,000
Fiscal Year                               January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
BDET      Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
COFITOUR Compagnie Financiere et Touristique
DEGTH     Direction des Etudes et Grands Travaux Hydrauliques
(Ministare de l'Agriculture)
IDA       International Development Association
KfW       Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
OMVVM     Office de la Mise en Valeur de la Vallee de la Medjerda
ONAS      Office Nationale d'Assainaissement
PERT      Project Evaluation and Review Techniques
SOGREAH   Societe Grenobloise d'Etudes et d'Applications Hydrauliques
SONEDE    Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution
des Eaux



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
FOURTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des
Eaux (SONEDE)
Guarantor:          Republic of Tunisia
Amount:             US$21.0 million equivalent
Terms:              17 years including 3-1/2 years grace, with interest at
8.2 percent.
Project             Construction of facilities to meet the potable water needs
Description:       of the governorates of Tunis, Tunis-Sud, Beja, Jendouba,
and Nabeul to the year 1990; and technical assistance.
The four major components are: (i) production facilities
including the Saida dam-reservoir, two pumping stations,
transmission pipelines and a water treatment plant; (ii)
extension of the distribution system in Greater Tunis
-including installation of two primary mains, the expansion
and improvement of the secondary distribution network and
upgrading of booster pumping stations; (iii) the extension
of distribution systems including expansion of the primary
systems, improvement of the secondary distribution networks
and upgrading of storage and booster pumping in Beja,
Medjez-el-Bab, Pont du Fahs, and South Nabeul; (iv) study
to assist SONEDE in developing and adapting its management
structures (including its computer and information systems)
in accordance with the needs of its future expansion. The
proposed loan would finance the total foreign exchange
cost of the production component.
Estimated Cost:     The cost of the project is estimated at $102.9 million,
with the following main components:
This documenl ha a restricted distribution and may be usd by rwcipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank authoriation.



Foreign   Local   Total
------$ Million-------
Production Facilities                                    13.3     15.1    28.4
Distribution System Greater Tunis                        15.9     10.1    26.0
Distribution System Other Areas                           2.6      2.0     4.6
Design and Construction Supervision                       1.1      2.3     3.4
Consultants
Design and Construction Supervision                    0.2       1.2     1.4
Management Information System                          0.2       0.2     0.4
Total Base Cost                                    33.3      30.9    64.2
Physical Contingencies                                   4.7       4.1     8.8
Price Contingencies                                     10.4      19.5    29.9
Total                                              48.4      54.5   102.9
Financing Plan:                                      US$ Million       Percent
Total SONEDE Requirements 1977-82                       422.9          100.0
Sources
Net Cash Generation                                   87.7           20.7
Borrowings
Proposed Bank Loan                                  21.0            5.0
Proceeds Existing Loans and Credit                  14.0            3.3
Other Loan (Kuwait Fund)                            23.4            5.5
Other Proposed Loans                                56.4           13.4
Customers Contributions                              102.8           24.3
Government Equity                                    117.6           27.8
Total Sources                                      422.9          100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                      1978     1979     1980     1981      1982
---------------US$ Million--------------
Annual                  2.0      5.2      5.4      6.3      2.1
Cumulative              2.0      7.2     12.6     18.9     21.0
Procurement         Procurement of equipment and civil works for the production
Arrangements:       facilities is expected to be divided into ten contracts.
International competitive bidding procedures in accordance
with Bank procurement guidelines would be followed for con-
tracts for goods exceeding $150,000 and for civil works
exceeding $450,000. competitive bidding advertised locally
in accordance with SONEDE procedures which are acceptable
would be followed for contracts for goods of less than
$150,000 and for civil works of less than $450,000,



- iii -
totalling not more than $1,500,000. In bid evaluation
domestic manufacturers will receive preference of 15
percent or applicable customs duty, whichever is lower.
Consultants:         480 man-months of consultants services (an average $3,750
per man-month) are foreseen in connection with the project
for: (i) engineering design and construction supervision;
and (ii) a study of SONEDE's management and computer
information systems.
Rate of Return:      8.6 percent.
Appraisal Report:    No. 1532-TUN, dated May 9, 1977






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A FOURTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux with the
guarantee of the Republic of Tunisia, for the equivalent of US$21.0 million
to help finance a fourth water supply project. The loan would have a term of
17 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace, with interest at 8.2 percent per
annum. Additional financing for the project is expected to be provided by
a loan of about $24 million equivalent from the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A special economic mission visited Tunisia in December 1976 to
review the draft Tunisian Fifth Plan, 1977-1981. A special economic report
entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Tunisia, Review of the Fifth
Development Plan, 1977-81" (No. 1539-TUN) was issued on May 2, 1977. Country
data sheets are attached in Annex 1.
3.        Tunisia's development has been hampered by scarcity of natural re-
sources. Much of the country is arid or semi-arid, and agriculture is highly
dependent on rainfall. Minerals are mostly of low quality and, apart from
phosphates, limited in quantity. Relatively small quantities of petroleum
were discovered in the mid-1960's and have since become an increasingly
valuable source of revenue and export earnings. Industrial development has
been handicapped by the small size of the domestic market as well as a lack
of skills and experience. Tourism has developed rapidly and workers' remit-
tances have become a significant item in the balance of payments. Tunisia
has enjoyed a large amount of external aid and used it to expand economic
and social infrastructure, broaden the industrial base, make available a wide
range of social and welfare services to a large part of the population, and
increase the rate of growth. Per capita GNP increased by 4.2 percent annually
from 1961 to 1975. Like most countries, however, Tunisia has not yet found
adequate ways to cope with unemployment and poverty and to achieve a balanced
distribution of consumption among income groups, between urban and rural
areas, and among regions.
4.        Government strategy in the 1960's relied heavily on central plan-
ning of investment and resource allocation, with the public sector playing
a major role in production as well as providing infrastructure and services.
Foreign exchange shortages and concern with inflation led to recourse to a
1/   Substantially identical to Part I of the President's Report (P-2074-TUN,
May 12, 1977) for the Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project.



- 2 -
pervasive system of price determination and controls. An unusually long
series of poor crop years due to shortage of rainfall slowed the growth of
output. Many investments in public enterprises proved to be uneconomic and
private initiative in most sectors except tourism and petroleum was limited.
5.        The Government's present development strategy was introduced in the
early 1970s. Its principal objectives are: (a) accelerating growth based on
export-oriented industries, by encouraging private initiative, reducing direct
Government involvement in production and relaxing administrative regulations;
(b) creating jobs, primarily in the expanding industrial sector, encouraging
worker emigration, reducing population growth and improving education and
training; and (c) maintaining internal and external financial stability. The
1973-76 Fourth Plan set a target rate of GDP growth of 7 percent, providing
for a 5.4 percent growth rate in per capita private consumption. Investment
was projected to increase by 80 percent above the level of the 1969-72 Plan.
National savings were to finance three-quarters of investment. Exports of
goods and services were projected to grow at 8.8 percent per year at constant
prices and imports at 12.2 percent. The Plan foresaw net external capital
inflows increasing by 55 percent over 1969-1972 average levels and providing
23.5 percent of total investment.   Debt service was to be held to below 20
percent of exports. The original Plan targets were conservative in terms of
both growth and savings potential, and have been significantly affected by
the impact of the changed petroleum and phosphate prices on the Tunisian
economy (paras. 9 and 10).
6.        The real growth of GDP has accelerated since 1970, reaching 9.3
percent per annum during 1970-75, compared with 4.6 percent during the pre-
vious decade. The acceleration can be attributed to fortuitous factors such
as good weather, leading to record cereal and olive crops, to important
growth in tourism, petroleum and phosphate revenues and workers' remittances,
and to the general reorientation of Government policy since 1970 which re-
newed self-confidence and initiative in the private sector. Expansion of
manufacturing and phosphate production has been significant. By 1975, per
capita GNP reached $760 (1976 Bank Atlas estimate). Investment remained
high in relation to GDP, 24 percent in 1970-75 compared with 23 percent during
the 1960's. National savings rose sharply from an average of 13.5 percent of
GDP at current prices during the 1960's to 21 percent during 1970-75. Con-
sequently, the share of external borrowing in financing investment dropped
from 44 percent in the 1960's to 11 percent during 1970-75.
7.        Because of price controls and Government subsidies of basic consumer
goods, and prudent fiscal and monetary policies, Tunisia has maintained rela-
tive price stability. Consumer price increases averaged 5.2 percent annually
during 1970-75. The official GDP deflator rose at an average annual rate of
8.0 percent and average investment costs increased by 11.6 percent.
8.        The balance of payments was in overall surplus from 1967 to 1974 and
since late 1973 benefitted greatly from sharply improved terms-of-trade. How-
ever, in 1975 the terms of trade began to deteriorate, the demand for Tunisian
exports sharply decreased, and despite substantial disbursements on external
borrowing, international reserves declined by 11 percent. At the end of 1976,
net reserves amounted to $344 million, equivalent to about 3 months of imports.



- 3 -
9.        Despite the terms-of-trade loss in 1975, Tunisia on balance still
is a beneficiary of the changes in world market prices since late 1973.
Mainly because of sharply higher prices for petroleum, phosphates and olive
oil, export earnings rose from $714 million in 1973 to $1,254 million in 1974
and $1,356 million in 1975. On the other hand, increases in import prices,
combined with higher domestic demand, caused payments on imports to grow from
$782 million in 1973 to $1,242 million in 1974 and to $1,565 million in 1975.
In the medium-term, Tunisia's current account balance is likely to be in-
fluenced by slower economic growth in Western Europe. Taking into account
probable capital inflows through direct investment and external aid, the level
of net reserves is projected to remain equivalent to about 3 months of imports
during 1976-81.
10.       The projected changes in Tunisia's balance of payments position and
in Government savings do not call for a substantial revision in development
strategy. They suggest rather that Tunisia should continue its efforts to
achieve high investment and GDP growth rates. Since workers' emigration to
Europe and Libya is now more limited, the effort to increase investment, par-
ticularly in labor-intensive industry and agriculture, should be increased.
With an adequate savings level and continuing external aid, the Tunisian
economy has the financial resources that should enable it to sustain an
average annual growth rate of between 7 and 8 percent during 1976-81. The
level of future growth would also depend on continuing efforts to stimulate
private investment, to increase the international competitiveness of industry,
and to improve the planning and implementation of public investments.
11.       Tunisia has made impressive social gains.   By 1974, primary school
enrollment had reached 88 percent, and secondary enrollment, 19 percent, of
the relevant age-groups. Public health services have been greatly expanded
with many provided free. A family planning program has been introduced.
Total social expenditures during 1970-75 increased by about 10 percent per
annum and on average accounted for 9 percent of GDP and for 30 percent of
total public expenditures. Nonetheless, major social issues remain. Further
progress is needed in land reform and in creating employment. The unemploy-
ment rate is estimated to have been about 22 percent in the non-agricultural
sectors in 1976; underemployment in the rural sector remains high. There has
been a growing concentration of productive activities in a few urban areas,
especially in Tunis.
12.       So far as can be judged from available data, there has been a gradual
improvement in income distribution. Real incomes increased in all sectors
during the 1960's, yet by a higher percentage in the modern sector than in
the rural sector, due partly to the series of poor harvests. In rural areas
substantial income disparities remain, in part as a result of the structure of
land tenure. In the modern sector, especially in industry, increases in real
incomes in the 1960's exceeded the rise in productivity; the income distribu-
tion trend has favored industrial workers. Thanks especially to the income
redistribution effects of free social services, the proportion of the total
population living in poverty, as defined by the Tunisians (i.e. earning less
than D 70 per capita annually at 1975 prices), was substantially reduced
during the decade. Most of this group continues to live in rural areas.
Since 1970, higher agricultural output, increases in minimum agricultural



- 4 -
wages, tax exemptions for low incomes, the inflow of workers' remittances
from abroad and the stabilization of basic commodity prices through Government
subsidies have improved the absolute, and possibly also the relative, position
of the poorest groups.
13.       During 1970-75, agriculture provided about half of total employ-
ment, 28 percent of merchandise exports and 19 percent of GDP. Food process-
ing accounted for another 3 percent of GDP and over a third of value added in
manufacturing. During this period agricultural production rose substantially,
largely as a result of favorable weather. Large infrastructure investments
were made during the last decade. Current policy emphasizes projects that
make a rapid and direct contribution to production and recognizes various
constraints on agricultural development: absentee ownership, insecurity of
tenure, inadequate access to agricultural credit, inadequate extension ser-
vices, insufficient agricultural education, and underutilization of irrigation
investments. Under the Fourth Plan, about $140 million was allocated to a
rural development program which has been executed by the provincial adminis-
trations.
14.       During the 1960's, manufacturing production in Tunisia increased
by 8 percent annually. There has been a remarkable acceleration of growth in
the 1970's due in part to record years for the olive oil processing industry
and to favorable developments in the textile and chemical industries. The
early thrust of industrialization was supplied by large import substitution
projects in the social sector. These suffered, however, from the limited
domestic market and shortages of experienced staff and management. More
emphasis has been put on export-oriented private industries since 1970.
Under the Fourth Plan, private manufacturing investment, particularly in
food processing, textiles, fertilizers and metals transformation, was ex-
pected to average D 25 million per year, compared with D 12 million in 1972,
and to account for. two-thirds of total investment in manufacturing; these
targets have been exceeded.  Foreign and domestic private investment is now
stimulated by a comprehensive incentive framework, and facilitated by the
streamlined approval procedures of the investment promotion agency. Foreign
investors are expected to contribute know-how and overseas marketing. A new
agreement between Tunisia and the European Community was signed in April 1976.
It provides for duty-free entry into the countries of the Community of nearly
all Tunisian industrial products. The Government has established a special
fund to encourage growth of small industries and industrial decentralization,
and has started a program to establish industrial estates.
15.       The development of tourism in Tunisia is relatively recent.   Foreign-
visitor arrivals reached a level of 780,000 in 1972, with an annual rate of
growth over the period 1961-1972 of 30 percent -- higher than that of any other
Mediterranean country. While 1973 saw a drop in the number of visitor nights,
and 1974 registered another overall drop, therc. was a very strong recovery in
1975, with over one million visitor arrivels. Since 1970, earnings from tourism
have been a major source of foreign exchaiige, having reached $300 million in
1975. The rapid development of tourism in Tunisia has unfortunately been accom-
panied by an inadequate development of infrastructure (particularly recrea-
tional facilities), shortages of trained manpower and inadequate services.
The Government is endeavoring to alleviate these constraints through a variety



-5-
of measures, including revised investment incentives, increased marketing
and training efforts, codes to enforce quality standards and more stringent
zoning laws.
16.       Since the early 1960's Tunisia has obtained relatively large amounts
of official aid. A Consultative Group has provided a forum for aid-coordina-
tion among major donors (see para. 25). During 1970-75, annual loan commit-
ments from public sources averaged $155 million, or about $28 per capita.
About 68 percent of these commitments came from bilateral public sources,
chiefly from France (15 percent), Canada (13 percent), and the Federal Republic
of Germany (10 percent). About 14 percent came from oil-producing countries,
whose share rapidly increased from 8 percent in 1970 to 16 percent in 1975.
Commitments from the Bank Group during 1970-75 accounted for 29 percent of
total public commitments. Most aid has been obtained on concessionary terms:
during 1970-75, the average terms of borrowing from bilateral sources were 3.5
percent interest and 23 years to maturity, including 6 years of grace; from
multilateral sources, they were 6.0 percent interest and 26 years to maturity,
including 5 years of grace. During the same period Tunisia also received
annually some $40 million in grants. Loan commitments from private sources
averaged $32 million a year. Direct foreign private investment has been com-
paratively small, but recently it has picked up momentum following increased
activity in the petroleum sector and new incentives offered to foreign in-
vestors in manufacturing. Thus, net direct foreign investment increased from
$19 million in 1970 to $48 million in 1975.
17.       Tunisia's total public debt outstanding (including undisbursed) in-
creased from $846 million in 1970 to $1,571 million at the end of 1975. The
disbursed portion outstanding at the end of 1975 was $1,071 million, equivalent
to 25 percent of GDP, compared with 40 percent in 1970. Debt service payments
in 1975 were 7.6 percent of export earnings compared with 19.5 percent in 1970.
This significant decline in the debt service ratio was mainly due to the sharp
increase in export earnings following the changes in world market prices in
1973 and 1974; it also reflected Government efforts to change the structure of
Tunisia's foreign debt. In the future, Tunisia will have to continue to rely
heavily on foreign financial assistance in order to reach its development
goals. Tunisia is capable of servicing substantial additional debt, and it is
projected that Tunisia would be able to maintain its debt service at a manage-
able level in the long run.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
18.       Since 1962, Tunisia has received a total of twenty-seven loans and
ten credits amounting respectively to $341.4 million-and $70.1 million, net of
cancellations and refundings. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1977, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. While disbursements of some loans and credits
have been slower than foreseen at appraisal, on the whole project execution
has been satisfactory. In a number of sectors, important institutional
improvements have been achieved and independent agencies have been created or
strengthened.



-6-
19.       The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to (a) increase employment, (b) encourage more balanced growth and
distribution of income among regions and income groups, (c) promote export-
oriented policies and investments, and (d) provide selective support for the
development of infrastructure and for institution building in key public serv-
ices. The main supporting feature of this lending strategy is to encourage
the Tunisian authorities in timely and well-coordinated preparation of proj-
ects, with emphasis on technical assistance. The Bank is also cooperating
with the Government in its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic
and foreign resources, in part through encouraging project cofinancing; the
latter is particularly important in view of the extent of Tunisia's external
resource needs, the large size of many priority projects, and the limited
availability of Bank resources relative to the country's needs.
20.       Within this broad framework, past Bank Group lending has emphasized
support for long-term investments in infrastructure and social development.
Lending for urban and social development, including water supply, education,
family planning and the Tunis urban planning and public transport project has
accounted for 32 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia. Lending for
transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for a further 35
percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 12 percent of total commit-
ments. Industrial and hotel financing through the Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie (BDET) has accounted for 15 percent, and the Gafsa
phosphate development project received 6 percent of total commitments.
21.       In agriculture, Bank involvement, in several sub-sectors, has met
in some cases with success, in others with difficulties. The first agricul-
tural project financed by the Bank Group was the 1967 Cooperative Farms
Project, completed in 1973 after substantial delays and revisions caused by
changes in Government agricultural policy in 1969. The First Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan/Credit 779/263-TUN, $8 million, of 1971) and a 1971
IDA-financed Fisheries Project (Credit 270-TUN, $2 million) for development
of Tunisia's inshore fisheries, are expected to be fully disbursed in 1977
and 1978 respectively. A loan for an Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Loan
1068-TUN, $12.2 million) became effective in September 1975. The Bank has
also attempted to play a more active role in rural development in Tunisia, but
no specific project in this field has as yet materialized. Our experience to
date has, however, served to underline the necessity for very close coordina-
tion and careful preparation of future projects in this difficult but high
priority sphere.
22.       Lending in the current fiscal year and in the period ahead emphasizes
projects promoting agricultural and industrial production, such as the Second
Agricultural Credit Project approved by the Executive Directors in November,
1976, and urban and social development. Complementary to this primary focus,
the program would also finance selected priority infrastructure projects.
Projects under discussion with the authorities include a second fisheries
project, a rural roads project, a seventh development finance company project
including a small industries component, a second sewerage project, a project
for the development and transmission of Tunisia's off-shore gas resources, and
an urban development project.



- 7 -
23.       The Bank Group accounted for about 23 percent of disbursements of
official assistance to Tunisia during 1970-75. The Bank Group's shares in
total debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1975 (including loans
from private sources) and in debt service during 1975 were 15 percent and 14
percent respectively. The Bank Group's share in Tunisia's disbursed external
debt is expected to decrease by 1980 to about 13 percent, and its share in
debt service to about 10 percent.
24.       IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiere et Touristique (COFITOUR, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliere RYM (a large hotel
development) and in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which will produce alumin-
ium fluoride from local fluorspar for export. IFC's most recent investment,
in May 1975, was in the Sousse-Nord integrated tourism development project.
IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total $15.8 million. IFC's Board has ap-
proved the sale of IFC shares in NPK Engrais to the Tunisian Government.
25.       Since 1962 the Bank has chaired a Consultative Group for Tunisia
bringing together the principal donor countries and institutions concerned
with the country's development. The most recent meeting of the Group, held
in Paris in June 1975, welcomed new participants which included Saudi Arabia,
Japan, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development and the Commission
of the European Communities. This year, in lieu of a meeting of the Consulta-
tive Group, a development conference is being organized by the Government in
Tunis in early July 1977.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Water Resources
26.       Tunisia's water resources are scarce.   The high salinity content
of some of the country's surface and groundwater sources, particularly in
the south, makes them unacceptable for potable and even agricultural use.
A Bank-financed study is being carried out by SOGREAH (Societe Grenobloise
d'Etudes et d'Application Hydrauliques) on establishing acceptable levels
of tolerance for mixing brackish waters with fresh sources. The results
have not been conclusive to date. Studies have also been carried out on the
tolerance of crops to various salinity levels of irrigation water. Fresh
surface and groundwater sources are located almost entirely in the northern
part of the country. Surface waters are located'at considerable distances
from the main population centers, Tunis, Sfax and Sousse, along the eastern
coast. Their quality is irregular and their capacity is limited. These
constraints necessitate the construction of impounding dams to increase safe
yields and unusually long transmission pipelines to supply the major urban
areas. With full-development of storage facilities, available resources might
meet potable, industrial and agricultural needs only to the year 2000. After
that, recourse will have to be made to more sophisticated and expensive
methods such as desalination and wastewater recycling.



- 8 -
27.       The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for the overall manage-
ment of Tunisia's water resources. The Government is aware of the limitation
of these resources and has undertaken two major efforts to promote their
rational use. The first is the execution of studies for three water master
plans: in the North, the Center and the South. The Central Tunisia Study is
presently being carried out; that for the South, completed recently, is being
used as a basis for feasibility studies on projects to be financed under the
Fifth Plan. The Northern Tunisia Water Master Plan (see para 28) is the most
advanced and the first stage of works under the Plan is expected to be financed
by lhe Bank (documentation has been distributed recently for Board considera-
tion) and several other sources. The second major effort is the promulgation
of a Water Code to establish priorities, regulate use and strengthen the
conservation of existing resources. The Code provides for the creation of an
advisory National Water Commission as well as water-users associations at the
governorate level.
28.       At the Government's request, the Bank made a technical assistance
grant in 1969 for the preparation of the Water Master Plan for Northern
Tunisia, and acted as Executing Agency for the study. The final results of
the study, which was carried out by Italconsult, were submitted to the Govern-
ment in June 1974; further sensitivity analyses were undertaken in 1975. The
Plan is the most appropriate alternative for meeting national objectives of
increasing agricultural production and contributing to meeting Northern
Tunisia's potable and industrial water requirements to the year 2000. The
Plan would be carried out in two stages: the first, for use of the Medjerda
River waters, would consist of construction of an impounding dam (Sidi Salem),
a 126 km interconnection canal (Medjerda-Cap Bon), irrigation infrastructure
and rehabilitation, and related works; the second stage, expected to be imple-
mented in the 1980's, would involve the development of the Ichkeul Basin, in-
cluding the construction of several small dams, a canal to transmit potable
water to Bizerte and Tunis and further irrigation infrastructure development.
Bank Involvement in Water Supply
29.       In 1966, the Government asked the Bank and the Kingdom of Sweden to
assist in financing potable water supply; with the help of consultants a pro-
gram of works was defined which formed the basis of the 1968-73 National Water
Program. In support of this program a Bank loan (581-TUN) of $15 million and
a Swedish credit of $5 million were made in 1969 to finance a first project
consisting mainly of major supply works for Tunis and the Sahel (eastern
coastal) region, the most densely populated areas. In conjunction with this
project, the Societe Nationale D'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux
(SONEDE) was created to manage the production and distribution of potable
water. SONEDE is an autonomous public company under the authority of the
Ministry of Agriculture and has been the borrower and beneficiary under all
Bank loans/credits in the water supply sector. In 1970, an IDA credit (209-
TUN) of $10.5 million and a second Swedish credit of $3.5 million were granted
for a second project, which included water supply works for the rapidly ex-
panding tourism areas. The two projects, which constituted the bulk of the
works in SONEDE's 1968-73 Program, were successfully implemented and the loan
and credit were closed as of December 31, 1976.



- 9 -
30.       The second project included funds for the preparation of a water
supply improvement project in Sfax, which then became the major component of
a third Bank loan (989-TUN) of $23 million in 1974. The third project also
provided funds for a study of the comparative costs involved in using water
of increasing salinity (see para. 26). The works under the third project
constituted the major components of SONEDE's Fourth Plan (1973-76) investment
program. SONEDE's performance under the first two projects, now completed,
has been satisfactory: the company itself has been significantly strengthened
and water supply services in the project areas have been improved. The third
project is being executed on schedule. SONEDE is also the executing agency
for the water supply component of the Tourism Infrastructure Project (Loan
858-TUN and CrediL 329-TUN) jointly financed with Kreditanstalt fuer
Wiederaufbau (KfW). To complement the water supply works being carried out,
the Bank made a loan in 1975 (1088-TUN) of $28 million for a First Urban
Sewerage Project, to upgrade and extend the sewerage system in the Greater
Tunis District and assist in the establishment of the National Sewerage
Authority, ONAS.
Fifth Plan Sector Program
31.       Tunisia's Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) gives first priority in
the water supply sector to improved and expanded water supply services to the
country's urban areas (over 2,000 inhabitants), which are growing at an annual
average of over 4 percent, with secondary emphasis on supplying villages (500
to 2,000 inhabitants). SONEDE's and the Government's objectives are to serve
by 1990 at least 80 percent of the country's expected total population with a
potable water supply (63 percent are served at present), to provide 85 percent
of the urban population with direct house connections (64 percent served at
present), and to supply an increased number of the country's villages with
running potable water at public taps (77 percent served at present). To help
meet these objectives SONEDE has developed a water supply master plan for
five northern governorates projected to the year 2000. In light of SONEDE's
performance over the past ten years and the Bank's analysis of the past and
future growth of sectoral demand, the company's projections for water sales
and population to be connected appear both reasonable and within SONEDE's
capacity.
32.       SONEDE's investment program during the construction period of the
proposed project (1977-82) foresees total investment requirements of about
$423 million, of which about 23 percent would be to complete works initiated
during the Fourth Plan period. SONEDE's net internal cash generation and
customers' contributions would provide $190.5 million or /!5 percent of total
requirements. Foreign exchange borrowinga (Including $14 million representing
proceerls of. existing loans) would provide $58-.4 million or about 14 percent.
The Government expects to on-lend to SONEDE about $56 million or about 13
percent, representing proceeds from bilateral borrowings, and to provide in
the form of equity contributiori an additional $117.6 million, representing the
balance, about 28 percent of recquirements.  The GovE-s-,,T1ent would. provide an
additional $15.3 million, of which about $6.8 million would be provided under
a Bank loan for the the Sidi Salem Multipurpose project, to finance the reloca-
tion of water mains necerditated by the construction of the Sidi Salem dam-
reservoir.



- 10 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The proposed project was prepared by SONEDE with the assistance of
consultants. The project was first presented to the Bank in March 1976; a
preparation mission visited Tunisia in October 1976 and the project was
appraised in December 1976. Negotiations were held in Washington in April
1977. The Borrower was represented by Mr. Frih, SONEDE's General Manager and
the Guarantor by Mr. Ennaifar of the Ministry of Planning. A report entitled
"Appraisal of a Fourth Water Supply Project in Tunisia" (No. 1532-TUN dated
May 9, 1977) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A
Supplementary Data Sheet is attached as Annex III; a map showing the location
of project components is also attached.
Description and Objectives
34.       The proposed project would encompass the first stage of SONEDE's
water supply master plan and aims to meet the needs of five northern gover-
norates--Beja, Jendouba, Nabeul, Tunis and Tunis Sud--to the year 1990.
Nearly half of the country's urban population (growing at about 4 percent
annually) resides in the project area. The population served would include
about 1 million urban dwellers and about 200,000 rural inhabitants. The
project would consist of works for potable water production and distribution,
and of technical assistance. The first component, the production facilities,
would include construction of a dam-reservoir at Saida, west of Tunis, a treat-
ment plant, two pumping stations and the installation of connecting transmis-
sion pipelines. The second component, which involves the first phase of works
to extend the distribution system in Greater Tunis, includes the installation
of two primary mains, the expansion and improvement of the secondary distri-
bution network, and related works. About 80 percent of the water from the
production component would be used in Greater Tunis. The third component
would include the expansion of the primary system and of the secondary distri-
bution networks, and related works in the cities of Beja, Medjez-el-Bab, Pont
du Fahs and South Nabeul. The fourth component would comprise a study to
assist SONEDE in developing and adapting its management information systems
and computer programs to the needs of the company's projected expansion (see
para. 45).
35.       At the present rate of consumption growth of the five governorates,
averaging 6 percent annually, and without new facilities, demand is expected
to exceed water production by mid-1979. The deficit betweeen 1979 and 1982,
when the proposed project as well as the new Medjerda-Cap Bon canal are ex-
pected to be operational, would be met by drawing water from the existing
Medjerda canal and treating it at an existing plant whose installed capacity
can meet demand to 1982.
36.       In light of the complexity of design of the production component,
SONEDE sought technical and financial assistance from the Bank for the project.
While its financial support of SONEDE continues to decline, the Bank's role in
attracting other sources of financing and in strengthening SONEDE's technical



- 11 -
and management capability becomes increasingly important. The latter role is
particularly important in light of the demnands which will be made on SONEDE to
plan and implement the ever more complex and expensive water supply works
necessitated by the sectoral constraints. The Bank's contribution to SONEDE's
investment programs, which represented 52 perceat of the 1968-72 program and
25 percent of the 1973-76 program, would decrease under the proposed project
to about 5 percent of the company's requirements for investment during the
period of project execution (1977-82).
37.       The proposed project ^-iould allow the Dank's continued though indirect
association with the District of Tunis, created in 1972 to plan and coordinate
the development of Tunisia's largest urban agglomeration. The Bank has been
directly involved with the District under both the Urban Planning and Public
Transport and First Urban Sewerage projects. The District has prepared a
master plan for housing and land development on which SONEDE's design for
the Greater Tunis distribution system was based. The District has indicated
its concurrence with the proposed project. SONEDE and the District would sign
an agreement, no later than December 31, 1977, for the purpose of coordinating
their activities in the execution of the project in Greater Tunis (draft Ludn
Agreement, Section 3.06 and draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.07).
Project Execution
38.       The project would be carried out by SONEDE.   The company s technical
staff is competent to supervise the bulk of construction works; during negotia-
tions an understanding was reached on a PERT program and construction schedule,
which would be updated in light of final design studies. Because of the com-
plex design of the production facilities, engineering consultants acceptable
to the Bank would be retained, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, for periodic supervision of construction of the treatment plant and the
Saida dam-reservoir (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). SONEDE would also
employ experts to carry out annual inspections of the Saida dam to ensure its
continuing structural stability; the first such inspection would be made no
later than July 1983 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.05). Consultants would
be retained under the project to recommend changes in SONEDE's information
systems with a view to the company's future expansion (see para. 45). The
Government has provided assurances that it will expedite the acquisition of
land and rights-of-way for the production and distribution facilities, to be
acquired in 1977 and 1978 respectively (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.03).
39.       The final design of the production facilities and of the distribu-
tion facilities in Greater Tunis would be carried out in 1977; the first
tenders would be called in October 1977. Construction would begin in 1978 and
would be completed at the end of 1981. The project facilities would be opera-
tional by July 1982. To ensure SONEDE's ability to operate the proposed proj-
ect effectively, the Government has provided assurances that all action neces-
sary would be taken to complete the construction of the Sidi Salem dam on the
Medjerda River and a conveyance system linking the dam with the pumping sta-
tion to be constructed under the proposed project, and that SONEDE would be



- 12 -
authorized to draw water from the existing Medjerda canal, and eventually from
the proposed conveyance system, in an amount sufficient to cover the needs of
the project (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.06). Studies to determine
the allocation of and cost recovery charges for the waters to be impounded in
the Sidi Salem reservoir, for agricultural, potable and industrial use, would
be undertaken in the context of the Sidi Salem Multipurpose project.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
40.       The total project cost is estimated at $102.9 million including
physical and price contingencies, of which $49.9 million is for the production
component, $44.8 million for the Greater Tunis distribution system, and $8.2
million for distribution systems in other areas. The foreign exchange com-
ponent of the project, which represents about 47 percent of the total cost, is
estimated at $48.4 million. Project costs include 480 man-months of consultant
services, totalling about $1.8 million (an average of $3,750 per man-month), of
which the Bank loan would finance $1.2 million. Price contingencies on local
construction expenditures have been estimated to increase at 15 percent per
annum to 1980 and 12 percent in 1981. For foreign expenditures, the assumed
per annum rates are 9 percent in 1977, 8 percent in 1978 and 1979, and 7 per-
cent thereafter.
41.       The proposed Bank loan of $21 million would represent about 20 per-
cent of the estimated total project cost and would finance the full foreign
exchange cost of the production component including consultant services for
engineering design and construction supervision. The foreign exchange cost of
the Greater Tunis distribution component, currently estimated at about $23.4
million, is expected to be financed by the Kuwait Fund,which carried out its
appraisal in May 1977. As the timely execution of the Greater Tunis component
would determine the financial viability of the Bank-financed production com-
ponent, the signing of a loan providing SONEDE sufficient foreign exchange to
cover the foreign exchange costs of the Greater Tunis distribution component
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (draft Loan Agree-
ment, Section 7.01). The Bank would have the right to suspend if the other
loan is not effective by March 31, 1978; the two loans would be subject to
cross default (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (c)(i)(A) and (B)). The
total cost of the third component, the distribution systems in other areas,
would be covered by SONEDE and the Government. SONEDE would provide from its
own funds $35.5 million of the total project cost. The Government has agreed
to make available to SONEDE any additional funds required to carry out the
proposed project (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02). These funds are
estimated to amount to about $23 million and would be provided in the form
of equity according to an agreed schedule.
Procurement and Disbursement
42.       For the production component, major civil works and equipment con-
tracts would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding pro-
cedures in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Contracts for



- 13 -
goods and civil works estimated to amount to less than $150,000 and $450,000
respectively, and totalling not more than $1,500,000, would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding locally advertised in accordance with SONEDE's
procedures, which are acceptable. The number and size of contracts to be
placed for the production component would be reviewed with the Bank when final
design studies and cost estimates have been completed. A 15 percent preference
margin or existing customs duties, whichever is lower, would be granted in the
evaluation of bids for equipment manufactured locally. A foreign contractor
is expected to win the bid for construction of the water treatment plant and
supply of equipment for the pumping stations, local contractors for supply of
pipes for the production component.
43.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed for the production com-
ponent against: 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of all direct imports, 39 per-
cent of total expenditures for civil works construction, and 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for consultant services for engineering design and super-
vision of construction. The Bank loan would be disbursed over five years.
Operations and Management of SONEDE
44.       SONEDE employed 2,500 people at the end of 1976; conditions of serv-
ice are satisfactory and salaries competitive. The company employs sufficient
administrative and engineering personnel to meet its requirements of further
expansion; some modifications of the organization structure such as the separa-
tion of administration and finance, and the addition of a commercial department
may be needed in future and can be implemented progressively. SONEDE's provi-
sions for personnel training are sufficient. The company's accounting system
is comprehensive.
45.       SONEDE's information reporting and computer programs could be used
more efficiently to serve as a tool for management decision-making. Provision
has thus been made under the proposed project for consultants to assist the
company in developing and adapting its management reporting mechanisms (in-
cluding its computer programs and information systems) in accordance with the
needs of its future expansion. SONEDE personnel and the consultants would
review and recommend specific remedial action on such elements of the present
systems as standards, the responsibility for preparation, the frequency with
which reports are produced and their ultimate distribution. Assurances have
been obtained that SONEDE would retain consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank to assist the
company in carrying out such a study; a copy would be submitted to the Bank
no later than June 30, 1978 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).
SONEDE's Financial Position
46.       SONEDE's equity capital has been provided by the Government in the
form of assets turned over to SONEDE at its formation in 1968 and by further
contributions to the company's development programs since that time. Over the
past four years the Government's contribution has represented 26 percent of
the company's investment program while SONEDE has financed 46 percent from



- 14 -
internally generated funds and customers contributions. The remaining 28
percent was financed by external lenders. The average return on SONEDE's
net fixed assets in operation, calculated using the covenant agreed under
the Third Water Supply Project (see para 49), was 7.7 percent in 1975 and 6.4
percent in 1976. By the end of 1976, SONEDE had tripled its initial assets.
Financial statements are audited by a locally based independent firm which is
acceptable. Audited financial statements would continue to be submitted not
later than six months after the end of each financial year.
47.       Practically all of the water distributed by SONEDE is metered.    New
customers pay for the cost of the connection, contribute to the capital cost
of the distribution networks and deposit an advance payment covering about
three months of service. SONEDE also levies a Government tax of 4.3 percent
on water sales and a 6.15 percent charge on services rendered. Accounts re-
ceivable from private customers and Government offices presently stand at
an acceptable 2.7 months of sales, while those from municipalities are at 9
months of sales, in an amount of about $1.6 million, of which about $1 million
have been due for more than four months. When water tariffs were raised in
1974, the municipalities' budgets were not increased to compensate for the
difference, leading to increasing arrears. To resolve the matter, it was
agreed during negotiations that the Government would take all steps required,
including annual budget appropriations, to ensure that all national, regional
and municipal authorities would make full payment to SONEDE of all water and
related charges (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02). Thus, beginning
with the 1978 budget SONEDE would receive an advance payment from the munici-
palities representing at least 75 percent of their forecast water consumption,
based on the preceding year, and the balance would be paid to SONEDE not later
than four months after the end of each year. This budgetary prepayment scheme
was applied earlier to Government offices, with good results.     Existing
arrears for the municipalities, which at the end of 1976 represented about
$1.6 million equivalent, would be paid off gradually, according to the follow-
ing schedule: October 31, 1977, $468,000; December 31, 1977, $235,000; April
30, 1978, $936,000. All outstanding water charges, including arrears, up to
June 30, 1977 and not covered by the new mechanism would be settled by June
30, 1978. It is expected that the proposed budgetary system would prevent any
future build-up of overdue payments.
48.       SONEDE's present tariff structure and rates were introduced in 1974
and reflect the rising cost of water production and distribution. Private
consumers pay 68 millimes/m3 for the first 160 m3/year and 90 millimes for
consumption in excess of that. This benefits the small, low-income consumer
and penalizes excessive consumption. The rate to industry is 70 millimes/m3
and to tourism 150 millimes/m3, the latter reflecting the high cost of meeting
peak demand in tourism areas. These rates should be sufficient to allow
SONEDE to meet to the end of 1977 the 6 percent rate of return covenant which
was agreed under the third water supply project (see para 49). Periodic
adjustment of these rates would be needed after that, however, to take into
account inflationary pressures on operating costs. In addition, SONEDE's tax
exempt status, which is expected to be renewed shortly for a third and final
time, will expire at the end of 1982 and financial projections assume that
the company will be required to pay corporate income taxes from 1983. lo



- 15 -
comply with the rate of return covenant, it is estimated that the average rate
per m3 would be 96 millimes in 1978, increasing to 132 millimes in 1980 and to
160 millimes in 1982.
49.       Under the third project, it was agreed that SONEDE's rate of return
would be calculated using a rate base which excluded the net value of fixed
assets in operation in villages of population of under 2,000 and the net value
of new domestic connections and related extensions financed by SONEDE loans
after January 1, 1974. It has been agreed under the present project that
to conform to current practice for public utilities in Tunisia under existing
Bank loans, effective January 1, 1978, the base for the rate of return calcula-
tion would be changed to exclude the net value of assets in villages of less
than 2,000 population and the average value of customer contributions. In
view of the resulting lower asset base, the required rate of return would be
increased from 6 percent to 7.5 percent to ensure that SONEDE's overall
financial performance would remain substantially the same as that projected
under the former covenant (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.05(a) to (d)).
SONEDE should encounter no difficulty in maintaining a 7.5 percent rate of
return by adjustments of its tariffs along the lines indicated in para. 48
above.
50.       The financial projections suggest that SONEDE's debt service cover-
age is not expected to drop below 2.7.   The existing commitment to obtaiL Bank
approval before incurring any long term debt unless net income is at least 1.5
times the maximum debt service in any future year has been reaffirmed (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 5.04). Agreement was reached during negotiations that
SONEDE would review and submit to the Bank, by December 31, 1977, a system
of key indicators and targets prepared by the Bank pertaining to the company's
technical, financial and administrative performance. The evolution of these
monitoring indicators would be reported to the Bank by SONEDE quarterly during
project execution and annually thereafter for five years (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.04(a)).
Benefits and Risks
51.       About 37 percent of the country's total population and over 45 per-
cent of its urban dwellers live in the project area. The water supply situa-
tion in this area is critical. At present, direct connections are insthlled
in only 20 percent of houses in Nabeul, 18 percent in Beja and Tunis Sud and
12 percent in Jendouba. In addition, existing production facilities can
assure sufficient supply only to 1979. The proposed project would help SONEDE
meet its objectives for- 1990 of increasing the population served with direct
house connections to 87 percent in Greater Tunis (about 75 percent at present),
85 percent in Beja, Jendouba and Tunis Sud, and 75 percent in Nabeul. As a
result of the installation of piped water supply systems, the sanitary condi-
tions in these areas would be substantially improved. Provision of a large
number of house connections would enhance living conditions, promote a better
environment and improve public health. Further development of industry and
tourism in the five governorates is also dependent on an adequate water supply.
Although the project would result in an increase in wastewaters, there is no
immediate need for sewage treatment in the project area beyond the works being
carried out in Greater Tunis under the First Urban Sewerage Project (Loan
1088-TUN).



- 16 -
52.       The proposed project is the least cost alternative for meeting water
supply needs in the project area. The estimated financial rate of return is
8.6 percent; were such benefits as health and environmental improvement quan-
tifiable, the economic return would certainly be even higher. The return on
the proposed investments is sensitive to the level of water sales, less sensi-
tive to increased capital costs. Under the most pessimistic assumptions, a 20
percent decrease in water sales combined with a 20 percent increase in cost,
the return would decrease to 4 percent which, given the social nature of the
project, would still be acceptable. It is more likely that water sales would
exceed rather than fall short of projections. The proposed project will permit
continuing support for SONEDE and assistance in strengthening its technical
capability and improving its management's decision-making process. With close
monitoring of project progress and the assistance of consultants to supervise
construction and to update the company's information and computer systems in
line with future expansion, SONEDE should be able to carry out its program and
the project on schedule with minimum risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Societe Nationale
d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Republic of Tunisia and the Bank, the Report of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the
text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. The agreements conform to the usual
pattern for Loans for Water Supply Projects. Features of the loan of partic-
ular interest are discussed in paragraphs 37, 38, 39, 41, 45, 47, 49 and 50.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
A special condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan is the signature
of another loan providing SONEDE sufficient funds to cover the foreign ex-
change cost of the Greater Tunis distribution system.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 20, 1977



U                                                                                                  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-U                                                                                          C~~~~~~~A
X- 
40 a  a w I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0 0 -0'0          N                'N
-  U-                                                                                          -  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o-c 
5-.  U                                                                                               C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  7 nV  
LA  0 UO  4  00~ ~~~ -0  ONIP  N,O  0  03 -0   Ca                 70    00  0-00                         o o 'M
hi  CCC  0  NN  05.400                                  .0N  0S         ON  -  N              5  0  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ciC, 
3c        a          O                 C                                                    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
o  ..i  cc  vie .t-r  -  .  .  cow,  cc  *  000~~ ~   ~~~~ ~~ . W~  000  00  0  0  0*,  Ico
* U  C UO  Iii  cUi  t-t-  cUSS:-  WC -S  o   54                   000    In  UiZ NSA  N  Ei              ctt -n.ea
mU   C                                                                                                          U~~~~~~awa M 
hi.                                                                                                 U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8.0X I:n
a              ma ' I C  -X C,C I               IUaa                                                   j       n .
dUJU  U. CCI   USt  41U            00             54.                  OUU4 0           N     r               r-
s-C U  U-S Ut-       N     C                     10Cc                                     N  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX I
page 2 of 4 pages
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betw,een 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Moat Secant Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
* Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than the rate of natural increase.
G* reece has been selected as an objective country, on the basie of the size of its population, mediterranean grographical situation and5 its economy,
which presents soca sinilarity with Tuniaia'e with respect to national resources, market saxa, agricultural and services activities.
TUNISIA     1960    /a  1936;     lb  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;        Lc  1963;     /d  1962, including rural hospitala.
1970    /a   1956-66;    lb  1966;     /i Ratio of population unLder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;        Ld   Covering 4.5 nillion hectares
of private l7and, excluding 0.8 million hectares in public ownership, and 2.1 million hectares of collective land;          /e  Personnel
in government services only;      If  Governmcent hospital establishmei.te only;    LI   1964-66;     /h  Registered only.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:         1966-75;    /b  Ratio of population under 13 and 65 and over to total labor force;         Li  Including dentists;
d   1972;    /a   Personnel in goverront servicea only;       j,f  Governmnt hospital esiablialesnts;       La  1969-71 average.
JORDAN      1970    I a  East Sank only;    /b   Ratio of population under 13 and 65 and over to total labor force;        Li  1964-66;     /d  1966;    Le   Including
UIOfA schools.
IRA         1970    La  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;        /b   1964-66.
GREECE      1970    Ia  Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than the rate of natural increase;          /b  1967.
R12, May 5, 1977
DEPINMTOgE OF SOCIAL IDMICATORS
Lend Area (thou ke2)                                                                   Posul:tion or nursing person - population divided by eu,aber of practicing
To2tal - Total surface area comprinins land are  and inland waters.                      eaeed femle graduate cnurse, 'trained      or "eatified" nurses, end
Astric. - Most recent estimate of agricultural area usd temporarily or Forms-            auxiltary personnel. itb traiming or axperience.
costly for crops, pastures, market &, kitchen gardena or to lie fallow               population Per hospital bad - Peplstiton divided by number of heepita1 beds
"avalable in public and privete genera and specialised hospit.1 and
GNP ear capita (US01 - ON?P per caPita -stimatee at current market pri.sa,               rehabilitation centers; secludes nuring homs and entblislment     for
calculated by pane conversion method so World Beak Atlas (1973-75 basis);              custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                            Per capita supply of calories Cl of requirmsenste) - Coput.ed frem eaergy
equivalent of Met food supplie, a-ilable in .-mtry par ..pic. Per day;
PocPla-mon, and vitai otati.ti.!                                                         available euppliea conp,is- don-stic prodoction, importa lees exports, end
PoPulation (mid-year million)   Aam of July first:  if Oct -vil.bla, avraes              changes in stock; net supplies e..clude animal feed, seda, quatities need
of two end-year e-timete.; 1160, 1970 eand 1975 dota.                                  is food processing and looses in distribution; requireosets were, estimated
by FAD based on physiological needs for normal activitY and health consid-
Pogulation density   peor square km - Mid-year population per square kilometer           ering envirormental temperature, body weighta, age and sex distributions of
(100 hettares) of totsl area,                                                          population, end allowing 101 for  ests at bh--hold leve.
Population densia,   Pare squara, k. of agri.. laud - tmputed as above for             Per topics sup-l of ertein (eram per day) - Protein centent of Par caPita
agricultural lend only.                                                                net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as above: require-
mania for all countries established by USDA Econoin gesearab Services
vital statiatico                                                                         Provide for a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate per thousand, average - Annual live births per thousand of               20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grm  sbould be animal
mid-year Population; ten.year aritheetic avrages ending in 1960 and 1970,               protein; thee. standarda ar  lower than thoos of 75 grtw  of total protein
end fiv-yea   average ending in 1975 f or most recent estimate,                        and 23 goS-   of anmlprotein aso an average f or the world, proposed by_ FAD
Crude death rate per thouisand. av ...it - Annual deaths per thousand of aid-year         in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year aritlusetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-           For capita protein supply frno animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                                   derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.
Infant mortality rate f/thou) -Annual deaths of infants under one year of age          Death rate (/thou) astes 1-4 - Annual deatho Per thousnd in age group 1i4
per thousand live births.                                                              yerars, to children in this age group; .Snggeted as an indicator of
Life -e,petancy at birth (yra.)  Averge nmabar of years of life reaining at              malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averageo ending ia 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                       Education
Grs reproduction rate - qveroge    -baer of lIve daughters o woman will hear            Adjusted enrollment ratio - primar  school - Enrollment of all agSM as Far-
is her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific               centgs of Primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 yerar
fertility rates; usualy five-year avrgsending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but sd3ustd far different lengths of primar   education; far countries with
for developing countriese.                                                             universal education, enrollmnt may ecasd loot since soo    Pupils are balow
Population arouth rate Cl) - total - Co,mponad annual growth -ates of sid-year            or ahovs the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                          Adiusted enrollment ratio - secodary school - Casputed as above; secondary
Population growth rate (%) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                   education requires at least fou  years of approved primary inetruction;
population; different definitiona of urban area  may affect comparsbility of            Provides genra, voctional. or teether training ietruction     for pupils
data samng countries,                                                                   of 12 to 17 years of age; correapondenc.e corses are generally excluded.
Urken population (% of total) - Satin of urban to total population; different           Year of sehoILx   iried (first end secon      levels) - Total year of
definitions of urban areas may affect com parability of data among countries.           acbsoling;  t sec aWy lane1, vocational instruction may he pertielly or
copletely excluded.
Am structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),             Vocational enrollment Cl of secondary) - Vocational inatitutions inclde
and retired (65 years and ovr) as percetagea of mid-year population.                    techeical, industrial or other Programs which operate independently or a
AA. dependency ratio - Ratio of pop.lation under 15 and 65 and ovcr to thoae              depa~m.nna   of secondary institutiona.
of ages 15 throgh 64.                                                                 Adult lIter-cy rate (l) - Literate adults (able to red and write) as per-
ftconic dependency ratio - Satin of population under 15 end 65 and over to                centage of total adult population aged 15 years end over.
the labor force in age fr-up of 15-64 years.
Family Planning-acceptors (-lncitiva . thou) - Cuoulative .-ousr of acce ptors           m ij5n1g
of birth-control device  under ..uopicec of national family Planting program          Persons, par rome (urban) - Average nushr of persona per room in occupied
since inception,                                                                        conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings mexlude non-peramaent
Family p1annini - users Cl of married w-cn) - Perentagen of married woman of              atructures and unoccupied parta.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to all married          Occupied dwellig.x  without piped water Cl) - Occupied conventional dwellings
amove  i, sam  age group.                                                               in urban end rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
as percntage of all occupied dwellings.
ftployment                                                                              Access tO electricity Cl of all dwellinga) - Conetiona   dwellings with
Total lnbor force (thousan.d) - icononicaily active Persns, including aarmed              electricity In living quarters as Percent of total dwellings is urban and
forcao and unemployed hut e..cluding ho-oeive-, atdent, etc.; definitions              ruralaras
in  aroc  countries are not Comparable.                                           Sursl dwlliig   coennetd to electricity (%) - Computed as above for toral
Labo force in arculture Cl) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,           dwlig     ony
bunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor forc..
Usamployed (% of Iebor force)  U- Ueployed are usually defined aso persons who          Causaption
are able and willing to take ajob, out of a job on a given day, remained out         Radio receivers (per thou sop) - All typac of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a Job, and seeking work f or a specified minimum period not exceeding one            to general public per tosaand of population; excludes -lice-aed receivers
week; may sot be conparable betwee n counrriea due to different definitions             in countries and In years when registration of radio sets -as in effect;
of uneployed and asrce of data, e.g., employmet office statistics, sample              data for recent years, may not he comper-ble since eat coutries abolishad
aurveys, conpulsory unemploymest insur-ce..                                             licensing.
Pass-meer cars (per the,, pop) - Passeger cars ecmprise .otor car  seating
Incoms distribution - Perceontge of private income (both in cash and kind)               lees then eight Person; sec lodes ombulance, hearses and military
received by richest 51, richest 201, poorest 201, and poorest 401 of hous-             vehicles.
holds.                                                                               Ele-tricity fbkh/yr per cap) - Amouel consmption of industrial. coasreisl,
public man private electricity in kilowatt hour per capita, generally
Distribution of leand ownership - Percentageo of land owned by wealthiest 101            based on production data, without allowanc  for lases In grids hot slim-
and poorest 101 of land owners,                                                         Log far imports and exports of elentricity.
Newsprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita armua ca,suption in kilograms
H-sith and Nutrition                                                                     estimated fron domestic production plus net Imports af newsprint.
Population per physician - Population divided by numer of Practicing
physicians qualified fron a ndical school or university leve.



TUJNISIA - ECONOMIC DEVELO0PMENT DATA NSRELT
Actual                    Eat.               Pro leeted 'I1965-                     1970-       1976-
1965        1970        1975         1976        1977       1978       1981        1970        1975-       1981          1976
Dinears Millions at Cons.teant 1972 Prices                       Ave..R.a Ac-u1 Growth Rate       Share of CDP
A.    NATIONiL ACCOUNTS
Grasa Dometic Product                                   656          824       1,286       1,444       1,527      1,655      2,084         4.7         9.3          7.6         100.0
Grates from Terma of Trade                                -6          -2          53          39          36          36         60         ...2.9
Gross Dometic lo-m                                      650          822       1,339       1,483       1,563      1,691      2,144         4.8        10.3          7.6         102.9
Inpurts (C and EFS)                                     179          221         384         409         433        467         373        4.3        11.7          7.0          27.5
REports (C and NGS) (Import capacity)                    105         183         333         339        .369         361        468       11.7        12.7          9.3          22.5
Resorc    Cap                                             74          38          51          70          64          70         75         ...3.6
Co...uoptloo                                             549         696       1,061       1,191       1,280       1,395      1,759        4.9         8.8          8.1          84.4
Inve.nmeot                                              162          164         330         362         346        366        430         0.2        15.0         3.5           20.6
Domstic Savings                                           88         126         278         282         283         296        385        7.4        17.1         3.7           18.5
Notional SavisRe                                          67         104         274         280         268         276        347        9.2        21.4         4.4           16.7
COP at correct prices CUSS millions)                  1,004        1,444      4,324        4,782       5,456      6,359      9,899         7.5        25.0        15.7
N.    SECTOR OUTPUT                                                       Share to CUP at Constant 1972 Prices in Percant                      Average Annul Groth Rate
Agriculture                                               22.1        20.4        21.0        21.5         19.4       19.2       17.7       -         10.3          3.5
Gedustry                                                 22.8         24.9        23.4        25.2        26.6        27.4       30.3      6.3        10.1        11.6
Services                                                  55.1        54.7        53.6        53.3      I54,0         53.4       52.1      5.8        12.3          7.1
C.    MERCHALNDISE TRADE                                                              Millions of US Dollara                                   Average Annua    Croth Rate
Ecpurt to
01lir Oil                                                 26          17          78          82           58         60         70       -9.0        36.0        -3.2
Crude Petrolesm                                           -           45         359         296         361        433         294         .         52.0           -
Refined Petroleom                                         -            5          13          16           16         19        266         .         23.0         75. 0
Phosphace Rock                                            22          24         113          75          OR          64        101        1.7        37.0         6.1
Phouphate Derivates                                       i8          17          80          92         139         159       437        -1.2        36.0        36.5
Agriculturl Products                                      32          40          92          85          93         ill        180        4.6        18.1        16.2
Teotilee                                                   2           2          53          90         105         141        354         -         93.0        32.0
Other Maeofsctured Coeds                                  21          38          67          70          96         118        184       12.6        12.0        21.0
Total Coods                                              121         188         859         806         928      1,107      1,886         9.2        35.5        18.5
Son Pactor OS.ivcee                                       68          67         497         319         638        742      .1&12        -0.4        49.0        16.0
Total toperts                                     169         255       1,336       1,323        1,566      1,849      3,015        6.2        40.0         17.9
Seports (elf)
Pood.tuffa                                                34          80         223         188         225         307        503       18.7        23.0        22.0
Other Consumer Coods                                      42          41         218         217         262         309        481       -0.3        40.0        17.3
Energy                                                    11          13         140         139         13          16         18         3.         600         -3
Setermedtate Goods                        ~~~        ~~~     ~~88  113  411    410         489        583        981        3.1         29.5        19.0
Capital Coeds                                             77          73         430         489         515        586        847        -1.1        43.0        11.6
Total Coeds                                              252         320       1,424       1,443       1,646      1,954      2,930         4.9        33.0        15.2
Other NPS                                                 68          61         141         158         190        222         345       -2.2        18.2        16.9
Total Goods sod NPS                                     320          381       1,565       1,601       1,836      2,176      3,273         3.6        32.5        13.4
S.    PRICES                                                                               1972 * 100                                          Average Assu..l Growth Note
Eoport price iodeu                                        75.3        89.7       194.9       189.6       201.8       219.8      276.6      3.5        16.8         7.9
Inport price indro                                       83.8         90.7       164.1       167.9       182.0      200.0      243.2       1.1        12.6         7.9
Term   of trade indec                                     88.0        98.9       118.8       112.9       110.9       109.9      113.8      2.4         3.7           -
CUP deflator                                              70.7        92.0       133.2       142.0       153.4       164.3      203.9      3.4         8.0         7.3
Average aechange rate (TS per 9)                           0.325       0.323       0.402       0.429        0.429      0.429      0.429     -          5.5           -
E.    PUBLIC, PENANCE                                     Is pecan..t of COP at Current Prices                 P.  DETAIL ON GOV'T              Go percent of Total
1963     1970     1975     1976                       SECTOR GNVESTMENT            -1968-71      1972-71
Current Revenue                                        19.6     21.8     24.4     22.7 
Current Enpeodit-r                                      13.0    17.9     18.0     18.0                        Social Sectors                 10.6          15.6
Current Surplus (Central GovIt)                          4.0     3.9      6.4      4.8                        Agriculture                    23.8         13.0
Other Govt Sector SavIngs                                0.9    -0.3      0.6      0.3                        Transp. ort and
Co,meuotistt                  12.2          15.5
Central Cove Iovnscment                                  7.5     3.9      4.0      4.6                        Gnrsccuc16.0                                16.4
Total Govt lovesotrt 3/                                 11.7     8.1      8.2      8.7                        Other2                         29.4         39.3
C.    DETAIL ON CURRENT EXPENITURE                                 In Percent of TotalTt1                                                          -o          10.
(CENTRAL GOV'T)                                        1965     1970     1975     1976 2/                    Financing
Ed-rtien                                               23.7     32.1     22.3     26.3                        Pulite  Sector Sovings         29.9         59.2
Other Social Serviess                                   13.3    16.7     11.1     13.1                       Other Fio..o.to8                15.1         20.8
Agriculture                                              3.5      3.4     5.4      7.2                        Dometic Dorrowing (net)         1.8         -2.1
Other Economic Services                                17.7     17.7     16.2     14.5                        Poreign Borrowing (net)        32.8         22.1
Adnicistration and Defence                             36.1     30.1     45.0     38.9                        Tutal Financing               100.0        100.0
1O00.0   1-0-0.0  10-0.0   100.0
N.   IArR X9RCE  thoiosf d.).     1972         1976
Agriculture -                 760           764
Industry                      300          440
Services                      345          413
Unemployed                    279          264
1,684        1,881
1/  Projected by bolod Dock StaffEEN                                                                                                             CPG
2/   Dudget                                                                                                                               MEAy 1977   I
3/   locludes transfers to Public enterprisesMy                                                                                                 97
-4/ Residual



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TUNISIA - BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Amounts in millions of US dollars) TT
Actual                                  Eat.                         Projected 1
1970       1971       1972       1973       1974       1975       1-97-6     1977       1978       1979       1980       1981
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (cine. NFS)                           316         408        567        714      1,254      1,356     1,325       1,566     1,649      2,138      2,546      3,015
Imports (inc. NFS)                            381        442        593         782      1,242      1.565    1t601       1.836      2.176      2.526      2,882      3.274
Resource Balance                              -65         -34        -26        -68         12       -209      -276        -270      -327       -388       -336       -259
Net Interest Payments                         -50         -18        -18        -13          2         -5       -42        -50        -65         -86      -114       -140
of which: interest on Public Loans          (-17)      (-20)      (-22)      (-27)      (-31)      (-37)      (-40)      (-48)      (-69)      (-94)     (-126)     (-157)
Direct Investment Income                        -9        -10        -25        -35       -36        -37        -35         -47       -58         -70        -81       -93
Workers' Remittances                            29         44         62         98        119        146        135        142        149        156        164        172
Other Net Factor Services                      -8         -39        -41        -82       -103       -116      -107        -118      -130        -143       -157       -173
Currant Transfers (net)                        10          16          6          4          1         -3          2          7          7          7          7          7
Balance on Current Account                    -93         -41        -42        -96        -5        -224      -323       -336       -424        -524      -517       -486
Private Direct Investment                       19         24         31         57        49          48         63         75         86        110        121        133
Official Capital Grants                        43          35         37         45         43         50         42        45         40          40         40         38
Public M + IT Loans:
Disbursements                               82         107        140        153        174       211        285        407        470         590       622         661
-  Amortization                               -45         -49        -70        -59        -59       -66         -70        -73       -87       -128       -177       - 248
Net Disbursemvents                          37          58         70         94       T115-       145       2i1-5      T334        383       46_2       445         413
Capital Transactions n.e.i. 3/                  13         24        -19         -8        -99       -62           3         -3         -          -          -          -
Change in Net Reserves (increase - )          -19        -100        -77        -92       -103        43          -        -115        -85       - 88       -89        -98
Net Foreign Reserves                           15         115        192        284        387        344       344         459        544        632        721        819
(months of imports equivalent)                0.5        3.1        3.9        4.4        3.7        2.6        2.6        3.0        3.0        3.0        3.0        3.0
B.   PUBLIC LOAN COIMMITMENTS                                                                                                                                 Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1975
IBRD                                           -           37         36         25         64         37         65                                          Dish. Only   In Percent of Total
IDA                                            10          10         10         7          -          -          -        C.   EXTERNAL DEBT
Other multilateral                              -          -           1         -          12         11         24            World BanTk                     109.8            10.2
Governuments                                  100          84        106        138         68        130        104             IDA                             55.3             5.2
Suppliers                                       8           5          7         12          2         27        49             other Multilateral                8.6             0.8
Financial Institutions                          21         28         28         17         12         20          7             Governments                    691.8            64.6
Total Public M + LT Loans                      139        164        18-8       1979       15-8      -225        2~49            Suppliers                       86.8             8.1
Financial Institutions          99.3             9.3
Bonds                            1.1             0.1
Public Debt n.e.i.              18.6             1.7
Total Public M   L T Debt    1,071.3           100.0
D.   DEBT AND DEBT SEIRVICE
Public Debt Outst. + Disbursed                524         604        680        807        954      1,071      1,280
Interest on Public Debt                      17          20         22         27         31         37        40
Amortization                                  45         48         70         59         59         66         70
Total-Public Debt Service                    62          68         92         86         90        103        110
Burden on Export Earnings 4/ (7.)
Public Debt Service                           19.6       16.7       16.2       12.0        7.2        7.6        8.3
TDS + Direct Invest. Inc.                     22.5       19.1       20.6       16.9       10.0       10.3       10.9
Average Termsa of Public Debt
Iot. as 7. of Prior Year DO + D               3.3         3.8        3.6        4.0        3.8        3.9        3.7
Amort. as 7. Prior Year DO + D                 9.5        9.1       11.6        8.7        7.3        6.9        6.5
IBRD1 Debt Out. A- Disbursed                    26         39         52         70         89        110        128
IBRD as 7. of Public Debt                       5.0         6.5        7.6        8.7        9.3       10.3       10.0
IBRD as 7. of Public Debt Service               4.2         5.3        6.5        9.4       12.0       13.3       12.9
IDA Debt out, and Disbursed                     16         21         28         57         43         55         64
IDA as 7, of Public Debt                        3.1         3.5       4.1         4.6        4.5        5.1        5.0
IDA as 7, of Public Debt Service                0.1         0.2        0.3        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.5
I/  Exchange rates used for the various stocks and flows correspond to those published in IFS.
2/ Projected by World Bank Staff.                                                                                                                                   ENENA CP II
3/  Including erros and omissions.                                                                                                                                  Nay 1977
'4/ Including non-factor services.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as ofL__arh i1,_l_7)
Loan or
Credit                                                                                      Amount (less cancellation)
Number      Year    Borrower                                Purpose                         Bank       IDA      Undis.
Eighteen  loans and credits fully disbursed                                                   87.9     37.0
238         1971     Republic of Tunisia                    Population                                  4.8        1.0
746         1971    Republic of Tunisia                    Highways                          24.0                  3.9
779         1971    Banque Nationale de Tunisie            Agricultural Credit                 5.0
270         1971    Republic of Tunisia                    Fisheries                                    2.0        U
798         1972    Societe Nationale d'Investissement     Development Finance Co.            10.0                 0.9
858         1972     Republic of Tunisia                   Tourism Infrastructure             14.0                14.0
329         1972    Republic of Tunisia                    Tourism Infrastructure                      10.0        2.2
881         1973     Societe Nationale d'Investissement    Development Finance Co             14.0                 0.7
937         1973    Republic of Tunisia                    Urban Planning & Public            11.0                 5.8
Transportation
989         1974    SONEDE                                 Water Supply                      23.0                  8.1
1029         1974    Republic of Tunisia                    Hotel Training                     5.6                  5.6
1042         1974    Compagnie des Phosphates et
Chemin de Fer de CAFSA                Phosphate Development             23.3                20.4
1068         1974    Republic of Tunisia                    Irrigation Rehabilitation         12.2                 10.5
1088         1975    Republic of Tunisia                    Urban Sewerage                    28.0                 27.1
1155         1975    Republic of Tunisia                    Education                          8.9                  8.9
1188         1976    Republic of Tunisia                    Highways                          28.0                 28.0
1189         1976    Banque de Developpement Economique
de Tunisie aevelopwent Finance Co.                                      20.0
238-1         1976    Republic of Tunisia                    PopuLaEion                                  4.8
1340         1976     Banque Nationale de Tunisie b/         Agricultural Credit              12.0                 12.0
1355         1976     Societ6 Tunisienne de l'Electricite   Power                             14.5                 14.5
et du Gaz
TOTAL:                                                                                       341.4     70.1      185.2
of which has been repaid                                                                     28.4      0.3
Total now outstanding                                                                      313.0      69.8
Amount Sold                   4.8
of which has been repaid      3.0                                                          1.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA   a/                                                        2384.5     69.8
Total undisbursed                                                                           176.5      8.7     185.2
a/ Prior to exchange adjustment,        Not yet effective                                            -
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of m_h 1       1977 
Amount in US $ Million
Year         Obligor                                        Type of Business                   Loan    Equity    Total
1962         NPK Engrais                                    Fertilizers                         2.0      1.5      3.5
1966         Socift6 Nationale d'Investissement             Development Finance Co.                      0.6      0.6
(SNI) now (BDET)
1969         COFITOUR (Tourism)                             Development Finance Co.             8.0      2.2     10.2
1970         Socift6 Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                              Development Finance Co.                     0.6       0.6
1973         Societ6 Touristique & Hoteliere RYM SA.        Tourism                             1.6      0.3      1.9
1973         Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord                                   Tourism                                       X
1975         Societe d'Etudes & de D6veloppement de
Sousse-Nord                                   Tourism                            2.5       0.6      3.1
1974         Industries Chimiques du Fluor   -              Chemicals                                    0.7      0.7
Total gross commitments                                                                        14.1      6.5     20.6
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales                                        3.3       1.5      4.8
10.8      5.0      15.8
Total commitments now held by IFC
Total undisbursed                                                                              10.5      0.3     10.5
8.1       -        8.1
Less than $50,000.00



ANNEX II
Pavo 2 -'
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238:    Population Project; US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1976; (Current) June 30, 1978.
Cr. 238-1:  Population Project:   US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit of
October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: March 31, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
A capable administration is helping the National Family Planning
Office maintain the progress of the national program. Acceptor rates show
a steady quarterly increase: April to June, the second quarter of the pro-
gram year, show: 1974, 17,740; 1975, 21,452; and 1976, 26,187. The education/
motivation division is increasing its emphasis on the production of materials
designed to help the educators with their work of informing leaders who are
in a position to influence the people. Eight of the planned 29 MCH clinics
have been completed and the remaining 21 will be finished by September 1977.
The Avicenne midwifery school is in full operation and in 1976 gave diplomas
to 35 midwives and 62 nurses. Three of the maternity hospitals will be com-
pleted by the end of 1977, but the fourth at Bizerte will not be completed
until the end of 1978. The additional sum of US$4.8 million provided by NORAD
will contribute to financing the project cost overruns which the Government
has agreed to underwrite.
Cr. 270:    Fisheries Project; US$2 million credit of September 24, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: May 24, 1972; Closing Date: (Original) December
31, 1976; (Current) July 31, 1978.
As of January 31, 1977, 89 of 180 project vessels had been delivered
to fishermen with financing provided under the credit through BNT. Progress of
implementation continues to be hampered by slower than expected demand for
project vessels attributable to construction and after-sales service problems.
The latter have in turn contributed to an unsatisfactory rate of sub-loan re-
covery by BNT. To overcome the technical problems, the Government has recently
agreed to set up a mobile service team, has undertaken to provide better train-
ing to new boat owners, and has been encouraged to shift the orders for the
remaining boats to the best of the three boatyards. BNT is introducing mea-
sures to improve loan recovery. The project is now expected to be completed
by September 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
l'ge 3 of 7
Ln. 989: Third Water Supply Project; US$23 million loan ot May 29. 19'/1;
Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Bidding has been completed for all major components of the project.
All pipe supply contracts have been awarded; contracts for civil works and
pipe installation are being evaluated. Construction is on schedule and
disbursements are higher than anticipated.
Ln. 746:  First Highways Project; US$24 million loan of June 9, 1971, Date of
Effectiveness: October 26, 1971; Closing Date: (Original) June 30,
1976; (Current) June 30, 1977.
Ln. 1188: Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Progress in reconstruction and rehabilitation of roads and bridges
is good under the first project. All works are expected to be completed
in the. first half of 1977. The delays have mostly been caused by delayed
acquisition of right-of-way. Cost overruns have required the elimination of
the Tunis-Turki section of the Tunis-Hammamet expressway and considerable
reductions of the withdrawal percentages. Construction of the expressway
section is now being financed by the Kuwait Fund.
After prequalification of contractors under the second project, the
Government has invited bids for the improvement of one road; other improvement
works are expected to be executed in accordance with the agreed timetable,
Consultants are now in the field to prepare proposals for a pilot rural roads
project.  Arrangements are now being completed for the updating of the 1968
transport survey.
Ln. 779:  Agricultural Credit Project; US$5 million loan and US$3 million
Cr. 263:  credit, both of July 12, 1971; Date of Effectiveness:    January 25,
1972; Closing Date: (Original) July 31, 1975, (Current) June 30,
1977.
Ln 1133:  Second Agricultural Credit Prolect; US$12 million loan of November
23, 1976; Terminal Date for Effectiveness: May 31, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
Implementation of the project components under the first project
has been progressing at a satisfactory pace and is nearly completed. Disburse-
ments in the grain farming category have continued normally and will be picked
up by the second agricultural credit project after the remaining funds are ex-
hausted; the dairy plant is nearing completion and test runs are scheduled for
June 1977; all 886 ha of date plantations in the Djerid and Nefzaoua areas have
been completed. As of March 31, 1977, 96 percent of the loan/credit funds had
been disbursed, and the new closing date of June 30, 1977 can very likely be
met.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Upon request of the Borrower, the date by which the conditions for
effectiveness of the Bank loan for the second project have to be met was post-
poned from March 16, 1977 to May 31, 1977. One condition, the receipt of an
audit report for 1975, has been met, whereas the second one, the effectiveness
of revised lending terms for subloans extended by BNT from Government funds,
has not been met as yet. Field appraisal procedures and eligibility criteria
for the small farmer component are being worked out by BNT and will be agreed
with the Ministry of Agriculture.
Ln. 1355: Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of December 27, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project comprises 150 MW of gas turbine capacity in seven units
of equal size to be installed at different locations and is estimated to cost
US$29.3 million equivalent including a foreign exchange component of US$25.1
million equivalent. Contracts have been awarded and progress in physical
execution of the project is satisfactory. In view of the proposed development
of offshore natural gas resources, the substituion of gas for oil for power
generation in future and STEG's likely responsibility for distribution of off-
shore gas throughout the country, STEG is undertaking a study to establish its
organization structure, its training needs and investments for the gas program.
Government is also undertaking a study with a view to determining an appro-
priate pricing policy for oil, gas and electricity and will submit the recom-
mendations to the Bank by September 1978. STEG is expected to earn an 8 per-
cent rate of return beginning in 1977.
Ln. 858:  Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan and US$10 million
Cr. 329:  credit, both of September 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:    June 26,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
After considerable delays in 1975 caused by the redefinition of the
project, the project is now moving ahead expeditiously. Following completion
of final design of most of the project infrastructure works, ONTT is awarding
construction contracts. Almost 60 percent of the infrastructure works are
under construction and some 20 percent have been already completed. Enact-
ment of the land-use plans for all of the tourism zones and the review of
the incentives legislation according to the results of the study of investment
incentives carried out under the project have not yet been completed but do
not jeopardize project implementation. Since infrastructure in the project
zones will shortly be available for tourism accommodation and related facili-
ties, the main emphasis of Bank supervision of the loan will shift to moni-
toring of Government policies to promote investments in the project zones.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Ln. 798: Fourth Development Finance Company Project; US$10 million loan of
February 9, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 13, 1972; Closing
Date: (Original) March 31, 1976; (Current) July 31, 1977.
Ln. 881: Fifth Development Finance Company Project; US$14 million loan of
February 20, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: May 24, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1978.
Ln. 1189: Sixth Development Finance Company Project; US$20 million loan of
January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
Of Loan 798, $0.3 million remain unallocated and $0.9 million un-
disbursed-due to cancellations which occurred after the final date for sub-
project submission. Loan 881 is fully committed and $0.7 million remain to
be disbursed: the utilization of the loan has been generally in line with
the appraisal report's projection, which foresaw the loan to be fully dis-
bursed by March, 1977. Disbursements on Loan 1189 had reached $4.3 million
as of April, 1977, about 6 months behind schedule compared with the appraisal
report's projection. This is largely due to the loan having become effective
only 5 months after approval. The loan is however being committed on sched-
ule, with only $4.6 million remaining unallocated as of April, 1977. BDET
has shown considerable improvement since early 1976 in the key areas of man-
agement effectiveness, arrears recovery, financial practices and resource
mobilization. The institution plays an increasingly important role in fi-
nancing industrial development, extending about one-third of all term credit
available to the industrial sector in Tunisia. As regards appraisal capab-
ility, BDET is among the best of Bank-financed DFC's. Quality of project
supervision, however, still needs improvement.
Ln. 937:  Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project; US$11
Cr. 432: million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October 5, 1973; Date
of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1976; (Current) December 31, 1977.
Execution of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The Tunis
District has been well established and operates with residual technical assis-
tance only. The District is finishing its work on the Tunis strategic regional
development plan and is now regul-arly associated with or consulted on all
major public investment decisions 'in the Greater Tunis area. The Societe
Nationale des Transports (SNT) has renewed its bus fleet, as well as its main-
tenance services. SNT's clientele has increased in an unprecedented manner;
combined with improvements in routes and tariff structures and with regular
payment by the Government of compensation for social tariffs, this has resulted
in increased revenues sufficient to offset the effect of a substantial salary
raise. SNT has also completed all necessary preparation for the delivery of
the rolling stock to modernize its suburban railway line. Finally, supple-
mentary financing has been found to finance the construction of the third bus
depot and the cost overruns on the railway rolling stock. The civil works for
the traffic improvement program of the Municipality of Tunis are now in execu-
tion; new traffic and parking regulations have been established, as have spe-
cial bus lanes and pedestrian areas.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. 1029: Hotel Training Project; US$5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975; Closing Date: October 31. 1978.
The project continues to progress well. The courses prepared by the
ILO team are being tested in the Nabeul school and will be introduced into
other training schools during the 1977-78 school year. Evaluation of bids for
the first two training centers is underway and should be completed shortly;
contracts are expected to be signed soon, with construction to start shortly
thereafter. After considering dropping the third center because of changes
in tourism policy, the Government has decided to proceed with the third proj-
ect center. Transfer of land for the third center to ONTT is almost complete;
work on architectural designs has started.
Ln. 1042: Gafsa Phosphate Project, US$23.3 million loan of October 1, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
After many difficulties with the trial of the longwall method in the
Sehib mine, with as a consequence over one year of delay in project implementa-
tion, some positive results have now been obtained. On that basis, GAFSA is
preparing itself for the generalization of the longwall method with the pur-
chase and installation of additional longwall equipment. The Bank has recom-
mended that GAFSA reinforce the project's technical management with outside
assistance in longwall mining. GAFSA has embarked on a vast expansion program
with the Sehib project, the modernization program and a new open pit project.
As a result of the severe drop in phosphate prices, most of these investments
are planned to be financed by debt. The Government has been made aware that
some additional equity would have to be brought in.
Ln. 1068: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in the Medjerda subproject area has been satisfactory, with
the exception of enforcement of certain provisions of the land reform legisla-
tion. Intensification of cropping has been started. In Nebhana, land reform
implementation continues and work is now underway to intensify agricultural
production. Consultants have been recruited and are preparing various studies
necessary for project implementation and for expansion into a second stage
project. Rehabilitation and construction works are progressing satisfactorily.
The Government and the agricultural credit bank (BNT) have concluded an on-
lending agreement setting the terms and conditions of sub-loans under the
credit component of the project.



ANNEX II
Page 7 ot I
Ln. 1088: First Urban Sewerage Project; US$28 million loan of February 18,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing Date: June
15, 1979.
A delay of about six months was experienced at the beginning of proj-
ect execution as a result of the legislative measures required formally to
establish the new national sewerage authority (Office National de l'Assainisse-
ment - ONAS), followed by the numerous minor administrative problems involved
in the physical transfer to ONAS of systems and employees from the centers
taken over. In spite of these delays it is still expected that the works will
be completed within six months of the date foreseen at the time of appraisal.
However, disbursements are not expected to reach forecast levels until the end
of 1978. Revised cost estimates indicate that total project cost may increase
by 33 percent over appraisal estimates, most of the increase being in the local
cost components. Procedures for granting government subsidies to ONAS are
being reviewed, to ensure financial discipline and autonomy. The report of
consultants retained for studies of the Tunisian construction industry will
particularly address the problem of measures to reduce construction costs; the
report is expected by the end of June 1977.
Ln. 1155: Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Since the last mission to review project implementation in July,
1976, there has been no progress. The Government has indicated that owing
to a change in its education priorities, it no longer wishes to proceed with
the project items as they were conceived during appraisal, and to use the loan
proceeds to extend post-primary education. The rationale for the change in
educational priorities and suggested steps for the future of the loan have
just been conveyed to the Bank officially by the government.   A dialogue is
progress to clarify and determine possible ways to deal with the situation.



ANNEX III
Page 1
TUNISIA
FOURTH WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Prolect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare Project:    About 1 year between November 1975 and
December 1976
(b)  Agencies which prepared Project:   Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et
de Distribution des Eaux (SONEDE)
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:  March, 1976
(d) First Bank mission to review
Project:                           Preparation Mission, October 4, 1976
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   November 29, 1976
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:        April 28, 1977
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    Mid-October, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
An understanding was reached during negotiations on a PERT program
(Project Evaluation and Review Techniques) and construction schedule for proj-
ect implementation prepared by the Bank; these documents would be updated in
light of final engineering design studies. An understanding was also reached
on a system of key indicators prepared by the Bank to monitor SONEDE's tech-
nical, financial and administrative performance.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) For effectiveness, the signature of another loan providing SONEDE
sufficient foreign exchange to cover the foreign exchange cost of
the distribution component in Greater Tunis; all conditions prior
to disbursement of the other loan to be fulfilled by March 31, 1978;
cross default with the other loan (para 41).
(b) SONEDE to enter into an agreement with the Tunis District by
December 31, 1977 for the purpose of coordinating their activities
in carrying out that part of the project in the District of Tunis
(para 37).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) SONEDE to set and maintain water tariffs sufficient to enable the company
to earn in 1978 and successive years a minimum return of 7.5 percent on
net fixed assets in operation, valued in a manner acceptable to the Bank
(para 49).
(d) Government to provide the muncipalities with the financial means neces-
sary to assure timely payment of their water bills, beginning with the
annual 1978 budget (to cover charges of water consumed as of July 1,
1977) and to settle municipality arrears outstanding as of February 28,
1977, in the equivalent amount of $1.6 million, according to the follow-
ing timetable: October 31, 1977 $468,000; December 31, 1977, $235,000;
April 30, 1978, $936,000. The balance of all charges for water consumed
to June 30, 1977 to be paid by June 30, 1978 (para 47).
(e) Government to make available to SONEDE for financing the project a con-
tribution of $23 million, disbursed as follows: $1.2 million in 1977
(already disbursed); $4 million in 1978; $7 million in 1979; $6.1 mil-
lion in 1980; and $4.7 million in 1981 (para 41).






IBRD 12714
Area hMmdoneS jeasn mm rAlr MMP db no' ~  / W TE# iF D   / ? i  A  NEA   N  S   A             Northern     TUN  IS I A          FEBRUARY  1977
Area    -1rl -nd -lmta;erM Y
t' J T n,s >    7 of  W adbkn/ENdives _ Northern Tunisia Water Supply Project
snIP                                                                                                        GENERAL LAYOUT
<1                                                                                                         ,- >  PROJECT P ------, EXISTING
Immediate stage Future stage
A TUNISIA                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Canals
____        (       5JA / ze\I--Pipelines
(~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                                      * ~~~~~~~E-fVAV  a,Reservoirs and dams
t ChoftetD erid\>< <t {r l>)lfihen2elBourgurbua A                                                                    r      v Treatment plant
CAostsnlO~~~~~~~~~nrid      d                                      u,Roads
Rivers
>  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                                                -  -  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Provincial boundaries
LI BYA                              Z  E  R T EI -                                       -  nternational boundary  '
-~El Hano.k,i
__ __ _ __ __ _        \\ <      )X/                      t  t                J  /                                                              b
/__ -)i.Tboro                    1---              t 0Rod ci Aesri  /                  :~    zz    \ trbu
RESERVOIR                      VOIS                   E    R   / -           /    Sln                       /
BfAl MErIR  RVOIR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOMre
/- - e J+/ a                                                                              a _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 2 0 _ , _ 3 , 0 _ 40
RK,
Fe,..n.~~~~~~9                              OU                            AREEIORLE.Zel



