CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1445 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Water Supply Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE
DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
Dated July 5, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
(hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of a portion of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the
Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Borrower has represented to the Bank that it has
requested additional loans from other lenders outside Tunisia
in such aggregate amount as it shall require for the efficient
execution of Part B of the Project on terms and conditions that
will enable the Borrower to carry out Part B of the Project and
its operations in accordance with appropriate financial practices,
and the Guarantor (as this term is hereinafter defined) will
assist such Borrower to obtain such loans (hereinafter called the
Other Loan); and
(c) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Republic of Tunisia (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and the
Bank (hereinafter called the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor
has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower under the
Loan Agreement;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Previous Development Credit Agreement" means the
Agreement No. 209 TUN dated June 30, 1970, entered into between
the Republic of Tunisia and the Association for purposes of a
Second Water Supply Project;
(b) "Previous Loan Agreements" means the Loan Agreement
No. 581 TUN, dated January 16, 1969, and the Loan Agreement
No. 989 TUN, dated May 29, 1974, both between the Bank and the
Borrower;
(c) "D" means Dinar in the currency of the Guarantor;


﻿-4-
(d) "Statuts" means the Guarantor's Law No. 68-22, dated
July 2, 1968, (as amended by Law No. 72-37, dated April 27,
1972, and by Law No. 74-73, dated August 3, 1974) establishing the
Borrower; and
(e) "District" means District de Tunis, an 6tablissement
public established and operating in accordance with the Guarantor's
Law No. 72-1 of February 15, 1972, and the Guarantor's Decrees No.
72-49 of February 18, 1972, and No. 73-604 of November 25, 1973.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one
million dollars ($21,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.


﻿-6-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, financial and public utility practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
preparation of plans and specifications for, in the preparation of
bidding documents for, and in the supervision of the construction
of, Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
study included under Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank, and shall furnish
such studies to the Bank not later than June 30, 1978, or such
later date as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.


﻿-8-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to


﻿- 9 -
the 3ank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.06. No later than December 31, 1977, or such other
date as the Bank may agree, the Borrower shall, pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Article 7 of the Guarantor's Decree No. 73-604 of
November 25, 1973, enter into an agreement in form and substance
acceptable to the Bank, with the District for the purpose of
coordinating their activities in carrying out the part of the
Project to be executed in the District, and shall thereafter carry
out such agreement in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future
expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with
appropriate business, financial and public utility practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management, and
shall consult with the Bank before making any basic modifications
in its organization and administrative structure.
(b) The Borrower shall continue to appoint, retain and
promote sufficient qualified and experienced staff to enable the
Borrower to conduct its operations efficiently.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business, including the right to use the volumes of water referred
to in Section 3.06 of the Guarantee Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
(b) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and property, and promptly make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound engineering
and public utility practices.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall obtain title to all goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan free and clear of all encumbrances.
(d) The Borrower shall not, without the prior approval of
the Bank, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking and shall not without
the mutual consent of the Guarantor and the Bank assign its
exclusive rights for the distribution of water within the
Guarantor's territories pursuant to Article 2 of the Guarantor's
Law No. 68-22, dated July 2, 1968.
Section 4.04. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall complete
and furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1977, or such other date
as the Bank may agree a system of key indicators and targets
envisaged for its operations (including technical, financial and
administrative criteria) satisfactory to the Guarantor and the
Bank, and shall thereafter monitor the progress of the execution
of the Project and of the attainment of its objectives on the


﻿- 12 -
basis of said key indicators and targets and shall furnish to the
Bank for its comments, at the end of each calendar quarter until
the Project has been completed and thereafter at the end of each
fiscal year of the Borrower during the five years immediately
succeeding such completion, a report in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request showing the results of its operationb In
terms of such key indicators and targets.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly take all such steps as the
Bank may reasonably request to meet the targets referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 4.05. Without limiting the generality of the provi-
sions of paragraph (b) of Section 4.03 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall: (i) with the assistance of engineering consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, cause the dam at Saida and its appurte-
nant structures constructed under Part A (ii) of the Project to
be periodically inspected, at least once in every year and in
accordance with appropriate engineering practices, in order
to determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition
of such dam and appurtenant structures which may endanger the
safety thereof, the first of such inspections to start not later
than July 1, 1983, or such other date as the Bank may agree; (ii)
to submit promptly after each such inspection to the Bank, the


﻿- 13 --
conclusion of such engineering consultants; and (iii) to make,
promptly after each such inspection, all necessary repairs of such
dam and appurtenant structures.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.


﻿- 15 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien
satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in
the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt, other than for money borrowed
to finance the Project, unless its net revenues for the fiscal
year next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month


﻿- 16 -
period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever is the greater,
shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service
requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt including
the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" shall mean all indebtedness of the
Borrower including debt for the service of which the Borrower
is responsible in accordance with Article 22 of Law No. 68-22
of the Guarantor dated July 2, 1968, maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt.
(c) The term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from
all sources, adjusted to take account of the Borrower's rates in
effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they
were not in effect during the fiscal year or twelve-month period
to which such revenues relate, less all operating and
administrative expenses and provision for taxes, if any, but
before provision covering depreciation and interest and other
charges on debt.


﻿- 17 -
(d) The term "debt service requirement" shall mean the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments,
if any), interest and other charges on debt.
(e) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor,
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
for the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 5.05 (a) Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, the
Borrower shall set and maintain water rates and other charges
for its services and shall from time to time take all other
necessary or desirable action which will provide revenues
sufficient: (i) to cover all operating and administrative expenses
of the Borrower (including adequate maintenance and provision for
depreciation of assets at an average rate of not less than 2.5%
per annum) and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes; and (ii) to
produce out of its own funds, a reasonable annual rate of return
on the Borrower's net fixed assets in operation that will enable
the Borrower to meet amortization and interest payments on all
its debt (including debt for the service of which the Borrower is
responsible in accordance with Article 22 of Law No. 68-22 of the
Guarantor dated July 2, 1968) as they become due and to finance a
reasonable amount of the cost of future investments.


﻿- 18 -
(b) Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, such annual
return on the Borrower's net fixed assets in operation shall
be at a rate of not less than 7.5% for the year 1978 and each year
thereafter.
(c) Such rate of return on the Borrower's net fixed assets
in operation shall be calculated in each year by using as the
numerator the total revenues arising from the Borrower's
operations, less all operating and administrative costs (including
adequate maintenance and provision for depreciation and for taxes
and payments in lieu of taxes, if any, but excluding interest
and other charges on debt) and as the denominator the average
between the net current value of fixed assets in operation at
the beginning and at the end of each year in question.
(d) "Net current value of fixed assets in operation" shall
mean the gross value of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation
less the accumulated gross value of fixed assets in operation in
communities with less than 2,000 inhabitants, and less the amount
of accumulated depreciation on all fixed assets in operation, all
as valued from time to time in accordance with consistently
applied appropriate methods of valuation or revaluation acceptable
to the Bank, and less the accumulated value of the contributions
made by customers towards the original investment cost of the
Borrower's assets.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) any provision of the Statuts shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated or waived so as materially and adversely to
affect the operations or financial condition of the Borrower or
the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under the Loan
Agreement;
(b) a default shall have occurred under any of the Previous
Loan Agreements or under the Previous Development Credit Agreement
other than in respect of the payment of the principal or interest
or any other payment required thereunder; and
(c) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) conditions precedent to initial disbursements
under the Other Loan shall not be fulfilled by
March 31, 1978, or
(B) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Other Loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to


﻿- 20 -
the terms of the agreement or agreements
providing therefor, or
(C) the Other Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) the event
specified in subparagraphs (A), (B) or (C),
as the case may be, of paragraph (c) (i) of this
Section is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower and the Guarantor to perform any of
their respective obligations under such agreement
or agreements, and (B) adequate funds for Part B of
the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and the Guarantor; and


﻿- 21 -
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (c)(i)(C)
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 22 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the agreement or agreements providing for the Other
Loan have been duly signed by all the parties thereto.
Section 7.02. The date November 2, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE VIII
Amendments to the Previous Loan Agreements
Section 8.01. As of January 1, 1978, the provisions of
Section 5.09 of the Loan Agreement No. 581 TUN, dated January 16,
1969, as amended, and of Section 5.06 of the Loan Agreement No.
989 TUN, dated May 29, 1974, both between the Bank and the Borrower
are deleted and substituted by Section 5.05 of this Agreement.


﻿- 24 -
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Sociftf Nationale d'Exploitation
et de Distribution des Eaux
23, J. Nehru
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:                      Telex:
SONEDE                              12262 TN SONEDE
Tunis


﻿- 25 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Tunis,
Republic of Tunisia, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Maurice P. Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION ET DE
DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
By /s/ A. Frih
Authorized Representative


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Pipes, equipment             6,100,000         100% of foreign
and materials for                             expenditures
Part A of the
Project
(2) Civil Works                  9,100,000        39%
under Part A
of the Proj-
ect
(3) Consultant                   1,200,000        100% of foreign
services for                                  expenditures
studies and
construction
supervision
for Part A of
the Project
(4) Unallocated                  4,600,000
TOTAL       21,000,000


﻿- 27 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that


﻿- 28 -
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project constitutes the first stage of a master plan
conceived to meet water supply needs in five northern provinces:
B6jA, Jendouba, Nabeul, Tunis and Tunis Sud, up to the year
2,000.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Production Facilities
(i) Construction of a pumping station of about 1,700-HP
to draw raw water from the Medjerda/Cap Bon canal
to be constructed under the Guarantor's Northern
Tunisia Water Master Plan.
(ii) Construction of an earth dam to be located at
Saida to create a reservoir of about 12 mm3 to be
used to mix water of varying levels of salinity
from the said Medjerda/Cap Bon canal with fresh
water originating from Kasseb.
(iii) Installation of a transmission pipeline of about
1,250-mm from the Medjerda/Cap Bon pumping station
referred to under Part A (i) of the Project to
a distribution basin.


﻿- 30 -
(iv) Laying of a pipeline of about 1,100-mm between the
said distribution basin and the existing Gdir El
Goulla treatment plant, and of a pipeline of about
800/600-mm from the said basin to the Saida
reservoir referred to under Part A (ii) of the
Project.
(v) Construction of a water treatment plant module of
about 1.4-M3/sec to be located at Gdir El Goulla.
(vi) Construction of a pumping station of about 2,320-HP
to feed raw water from the said Saida reservoir to
the said treatment plant.
(vii) Installation of a transmission pipeline of about
1,600-mm between the said Saida pumping station and
the said treatment plant.
Part B:   Distribution System of Greater Tunis
(i) Laying of a primary main of about 1,250/1,000-mm to
supply the northern part of the Tunis area.
(ii) Installation of a primary main of about
1,400/1,000-mm to serve the southern Tunis area.
(iii) Increase and improvement of booster pumping
stations for the Tunis area.
(iv) Expansion and improvement of the secondary
distribution network in the Tunis area.


﻿- 31 -
Part C:   Distribution Systems in Other Areas
(i) Expansion of the primary systems in the cities
of BdJA, Medjez-E1-Bab, Port du Fahs, and
in South Cap Bon.
(ii) Increase of storage and booster pumping in the
said areas.
(iii) Expansion and improvement of the secondary
distribution networks in the said areas.
Part D:   Study
Study to assist the Borrower in developing and adapting
its management structures (including its computer and
information systems) in accordance with the needs of its
future expansion.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning March 1, 1981
through   September 1, 1993                    780,000
On March 1, 1994                                    720,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 33 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.45%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.90%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              5.30%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              8.20%


﻿- 34 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and I"A
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Identical or similar items shall to the extent possible be
consolidated in a single invitation for the purpose of bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Schedule,
contracts for: (i) pipes, equipment and materials estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $150,000 each; and (ii) or civil works
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $450,000 each, may
be awarded on the basis of local advertising only and in
accordance with the usual competitive bidding procedures of the
Borrower provided, however, that the aggregate amount of all
contracts to be so awarded shall not exceed, in the aggregate, the
equivalent of $1,500,000.


﻿- 35 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Tunisia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:


﻿- 36 -
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tunisia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Tunisia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufr-tured
in Tunisia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs


﻿- 37 -
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1. Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualifiation is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications, and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified
of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿- 38 -
With respect to all contracts for pipes, materials and
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000, and all
contracts for civil works estimated to Lst the equivalent of
$450,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, togethc with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 39 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


