Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11472
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2395-PNG)
DECEMBER 22, 1992
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Kina (K)
At Appraisal, April 1983
K 1.00   =  US$1.20
US$1.00 = K 0.83
Average Annual Exchange Rates to US$1.00
1984      1985       1986      1987       1988      1989       1990
K  0.94      1.01       0.96      0.88       0.83      0.86       0.95
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADT                - Advanced Diploma in Teaching
ADU                - Advanced Diploma Unit
BEd                -  Bachelor of Education
CODE               -  College of Distance Education
CU (CDD)           -  Curriculum Unit (now Curriculum Development
Department)
DFP                -  Department of Finance and Planning
DWS                -  Department of Works and Supply
GTC                -  Goroka Teachers College, UPNG
HSSP               -  High School Support Program
MSU                -  Measurement Services Unit, NDOE
NDOE               -  National Department of Education
NHS                -  National high school
NPEP               -  National Public Expenditure Plan
PCR                -  Project Completion Report
PDOE               -  Provincial Division of Education
PHS                -  Provincial high school
PIU                -  Project Implementation Unit
PMC                -  Project Management Committee
PNG                -  Papua New Guinea
REU                -  Research and Evaluation Unit, NDOE
SAR                -  Staff Appraisal Report
TSC                -  Teaching Service Commission
UPNG               -  University of Papua New Guinea



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONL1
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office ot Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 22, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Papua New Guinea
Secondary Education Project (Loan 2395-PNG)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Papua New
Guinea Secondary Education Project (Loan 2395-PNG)" prepared by the East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office, including Part II contributed by the Borrower. The report provides a satisfactory
assessment of project achievements.
The projected expansion of middle- and high-level manpower was achieved although
18 rather than 23 provincial high schools were constructed due to scarcity of government funding and
unplanned private expansion of educational capacity. Quality improvement through curriculum
development and support services was also secured although the problems encountered in textbook
supply and teacher training have highlighted institutional weaknesses which will require remedy in
follow-up projects.
Thus, the project outcome can be considered satisfactory even though institutional
development goals were partially realized. Because of doubts about the timely availability of
textbooks, properly trained teachers and maintenance budgets, the sustainability of the project is not
fully assured.
No audit of the project is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorzation.



'.i ~    ' 'f'  S.:



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 2395-PNG)
Table of Contents
Pate No.
PREFACE  . . . . . . . .   .        ..    .      .  .  .  .  .  . . . . 
EVALUATION SUMNKARY .S .     .................... .il
I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . .
Project Identty .        .. . . . . . . . . .1
Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . .             2
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . .              3
Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . .     . .                4
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              9
Project Sustainability ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .........  17
Bank Performance ....  .        .  .  .    .... .......         .    17
Borrower Performance ....  .        .  .  .    ..........            18
Project Relationships  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            20
Consulting Services  ..... ..       ..... .... .                    20
Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . .            20
II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . .             21
Introduction ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ...... .  21
Project Preparation  . .       .. .......    . . . ..  .         .  21
Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            22
Government Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            24
Lessons   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24
Implementation ....  .       .  .  .    .......  .    .  .  .  .   .  25
Government Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            25
Lessons  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            27
Summary.                           ....                             28
III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION            . . . .   .    .  .  . . .          30
1    Related Bank Loans/Credits  . . . . . . . . . . . . .             30
2    Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             31
3    Loan Disbursements           . . . .   .    .  .  . . .           32
4    Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             33
5    Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . .             37
6    Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  . . . . .             39
7    Status of Covenants  . . .       ...... . . .                     41
8    Use of Bank Resource.s . .                   .        . . .       42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 2395-PNG)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Secondary
Education Project in Papua New Guinea, for which Loan 2395-PNG in the amount
of US$49.3 million equivalent was approved on March 27, 1984. The Loan was
closed on December 31, 1990, one year behind schedule. It was fully
disbursed, and the last disbursement was on December 3, 1990.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Division, Country Department III, of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR began during a mission to Papua New Guinea
in July 1991, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, the project files of the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank
memoranda and information provided to the final mission.



I



- iii -
PROJECT COHPNZTION REPORT
PAPUA UW GUIE
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 2395-PUG)
Evaluation SuiinrV
Oblectives
i.        The main objective of the Project was to assist Papua New Guinea to
develop qualified national manpower at the middle and higher levels, by
increasing the output and improving the effectiveness of secondary education.
These objectives were to be achieved primarily through: implementation of
strengthened subsector policies and evaluation; provision of appropriate
instructional materials and upgrading of the teaching force; and expansion of
school places and upgrading of existing facilities (para. 3.1).
Implementation Experience
ii.       The Project was generally well-implemented with a one-year delay in
the closing date to allow completion of the educational materials component.
During the extra year, the Project also continued to fund ongoing school
construction and several project activities that have now entered the
recurrent budget (para. 5.1). Construction of six high schools was dropped
during implementation and, as a result and in spite of the extra year, the
final project cost reached only US$70.9 million as compared to the estimated
cost of US$78.5 million. The US$49.3 million Loan financed 70 percent of the
total instead of 63 percent as originally expected (para. 5.3). The Project
Implementation Unit had the full support of the National Department of
Education and was adequately staffed, housed and supplied. A Project
Management Committee met regularly and provided valuable guidance to the Unit
and to other agencies implementing project activities (para. 9.1).
iii.      The major project components for which implementation was the least
smooth were the educational materials component and the Advanced Diploma in
Teaching program. The former was mainly due to weak management in the
Curriculum Development Department (paras. 5.6 - 5.12) while the latter was due
to inadequate preparation of the program during appraisal with the result that
numerous adjustments had to be made during implementation (parts. 5.14 -
5.18). The main problem that arose during implementation, however, was when a
new Government decided to emphasize the productive sectors at the expense of
human resources. This naturally led to financial problems for this Project
and for education in general (para. 10.1).
Results
iv.       During implementation, the quantitative objective of increasing the
output of secondary education was met, although this was not entirely
attributable to the Project. Effectiveness of secondary education was also
improved quantitatively although how much the quantitative inputs contributed



- iv -
to qualitative improvement is harder to measure. Nevertheless, enrollment
expansion at both the lower (provincial) and upper (national) secondary levels
took place as planned (paras. 6.2 and 6.3), textbooks and educational
materials were developed and distributed to the high schools in the numbers
envisaged (para. 6.7), the Advanced Diploma in Teaching program was firmly
established (para. 5.18), in-service training was provided for teachers at
foreign and local universities (para. 6.27), new inspectors were appointed and
housed (para. 6.28), provincial high schools were constructed in nearly the
numbers planned (para. 6.30), national high schools were upgraded and expanded
(paras. 6.31 and 6.33) and the very popular grants for school facilities
maintenance, ancillary staff, library books and science equipment
(paras. 5.19, 5.21, 6.16 and 6.34) were forwarded every year directly to the
schools.
Sustainabilitv
v.        The provincial and national high schools constructed under the
Project have entered the Government's regular school system and are being
sustained as part of that system. The National Department of Education is
committed to continuing its support of the Advanced Diploma in Teaching
program. Once the Government makes a final decision on a textbook replacement
policy, textbooks will automatically be supplied in adequate numbers to the
schools; meanwhile a large textbook component is being included in the
proposed Education Development Project. The most visible of the components
under this Project that are continuing to be funded under the recurrent budget
for education, are the grants to the schools (para. iv). These are so popular
with the schools and the parents that they are likely to remain a part of the
recurrent budget for the foreseeable future (para. 7.1).
Findings and Lessons Learned
vi.       Lessons learned include the following (paras. 8.2 and 9.2):
(a) programs being newly established with project funding should be
closely examined at their conception and all variables that may come
into play should be taken into account, especially, in the case of
PNG, incentives for people to participate;
(b) attention must be paid at appraisal to project evaluation and
monitoring to make sure systems are in place that will provide
useful data; in this regard, more educators should participate in
supervision of projects to look specifically at educational issues;
(c) counterparts to expatriate staff involved in project implementation
should always be appointed in order to build up local expertise;
(d) the provinces cannot be expected to budget large sums of money for
education even when national matching funds are available;
(e) systems should be put into place to improve delivery of textbooks
and educational materials, to ensure that the materials provided
remain in the schools and to protect them from wear and tear;



- v -
(f) book development should be carefully thought out in advance;
(g) schools unable to complete necessary paperwork to take advantage of
benefits being offered should be assisted to do so; and
(h) a separate study should be made of how to utilize fully, existing
post-secondary facilities rather than depending on increasing the
number of grade 12 graduates to do so.






-1-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT (LOAN 2395-PNG)
PART I. Proiect Review from the Bank's Perspective
1.   Project Identity
Project name:     Secondary Education Project
Loan number:      Loan 2395-PNG
RVP unit:         East Asia and Pacific Regional Office,
Country Department III
Country:          Papua New Guinea (PNG)
Sector:           Education
Subsector:        Secondary education
2.   Proiect Background
2.1       Sector Development Objectives.  The major aims of Papua New Guinea's
development strategy and programs in the 1980s were: (i) to achieve financial
self-sufficiency through developing the natural resource base; and (ii) to
improve the quality of rural life. An important objective of the Government
in meeting these aims was to raise the skill level of national manpower to
replace expensive expatriates, who then accounted for over half of the higher
level manpower in the formal sector. Weaknesses in the education system were
a major constraint to achievement of this objective; these included: poor
average quality of primary and lower secondary education, low participation
rates in secondary education and poor cost-effectiveness at post-primary
levels. The Government was addressing these problems through a comprehensive
development program for primary education.l/ As the next step, emphasis
needed to be given to strengthening secondary education, which supplies
national manpower for higher education and formal employment.
2.2       Policy Context.  The Government gave priority to strengthening its
education and training system in order to overcome the shortage of qualified
national manpower. The main objectives of its strategy for formal education
included the reduction of (i) disparities (by location and sex) in access,
(ii) inefficiencies attributable to low student progression rates, and
(iii) significant variations in unit costs among levels. Priority was to be
given to continuing development of primary education and to development of
secondary education. At these levels, emphasis was to be given to improving
quality and cost-effectiveness, and to expanding enrollments on an equitable
basis. Owing to budgetary constraints and concern for overall demand,
1/   The Primary Education Project, assisted by Loan 1934/Credit 1087-PNG of
1981, supported this effort and strengthened educational planning in
general. (See Project Completion Report No. 8968 dated August 21, 1990;
and Part III, Table 1.)



expansion of secondary school places was, however, to continue at a modest
pace. At the post-secondary level, emphasis was to be given to more effective
use of resources. No expansion was then envisaged in the near term. Emphasis
was also to be given to developing nonformal education and training programs,
focusing on basic education and rural skills.
3.   Proiect Oblectives and Description
3.1       Proiect Objectives.  The main objective of the Project was to assist
PNG to develop qualified national manpower at the middle and higher levels, by
increasing the output and improving the effectiveness of secondary education.
These objectives were to be achieved primarily through: study and
implementation of strengthened subsector policies and introduction of improved
evaluation practices; provision of appropriate instructional materials and
upgrading of the national teaching force; and expansion of the number of
school places on an equitable basis and upgrading of existing facilities.
3.2       Project Components.  The Project included civil works, equipment,
materials, furniture, staff, staff-upgrading and technical assistance to:
Policies and Evaluation
(a) study and implement enrollment expansion and cost-control policies
designed to improve the match between supply of secondary school
graduates and demand for manpower, and increase the cost-
effectiveness of secondary education; and
(b) strengthen the National Department of Education's (NDOE) Measurement
Services Unit (MSU) to support improvements in educational
planning;2/
Development of Materials and Upgrading of Teachers
(a) strengthen the NDOE Curriculum Unit (later Curriculum Development
Department (CDD)) and provide materials coordinators for the
national high schools (NHS - grades 10 to 12) to prepare and provide
curriculum-related textbooks and other learning materials for
provincial high school (PHS - grades 7 - 10) and NHS students,
respectively; and
(b) introduce a revised program of preservice and expanded in-service
training for national teachers to improve their subject matter
knowledge, and provide additional inspectors and school
administration staff to strengthen support for teachers; and
2/   The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) mistakenly assigns the monitoring and
evaluation responsibility to the MSU which is actually responsible for
testing. Monitoring and evaluation are the responsibility of NDOE's
Research and Evaluation Unit (REU).



Expansion and Upgrading of Secondary Schools
(a) provide approximately 4,500 new student places in PHSs to be located
primarily in provinces with below average enrollment ratios to
reduce inequities in the distribution of school places and to
support planned expansion;
(b) expand existing NHSs to support a planned increase in enrollments of
about 400 students; and
(c) upgrade physical facilities at existing PHSs and NHSs on the basis
of need, and provide additional science equipment at PHSs to
complement planned improvements in the quality of materials and
teaching.
4.   Prolect Design and Organization
4.1       The Project was very thoroughly prepared in 1982 and 1983 by the
NDOE and was generally well-designed and appropriate in scope and scale for
its time and place. The conceptual basis was clear with its emphasis on
increasing output from the secondary system and improving the system's
effectiveness, and the Project aimed to do just that. The in-service teacher
training component (paras. 5.14-18) under which the Advanced Diploma in
Teaching (ADT) program was developed, was the one major component not clearly
thought out at appraisal.
4.2       It was recognized at appraisal that there was a risk that provincial
commitment to the high school support program (HSSP) under which the PHSs were
to be constructed, would be inadequate in spite of the high level of demand
for schooling at this level. Therefore 50 percent of the construction costs
were to be provided by the national government along with financing of all
incremental teacher salaries for the new PHSs. What was not foreseen was that
many of the disadvantaged provinces where the schools were to be constructed,
would not be able to come up with their 50 percent share of the budgets for
this construction, much less to furnish and equip the schools upon their
completion. Thus the national government was forced at various points
throughout the life of the project to increase its share of funding (up to
100 percent in some cases) of the total cost of the PHSs (para. 5.20). The
new PHSs also had to be furnished and equipped by the NDOE.
4.3       The NDOE also realized that the Provincial Divisions of Education
(PDOEs) probably did not have the organizational capacity to distribute the
various grant funds and the new educational materials, both aimed at improving
educational quality, to the individual schools. Provisions were made in the
project design to overcome this weakness in the short term, at least, by
arranging to forward the grants and materials directly from the NDOE to the
schools, bypassing the PDOEs altogether (paras. 5.8, 5.19, 5.21 6.16 and
6.34).
4.4       During the project implementation period, four provinces along with
five churches established PHSs throughout PNG that were additional to those
being provided under the Project's PHS expansion component. The NDOE



- 4 -
apparently has no way to control this kind of expansion. This led to faster
than planned enrollment increases and resulted in a major revision of the
Project in 1988, when six PHSs scheduled to comence construction under the
Project, were dropped (para. 6.30). The main reasons for this revision in the
project design were that enrollment projections for 1988 had already been
reached and government budgets were more constrained than usual. In any case,
this was in line with the Bank's view by that time, as outlined in its draft
report on the Costs and Financing of Education in PNG (green cover, June 25,
1987), that in view of the then current and prospective budgetary constraints
in the country, enrollments could not continue to expand at all levels. The
report recommended that the Government give priority to primary education as
the most cost-effective type and curtail the expansion of lower secondary
education until an analysis could be made of the employment patterns of grade
10 leavers. (Although the Government subsequently refused to discuss this
report at the green cover stage with the Bank so that it was never officially
published, the report continues to influence thinking on educational matters
in PNG.)
4.5       Weaknesses also continued in the CDD which was responsible for the
Project's instructional materials component. These shortcomings were not
apparent at the time of appraisal of the Secondary Project but have since been
pointed out in the PCR for the Primary Education Project (Part III, Table 1).
(See footnote 1.) Delays in supply of all the planned textbooks and
instructional materials have resulted although in the end, all quantitative
goals will be met (para. 6.7).   As mentioned, the innovative (for PNG)
in-service ADT program for PHS teachers also was not clearly thought out at
appraisal and proved to be much more complicated and time-consuming to
establish than envisaged (paras. 6.18 - 6.26).
4.6       Organizationally, the strong role taken by the NDOE in managing
project implementation, the establishment of a very effective project
implementing unit in the NDOE and the willingness of the national government
to provide additional financing when the provinces were unable to pay their
share of project costs, contributed most to the Project's success.
5.   Proiect Implementation
5.1       The Project was implemented over a period of about 6½ years from
Loan Agreement signing on July 25, 1984, to the date of the final
disbursement, December 3, 1990, although actual implementation had begun well
before the Loan Agreement was finally signed. Implementation thus officially
took one year longer than planned. In 1989, the closing date was extended
from December 31, 1989, to December 31, 1990, in order to allow completion of
the instructional materials component and to provide an additional year of
funding for construction of the PHSs, the ADT program and the various grants
aimed at improving educational quality (Part III, Table 2). This money became
available when the estimated total project cost decreased as a result of
dropping the six PHSs (paras. 4.4 and 6.30). Also in order to use the extra
loan funds and avoid any cancellation, the loan funding share of the total
project cost was increased from 63 percent to 70 percent at the same time.



- 5 -
5.2       Disbursements were slightly slower than planned (Part III, Table 3)
due to delays in both the instructional materials component and in
construction of the PUSs, the latter caused by the inability of the provinces
to meet their share of the costs and by budget cuts in the middle of the
implementation period which caused staffing constraints in the Department of
Works and Supply (DWS) which vas implementing the component (para. 5.20).
5.3       The Project was estimated at appraisal to cost about US$78.5
million. Final actual costs reached only US$70.9 million as a result of
dropping the six PHSs, vhich reduced costs by about US$10 million. An
additional US$2.5 million vas then needed to cover the cost of the remaining
PHS program, materials development, the ADT program end the various grants
during the extra implementation year (Part III, Table 5A). As it turned out,
the Loan covered 70 percent of the total project costs instead of 63 percent
envisaged at appraisal, with the Government end various church agencies
picking up the remaining 25 percent and 5 percent of the costs, respectively
(Part III, Table SB).
5.4       The risks outlined in the SAR included the risk, as mentioned in
para. 4.2 above, that provincial comitment to the building program would be
inadequate; that there would be delays in acquiring building sites for the new
PHSs; and that individual distance assignments in the in-service training for
PHS teachers would be ineffective. In fact, there were only a few delays due
to site problems. The risks of inadequate provincial commitment and
ineffectiveness of the distance assignments in the ADT program turned out to
be very real, however, and for the ADT still have not been adequately resolved
(paras. 6.24-6.26).
5.5       Policies and Evaluation.  The Government's policy to expand
secondary student places was implemented during the project period through the
project components, especially the addition of places at the PHSs end NHSs
(para. 6.2). In addition, a study of longer-term expansion requirements for
upper secondary education took place as planned, and the Government has
attempted to appoint more local teachers to the PHSs and NHSa rather than
expatriate teachers in an effort to control recurrent costs. The monitoring
and evaluation work under the project was undertaken by UDOK's Research and
Evaluation Unit (REU) which was provided with two additional staff 3/ It
was also expected that the PDOEs and the NHSs would be responsible for the
regular monitoring of subsector performance.
5.6       Development of Materials.  The PHS materil  program was implemented
by NDOE's Curriculum Unit (which later became the Curriculum Development
Department (CDD)). Four CDD staff posts for writers of textbooks were
supported under the Project including two for English and one each for science
and social science. At appraisal, the CDD had adequate capacity in
mathematics, although later it became necessary to hire a mathematics writer,
also then supported under the Project.
3/   Two testing officers were also provided to the MSU.



5.7       A decision was taken during project design to use commercial
publishers for these materials, as the NDOE printshop lacked the capacity for
the quality and print runs required, and direct arrangements with overseas
printers would have required additional expertise in layout, etc., within the
CDD. Use of foreign publishers undeniably increased costs, however, and
caused difficulties when the CDD was unable to meet contracted deadlines.
This arrangement did give the CDD access to production expertise and to
pictures to illustrate the books and other materials. It also improved the
prospects for sustainability (para. 7.1).
5.8       Once the PHS materials had been produced, it was necessary to ensure
distribution, most of which had to be done by air freight, a costly business
in PNG. The officers in charge of distribution did an excellent job in
difficult circumstances. They were assisted in their task by inspectors and
others. In most cases, materials were sent to centrally-located PHSs and
surrounding schools then arranged collection of their own materials from the
central school.
5.9       For the English textbooks, a decision was made in 1983 to adapt an
existing Singaporean English text. As this was an adaptation rather than an
entirely new book, it freed a significant amount of money for purchase of
additional English graded readers. In mathematics, when the Project
commenced, books had already been prepared for grades 7 and 8 and project
funds were used to complete the series for grades 9 and 10. However, in 1988
a decision was made to abandon this set of books and instead to adapt an
Australian series of math books. New books were therefore prepared by the CDD
for all four grades, causing the original grades 9 and 10 books to have a very
short life span.
5.10      Slippages also occurred in the production of the adapted science
book manuscripts, partly because the writers were called upon to perform other
tasks in the CDD. In addition, the agreement with the overseas publisher for
these books set over-ambitious target dates and compensation had to be paid by
the NDOE for failure to adhere to the schedules. Also despite the intentions
set out in the SAR, none of the science books was trialled in the schools.
5.11      The social science books encountered the greatest difficulties with
resulting delays in their production when it proved more difficult than
anticipated to secure qualified writers. In addition, the CDD lacked
clearance procedures for the manuscripts to ensure their appropriateness, with
the result that some completed and edited manuscripts were rejected outright.
Difficulties were compounded by the introduction of a new "Philosophy of
Education", personality clashes among key players and a restructuring of the
CDD, all during the project implementation period.
5.12      Under the NHS materials component, one materials coordinator had
already commenced his duties at the time of preparation of the SAR, and two
teachers were recruited in 1986 as materials coordinators from existing NHS
staff. These officers covered English (at Passam NHS) and science (at Aiyura
NHS). The component had barely gotten underway, however, when it was
afflicted by staffing instability and in the end all the officers were
relocated to the CDD in Port Moresby, a move that was prompted by an extension



- 7 -
in 1987 of the CDD's work to include Grades 11 and 12. Problems in
development of the NHS materials were subsequently compounded by the CDD
policy of recruiting only generalist officers able to work at any level, from
primary to senior secondary. By 1988, none of the officers recruited under
this component of the Project was working exclusively on NHS materials.
5.13      Upgrading of Teachers.  It was planned that under the Project, 300
Goroka Teachers College (GTC) and University of Papua New Guinea (UPNG)
graduates would receive preservice training as PHS and NHS teachers (Part III,
Table 4D). Provision was made to send 200 graduates of the two-year GTC
program for PHS teachers, on for another year of training at UPNG to upgrade
their subject matter knowledge before they started teaching. At the end of
the year, which was the first year of UPNG's Bachelor of Education (BEd)
course, they would receive an advanced diploma in education. Results were
disappointing (para. 6.17) apparently due to a lack of sufficient incentives
for the graduating teachers. They preferred to go immediately to work because
of the significantly higher salaries they would receive compared to the
allowances/tuition, etc. they would be paid as UPNG students. In addition,
there was little promotion of the course at GTC and UPNG and no guarantee that
a student might be funded in future to complete his or her BEd. Provision was
also made to send 100 UPNG graduates with degrees in fields other than
education to the one-year diploma program at UPNG to train them to become
teachers in both PHSs and NHSs. Results again were disappointing
(para. 6.17), as incentives paid were low and the graduates could usually find
higher paying, more prestigious jobs than teaching with quicker opportunities
for promotion, better working conditions and less actual work.
5.14      Through the Project's in-service teacher training component, an
Advanced Diploma Unit (ADU) was established at the GTC. This Unit launched
and operated the ADT program. The ADU originally consisted of four long-term
staff in the core subjects who developed materials and taught during the
residential sessions. This was later changed to 10 shorter-term positions
when the program was expanded during the project implementation period to
include upgrading in all 13 subjects in the PHS curriculum.
5.15      The SAR envisaged that trainees would undertake three months of
residential training during their two-year course, by attending GTC twice a
year. During the mid-year residential in July, it was expected that their
regular school duties would be undertaken by preservice GTC students during
their teaching practice periods at the schools. This proved difficult to
organize, however, and the teachers' duties in general had to be undertaken by
colleagues. Some school authorities were supportive while others resented the
ADT teachers leaving for the residential sessions. The end-of-year
residential in November was also unpopular as it took trainees away from their
families over the Christmas period. These have both contributed to the
program's low enrollments (para. 6.19).
5.16      The major cause of low enrollments, however, is apparently the lack
of incentives. Teachers who complete the program do not automatically receive
salary increases and the diploma is not very prestigious when compared to a
degree. To rectify this, the ADU pushed for an NDOE/Teaching Service
Commission (TSC) requirement that all teachers with a two-year preservice



-8-
diploma, would be required to gain a third year of training, that is, the ADT,
to be eligible for promotion. The NDOE agreed to this, stipulating that the
requirement would come into force from 1996. However, the TSC has been
ambivalent about the move which has meant that a TSC order has not yet been
issued requiring the third year of training for promotion eligibility.
5.17      A further cause of low enrollment in some subjects has been
confusion about eligibility to take a course, as some teachers are teaching
subjects in the PHSs for which they have not been trained. It would seem
obvious that if teachers are actually teaching the subject and need help, they
should be encouraged to attend the program, especially if they have no prior
training. However, this causes a wide range of abilities and backgrounds
within intakes, and the resulting high drop-out rate (para. 6.20) may have
come from the pitching of some components at too high a level. This has been
particularly the case in science, especially during the period in which ADT
science graduates were granted credit points at UPNG (para. 6.24). A further
difficulty arose from the fact that early materials were not conceived within
a framework of distance education. The course designers saw the residential
sessions as the main period for teaching and learning, and only as the Project
proceeded did they reorient the materials to put the emphasis on distance
education.
5.18      A series of three workshops were organized in 1988 and 1989 to deal
with these and other problems in an effort to make the program more effective.
These workshops were major events, attended by personnel from all relevant
parts of PNG's education system. Detailed recommendations for improvement of
the program resulted and were put into effect including only one residential
period a year (commencing at the beginning of November and concluding just
before Christmas) and focusing the ADT primarily on subject-matter upgrading
as envisaged at appraisal, rather than on receiving credit toward UPNG's BEd
program or on professional matters. It has now also been decided that the ADU
will in future cease to exist as an autonomous entity, its staff will be
merged with others in the in-service department of the GTC, and its resources
will become part of a common funding pool. It will be a challenge for the
authorities to achieve the best of all worlds within the new framework.
5.19      As planned, additional school inspectors were appointed, trained and
provided with furnished houses, also equipped with simple office furniture.
Funds were also provided to the PHSs and NHSs to recruit one or two additional
ancillary staff to further ease the burden on teachers and allow them more
time for classroom and ADT assignment preparation. It was also hoped by the
appraisal team that this action among others would somehow help decrease the
teacher attrition rate. Ancillary staff allocations were based on K250 per
class and were mailed directly to the schools. Each school had to show how
this money was spent each year before the next year's allocation was
forwarded.
5.20      Expansion and Uparadinn of Secondary Schools.  In order to redress
inequities in the provision of lower secondary school places, PHSs were
constructed under the Project in disadvantaged provinces. Some of the schools
were already under construction under the HSSP when the Project began and were
then completed under the Project. Other schools were completely constructed



under the Project and still others were only started and were still under
construction at the Closing Date. The provinces were expected to fund 50
percent of the cost of construction of the PHSs from their own budgets.
During implementation, however, several provinces were unable to come up with
their shares, forcing the NDOE to fund a higher proportion of the costs, up to
as high as 100 percent in the case of some provinces (para. 4.2). The NDOE
had to furnish and equip the schools as well. This funding problem led to
delays in construction as did minor site problems and violence at some school
sites. Budgetary constraints also affected the functioning of the national
DWS which was responsible for managing the design and construction of the
PHSs, and for several years during the implementation period it seemed to lack
adequate manpower. The DWS was also responsible for construction of the
additional facilities needed at the NHSs to accommodate the planned increase
in enrollments.
5.21      Existing PHSs were uoRraded under the Project through facilities
maintenance grants. The size of the grants were determined using a formula
based on the age and size of the PHSs. This provided the oldest and largest
schools with the largest grants which then decreased down to nothing at all
for the newest schools. As happened with the grants for ancillary staff
(para. 5.19), checks were mailed each year directly from the NDOE to the
schools. The government PHSs were encouraged to match these grants from their
own funds while the church PHSs were required to match the grants. Each
school had to show what it had done with each year's grant before the
following year's checks would be sent out, although if a school desired, it
could save the grants over the years for larger maintenance projects. Funds
were also provided for upgrading at the NHSs which the SAR took to mean
bettering the condition of their communal, workshop and laboratory spaces by
refurbishing and possibly remodeling. This work was also managed by the
national DWS. Also under the upgrading component, science and laboratory
equipment was provided to the PHSs in the form of biology, chemistry and
physics kits and, in the later years of the Project, direct grants to allow
the schools to maintain the equipment items in adequate numbers.
6.   Proiect Results
6.1       The results of the Project are summarized in Part III, Tables 4 and
6. During the implementation period the quantitative objective of increasing
the output of secondary education was met, although some of this increase is
not attributable to the Project (paras. 4.4 and 6.2). Effectiveness of
secondary education was also improved quantitatively although how much the
quantitative inputs contributed to qualitative improvement is harder to
measure.
6.2       Policies and evaluation.  Enrollment expansion took place as
planned; indeed the Government had planned that secondary expansion at the
PHSs would only be enough to maintain the enrollment ratio at this age level
at 13 percent as it was in 1984 at the start of the project (Part III,
Table 6A). In fact, by the original completion date in 1988, the ratio
already stood at 15 percent where it remained in 1990. As mentioned in
para. 4.4, this was due in part to provincial governments and various church
agencies taking matters into their own hands in several cases and establishing



- 10 -
their own schools at the PHS level. It was also expected that the force-out
rate for students leaving grade 8 would decrease from about 21 percent in 1984
to 17 percent in 1988. In fact, and in spite of the Bank's requirement that
there be no grade 8 to 9 force-out in the PHSs constructed under the Project,
the country's overall rate has apparently remained about the same throughout
the project implementation period and continues at about 21 percent today.
The number of PHS graduates has reached about 10,000 per year as expected.
6.3       NHS enrollments have also reached the modest numbers expected having
climbed from 1,600 in 1984 to about 2,000 in 1990. This has increased Grade
12 graduates from about 800 to 1,000 a year. One of the aims for arranging
this increase was to raise the utilization of existing post-secondary
institutions in PNG. There has not been any observable effect on such
utilization, however, and many of these institutions continue to have excess
capacity.
6.4       The study of longer-term expansion requirements for upper secondary
education, made five main recommendations and was widely circulated in the
Government (Part III, Table 6B). Several of the recommendations have been or
are to be implemented including curriculum revision, localization of teaching
staff, higher base-level salaries for teachers and future enrollment
expansion. Also as recommended, the preliminary year formerly held at PNG's
universities for students who could then enter after Grade 10, has been
eliminated and entering students must now have completed Grade 12.
6.5       The number of expatriate teachers in both the PHSs and NHSs has, in
fact, declined over the project period as planned although it is not clear if
this change has contributed to cost-control of recurrent costs in secondary
education. In the PHSs, the percent of national teachers rose from about
76 percent in 1984 to 90 percent in 1990, while in the NHSs the percentage of
national teachers rose from 11 percent to 44 percent over the same period.
Although unit costs appear to have been declining as a result, not enough hard
data is available to indicate conclusively that this is in fact, the case.
6.6       Monitoring and evaluation did take place under the Project although
not quite as envisaged. Most of this work was undertaken by the REU although
it had been expected that the PDOEs and the NHSs would be responsible for the
regular monitoring of subsector performance. The latter apparently did not
happen on any regular basis, however. Unit costs were not monitored by either
group as expected (para. 6.5) and it was impossible to measure student
achievement due to the kinds of examinations administered at the secondary
level in PNG.   These tests are "norm-referenced", that is, graded on a curve,
rather than "criterion-referenced", which would allow comparisons of student
achievement from year to year. Part III, Table 6A, shows the items that were
monitored over the years by the REU.
6.7       Development of Materials and Upgrading of Teachers.  The PHS
materials program is one of the most important components of the Project. The
materials are very visible and have done much to support the curriculum and to
orient it more firmly to PNG society. Specifically, under the Project:



- 11 -
(a) about 440,000 core subject books (24 titles) had been produced by
the end of 1990 compared to the 450,000 envisaged in the SAR
(Part III, Table 4A)). Another 169,000 (11 titles) were still in
the pipeline. It is expected that the latter will be delivered by
the end of 1992;
(b) in addition to the textbooks, about 211,000 English readers, 3,000
supplementary mathematics books, 22,000 supplementary science books,
13,000 supplementary social science books and 17,000 non-core
subject books were distributed for a total of about 266,000,
exceeding the 250,000 planned at appraisal; and
(c) other materials distributed included wall charts, protractors,
calculators and sports kits.
6.8       The English core subject books were among the most successful even
though there were some weaknesses in quality. The books contain many
components unrelated to the life of PNG students which they do not really
understand, caused partly because the books were an adaptation of existing
foreign books.
6.9       More serious is the fact that the English books are widely reported
to be used as substitutes for the syllabus. In the case of weak teachers, the
fact that the book can be heavily relied upon may be an asset, for in this
case lessons are probably better than they would be otherwise. However, it
has also been reported that some teachers who in other circumstances would
have looked around for alternative materials, no longer do so. Insofar as
this is true, the books may have had a constraining effect which would depress
standards at the top end.
6.10      Nevertheless, English teachers in general spoke positively about the
English textbooks and the English readers in the "book flood". They reported
that students eagerly sought out many of the book flood titles and undertook
extensive reading in their spare time. Hard evidence is not available on the
academic outcomes, but it may be assumed that learning was improved.
6.11      Little evaluation has been conducted of the ways the materials have
actually been used in the classroom, or of the impact of the books on academic
performance.4/ As mentioned above (para. 6.6), since the grade 10
4/   The books are only partly aimed at improving academic achievement,
however. For example, the philosophy guiding the writers of the math
books was that:
Education in the future should provide all grade 10
graduates with more problem solving and decision-making
skills. They should be able to apply these skills to
everyday situations and have a more positive attitude to
life.



- 12 -
examinations are norm- rather than criterion-referenced, it is impossible to
identify changes from year to year by looking at examination scores. Some
criterion-referenced tests to compare students' performance using the old and
new books would have been desirable.
6.12      A further problem, with implications for sustainability, concerns
the life span of the books. Although some schools have covered the books in
plastic to prolong their life, plastic is not easily available everywhere and
without covers the books are beginning to fall apart after just three years of
use. Of even greater concern, however, is that in many schools a large
proportion of the books disappear even before they have a chance to fall
apart. For example, in one school visited, by July 1991, only 30 of the 176
grade 7 science books issued in 1988 were still available, less than one class
set. In another school, of 226 books issued, only 48 remained. These two
cases are far from unusual.
6.13      Of course, from one angle the latter picture can be viewed
positively, as it would appear that the books are considered worth having as
valuable possessions. Further, if the books are being read, it may be argued
that they are still contributing to development of the country. However, as
the loss of the books may prevent effective classroom teaching, the whole
purpose of the project component is defeated. This loss is due in large part
to management deficiencies at the school level. Some schools do charge
students for lost books, but such monies usually go into the general school
account rather than to replace the lost books.
6.14      To help in tackling this issue, the NDOE urgently needs a clear
policy on textbook replacement. Reports issued in 1987 (Carmelle Denning's
'Textbook Policy Review Study') and 1989 (Hugh Frame's report on primary
school textbooks) address this matter although no action was taken in the NDOE
until July 1991. At that time, a textbook policy was drafted for later
discussion by the provincial Ministers of Education. Questions of
responsibility for reprinting, restocking and payment still need to be
resolved.
6.15      The main achievements in the NHS materials sub-component were in the
early years of the project when some useful syllabus work in English and
science was done. By 1989, the NHSs began teaching a common English program.
In contrast to English and science, however, the social science officers found
it difficult to develop revised syllabi for their subject, and little work was
done in mathematics. In 1989, the REU prepared an initial evaluation study of
the NHS project inputs. This study was based on documentation available
within the NDOE and some interviews. More substantial evaluation has not yet
been conducted.
This seems to express a desire to reorient the curriculum rather than
merely to achieve greater learning within the old curriculum. Similar
aspirations were behind the strong effort to inject PNG relevance into
the science, social science and English books.



- 13 -
6.16      Also during project implementation, grants totalling K 536,100
(slightly higher than the SAR estimate of K 511,700) for the purchase of
library books were sent to the PHSs. In addition, similar grants totalling
K 176,600 were sent to the four NHSs. Only two NHSs made full use of the
opportunity to upgrade their libraries, however. The other two failed to
provide satisfactory acquittals, with the result that their institutions were
disqualified from further funding and total expenditure on this sub-component
was well below the target figure of K 307,200.
6.17      Upgrading of Teachers.  In the Dreservice trainina component, over
the life of the Project only 47 GTC graduates out of the 200 expected,
actually took advantage of the opportunity for immediate further study.
Similarly, there was a disappointing response to the one-year diploma program
at UPNG to train UPNG graduates in fields other than education, to become
teachers in both PHSs and NHSs. Only 47 students completed this program out
of the 100 expected.
6.18      During implementation, 406 teachers (for 146.5 staff years)
participated in the in-service teacher training two-year part-correspondence/
part-residential ADT courses. Of these teachers, only 121 bad successfully
completed their training by the end of the Project out of the 325 expected
(Part III, Table 4b). Several additional teachers had not completed all their
assignments but were expected to do so before November 1991.
6.19      Almost from the beginning the ADT program suffered from low
enrollments and high drop-out rates. It was expected that 20 teachers would
enroll in each intake for each subject. Early on, enrollments matched this
target but later dropped, and by 1990, only 48 teachers enrolled for the four
subjects offered.
6.20      The high drop-out rate is illustrated in the table below.
6.21      Due to these low enrollment and high drop-out rates, recurrent costs
per student are so far high. In 1989, costs were estimated at K 14,549 per
graduate, over four times the planned unit cost of K 3,433. However, this
figure could be reduced if efforts to persuade deferred students to complete
their studies are successful.
6.22      Although the ADT program has been the focus of some attention from
the REU, it is difficult to make firm statements on its impact. Some
headteachers have observed improvements in the subject knowledge, professional
performance and self-confidence of their teachers. Also trainees have spoken
positively about the program. Other headteachers and inspectors have been
very critical, however.
6.23      Given the diversity of these views, it is unfortunate that a more
thorough evaluation of the program has not been made. Considerable resources
have been devoted to it, and the NDOE is committed to continuing their
support. This commitment is very welcome for project sustainability, but in
the absence of firm evidence on the cost-effectiveness of the program, it is
not surprising that the decision to maintain program funding has attracted
some criticism.



- 14 -
Drop-out Rates from the ADT Course
Number attending residentials                 Total
Intake                    lst      2nd      3rd       4th              graduates
1                       42      36        32       29                   25
2                       76      62        54        41                  27
3                       48      38        32        25                  24
4                       28      23        16        16                  16
5                       42      31        Z5        27                  13
5 (home economics)       6 students took part in new format /a           2
6                       40      34        28        25                  14
7 (home economics)      11 students taking part in new format            -
8                       54      49         -         _
/a  Because of the special difficulties facing women trainees, particularly
mothers, a special structure was arranged for home economics courses.
These courses were operated on a regional basis in East New Britain and
Morobe provinces.  Instead of requiring the students to come to GTC for
residential sessions, the lecturer travelled to the students. This model
was employed for two intakes and then abandoned because of the high cost.
6.24      Several issues affecting the ADT remain unresolved.  The issue of
UPNG accreditation of the program toward the in-service BEd has been
particularly vexed. Since 1985, English graduates of the program have been
given 24 credit points, equivalent to a full year, and social science
graduates have received 21 credit points. Professional studies also gain
three credit points. Other courses receive no credit. (UPNG also gave
science 12 credit points until the ADU decided to simplify the course and
delink it from UPNG requirements.) There has been constant tension between
the need to upgrade the teachers in the lower ability ranges and the need to
meet UPNG expectations for the courses for which it allows credit. The
proposal in the SAR was not adequately thought through, and credit
arrangements have created more problems than they have solved.
6.25      Questions also remain on the use of tutors in the program.  The
recommendation that the ADU recruit tutors arose from a desire to improve
support for the trainees at the school level, and to increase the amount of
learning between residential sessions, especially now that the number and
length of these sessions has been reduced. Tutors are not available, however,
in all areas where needed and this matter needs to be examined carefully.
6.26      Finally, ambiguities persist on the financial side.  Although the
NDOE has agreed to continue funding the ADT for the next few years (NDOE's
budget is completely separate from GTC/UPNG's), GTC is concerned that the
commitment is vulnerable to budget cuts. From the NDOE side, the fact that



- 15 -
the ADT will cease to operate as an independent unit (para. 5.18) will make it
difficult to keep track of precisely for what the NDOE funds are being spent.
6.27      Additional in-service training was provided for senior PHS teachers.
It was planned that 25 such teachers would complete UPNG's two-year BEd
course. In fact, by the closing date, 28 had completed the course and 4 had
completed the first year (out of 39 who began these studies. The others
either failed or withdrew). In addition, 25 PHS teachers participated in a
new librarianship course at UPNG in 1990 and 9 participated in the first year
of a new agriculture course at GTC also introduced in 1990. NHS teachers too
were given in-service training. 10 staff years were provided for BEd training
at UPNG. In the end, 12 teachers enrolled of whom 7 completed the one-year
post-graduate diploma in education course and 3 received their BEds. Of the 8
scheduled for one-year training overseas, only 5 were sent of whom 2 received
masters degrees and 3 diplomas. The reason for the lower than expected
numbers in this case and the high drop-out rate from some of the programs
seems to stem from poor selection procedures which failed to identify suitable
candidates.
6.28      Six additional inspectors were appointed under the teacher support
component of the Project as planned resulting in a full complement of one in
each of the 20 provinces. Inspectors continue to inhabit the houses provided
for them under the Project, although in some cases they are now community
school inspectors, following the transfer of several of the PHS inspectors to
other locations in the provinces. Nine inspectors were trained over the life
of the Project in the two-year BEd program at UPNG of whom 5 graduated, 3
withdrew and 1 had completed the first year of his studies by the closing
date.
6.29      In general, the system of providing funds to the PHSs and NHSs to
hire ancillary staff worked very well and all but a few schools were able to
acquit their grants each year in time to receive the following year's grant.
This component was very popular although it cannot be shown to have helped in
a decrease of teacher attrition rates as was expected (Part III, Table 6A).
Nevertheless, it continues to be a part of PNG's recurrent education budget.
6.30      Expansion and Upgrading of Secondary Schools.  The project component
to expand the numbers of PHSs met its goal, with some help from outside
sources, to redress provincial inequities in the provision of school places.
Part III, Table 4C, shows the planned and actual numbers of PHSs constructed
in the disadvantaged provinces. Six project schools were dropped in 1988 as
mentioned in para. 4.4, an action which was in line with Bank thinking at the
time, while one school was added at Tapini in Central Province. Also during
the project implementation period, nine new PHSs (5 church agency and 4
provincial government) were constructed outside the Project 5/ and most
provincial governments added new classrooms to existing schools. The result
5/   The Government apparently has little control over construction or siting
of schools by the church agencies. The agency only has to demonstrate
that it is capable of running a school and that it will abide by the
Government's rules.



- 16 -
was that overall student enrollments increased from 44,000 at appraisal to
52,550 by 1990 (Part III, Table 6A). As planned, enrollment ratios in the
disadvantaged provinces increased as shown in Part III, Table 4C. These
ratios although higher, are still far from satisfactory, however, with some
provinces not yet even reaching the average enrollment ratio in 1982 of
13 percent.
6.31      Also as planned at appraisal, the NHSs were increased in size to
allow them each to enroll an additional 100 students, expected to increase
overall enrollment at this level by 400. This did, in fact, happen (Part III,
Table 6A). Sufficient facilities were constructed at all four to absorb the
additional students, although at appraisal it was estimated that existing
classrooms would be used while dormitories and staff houses would have to be
constructed at each. The NDOE found though that the schools were unable (or
unwilling) to schedule for the additional students using their existing space
and therefore each NHS also constructed additional classrooms, science blocks,
etc., to cater for the new students, all under the NHS "upgrading" component
(para. 6.33).
6.32      The project component to upgrade existinR provincial high schools
was also very popular. At appraisal in 1984, 88 of the 110 PHSs then in the
system (both government and church) were eligible for the facilities
maintenance grants. This number increased to 100 out of 127 schools in 1988
as the schools aged, although the percentage of schools actually reached
(about 80 percent in both cases) remained the same. The PIU feels that all
schools in the system should have received these grants and that the amounts
should have risen more than they did over the years. In fact, as the church
schools were required to match the funds provided for maintenance and the PHSs
were only encouraged to do so, the church schools had an advantage, although
in some provinces matching funds were provided for the PHSs by the provincial
governments.
6.33      Upgrading costs at the four NHSs exceeded estimated costs by almost
80 percent. The NDOE apparently interpreted upgrading to mean not only the
refurbishing of existing facilities but also the building of new facilities at
the NHSs, based on their estimate of the schools' needs, and in fact did so,
including new classrooms, science blocks, dining hall-kitchens, dormitories
and staff houses. Several existing buildings were also extended and some work
was done on water systems. Existing facilities were, of course, also
refurbished. Apparently the NDOE had planned this work from the beginning of
the Project. This is a case where there was a certain amount of
miscommunication between the Bank and the NDOE as to the scope of a component
as outlined in the SAR.
6.34      Science and laboratory eguipment was provided to all PHSs.  This was
another popular project component. In addition, toward the end of the
Project, grants were sent to the country's 106 vocational centers to allow
them to purchase much-needed home economics, agriculture, manual arts and
commercial equipment for their classrooms. Again no evaluation has been done
to determine the effect of the new equipment on the quality of science
education at the PHSs, but interviews with teachers indicate that the
equipment has allowed them to better demonstrate science experiments to their



- 17 -
classes. It was not clear, however, whether more experiments were actually
conducted by the students themselves. Both the top-up grants for science
equipment to the PHSs and the equipment grants to the vocational schools are
continuing under the present education recurrent budget.
7.   Project Sustainability
7.1       The PHSs and NHSs constructed or expanded under the Project have
entered the Government's regular school system and are being sustained as part
of that system. Schools under construction at the close of the Project have
since been completed. The NDOE is also committed to continuing its support
for the ADT program at GTC and so far is living up to that commitment. The
merging of the ADU into the GTC (para. 5.18) and the possibility that a third
year of training for PHS teachers will become required for promotion (para.
5.16) will also both help to prolong this commitment. Once the Government
makes a final decision on a textbook replacement policy, textbooks will
automatically be supplied in adequate numbers and, in fact, their further
provision is a large component in the proposed Education Development Project
for PNG. The provision of textbooks has been made easier by the contracts
signed under this Project with overseas publishers for their publication
(para. 5.7), which means that further print runs can be ordered directly from
the publishers under the existing contracts. The most visible of the
components under this Project that are continuing to be funded under the
Government's recurrent budget for education are the grants to the PHSs and
NHSs for maintenance, ancillary staff, science equipment and library books.
These are so popular with school staff and students and with the parents that
they are likely to remain a part of the recurrent budget for the foreseeable
future unless serious budget cuts are demanded by forces outside the NDOE's
control.
8.   Bank Performance
8.1       The Bank performed reasonably well during the preparation and
implementation of this Project, although it should have undertaken the project
preparation work itself instead of assigning that task to Unesco. Unesco
apparently did not reach agreement on the project components with the
Government during its 1982 preparation mission to PNG, meaning that the Bank
appraisal mission had to start over from the beginning. A single Bank
architect who participated in the appraisal also undertook most of the
supervision. This continuity is beneficial in many ways, but also meant that
issues surrounding evaluation, monitoring, testing and the studies during the
implementation period did not receive as much attention as they probably
should have (Part III, Table 8).
8.2       Lessons learned.  Several lessons were learned by the Bank during
the course of implementing this Project and preparing the PCR as follows:
(a) programs being newly established with project funding (such as the
ADT and to a lesser degree, the preservice teacher training
programs) should be closely examined at their conception and an
attempt made to take into account all variables that may come into
play, especially, in the case of PNG, incentives for people to



- 18 -
participate. This would not only provide a more accurate estimate
of the costs, but would save endless discussion and disagreement
over details during implementation. Bank staff simply must be
completely realistic in the PNG context over the chances of success
of any new program;
(b) attention must be paid at appraisal to the methods of evaluation and
monitoring of a project to make sure that systems are in place that
will provide adequate and useful data over the life of the project
to allow meaningful evaluation and monitoring;
(c) more educators should participate in the actual supervision of
education projects to look specifically at educational matters.
(Even for educators, hardware issues are easier to deal with than
softer ones.) This not only helps focus attention on important
educational issues but helps the educators to understand the
difficulties of actual implementation which should lead to more
realistically-designed projects; and
(d) the Bank must ensure that appropriate counterpart staff are
appointed as assistants to expatriate implementation staff as
necessary (para. 9.1), in order to build up project implementation
expertise in the NDOE.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.1       Except for two or three years during project implementation when
budgets were very low for education in general, the Borrower performed very
well indeed in implementation of the Project. NDOE management was steadily
supportive, and the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was adequately staffed,
housed and supplied during the entire implementation period. Its place in the
hierarchy of the NDOE was clear. It had a direct line of communication to an
Assistant Secretary and the freedom from bureaucratic red tape (at least
within the NDOE) to do the job. The NDOE recruited a very competent
expatriate working in PNG to head the PIU, and he over the life of the
Project, earned the trust and admiration of staff at all levels with whom he
came in contact. One important step NDOE failed to take, however, was to
appoint a satisfactory local counterpart to the Project Manager, in spite of
his and the Bank's urging them to do so. This means that no experienced local
staff are so far available to take over the coordination of project
implementation in future. The Project Management Committee (PMC) met
quarterly and provided valuable guidance to the NDOE/PIU and the DWS on policy
and other matters as necessary. Consultants were recruited directly by the
NDOE division or department that was going to use their services. The NDOE
was also able to increase its funding share for construction of the PHSs when
it became absolutely necessary, and by sending the grant checks directly to
the schools, ensured that the funds ended up where they belonged, that is, in
the hands of the headmasters and the parents' associations. This bypassing of
the PDOEs didn't, however, contribute much to their learning to assist with
project implementation.



- 19 -
9.2       Lessons learned.  The Government, having learned in the past that
many of the PDOEs are unable to adequately manage education in their
provinces, under this Project made sure that funds intended for particular
purposes at the PHSs were received in full by the schools and then spent for
the assigned purposes. This was done as mentioned above, by forwarding checks
directly to the schools. The Government also learned several additional
lessons during the implementation of this Project:
(a) the provinces, understandably, cannot be depended upon to budget
large sums of money for their education systems even when matching
funds are available from the national government;
(b) the system for distribution of textbooks and educational materials
to PHSs and primary schools should be improved to increase
efficiency and decrease costs;
(c) a system must be put into place to ensure that textbooks and
educational materials distributed to the PHSs remain in the schools
and are not unnecessarily lost to the system. Also a way of
protecting the books to increase their life span should be
established;
(d) book development is a complicated process and much care needs to be
taken by the CDD to ensure that (i) competent staff is in place, on
time, and in the case of expatriates, for long enough periods to
become familiar with PNG and its culture, (ii) decisions on which
books to develop should be carefully considered so that newly
developed textbooks are not then abandoned, (iii) care should also
be taken that books to be adapted are suitable for PNG, (iv) target
dates for submission of materials to overseas publishers should be
realistic and (v) there should be well-defined clearance procedures
within the CDD so that books being inappropriately prepared are
quickly discovered;
(e) PNG students are eager to read if appropriate materials are
available;
(f) a suitable textbook replacement policy should finally be decided
upon;
(g) if some schools are unable to prepare the minimal paperwork or
undertake the actions necessary to allow them to receive benefits
under education projects (in this case, the two NHSs who were unable
to acquit their library book grants), they may have to be assisted
to do so; and
(h) the full utilization of post-secondary facilities should be the
focus of a separate exercise that would look at all post-secondary
institutions in the country to determine if some of them should be
closed and others combined; the hope of fuller utilization should
not be based merely on increasing the number of Grade 12 graduates.



- 20 -
10. Proiect Relationships
10.1      The Bank and the NDOE/PIU had and still have an excellent
relationship with each other. Both groups also have a good relationship with
the DWS, the GTC and the project schools. The problems during implementation
came as a result of the relationship of the NDOE and the Bank with the Program
Implementation Unit of the Department of Finance and Planning (DFP). Partway
through the Project, in a time of budget constraints, the Government decided,
on the recommendation of this Unit, to emphasize the productive sectors at the
expense of the human resources sectors. The NDOE was unable to change this
decision which led to the aborting of a proposed second primary education
project after it had been appraised by the Bank in 1986, and to financial
problems for this Project and for education in general.
11.  Consulting Services
11.1      Very few consultants were actually employed under the Project except
for those who undertook the study on secondary education and the PIU staff
(Part III, Table 4D). Expatriate staff on long-term contracts played a major
role, however, both in development of the ADT program and in the CDD where
they were responsible for writing and/or adapting the textbooks. Expatriates
also teach at the PHSs and NHSs. Many expatriates are recruited locally and
in general they perform very well. Efforts are continually being made,
however, to localize the staff of all these institutions. GTC has made a
special effort to localize ADU staff and has been reasonably successful.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1      The Loan Agreement for this Project contained no special covenants
(Part III, Table 7), a decision that was correct considering the relatively
minor problems that surfaced during project implementation. The SAR along
with the Working Papers provided a useful framework for project
implementation, except that, as mentioned, more thoughtful detail would have
been useful for implementing both the ADT program and for monitoring and
evaluation. More data on the Project's physical implementation than was
strictly necessary was made available to the completion mission although, also
as mentioned (para. 6.1), data showing that quality improved as a result of
the Project was not available.



- 21 -
PART II. Proiect Review from the Borrower's Perspective
13. Introduction
13.1      The guidelines provided by the World Bank for improving the quality
of education PCRs state that they are to be divided into three parts. Parts I
and III are the responsibility of the World Bank while the Borrower is
responsible for Part II. The discussion in Part II provides the view. of the
Borrower and presents an independent analysis of the lessons learned and
should include a review of the performance of all parties during project
implementation.
13.2      In PNG, The Secondary Education Project is more commonly referred to
as Education III. The World Bank mission of July 1991, through a project
completion brief, identified the major issues to be stressed and the
information needed to illuminate the discussion of the issues in Part II. The
Project Manager's report presented to the mission provided adequate data for
Parts I and III.
13.3      This draft of Part II represents the efforts of the Principal REU
Officer and the Project Manager; therefore, the analysis and discussion
reflect their experience and interpretation of the data compiled over the
project period. However, on many issues views from other key NDOE officers
were obtained to provide as balanced a view as possible.
13.4      This report begins with a discussion of project preparation as
negotiated between the concerned parties. Next, it focuses on the design and
organization of the Project followed by the main implementation issues. The
report concludes with a summary statement. Throughout the report, performance
and lessons learnt at each stage of the Project are emphasized and the thrust
of the main points is indicated by italic bold tyve.
14. Prolect Preparation
14.1      Lessons learnt from the Primary Education Project (called Education
II), especially those related to the extensive consultation and negotiations
needed among all parties, were used in preparing for Education III. The loan
request presented to the Bank was prepared by a Review Committee and a Working
Committee. The Working Committee was composed of senior NDOE officers
assisted by UNESCO staff, and visited all the provinces, to identify
subprojects with high provincial priority. The main components of the Proiect
were derived after extensive consultations and neRotiations between the
national and provincial levels of government within PNG. However, failure to
develop sufficiently detailed implementation plans at the proiect pregaration
stage has been found to be a maior concern.
14.2      The need to have skilled level manpower to replace expatriates in
the formal employment sector was paramount in project preparation. It was
noted that despite the efforts made to develop middle and higher level
manpower, effectiveness was hampered by weaknesses in policies for PHS and NHS



- 22 -
enrollment expansion and cost-control, and in subsector planning and
evaluation; by insufficient support for the provision of appropriate
instructional materials and for the upgrading of the national teaching force;
by inequities in the provincial distribution of school places; and by
inadequacies in existing facilities.
Overview
14.3      The Education Act of 1970 states that national and provincial
education plans should be developed. The main change since independence in
1975 has been a shift towards more local control or decentralization of
education. However, experience over the years has shown that there is a
general lack of planning capacity at the provincial and national levels which
has resulted in poor coordination and inefficient use of education resources.
At the national level, the Government has recognized the importance of human
resource development as a stated policy.
14.4      The main mechanism used by government agencies to allocate
development resources in the past has been the National Public Expenditure
Plan (NPEP). However, the problem with NPEP was it failed to encourage multi-
year or sectoral planning because of the criteria it used for funding. PNG's
officially approved approaches to planning have altered substantially over
time. A current example is the simultaneous endorsement of the Resource
Management System and of Program Budgeting. The main concern with these
approaches is to what extent they are compatible and can inter-relate and how
educational planning should best link up with each. Although attempts have
been made to develop improved strategies for planning, it has been difficult
to reach consensus on a national education plan.
14.5      The NDOE Planning Unit's efforts to undertake medium-term planning
for both primary and secondary education have been inadequate because they
focus mainly on school buildings and staffing considerations rather than on
strengthening sector effectiveness. In addition, qualified education manpower
to carry out planning tasks is not available either at the national or
provincial levels.
14.6      As there was no official education plan in place, the original
Education III proposal drafted by the Government in 1982, organized the
project into four sectors-PHS, NHS, College of External Studies 6/ and
management and support services-and planned for implementation to begin in
1984 and run to 1988. The revised proposal covered all facets of lower and
upper secondary education activities as well as new starts. After Education
II, which was aimed at addressing the problems facing community schools,
Education III's aim was to raise the number of students at the middle and
upper levels of secondary education. To ensure successful implementation,
Education III was built into the existing structure of the NDOE and its budget
processes.
6/   Now the College of Distance Education (CODE).



- 23 -
14.7      The overall aim of Education III was to improve the effectiveness of
secondary education so that national manpower could be developed.  This aim
was to be realized through strengthened implementation of policies and
evaluation practices; provision of appropriate teaching materials and
upgrading of the national teaching force; and expansion of school places and
upgrading of existing facilities. The final project included capital works,
equipment, materials, additional staff and staff upgrading.
14.8      The major elements of the Project included the following:
(a) Policies and Evaluation:
(i) study and implement enrollment expansion and cost-control
policies designed to improve the match between the supply of
secondary school graduates and the demand for manpower and
increase the cost-effectiveness of secondary education; and
(ii) strengthen the NDOE's MSU to support improvement in education
planning;
(b) Development of Materials and UVgradinx of Teachers:
(i) strengthen the NDOE CDD and provide materials coordinators for
the NHSs, to prepare and provide curriculum related textbooks
and other learning materials for PHS and NHS students,
respectively; and
(iii) introduce a revised program of preservice and expanded in-
service training for national teachers to improve their subject
matter knowledge, and provide additional inspectors and school
administration staff to strengthen support for staff;
(c) Expansion and Ungradina of Secondary Schools:
(i) provide approximately 4,500 new student places in PHSs to be
located primarily in provinces with below average enrollment
ratios to reduce inequalities in the distribution of school
places and to support expansion;
(ii) expand existing NHSs to support a planned increase in
enrollment of about 400 students; and
(iii) upgrade physical facilities at existing PHSs and NHSs on the
basis of need, and provide additional science equipment at PHSs
to complement planned improvement in the quality of materials
and teaching; and
(d) Preparation for Education IV: This was a Bank initiative and was
aimed at having funds set aside to finance studies and other
activities for the preparation of a future project that could be
submitted to the Bank.



- 24 -
Government Performance
14.9      Having learnt from the Education II Project, the Government went
through extensive preparation for Education III. The Project was developed
through liaison and consultation with the provinces and absorbed the interest
and energy of many people including overseas consultants. Apart from setting
up the Working Committee (para. 14.1), many meetings and conferences were held
at all levels to discuss the Project. This resulted in many changes of
emphasis as major problems of teacher frustration, teacher attrition and
localization were recognized. The resultant subproiects were the ones the
provinces claimed to have the highest priority.
Lessons
14.10     Since independence in 1975, no real effort has been made to have a
coordinated strategy for the education sector as a whole. Although several
attempts have been made, these were unsuccessful because consensus has not
been reached on a national component of an education plan and due to the lack
of any line authority for the entire system.  The situation whereby many
different agents are involved in defining priorities, allocating resources and
determining policies remains. If a nationwide education strategy and
corresponding measures are to be agreed upon and implemented, there is need to
introduce improved mechanisms for sector Rolicv making. resource allocation
and management.  Further. the efforts of the national government, the
provinces and the cooperating agencies must be coordinated, and they must be
encouraged and mobilized to develop workable plans.
14.11     Many of the elements of the Resource Management System which
requires the development of sets of projects and activities in relation to
clear objectives that address peoples' needs and concerns, can help in
planning. More recently, NDOE's move into Program Budgeting, which involves
grouping the Department's tasks into operational categories, allocating
budgetary funds and manpower to each specific operation, establishing targets
and thereby measuring efficiency should also assist in planning. Resource
Management and Program Budgeting approaches are compatible and even
complementary, and their sensible implementation should benefit educational
planning. What is required is a department Policy on how the education sector
should respond to conflicting planning systems.
14.12     The Planning Unit of NDOE, if it functions properly, should co-
ordinate planning as well as collect data. However, so far, this potential is
unrealized mainly because key positions in the Unit have never been filled.
In addition, experienced manpower is limited within the Unit and efforts made
to train appropriate manpower have not always been successful because officers
trained for specific positions are often moved to other positions.
14.13     To ensure that the NDOE coordinates well with other line Departments
in liaising with aid donors, a position of Coordinator of Overseas Aid was
established to be attached to the DFP although located at the NDOE. This
person was to maintain links with the DFP to help define and schedule types
and levels of support. However, this position remained vacant throughout the



- 25 -
life of the Project and funding was later downgraded. Stronaer efforts must
be made to ensure an officer is recruited to fill this Rosition due to the
vital role it will Rlav in coordination with aid donors.
15. Implementation
15.1      The Project, originally planned for 41 years with an additional year
for final disbursements, was extended and implemented over a period of about
6½ years. The closing date originally set for 1989 was extended by 12 months
due to delays in curriculum development and textbook production and to allow
time to draw-down the Loan.
Government Performance
15.2      The unreliable data provided at the NDOE level has made it difficult
to measure the impact of the Project. The system whereby schools forward
data through provincial authorities without proper supervision and checking
for accuracy has not been very effective. While education data are probably
more reliable than those available to other sectors, many problems do exist.
The main statistics on different sub-sectors suffer from problems of
inaccurate school returns and administrative inertia in updating school
returns, and from clerical errors.
15.3      However, the provision of annual Project Indicators Reports by the
REU and the Project Manager's Quarterly Reports made it possible to monitor
the progress made towards attainment of the Project's educational objectives.
Data provided suggest that enrollment targets and graduation rates have been
exceeded while grades 8 to 9 transition rates and student:teacher ratio
targets have not been achieved. Female rates of retention have deteriorated
slightly since 1981, and in some provinces the situation is serious.
15.4      Delays in the recruitment of key contract officers have resulted in
vital tasks not being completed on time. In the case of textbook production,
delays by Department of Personnel Management in approving contracts for
curriculum writers resulted in slippages in textbook production. Further, the
policy of awarding three-year contracts did not help matters because officers
recruited did not have enough time to adjust to the PNG environment before
their contracts expired.
15.5      Funds provided by the DFP were not always adequate to implement
planned project activities and draw-down the Loan in 5½ years. This is why
the closing date was extended by one year. Overall, although Education III
fared well in the budget, its yearly allocation did not grow as anticipated
and it was impossible to make provision for price increases and other
contingencies as envisaged in the SAR. The problem was more serious in the
early years of project implementation when manpower and expenditure ceilings
were imposed by the DFP. The DFP treated proiect activities as recurrent
rather than develooment activities resulting in budaet cuts. Repeated calls
for special consideration fell on deaf ears up until 1989, when DFP became
aware of the problem of uncommitted loan funds associated with poorly
implemented projects.



-26 -
15.6      Due to design weaknesses some of the sub-projects were only
partially successful. For the textbook development component, major problems
were related to how effectively the CDD could develop appropriate books. Lack
of clear direction by Senior Curriculum Officers and lack of funds for writing
workshops also hampered textbook development. Furthermore. although the study
conducted on textbook production hi&hlighted the need to have a textbook
replacement policy, the Department still does not have one. PNG also lacks
capacity and manaxerial experience in the complex areas of book publishing in
the quantities and to the quality required. To resolve this problem, the CDD
on behalf of NDOE entered into joint publishing arrangements with Australian
publishers.
15.7      For the ADT program, although funding commitments remained unchanged
during the life of the Project, the overall success rate has not been
impressive. The original plan did not allow for a Director due to an apparent
oversight during project preparation. Schools and provinces developed
negative attitudes because the course was disruptive to schools, especially
when teachers left for the course in the middle of a busy school program.
Furthermore, problems related to inappropriate distance study materials and
many teachers' inability to do distance study assignments on top of their
normal duties were reasons for the high attrition rates.
15.8      Shortcomings with the fellowship program included faults with the
selection procedures. Fewer than the planned numbers of NHS and CODE officers
were identified to undertake overseas studies and of those selected, not all
were able to cope with the courses. This was evident at UPNG, where teachers
and inspectors failed examinations, and overseas, where officers had to switch
from degree to diploma courses.
15.9      With the capital works program, difficulties of land acquisition, a
poor choice of some sites, inadequate national government funding and the
inability of provincial governments to meet their 50 percent contributions
towards construction costs were the main problems encountered. Slippages were
also caused by delays in assessing tenders and awarding contracts. These
shortcomings were difficult to Put right but national government fundinx for
new schools was increased from 50 to 100 percent which helped to speed up
their construction.
15.10     The more successful sub-projects included the high schools
grant-in-aid program which provided much needed support, especially in
building maintenance, the purchase of library books and science equipment and
the recruitment of ancillary staff. Schools appreciated this program because
they received the grants directly and used the funds in the areas of most
immediate need. However, funds available were rarely matched by provincial
governments and maintenance funds were inadequate to solve Problems at the
older hifh schools.
15.11     Achievements were made in expanding the secondary school
inspectorate, increasing upper secondary enrollments by 25 percent, creating
new high school places in disadvantaged provinces, upgrading existing NHSs,
and providing furniture and equipment to new high schools and textbooks,



- 27 -
English readers and science equipment to all schools. The greatest
achievement is the continuation of the grant-in-aid program in 1991 and 1992
and the likelihood that it will become a permanent feature of the Department
Support Program for the schools.
15.12     Funds were set aside to finance pre-investment studies or other
activities preparatory to an eventual fourth project that could be submitted
to the World Bank. These funds were used to conduct major studies on Upper
Secondary Education and Non-Formal Education plus a short-term study on
Textbook Production. However, severe budgetary restraints imposed on the NDOE
by a new Government more interested in the development of the economic sector
than in the neglect of social services, at that time put an end to future
projects.
Lessons
15.13     There is a great need to improve education data collection.
compilation, storage and management and the retrieval system. NDOE's Planning
Unit has been understaffed and this has resulted in the data collected and
provided being unreliable at times. The current system of collecting data
from schools through the provinces needs to include the checking of the data
for accuracy. The use of high school inspectors or Senior Professional
Assistants to perform this task should be investigated.
15.14     Department of Personnel Management recruitment procedures need to be
carefully examined to ensure that urgently required contract officers are
recruited without delay so they can complete their assigned tasks within the
project period. Some textbook writers/developers arrived too late to really
have an impact on textbook development because their terms of office did not
take into consideration the time it takes to gain familiarity with PNG
bureaucratic procedures and culture. Such speciallv recruited contract
officers should not be placed in line positions. They should be
supernumerary, extra positions established for the life of the Droiect.
15.15     Funds appropriated by the DFP for the execution of the Project were
not always adequate to facilitate its implementation or the drawing down of
the Loan in six years as originally envisaged. This was one of the main
reasons why it was necessary to extend the closing date by one year. Measures
need to be taken to ensure that future proiects are adeguately funded to *Reed
up disbursements and ftenerate much needed revenue for the Government. The DFP
should be made aware of the problems encountered when project activities are
treated as recurrent activities when budget cuts are applied. The proiect
desi&n should have been more thorough and provided detailed implementation
plans for the subproiects developed. The SAR and the working papers gave only
a general outline of the aims and basic strategies and failed to provide
detailed operational plans for individual subprojects. It seems that the
complexity of some of the project activities were underestimated during
project planning.



- 28 -
16. Summary
16.1      Education III aimed at developing qualified manpower at the middle
and higher levels by increasing the number of grade 10 and grade 12 graduates
and by improving the effectiveness of secondary education through the
provision of textbooks, library books and science equipment, the upgrading of
the teaching force, increased support for teachers through additional
inspectors and ancillary staff and the upgrading of existing older schools.
16.2      The NDOE from the outset made every attempt to take into account the
views of all relevant parties in the preparation of the Project including the
Bank and the national and provincial governments. The main components of the
Project were derived after extensive consultation and negotiations between the
national and provincial levels of government within PNG.
16.3      Weaknesses in the development of detailed operational plans during
project preparation were found later to be a major concern. This resulted in
a number of problems encountered in the textbook development and teacher
education subprojects. Further, difficulties of land acquisition, inadequate
national government funding and the inability of the provincial governments to
meet their 50 percent contributions towards construction costs are reasons why
some of the subproject implementation was not so successful. NDOE resolved
some of the problems while for others, due to government priorities and
procedures at the time, very little was done.
16.4      The overall performance of the NDOE in project management and
monitoring was more than satisfactory. The Bank's support for, and
relationship with, the Government was good. The Project was managed and
monitored well as the result of the strengthening of the project management
team. The Project was fortunate that there were only a few changes in project
management personnel throughout its life. The PMC was effective in dealing
with administrative, financial and coordination problems. The Project
Manager's Quarterly Reports and minutes and background papers of each PMC
meeting, forwarded to the World Bank, became the main form of communication
and allowed the Bank to monitor project progress.
16.5      The Project was implemented over a period of 6½ years from mid-1984
to the end of 1990. The closure of the Panguna Copper Mine in 1989 and the
low prices for export commodities forced the Government to reduce its services
and as a result, funds provided by the DFP were not adequate to implement the
planned Project and draw down the Loan in 5½ years. Thus the level of funding
available made it necessary to extend the closing date by one year to 1990.
16.6      The impact of Education III has been significant, especially in the
provision of appropriate instructional materials, the upgrading of the
teaching force and, even more so, in upgrading institutional facilities. Also
important but not visible is the technical assistance given to education
administration personnel both at the provincial and national levels.
16.7      Although the Government is aware of the need to develop a mechanism
that fosters joint decision-making, consensus of direction and rational



- 29 -
funding, so far no such mechanism is in place. In 1990, the last year of the
Project, NDOE began preparation to switch to Program Budgeting in 1991. The
project activities for the 1990 budget were translated into a Program
Budgeting format which was used in the 1991 budget preparations, and ensured
that all of the activities returned to various NDOE Divisions after project
completion were able to continue with adequate funds.
16.8      Finally, Education III after a slow hesitant start, gathered
momentum until the end. The Project was a positive force in bringing about
improvements in secondary education. A lot of people were happy about the
Project. The schools gained a lot because they received grants directly and
lots of textbooks and equipment; governments of disadvantaged provinces
benefited because schools were built at little cost to them; NDOl gained by
having standard designs for high school buildings revised and improved and the
implementation of the HSSP and Education III capital works boosted
performance. The Bank was also happy because most of the Project's objectives
were met and its Loan was drawn-down within a reasonable period.



- 30 -
PART III. Statistical Infotmation
Table Is DiLASD BE LO /SCIDITS
Yecr of
LoanlCredit Title              Purpose               approval    Status                                  Cciente
Primry Iducation         To improve managcemnt of       1980     Closed on   lu term  of quantitative outcome, the Project exceeded
Project (Credit 10671   educational resources;                    12131166   its targets for increased pupil enrollmnts and
Loan 1934-PNO)           assist the National                                  localization of teacher training college staff.
Department of Educetion                             Enrollmut disparities among provinceo  were reduced
improve the quality of                              although pupil retention ratss did not Improve.
primary eduectioni and                              Institution building took place In strengthening of
help provinces increase                             curriculualtextbook development, exaiations  and
the quality of and                                  project monitoring and evaluation, although only a first
access to primry                                    step wes taken toward inatitutionalizing educational
education.                                          planning.  The Project was genrally well tplemented.
Outstanding an  mrging iseos were to be addressed
througb longer-term Bank inolve_mt in a Second Primary
Education Project. Tbti continuity was lost, bowever,
when  the Goverment decided not to scok further Dank
aseistance for the primtry education eubsector. PCR Do.
8966 for the Project was issued by OED on August 30,
1990.



- 31 -
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date           Date            Date
Item                              Planned         Revised         Actual
Identification
(Executive Project Summary)/a   06/18/82                         06/18/82
Preparation /b                    10-11/82                        10-11/82
Appraisal Mission                   5-6/83                           04/83
Loan Negotiations                 11/20/83                        02/06/84
Board Approval                    01/20/84                        03/27/84
Loan Signature                       04/84                        07/25/84
Loan Effectiveness                10/25/84        11/28/84        11/28/84
Loan Completion                   12/31/88                        12/03/90
Loan Closing                      12/31/89        12/31/90        12/31/90
/L Project Brief.
/b By UNESCO.
Comments
Appraisal of the Project actually took place about a month ahead of
schedule although negotiations and Board presentation were subsequently both
delayed. Negotiations were originally scheduled for November 1983 but were
postponed when a post-appraisal mission became necessary and did not take
place until late-October that year. Negotiations were then proposed by the
Bank to begin mid-January 1984 to allow time for processing of the project
documents before the revised Board presentation date in March 1984.
Government officials were unable to come to Washington until February 1984,
however. The revised Board date was met, nevertheless, but in the end, Loan
signing which was expected by April 1984, actually occurred in late July, due
to a delay in submission by the Government of the required external debt
information. Similarly, although implementation was by then proceeding well
and the first withdrawal application had already been submitted, Effectiveness
was delayed by a month, again due to late arrival of the required documents,
in this case, the signed legal opinion.
The Closing Date was postponed by one year when ComDletion waa
delayed following some delays in construction due to budget cuta during the
project implementation period and to provide an additional year of funding for
the various grants under the Project for quality improvement and for the ADT
program. The Loan was finally fully disbursed about a month before the
revised Closing Date.



- 32 -
Table 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Appraisal estimate                0.1   4.9   9.9  21.2  37.0  47.3  49.3  49.3
Actual                              -   2.5   8.3  14.9  20.4  34.0  44.9  49.3
Actual as Z of estimate             0    51    84    70    55    72    91   100
Date of final disbursement        December 3, 1990
50                   ,.
/ 
U   40                                              /
S                                                  /        /
i                                                /3
30                                             /
1                               ~~/ /
o                                          //
n   20                                   /
t//
10 _                          -
84      85       86       87       88       89      90       91
Bank Fiscal Year
planned
actual



Table 4i PROJECT D4PLDMTAT1OU
Table WA  Provincial Hixh School Textbook Developwent and Printing Schedule J.
1984                1965               1968                  1981                     1988                         1969                1990                   Total
Develomp  fiait    Develop    Print   Develop   Print    Develop          Print    Develop      Print      Total    Develo   Print    Develop      Print-  Number       Wueber
P    A    P   A    P      A.   PA       P   A    P   A   P        A      V      A   P    A     P     A    P  A       P   A   P   A      P    A      P A    of ttitesof booka
English            7871 ?    -       IOA   9110-   -   L    -   78   7 98           -      10A   sit-    -   8IA   10
73. -             108    -         a - 6 -  73- 93               -       101 -    -    -   8195-                                          -          -)          4       70
IC       - ioc- -    S C - PC - Ic  -  boC -    -sI9C -A
73 .              IO.D0       -        OD80- 13-9OD                     - IOD-  8190 
I          *~~~ OA9       .OAI&IOA-9    M--A-OA OA-  -  bOA IAM-                                                                                                      1  -4   Go
-91  --96  100-- 1- 98 93-  -  1011 too-  I.
it--                                                                                     -                lA                             U    - A   ?Ajb-  11IAM    .   M          4 
-  -          -~~~ 73-        -    -              a         is 137 - 91 l0   - 
Salem..~~~~~~~~~~~~7-I?    -                                 9-10 8         7-I        -    9  9-10  7                      le- 30   I    -                           4       40
Serial Science     A IA -8     -      A           78    -      IA  Sh   -   9110A  9i1@A  -       78   -    tIC 91118  SA-- I
73 73     -   -   aUy 7 - -                  a   a  - 9110191101 -             73-    - 9110163--951                                                              le      I" 
-7IC-   --K-      C-  - -   IC     7c - - -   SC-I
-13-0..1 -                                  so- - -  OD - 13 - - -  9 -I
Nmbreof ttit e    SI         --6           4      --.7         5  -    - 9          7      -      -    -    4-   -           30 2as -  3        - -       -    4      - -- 
develeped
Numerof tiilea--      -.-8S3 -   -   7   6 -  - Is   8 30 17 --                                                                                       a 3   -              4   24Lc 
printed
Nuber of eer* -              .                     0           120530-   -   105 145 -  - 193  114350 310--  -80- -    -70                                                            -   440
printed ('000)
Note$     pLemed;  A -actual.
La Sumbr refers to grade levels letter refers to title, (voluem).
btom adition, 20,006 caoie. ef lA 91oders Maiths5 were purchased by CO.
Le leve titlee (189,000 booke) have yot to be printed. Ubse printed, the total inb*r of booke vapplied wLill be about 609.000. This does not include the additinaml coples of MRlsb.
social science sd matbetlete booke pmrcee"d In 1989 sad 1990.



Table 43, Enrollments and Graduate&. Advanced Diploma ia TeachingL Course
Enelish               Mathematics                 Siencme              Social Science              Commerce              some Ecoomice              AgLriculture                 Total
Intake  Progrsa  Commenced  Graduated  Cemanc*d   Graduated  Commenced  Graduated  Comeocacd  Graduated  Cowmepced  Graduated  Commenced  Graduated  Cemanced  Graduated  Cemmented  Graduated
No.      Dates      P    A       P    A       P    A      P    A       P    A       P    A      P    A       P    A      P    A       P    A      P    A       P    A       P    A      P    A       P    A      P    A
-  111984-65  40               40  - -- ----         -        -       -- ---                    -       -               ---       -        -- ---   - -   --40  -  40  -
I  1/95-.               21          10       . -   -60  21  60  15 -- - -- --                                                            ---                    -        -60  42  60  25
2   1I1986-67           19            9          ISo           4    75   19    75   13              20            I                                                                         75   16    75   27
3   111967-448          17            4    75   13    75    5                                       16  - - i   IS  -               -75   46    75   24
4   711987-68 -                      -      -                 -      - 12              7      -    -                        16            928-                                 -- Z                           -   16
5   111966-69    75    9    75    4          -    S            2           12           4--                -     -     - 16               S-1 -              -     -                              5   42    75   Is
5A 71198S-90--                 -     -      -    -      -     -      -     -      -     -     -     -      -     -      -    -      -     -      -    6            2-          --                      6      -    2
6   1/1969-90      -   10       -    5       -    -      -    -       -   11       -    6--                -     -      -    -      -     -      -- 19                                      3     -   40       -   14
Total   ''5   L6   115   32    75   361    15   I            75   54    75 5           0 5          0 5               2            2     -     6      -     2      - 1                   32522         25 1
(435 of
Intake)
7   7l1969-900                                                                                                                                         1-                              -2 
a 1I/1969-90             6                       1I                        is1                    7                                                                         12                       Si      -    -
9 1111990-91                                12                                          -4                                                                                              41      -    -
Active as of                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C
12/1/190            S                       23                        IS   3                    1i                                                                                                L-         
Notes P - PeMuned at epprailea.
A - Actual.
During Intake 6 one student transferred from science to agriculture.
During intake S. onsestudent transferred from social science to Eaglish.
During intake 9, two students transferred from matbenstics and one from agriculture all into comerce.
Soem ecomomice etudente in intakas SA &and 7 studied in their nm provincee using en ezperimntual format.



Table 4C: New Provincial High Schools - Numbers by Province and Student Places
(1984-90) L
Provincial high schools                           Total new
Enrollment ratios                                Fully                                            student places
1982        1988         1990       Completed        constructed        Commenced            Total        under pro1ect
Province             Actual  Planned  Actual  Actual  Planned  Actual  Planned  Actual  Planned  Actual  Planned  Actual  Planned  Actual
National Capital       29        25      28       36        1        1        -        -        -        -        1        1       80       565
Oro                    12        14      14       15        -        -        1        1        -        -        1        1      320       264
Southern Highlands      9        10      11       12        -        -        1        1        1        1        2        2      400       518
Eastern Highlands       8        10      11       12        -        -        1        1        2        -        3        1      560       279
Simbu                  11        13      16       19        1        1        -        -        -        -        1        1      160       119
Western Highlands      11        11      11       12         1       1        -        -         1       1/b      2        2      400       408
Enga                    8        13      12       13        1        1        -        -        1        -/       2        1      400       247
morobe                 10        10      13       14        1        1        -        1        2        -        3        2      480       532
Iadang                 11        11      13       13         1       1        -        -         1       -        2        1      480       387
West Sepik             12        14      14       14         1       1        -        -         -       -        1        1      240       216
East Sepik             10        13      12       12        1        1        1        -        1        1        3        2      560       290
Central                21         -      21       23        -        I        -                 -        -        -        1        -        82
Comnission areas /d    -          -       -        -        2        2        -        -        -        -        2        2      400       246
Total PNG           13        13      14       15       10       11        4       4         9        3       23       18/e  4.480    4.153
/a Table showv student places in government PUSs only. While a target for new places to be constructed at church agency schools was
not available, it is estmaated that an additional 100-200 student places have been provided at these schools.
/b Accomplished by blocking up PBSc at Hagen Park, Hagen High and Minj.
/c Zmpim enrolled its first students in 1990 but stage 1 construction was funded entirely by the provincial government.
d Border and other specially designated areas for which PHSs are managed by the NDOE.
/- Six PWSs to be comenced under the project vere dropped in 1989 while a PBS at Tapini in Central Province was added in 1984.



Table 4Ds Technical Assistance and Fellowships
Fellowships
Consultants, staff      Number
months foreign    of candidates          Local           Overseas
Comonents                               Planned    Actual  Planned  Actual  Planned  Actual  Planned  Actual
____ (staff months) ----
Policles and evaluation:
Study on secondary education               9         6         -       -         -       -        -         -
Evaluation (flU)                           -         -        2        2                 -       12        12
"easur_mt (HSU)                             -        -         2       2         -       -       24        24
Subtotal                                9         6        4        4        -        Z       36        36
Developmant of mterials and upgrad ig
of teacbers:
P mS _terials                              -         -        2        a         -      54       4U        75
College of Distance Education              -         -         6       5         -      24       72        60                                            0
PBS teacherst
Presorvice traluing                                -      300      130    3,600   1,404         -         -
Inservice traii                          -         -      354L.   479Lb  1,611/a 2,541lk        -         -
ES  teacbers insrwice trainig              -         -        16      17       120     162       96        90
Subtotal                                          -      630       39      Ml   4.185        216       22S
Project mangmt amn  preparatio  of
futur projectse
Hmaaginmeat                                60       54         -                     -        -             -
Preratil                                  24        23
MCE hadqarter staff                        -         -         -       I         -       -         -       24
Subtotal                               84       107                 .1       Z                          2
Total                                           113      684      642    L231   4.185        252       285
a  Including upgrading for 325 teachers and 4 inspectors and 25 teachers in the UNPG degree progrms.
If  406 tachers were upgraded along with 9 inspectors and 39 teachers in the UPIG degree programs.  In
addition, 25 teachers took a librarianship course in 1990 for a total of 37 staffioutha.



- 37 -
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Table 5A: Prolect Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate /a             Actual
Foreign                   Foreign
Local  exchange           Local  exchange
Item                                costs   costs    Total  costs    costs   Total
Policies and evaluation:
Studies                             0.3      0.7      1.0    0.1       0.2       0.3
Evaluation and monitoring           0.4      0.2      0.6    0.4       0.1       0.5
Subtotal                         0.7      0.9      1.6    0.5       0.3       0.8
Development of matertals
and upgrading of teachers:
Materials develo4ment                1.9     3.9      5.8    1.8       4.8       6.6
Teacher training and support        5.5      2.0      7.5    5.8       2.0       7.8
Subtotal                         7-4      5.9    13.3    7.6        6.8      14.4
Expansion and upgrading of
secondary schools:
Expansion of provincial
high schools:                    32.9    18.3    51.2   19.9        21.7      41.6
Civil works                    19.3    10.1    29.4    8.5        15.7      24.2
Furniture                       1.3      0.6      1.9    0.5       0.3       0.8
Equipment and materials         0.1      0.8     0.9    0.1        1.3       1.4
Salaries                       11.6      6.6    18.2    9.9        4.2      14.1
Other incremental
operating costs               0.6      0.2     0.8    0.9        0.2       1.1
Expansion of national high
schools                           1.7      0.7      2.4    0.8       1.2       2.0
Upgrading existing high schools   5.6        3.8      9.4    3.6       7.6      11.2
Subtotal                        40.2    22.8    63.0   24.3        30.5      54.8
Project management and pre-
paration of future projects         0.3      0.2      0.5    0.6       0.2       0.
Total Proiect Cost                 48.6    29.8    78.4   33.0        37.8      70.8
Front-end fee on Bank loan             -       0.1      0.1    -         0.1       0.1
Total Financing Reguired        48.6    29.9    78.5   33.0        370.9
/a Including contingencies.



- 38 -
Tablj SS. Pro1eet *lnancina
Planned
(Loan
Aitr eet)    Revised /a       Final
Source                          Amount   2   Amount   S   Amount   S            Coments
(US$'000)    (US$'000)    (US$'000)
IBRD expenditure categories:
(1) Civil work.                 20,700   56  15,300  56/  20,640   57  The percent of civil works
80                 expenditures to be financed was
revised at the time of Loan
reallocation to 56S for
expenditures made before June 1,
1987, and 80S for expenditures
made on or after that date.
(2) Equipment and materials      4,100 100,   6,600 100/   5,851   85
100/         100/
85           85
(3) Consultants' services and   2,900  100   3,100  100   5,180  100
training
(4) Salaries for teaching and  18,600  100  21,800  100  17,506   84  Wording in brackets was added at
technical staff under                                               time of loan reallocation.
contract [and salaries
for administrative support
staff under Part J(5) of
the Project]
(5) Fee                             123    -     123    -      123  100
(6) Unallocated                  2,877    -   2,377    -         -    -
Subtotal                 49 300   6   49.30Q   77  49 300   70
Goverent                         26,500   34  12,300   19  17,598   25
Church agencies                   2,700    3   2,400    4   3,997    5
Total Proecet Cost       78500  10   64.000  100  70.895  100
/ May 4, 1988.



- 39 -
Table 6i PROJZCT USULTS
Table 6A:  Direct 8anefits
Start of                Middle of                 Znd of
Project             Prolost (19881 /a             Project
Indicators                                   (1984)          Projected          Actual          (1990)
Provincial high schools lb
Enrollments:
Total                                      44,000           49,400             51,260         52,550
Increase due to new
government schools                            -            2,500               n.a.         4,153
Increase due to increased
promotion rates (grade
8 to 9) in existing
schools                                       -            2,900               600*          600*
Enrollment ratio                               13S              132               152            15S
Percent female, grades 7-10                    362               -                382            392
Examinations and graduates:
Grade 8 to 9 force-out rate                    212              172               222            212
Average score on grade 10
examinationLc                              n.a.                -               n.. nca.
Grade 10 graduates                          7,990           10,000             9,500*         10,140
Teachers:
Student/teacher ratio                          26               27                 26             26
Supply of new national
teachers                                      -                -                380            440
Deficit/surplus of
national teachers                             -                -                246            207
Expatriate teachers required
as 2 of total                                242              132               122            l0
Attrition rate                                  8S               62               10214         n.c
Transfer rate                                   -                -                 627d         n.a
Textbooks:
Number of textbooks
distributed                                   -          450,000            310,000       440,000
Number of supplementary
materials distributed                         -          250,000            234,000       275,000
Recurrent cost per student
(US$)                                       550/1           490L/              n.a.          n.a.
National high schools
Enrollment                                     1,600           2,000              1,814          1,968
Student/teacher ratio                             17              20                 18             19
Nacional teachers as 2
of total                                       112            302                 352            442
Recurrent costs per
student (US$)le                             2,000                -               n.a.
Note: n.a. - not available.
a Original completion date.
fb Does not include permitted schools outside the national education system or international schools.
/c Information not available as criterion-referenced examinations not Admin4stered at this levl in
PNG.
Id As of June 1985.
1982 prices.



- 40 -
Table 63. Studies
Studies                   Purpose as def ined at Appraisal               Stttus                mpact of study and remorks
Upper Secoedary        To detemrmA longer-tsrm *xpansion                COpleted       Ths study sade five r-ec_nndatians and was
gdueatim               requireomnt by reviwtitg the relationship   Itt5                widely circulated in tbe Governsot.  Seeral of
between upper secondary education ard                           the recoemeadations including curriculum revi-
siddle and higher level employmnt to                            sion. locelization of teaching staff, bigher
recomend appropriate expansion rates and                       base-level ealaries for teachers and future
future curriculum options                                       expansion bave boen or are to be implmented.
Tbo preliminary year at  OO' universities has
l*so boon eliminted.
Selected evaluation studies planned:
Teacber attritLon      To aunlyse current teacher policies,  nd         Completed      At least three of the reendations of the
and inter-school       to determine rates and causes of attrition   9/15               Study bhay  been put into effeet, including dele-
tranfer of             and transfers and propose possible solu-                        gation of responibility for tsebahr housin  in
teachers               tions to reduce both                                             ome provinces to the schools themslves for
their better ainutennce, appointunt of deputy
aesistant s*cretaries in *e  PDOZs to look after
the Ps and expansion of promotion opportuni-
ties. There has been no cbhage in the appoint-
m_nt system   bwever, and a decision is still
needed on whether to require a third year of
training before tschbere become *ligible for
Promotion.
Student perforsmne   To monitor and analyze student perforsance   not done             Type of examinations administered in PMG are not
on the Grade 10        on the Grade 10 exaination in relation to                       Periterion-referenced" and therefore are not
examination            such variables s Grade 6  xam results,                          comparable  cross years.
eoclo-economic characteristics, school
agency, scbool location, staff transer
rate, staff experience, and school physi-
cal facilities
Impact of textbooks   To show tbe impact of textbooks on student   To be               This study has not yet bee  unwdrtaken althougb   a
performance and attitudes, and teachers'        undrtakes    report on the project's textbook developmet
use of, and attitude toward, textbooks in    in future          program was Issued in 1986.  The REV plans to
secondary classrooms                                           undertake this study in future after the text-
books bave been in the scbools long enough to
have had an impact.
now teachers           To deteraLme the use and impact of nw            Partially      A small study of science laboratories is underway
teachers who enter tbh  system vith             underway        in one PS
increased subject knowledge and the avail-
ability and use of facilities such as
laboratory equipmnt snd libraries in
relation to student achievement
New ineervice          To show the impact of new inservic               Underway       The ADT program had been monitored continuously
trainiLg progrms       training programs for precticiag Secondary                      by MM *sinc  its inception an  various reco  n-
teachers on teacher subject nestery ed on                       dations made by 30 have been adopted by the
student performance                                             program.
Student progreeaion   To study student progression rates between   Not doe             Thbre is apparently little interest in this
rates                  Grade S and Grade 9, looking particularly                       problem  in the M0. altbough progression rates
at the relationship between Grade 6 *xami-                      have increased slightly since the project began
nation scores and the probability of Grade                      (Table  lA).  Proposals are now being made to
S force-out                                                     extend primry school through Grade S wbere
force-out would then become automatic.
Otbhr evaluation studies undertaken (not defined at appraisal) 
lUS3D fellowehip       To determine how many of these in progrm         Completed      The study shwed that most fellows were education
program                return to teaching                                1985           administrators and that progrm  vas not full.
Pollowing tbh study, the $Db moved to fill the
empty places.
Post-graduate          To dtermine whether the progras was pre-    Completed           The study conclude  that the course being given
diplme in educe-       paring the fellws to teach                       IISd           was too academically oriented and not targeted
tic, program at                                                                        toward teachin.  levisions in the course were
am                                                                                     recommended but. so far, bave not bewe acted
upon.
Impact of the          To determine the *ffect of the Project           Completed      The study shoed that the capital works program
Project on tbh   M     inputs ou tbh  VSe                               log0           wee successful and that tbh  acillary staff
grants were wel  used.   owyer. it also *bowed
that tbh scbools were not monitoring the use of
the funds received wbich were generally doposited
into the schools' general accounts. The study
recoen_ded that seprate accounts be set up for
these funds ad  *e  schools bave done so.
Major tracer study    To analyze mployment patterns of Grade 10  Undeway                This study was suggested by tbh  Sank based on the
of Orade 10 leavers   leavers.                                                          rcomesndations in its report on the costs and
financing of education in PNG (green cover.
June 25, 1957).



- 41 -
Tabl 7: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Deadline for
Covenant           Subject              Compliance            Status
(The Loan Agreement for this Project
had no special covenanta]



- 42 -
Table Si USE Of BANK RESOURCES
Table 8 : Staff lnruta
(staffmonths)
Activity           FY82  FY83    FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  Total
Preappraisal        3.8  19.7/e                                                              23.5
Appraisal                32.8   26.6                                                         59.4
Negotiations                      5.3                                                         5.3
Supervision                       1.2    4.6   4.3   5.2   5.8   2.6   2.7   0.8             27.2
PCR                                                                             0.6           0.6
Total            3.8  52.5   33.1    4.6   4.3   5.2   5.8   2.6   27   1.4              116.0
/a Does not include UNESCO preparation mission.
Table 8B: Mission Data
Stage of                           No. of   Days in  Specialization    Performance         Types of
Project Cycle         Month/year  persons  field    represented la  rating status /b  problem
Through Appraisal:
Identification        1-2/1982      2         24    KD(2)                     -          -
Preparation
(UNESCO)          10-11/1982      4       100    EG,ED,A,S                  -         -
Appraisal               4/1983      6        125    EC(2),ED(2),              -          -
A,OA
Appraisal through        10/1983      1          5    EC                        -          -
Board approval
(post-appraisal
mission)
Board approval            7/1984      1          3    A                         1
through Effectivness
(first supervision
mission)
Supervision               3/1985      1          4    A                         1          Financial
5/1986      1         6    ED                        2          Available funds
6-7/1987      1        10    A                         2          Available funds
6/1988      1        10    A                         2          Available funds
5-6/1989      2         10    A,ED                      1         Trainin  progress
3/1990      1         5    A                         1          Training progress
7/1991/c   2         28    A,ZD                      -          -
l   EC - economist, ZD - educator, A - architect, S - secretary, OA . operations assistant.
/b  1 a minor or no problems; 2 a moderate problms; 3 = major problm.
/c  Completion mission.



