Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
iF LE COPY
ReportNo. P-3746-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$49.3 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
March 1, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Kina (K)
Calendar 1983      November 1983
US$1.00          K 0.833             K 0.833
K 1              US$1.20             US$1.20
K 1 million      US$1,200,000        US$1,200,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS USED
BCL    -  Bougainville Copper, Limited
NMA    -  National Manpower Assessment
NPEP   -  National Public Expenditure Plan
PNG    -  Papua New Guinea



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Papua New Guinea
Amount:            $49.3 million equivalent, including the capitalized front-
end fee.
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description:    The project would assist Papua New Guinea in developing
qualified national manpower at the middle and higher levels
by increasing the output and improving the effectiveness of
secondary education by: (a) implementing strengthened
expansion and cost-control policies and improved evaluation
practices; (b) providing appropriate textbooks and other
instructional materials and upgrading national teachers; and
(c) providing about 4,900 additional student places and
upgrading existing school facilities.
Benefits:          The main benefits of the project would be an increase in the
number of secondary school graduates and improved quality
and efficiency in secondary education. The policy for
enrollment expansion and related increases in student
progression in provincial high schools would increase the
overall number of secondary school graduates from 7,500 in
1982 to about 11,000 by 1988, comprising 10,000 provincial
high school (grade 10) and 1,000 national high school (grade
12) graduates. The implementation of a policy to replace
high cost expatriates with national teachers at provincial
high schools would reduce annual recurrent costs per student
by about 11% by 1988. To improve educational quality, some
450,000 curricula-related textbooks would be provided for
provincial high school students and national teachers would
receive increased training in their subjects of specializa-
tion. To reduce inequities in the distribution of secondary
school places, some 4,500 new provincial high school places
would be located mainly in provinces with below average
enrollment ratios. A further 400 additional school places
would be provided at existing national high schools.
Risks:             A risk exists that provincial commitment to the provincial
high school building program would be inadequate. To reduce
this risk, provincial government participation would be
encouraged through central government provision of tied
grants to cover 50% of construction costs and all financing
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
required for incremental teachers' salaries. A related risk
is that project implementation could lag as a result of
delays in acquiring sites for new schools. To reduce this
risk the Overseas Aid Unit of the Department of Education
and the Department of Works and Supply will monitor site
acquisition, with a view to completing land purchase at
least four months prior to the scheduled start of
construction at a site. A further risk is that individual
assignments planned for in-service training of provincial
high school teachers would be ineffective. This risk would
be minimized through follow-up by school principals, visits
by inspectorate staff and planned classroom sessions for the
teachers.
Estimated Costs: /a                                     Local    Foreign   Total
----- ($ million) ------
Policies and evaluation                     0.6        0.7       1.3
Development of materials
and upgrading of teachers                 5.7        4.6      10.3
Expansion and upgrading
of secondary schools                     30.7       17.6      48.3
Project management                          0.2        0.2       0.4
Base Costs                            37.2       23.1     60.3
Physical contingencies                      2.9        1.9       4.8
Price contingencies                         8.5        4.8      13.3
Total Project Cost                    48.6       29.8     78.4
Front-end fee on Bank loan                   -         0.1       0.1
Total Financing Required              48.6       29.9     78.5
Financing Plan:                                         Local    Foreign   Total
--- ($ million) ------
Bank                                       20.3       29.0      49.3
Government                                 26.5         -       26.5
Church agencies                             1.8        0.9       2.7
Total                                 48.6       29.9     78.5
/a   Import duties or taxes on building materials have not been identified
separately in project costs, since such taxes and duties are negligible.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                        1984    1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Annual                          0.1      4.8    5.0   11.3   15.8   10.3    2.0
Cumulative                      0.1      4.9    9.9   21.2   37.0   47.3   49.3
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4713-PNG, dated February 15, 1984.
Map No. IBRD 17526.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea for the equivalent of US$49.3
million, including the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a secondary
education project. The loan will have a term of 20 years, including five
years of grace, at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report, "Papua New Guinea:  Development Policies
and Prospects for the 1980s" (Report No. 3544a-PNG), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1981. This section reflects the findings of
that report and subsequent economic missions, and draws upon various country
documents and recent IMF work on Papua New Guinea (PNG).
Structure of the Economy
3.        Papua New Guinea is a land of rugged and sometimes impenetrable
mountains, rich valleys and coastal plains, and numerous widely-scattered
islands.  It is favored with abundant rainfall, considerable mineral re-
sources, and forestry and fishery resources of good commercial potential.. The
capital city, Port Moresby, with a population of about 134,000, is an enclave,
with no road links to other parts of the country, and is the largest urban
settlement in what remains an overwhelmingly rural society. Per capita GDP in
1982 was US$820. Despite its relatively high per capita income, however,
Papua New Guinea remains a desperately poor country, where the majority of the
multi-tribal society lives at a level at, or scarcely above, subsistence. The
figures for monetary incomes are biased upwards by the inclusion of the
incomes of expatriates and the value added of enclave enterprises. The
population as of mid-1982 was about 3.0 million, spread among 19 provinces
(with populations ranging from 26,000 to 310,000), each with its own
parliament and separate administrative apparatus.
4.        The modern sector of the economy is dominated by the enclave sector,
particularly copper mining and associated investments, and by the public
sector. In the late 1970s copper, through Bougainville Copper, Ltd. (BCL),
accounted for about 15% of GDP; by 1982 this had fallen to 6.5% as prices
declined sharply and as the more productive veins were being exhausted.
(However, a strengthening of copper prices, together with some devaluation
against the US dollar, brought sharp improvements in BCL finances in the first
half of 1983.) The Ok Tedi mine contributed about 10% to GDP in 1982 (largely
through capital investments which represented more than 40% of PNG's total
investments), thus more than compensating for the decline in BCL; it is also



the increase in investments in Ok Tedi which is expected to have been the
major contributor to economic growth in 1983. Beginning in 1984 as gold
production comes onstream, Ok Tedi's contributions to value-added should begin
to grow to a point where they reach about 12% of GDP in 1987. Non-mining
industry accounts for about 9% of GDP - low for a country of PNG's per capita
income - while government services, heavily dominated by expatriates in the
upper ranks, account for about one-quarter of the total. Strikingly, the
primary sector, which employs about 85% of the labor force, only contributes
about 35% of GDP, a large portion of which is in the subsistence sector.
5.        PNG's growth record has been quite mixed; for the decade of the
1970s as a whole, real per capita growth was negative at -0.2% per annum
despite the strong growth in copper exports. The latter half of the decade
was even worse in per capita income terms (-0.5% per annum), despite some good
years, particularly 1978-79. The terms of trade effects on GDP during the
seventies were roughly neutral with respect to their impact on economic activ-
ity. However, since 1980, real GDP has stagnated - implying a real decline in
per capita income of about 2.4%. In these years the deterioration in the
terms of trade did begin to bite as the Government cut back services and
capital investments and restricted the growth in the money supply to protect
the balance of payments and the value of the Kina. The terms of trade effect
has sharply worsened the domestic welfare picture; since 1979, gross domestic
income has fallen 20% (as compared with a nearly constant GDP). On the other
hand, growth of GDP is expected by the Government to average 6.3% through 1987
(4.0% per capita), largely because of investments (direct and induced) and
exports associated with the Ok Tedi mine. While growth rates are likely to
improve somewhat as a result of the impact of Ok Tedi, continued poor agricul-
tural performance, together with a prudent demand management policy, may
finally result in the sluggish growth which characterized the decade of the
1970s. Although PNG is now actively seeking to reduce real wages to stimulate
investments, this policy - imposed at a time of austerity - may not succeed if
the demand for labor arising from the construction of the Ok Tedi mine and
related activities gives renewed impetus to wage demands.
6.        As suggested above, the economy has been severely affected by the
sharp drop in commodity prices that began in 1980. The price of copper
dropped to its lowest level in 30 years, leading to a fall of K 42 million in
budgetary resources derived from BCL between 1981 and 1982. (Preliminary data
for 1983, however, suggest some improvement.) The prices of agricultural
export commodities have fallen by half since the late 1970s. Lower export
receipts have depressed economic activity and reduced imports. Exports are
not expected to regain their 1979 level until 1984, when gold will begin to be
exported from the Ok Tedi mine. After taking account of the budget support
grant from Australia (para. 18), the current account deficit in 1982 was
US$487 million, or about 20% of GDP. On the other hand, if Ok Tedi associated
imports are deducted, the resulting current account deficit - US$305 million -
was 13% of GDP (and 55% lower than in 1981). With other official and private
capital flows as projected, the expected deficits will be covered without
undue strain on reserves or on the debt-service ratio. The role of the
Australian grant is significant in supporting higher levels of government
expenditures, GDP and imports than would otherwise be possible with PNG's own
resources.



- 3 -
7.        In view of the fact that most of its export prices have been subject
to fluctuations, often sharp, the Government has taken a number of measures to
reduce the impact on the general economy and on the producers of exporl:
crops. The Mineral Resources Stabilization Fund was designed to smooth the
impact of fluctuating copper prices on the budget, and stabilization funds for
coffee, cocoa and copra were designed to reduce the oscillations in prices
received by the producers. While these funds for agricultural products have
had the effect of dampening price-induced supply responses, they have contri-
buted to the stability of the economy. For the most part they have shielded
producers from income declines and, with the exception of the copra fund,
which has had to be subsidized, their total resources are still relatively
healthy as a result of substantial levies accumulating in the late 1970s, when
export prices were at historical highs.
8.        Following the establishment, prior to independence from Australia in
1975, of the Minimum Wage Boards between 1972 and 1976, real minimum wages
more than doubled in that period, giving PNG the highest wage costs of the
developing countries in the region. Since independence, two three-year wage
agreements have limited the rise of both public and private sector wages to
that of the consumer price index, subject to a present annual maximum of
11.75%, thus ending the sharp upward spiral of real wages that occurred during
1972-76. The wage situation was accompanied by a "hard Kina" policy causing
the Kina to appreciate vis-a-vis PNG's major trading partners, which had the
effect of dampening wage demands and keeping down prices of imports (40% of
GDP by value). This tended to offset somewhat imported inflation, so that the
increase in domestic price levels has averaged about 7.5% between 1977 and
end-1982 as compared with the international inflation index of 8.7%. Price
levels over 1981-82 have moderated further to about 6.2%, which is probably as
much a reflection of the fall in business activity as it is of the moderation
of import prices. Prices in 1983 are believed to have risen about 10% with
the devaluation of the Kina along with that of the Australian dollar in March
1983.
9.        Increasingly concerned about the negative impact of high real wages
on the economy, the Government sought to impose a three-year freeze on urban
wages. This measure involved a strategy by which the first five percentage
points of domestic inflation would not be compensated; thus a 5% increase in
the CPI could not be compensated at all, and an illustrative 13% increase in
the CPI would be compensated by an 8% wage increase. The Minimum Wage Board
rejected this approach, however, and decided in favor of full indexation of
the first 5 percentage point change in the CPI, but with no further
indexation. This will result in a 5% real erosion in real wages in 1983,
which complements the Government's efforts to reduce domestic real wages.
These had been allowed to appreciate until March 1983, as parity was
maintained against the Australian dollar when the latter was revalued. The
10% devaluation of the Australian currency subsequently resulted in a 5.5%
devaluation of the Kina against its basket of currencies.
10.       The Government has also responded to its straitened circumstances by
raising taxes in 1982 and 1983 in face of a deflationary situation, lowering
government expenditure by 10% in the latter year, and laying off 3,000 employ-
ees, about 6% of the total public service. The public deficit in 1983 is



- 4 -
expected to reach K 121 milliloL  or 6% of estimated GDP, about the same rela-
tive gap as resulted in 1982.- As was the case in 1982, little of this will
be financed by borrowing from the Central Bank. Borrowings from foreign
commercial banks are expected to amount to about US$60 million in 1983, as
compared with US$100 million in 1982.
Development Strategy and Planning
11.        In the post-independence period a concerted effort was made to
define a set of economic and social priorities according to which government
resources were to be allocated. However, as noted above, more weight has been
given to developing a viable economic strategy and a decision-making process
for the budgeting of government resources than to the preparation and imple-
mentation of a comprehensive development plan. While a National Development
Strategy has been defined and strategic objectives identified as the basis for
resource allocation, these have not represented a basis for a growth-oriented
development strategy as such.
12.        The National Development Strategy instead places a high priority on
improving the quality of life for the rural population, focusing on rural
development in the less developed areas of the country. A second objective is
the development of a few large natural resource projects aimed at reducing the
present, very heavy, reliance on aid and leading towards economic self-
reliance. The first objective recognizes not only the agricultural potential
of the country, but also the fact that for quite a few generations the agri-
cultural sector will be the main source of income generation and employment.
The second objective, while not directly benefiting the vast majority of the
population, is intended to provide a resource base for the financing of devel-
opment programs. Implementation of the second objective clearly entails the
importing of foreign capital and expertise, for which PNG has been very open -
particularly with respect to minerals investments.
13.       To carry out its development strategy, the Government established
the annual National Public Expenditure Plan (NPEP), a rolling four-year plan
for the public sector which focuses political decision-making on nine stra-
tegic objectives and the tradeoffs among them. While the basic aims of the
NPEP are to link the planning process with overall economic policy and to
direct public spending to the activities that have the highest national
priority, its coverage is limited to new projects and forward planning is only
carried out for one year. The first NPEP accounted for only 4% of the 1978
expenditures (K 20 million), but subsequent plans have been covering increas-
ing portions of the budget as government revenues have grown. In the 1984
budget, the NPEP encompasses about one quarter of total expenditures. Imple-
mentation of NPEP projects has been delayed by lack of staff and experience,
but the record is gradually improving. In effect, the NPEP process emphasizes
the management of recurrent costs associated with capital projects, but is
not, strictly speaking, geared to development.
1/   This figure takes Australian budget support into account.



-5-
Development Issues
14.       The major factors which will affect the Government's ability to
promote economic development are the decentralization of government activi-
ties, the ability to achieve self-reliance in both staffing and financial
resources, and the willingness to take new initiatives in policy formulation
and investment in the agricultural sector.
15.       Decentralization, which gives the provinces greater control over
spending, reduces the national Government's ability to pursue its priorities,
while inadequate staffing interferes with the ability of the provinces to
develop their own plans. PNG's topography has made it a country of scattered
tribes, with no great sense of national unity, and a degree of politica:L
decentralization was a necessary response to secessio--ist pressures.  Provin-
cial governments are gradually assuming regulatory anc. financial control in
some areas and will share power with the National Government in others.
Provincial governments are financed through national government conditional
and unconditional grants, national government refunds of certain revenues and,
to a very limited extent, their own taxation measures. Unconditional grants,
which allow provinces to spend according to their own priorities, are by far
the most important source of finance; but, while in the 1983 budget they com-
prised over 70% of the total receipts of the provinces, they amounted to less
than one quarter of total national government revenues. One of the most
serious problems facing provincial governments is the shortage of trained and
experienced staff, and the most urgent priority of the provinces is to develop
the capability for budgeting, planning, and project identification and prepar-
ation.
16.       Self-reliance in PNG involves both availability of skilled manpower
and financial resources. On the staffing side, the Government has made sub-
stantial progress in replacing expatriates with nationals, especially consid-
ering that the University of Papua New Guinea produced its first graduates as
recently as 1972. However, the country still relies heavily on expatriates
for many necessary services. This situation has created a relatively high-
cost government and a dependence on the Australian grant (now equal to about
10% of GDP) to help meet these costs. In the public sector, localization has
reached an overall level of 90%, compared to 80% in 1971, but at the higher
levels of skill, requiring post-secondary education, the proportion of
nationals is still only around 40%. The shortage of qualified staff is
reflected in the existing vacancies in government, and in some departments the
shortages of professionals are critical. The establishment of provincial
governments is adding to the pressures on existing staff, and the policy of
localizing positions held by expatriates adds to the demand for trained Papua
New Guineans. While various training programs have been established to fill
these needs, they have thus far proved inadequate.
17.       The Government's efforts to attain financial self-reliance emphasize
modest but steady and sustainable growth in real public expenditure, accompan-
ied by a reduction of reliance on foreign aid from Australia. Domestic reven-
ue accounted for only about 36% of government receipts in FY68, 60% of the
total in FY76 (immediately after independence); and 69% in 1982. Over the
past seven years, the Bougainville copper mine has been a major source of



-6-
domestic revenue, averaging 18% of the total and reaching a peak of 27% in
FY76, but falling to 6.5% in 1982. While mineral revenues will be largely
restored when the Ok Tedi mine becomes fully operational in 1984, revenues
from these sources may not regain their former share of overall revenues.
Thus if agricultural commodity prices remain depressed, the Government may
well have considerable difficulty in managing a more rapid phase-out of
Australian aid after 1985/86.
18.       The Australian grant, which amounted to about K 185 million in 1982,
was designed to decline by 5% a year in real terms from its 1980 Australian
dollar level over the 1980/81-1985/86 period.  However, because of PNG's
budgetary difficulties, the rate of decline was renegotiated to -1% beginning
in 1983/84, -2% in 1984/85 and -3% in 1985/86. If BCL revenues should improve
to their 1979 levels, the previous terms would be restored.
19.       Capital expenditures (including those financed by external assist-
ance) as a share of the total budget have been relatively modest. These
expenditures doubled between 1978 and 1980 (to reach 20% of the total budget),
and they have remained at those nominal levels - 20% of the total budget -
since then. In real terms, however, government contributions to gross capital
formation have remained virtually constant as a percentage of GDP. While in
the past the availability of the Australian grant, together with substantial
revenue from the mining sector, may have contributed to a certain laxity in
financial discipline in the area of current expenditures (particularly for
wages and salaries), this situation no longer prevails. Even with fairly
substantial increases in taxes over the period (but excluding the Australian
grant) government revenues have stagnated between 1980 and 1983. This
represented an impressive effort in resource mobilization during a period of
declining incomes.
20.       While economic management has been largely sound and a nominal
framework for planning economic development has evolved, the country's growth
performance has been disappointing, averaging somewhat less than the rate of
population growth over the 1970s. Of particular concern is a lack of growth
in the agricultural sector, which will have to absorb the bulk of the
additions to the labor force in the foreseeable future. Despite a great
potential for agricultural development, even with the current world price
situation, investment in the sector remains low, and its prospects for the
coming decade are not bright unless steps are taken to bolster its growth.
The major constraints have been inadequate extension services for small-
holders, a lack of finance, land laws which prevent the consolidation of
holdings too small for economic redevelopment, a shortage of managerial
talent, and legislation designed to encourage the transfer of foreign-owned
plantations to Papua New Guineans, which has been a serious disincentive to
reinvestment. The Government recognizes the gravity of the situation and has
taken some initiatives to improve it, including suspension of the plantation
redistribution legislation, measures to supply management skills to Papua New
Guinean-owned estates, and steps to reorganize extension services. The
country faces a particularly serious problem in the area of coffee. Produc-
tion of this crop has fared better than other major agricultural exports, with
production now about 50% over the ICO quota. Unfortunately, sales to the non-
ICO market bring a price 40% below the ICO price. The Government recognizes
this problem and intensive studies on crop diversification will be undertaken.



-7-
External Sector
21.       PNG experienced huge trade deficits prior to the introduction of
copper exports in FY73. The current account deficit was around one quart:er of
GDP in the early 1970s. Imports were over 50% of GDP, whereas exports were
only about one third as high. Since FY73, however, earnings from copper ex-
ports have dwarfed those from other commodities, and, except for small
deficits in FY75/76 when copper and copra prices fell, the balance on current
account, which includes the large Australian grant, remained positive, despite
large service payments, and reserves of foreign exchange reached ten months'
worth of imports in mid-1979. However, falling commodity prices, a decline in
the copper content of the Bougainville mine and continued inflation in the
import sector have dramatically changed the situation, with the current
account turning from a positive K 55 million in 1979 to a negative K 360 mil-
lion (21% of GDP) in 1981.
22.       The current account deficit is likely to be substantial through
1984, remaining at the same high levels as in 1982, and only gradually
declining through 1986. This will be the case not only because of the adverse
commodity price situation, but also because requirements for the construction
of Ok Tedi are expected to cause imports to grow faster than exports.
Especially with the help of Ok Tedi gold exports and continuing conservative
demand management, exports are expected to begin again to exceed imports and
the resource balance is expected to turn positive by the mid-1980s. PNG is
likely to require an average net capital inflow of over US$200 million p.a.
(in 1981 prices) through 1990, but the bulk of it is expected to come in 1981-
86, when the minerals sector is expected to finance over half of the inflow
through direct foreign investment and borrowing.  If the rest of the capital
requirement is met by concessional loans and through official borrowing on
terms similar to those recently obtained by the Government in world capital
markets, the result would be a small increase in debt service requirements.
Assuming a small improvement in growth rates (to 3.5% p.a.), debt service
ratios would rise to about 13% by mid-decade (the 1981 level was 6.1%) to fall
to around 3% in 1990. Total external public debt outstanding as of December
31, 1982 amounted to US$ 748 million, of which US$196 million (26%) was owed
to the Bank Group. Debt service payments to the Bank Group are only 8% of
total debt service payments.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       As of September 30, 1983, Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea
consisted of 12 loans and 13 development credits, totalling US$259.0 mil-
lion. The first operation was a telecommunications loan of US$7.0 million
approved in 1968; most recently, a road improvement project (US$31.0 million)
and an agricultural support services project (US$14.1 million) were approved
by the Board in April 1983. Project implementation has been satisfactory,
though the first rural development project in the Southern Highlands exper-
ienced some difficulties with recruitment of essential expatriate staff. The
rapid turnover of expatriate staff and the transitional problems of recruiting
and training their replacements led to delays in project monitoring and audit-



- 8 -
ing but physical implementation has progressed approximately on schedule. As
of September 30, 1983, eight credits and six loans were fully disbursed, and
the loans and credits to Papua New Guinea held by the Bank and IDA amounted to
US$241.5 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits.
24.       In recent years Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture with
strong support in education and transport and some lending for energy. The
Bank's strategy for future lending is based on three objectives: (a) support
for more growth-oriented policies and institutions; (b) development of oppor-
tunities for permanent, cash-economy employment based on the substantial agri-
cultural resources of the country; and (c) promotion of human resource devel-
opment. A nucleus estates project and a West Sepik provincial development
project are under preparation.
25.       The proposed secondary education project would assist PNG in meeting
some of its middle and higher level manpower requirements, while improving and
expanding the country's education system at the secondary level.
26.       Disbursement performance on Bank Group projects has been extremely
varied. Shortly before and just after independence, disbursement rates were
unusually high, reflecting the relatively small and simple pre-independence
projects and the fact that they were r1ynaged by an experienced expatriate
civil service. The disbursement rate- for FY83 was 24.0%, compared to an
average of 28.1% for FY79-83. Disbursement rates for selected comparators for
FY79-83 were as follows: Columbia - 22.7%; Philippines - 20.3%; Morocco -
17.7% and Benin - 30.0%. It does not seem possible to determine a trend since
low disbursement years are followed by a high disbursement year, then another
low disbursement year. PNG's disbursement figures reflect periodic disburse-
ments of substantial amounts against individual large projects rather than
steady disbursements for all projects.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Introduction
27.       The major aims of PNG's development strategy and programs for the
1980s are: (i) to achieve financial self-sufficiency through developing the
natural resource base; and (ii) to improve the quality of rural life. An
important objective of the Government in meeting these aims is to raise the
skill level of national manpower to replace expensive expatriate manpower,
which accounts for over half of the higher level manpower in the formal
sector. Weaknesses in the education system are a major constraint to achieve-
ment of this objective; these include: poor average quality of primary and
lower secondary education, low participation rates in secondary education and
2/   The disbursement rate is derived by dividing the actual disbursement
during the fiscal year by the net cumulative undisbursed balance.



- 9 -
poor cost-effectiveness at postprimary levels. The Government has begun to
address thie  problems through a comprehensive development program for primary
education.-   As the next step, emphasis needs to be given to strengthening
secondary education, which supplies national manpower for higher education and
formal employment.
The Education System
28.       Structure.  Papua New Guinea's formal education system comprises
four main levels: primary (grades 1-6), lower secondary (grades 7-10), upper
secondary (grades 11-12) and higher education. In 1982, primary education was
provided in some 2,200 schools and lower secondary education in 105 provincial
high schools. About half of students enrolled at the primary level and two-
thirds of students at the lower secondary level attend government schools.
The remainder attend church agency schools (approved by the Government).
Upper secondary education is provided in four national high schools estab-
lished and operated by the Central Government, or in a preliminary year at the
two government universities, the University of Papua New Guinea and the
University of Technology. In addition, higher education is provided in 18
primary teacher training and technical colleges, and other post-grade 10
institutions. Most lower secondary school teachers are trained at Goroka
Teachers' College in a two-year, post-grade 12, diploma program. The
University of PNG also provides a bachelor's degree in education.
29.       Participation.  The formal education system is characterized by low
participation rates at the secondary level and above. While some 319,200
children attended primary schools in 1982, only 41,300 students were enrolled
in provincial high schools (39,700 students) and national high schools (1,600
students). Of the relevant age groups, about 60% are enrolled in primary
school, 13% in lower secondary, and less than 1% in upper secondary.
Students' performance on standard achievement tests, taken at the end of
grades 6, 8 and 10, largely determines participation at higher levels of
education. At present, about 35% of grade 6 graduates enter grade 7 and 73%
of grade 8 graduates proceed to grade 9. The Government has, however,
recently introduced a policy to increase the share of grade 8 students
proceeding to grade 9 to 96% by the mid-1990s. About 12% of grade 10 leavers
enter grade 11, while 8% enter the preliminary year at the universities as an
alternative, and 60% enter post-secondary (non-university) institutions.
30.       Quality.  The average quality of primary and lower secondary
education is low, with student scores on standard examinations taken in grade
10 showing a declining trend. Quality weaknesses are attributable mainly to
inadequately trained national teachers and a shortage of appropriate instruc-
tional materials. The Primary Education Project (para. 27) is designed to
improve quality through provision of systematic upgrading of teachers and
related student materials. Quality problems are less severe at the upper
3/   The Primary Education Project, assisted by Loan 1934/Credit 1087-PNG of
1981, is designed to support this effort and to strengthen educational
planning in general.



- 10 -
secondary and university levels as a result of competitive selection practices
(para. 29) and use of expatriate teachers.
31.       Administration and Finance.  The Department of Education has overall
responsibility for education in Papua New Guinea. In 1978, however, planning
and administrative responsibilities for primary and lower secondary education
were assigned to the Provincial Divisions of Education. Assistance is being
provided under the Primary Education Project to build up the related provin-
cial capabilities in planning and management. The Central Government finances
the majority of investment and recurrent expenditures at these levels through
provision of grants to provincial governments. Fees are, however, charged at
the primary and lower secondary levels. Financing for upper secondary and
higher education is provided directly by the Central Government. The Central
Government also provides matching grants to assist church-agency schools at
all levels. Expenditure on education, at about 5.4% of GNP and 19% of total
public expenditure as budgeted for 1983, is relatively high and reflects high
recurrent costs at post-primary levels explained by wage levels in the formal
sector: salaries for national teachers are high; and the average salary of an
expatriate teacher is over three times that of a national teacher. Annual
recurrent costs per student are progressively higher for provincial ($550) and
national high schools ($2,000) and the preliminary year at the university
($7,500) due mainly to high costs of teachers, boarding and transportation,
and the relatively low student-teacher ratio at the upper secondary level.
The Government is attempting to lower the cost of education by its policy of
replacing expatriate with national teachers. Despite substantial progress
since the mid-1970s, however, 25% of provincial high school teachers, 92% of
national high school teachers and nearly all university staff were expatriates
in 1982.
Main Issues in Secondary Education
32.       Despite its importance for development of middle and higher level
manpower, the effectiveness of secondary education is impeded by weaknesses in
management policies for expansion and cost-control. A limited expansion
policy, together with quality problems, has contributed to the shortage in
national manpower in formal employment; and an insufficiently strong policy
for cost-control has contributed to the high recurrent costs as well as
limited expansion. Shortcomings in subsector planning and evaluation have
contributed to these policy problems and to quality weaknesses at the lower
secondary level. Insufficient support is provided for the pre-service
training of national teachers at Goroka Teachers' College in subject matter
specialization; regular in-service training is not provided; and teaching
quality is reduced by heavy administrative duties of teachers and insufficient
inspectorate staff. Further, appropriate instructional materials are not
systematically provided for students. Inequities in the distribution of
secondary school places also detract from subsector effectiveness. The share
of the relevant age group enrolled in provincial high schools varies from 8%
in the Eastern Highlands and Enga to 29% and 30%, respectively, in the
National Capital province and New Ireland. Moreover, girls are under-
represented, accounting for 36% of the total. However, this share is expected
to rise gradually as a result of ongoing government efforts to attract more
girls at the primary level.



- 11 -
Government Plans and Bank Participation
33.       The Government gives priority to strengthening its education and
training system in order to overcome the shortage of qualified national man-
power. The main objectives of the Government's strategy for formal education
are to reduce disparities (by location and sex) in access, inefficiencies
attributable to low student progression rates, and significant variations in
unit costs among levels. Priority is given to continuing development of pri-
mary education and to development of secondary education. At these levels,
emphasis is given to improving quality and cost-effectiveness, and to expand-
ing enrollments on an equitable basis. Owing to budgetary constraints and
concern for overall demand, expansion of secondary school places would, how-
ever, continue at a modest pace over the next several years. At the post-
secondary level, emphasis would be given to more effective use of resources.
No expansion is envisaged in the near-term. Emphasis would also be given to
developing nonformal education and training programs, focusing on basic
education and rural skills. The Bank supports the Government's strategy for
development of the education and training system. Related assistance has been
provided through two earlier Bank-assisted education operations. The first of
these projects, assisted by Credit 661-PNG of 1976, focussed on meeting
immediate manpower needs in agriculture, health, and primary and secondary
level teacher training. A project completion report has been prepared for
this project. The project was satisfactorily implemented. However, enroll-
ment and employment targets were not reached, owing primarily to changing
manpower requirements and the insufficient supply of qualified secondary
school graduates to fill places in project-supported institutions. The second
project, assisted by Credit 1087/Loan 1934-PNG of 1981, supports the ongoing
program for development of the primary education subsector (para. 27). The
Primary Education Project is being satisfactorily implemented. It is expected
that future operations would continue to support the development of basic
education, both formal and nonformal, as well as efforts to improve the effec-
tiveness of training for middle and higher level technical and managerial
manpower.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
34.       The proposed project was prepared by the Department of Education,
with UNESCO assistance. A Bank mission appraised the project in April 1983.
Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from February 6 to 10, 1984. The
Papua New Guinea delegation was led by Michael Essex, Assistant First
Secretary, Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4713-PNG, dated February 15,
1984) is being circulated separately. Supplementary project data are provided
in Annex III.
Objectives and Scope
35.       The main objective of the proposed project is to assist PNG to
develop qualified national manpower at the middle and higher levels, by



- 12 -
increasing the output and improving the effectiveness of secondary educa-
tion. These objectives would be achieved primarily through: study and imple-
mentation of strengthened subsector policies and introduction of improved
evaluation practices; provision of appropriate instructional materials and
upgrading of the national teaching force; and expansion of the number of
school places on an equitable basis and upgrading of existing facilities.
Policies and Evaluation ($1.3 million, excluding contingencies)
36.       Policies.  To increase the supply of secondary school graduates for
formal employment and higher education, a revised policy for expansion of stu-
dent places would be introduced. Over the project period the number of lower
secondary graduates are expected to increase by about 50% and upper secondary
by about 25%. To support planned expansion in a cost-effective manner, imple-
mentation of the policy to replace expatriates with national teachers at the
provincial high schools would be strengthened to increase the share of
nationals from 75% in 1982 to a targeted 87% by 1988. Over the life of the
project the annual recurrent cost per student is expected to decline by about
11% in constant prices. The share of national teachers at the national high
schools is expected to increase from 8% in 1982 to about 30% by 1988, although
this would not result in significant reductions in costs per student. In
order to identify the most cost-effective approach to further expansion, the
project would provide technical assistance for a study to review alternatives
at the upper secondary level (e.g., for providing grades 11-12 at provincial
high schools and charging fees), including plans for eliminating the costly
preliminary year at universities. The study would also review medium- and
longer-term requirements for secondary education vis-a-vis manpower demand
(for formal and informal sector employment) and financing considerations. The
Department of Education has prepared suitable terms of reference for the
study. During negotiations, an agreement was reached that the study would be
carried out in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank, beginning in
March 1985 (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
37.       Evaluation.  To improve secondary education policy decisions and to
support effective educational planning in general, revised evaluation prac-
tices would be introduced under the project. To coordinate systematic
monitoring, the Department of Education would be strengthened through the
provision of four additional evaluation and testing staff. Provincial Divi-
sions of Education and national high school staff would be asked to be respon-
sible for the regular monitoring of subsector performance (e.g., enrollments,
unit costs, student achievement). The Department would be responsible for the
continuous development and administration of achievement tests, and would
carry out selected studies, including evaluations of the impact on student
achievement of materials and teacher training to be provided under the
project. Financing would also be provided for the preparation of future
education projects. During negotiations an agreement was reached on a sche-
dule for appointment of new evaluation and testing staff (Section 3.01 (b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).



- 13 -
Development of Materials and Teachers ($10.3 million, excluding contingencies)
38.       Materials.  To improve the quality of secondary education and stu-
dent achievement, the Department of Education would be strengthened through
the addition of four subject specialists to prepare, print and distribute
curriculum-related materials for provincial high school students, including
some 450,000 textbooks. In addition, the project would provide for student
use supplementary and reference materials and library books. To support
expanded materials development activities, fellowships for key staff, a
building for the Standards Division, and additional printshop staff would be
provided. The project would also support improved coordination in materials
preparation for national high schools through appointment of four materials
coordinators for the core subjects and provision of supplementary materials
and library books. The Department of Education has designated staff for new
positions to be established in 1984. An agreement was reached at negotiations
on a schedule for appointment of all new subject specialists and printshop
staff for the Department of Education, and of the materials coordinators for
the national high schools (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.       Teachers.  To raise further the quality of lower secondary edu-
cation, a revised curriculum for preservice training would be initiated, which
would increase time allocated for subject matter training, and allow students
to specialize in one subject area. During 1984-88, 200 Goroka Teachers'
College graduates (pre-service) and 100 University of PNG graduates from
fields other than teaching would participate in a diploma of education program
at the University. The majority of these participants would become provincial
high school and national high school teachers. In addition, to introduce
systematic subject matter upgrading for practicing provincial high school
teachers, six additional staff would be appointed to Goroka Teachers' College
to develop and introduce a program of regular in-service courses in core
subjects. In all, 325 teachers, about 30% of national teachers assigned in
core subjects, would participate in this program during 1984-88. In addition,
25 senior provincial high school teachers would participate in a two-year
bachelor's degree program in education, to prepare them as department heads at
the provincial high schools. A further 18 teachers would participate in
master's degree programs abroad or in subject courses at the University of PNG
for national high school teaching positions. Fellowships would be provided to
support teachers participating in each of the upgrading programs. At
negotiations an agreement was reached on a schedule for appointment of Goroka
Teachers' College staff (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
40.       To support improvements in the quality of teaching at provincial
high schools, the project would include financing for additional inspectors as
well as administrative staff at each school. Inspectors together with school
principals would provide follow-up support to teachers participating in the
in-service training program at Goroka Teachers' College and generally monitor
the quality of provincial high school teaching. Administrative staff would
also be added to each national high school. The inspector has already
commenced his duties and at negotiations a schedule was agreed for subsequent
appointment of remaining inspectors (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 14 -
Expansion and Upgrading of Secondary Schools ($48.3 million, excluding contin-
gencies)
41.       To support achievement of enrollment and graduation targets at
provincial high schools during 1984-88, the project would include the
construction of accommodations for about 112 new classes at 23 new government
provincial high schools for a total of about 4,480 places. These would be
located mainly in the seven provinces with below average enrollment ratios.
It is planned that ten schools currently under construction would be completed
and four new schools fully constructed under the project. An additional nine
schools would be established and would be at various stages of construction by
project completion. The project would also include financing for construction
grants at church agency schools, which would be required to match these funds,
for establishment of about 170 incremental staff (teaching and principals)
positions required as a result of this expansion program, and for the salaries
of expatriate teachers already contracted under the NPEP. The project would
also support the planned enrollment expansion at the four national high
schools through provision of additional boarding facilities, incremental sala-
ries of an additional four teachers and staff houses. To support secondary
education quality improvements, the project would also include a program for
upgrading about 57 government and 30 church agency provincial high schools, as
well as the four national high schools, and would provide science equipment to
meet incremental and replacement needs at all provincial high schools.
Project Management and Implementation ($0.4 million, excluding contingencies)
42.       The project would be implemented by existing line agencies at
national and provincial levels, and coordinated by staff in the Department of
Education. Overall responsibility for coordinating project implementation
would rest with a Project Management Committee chaired by the Secretary for
Education. The project would be managed by the Department's Overseas Aid Unit
responsible to the Assistant Secretary for Planning. Pre-service and in-
service teacher training would be the responsibility of the Goroka Teachers'
College and the University of PNG, in consultation with the Department of
Education. Civil works would be implemented by the Department of Works and
Supply with the following exception: upgrading at existing provincial high
schools would be managed by the individual schools. To support timely
execution of the building program for provincial high schools, the Departments
of Education and of Works and Supply would monitor site acquisition by the
provinces and the Department of Lands with a view to completing purchase four
months prior to the scheduled start of construction. The Department of
Education would be responsible for development of materials, monitoring
project progress and evaluation studies included under the project, and
coordinating studies related to the preparation of future projects. At
present, the Department is effectively coordinating implementation of the
Bank/IDA-assisted Primary Education Project as well as several other
externally assisted projects through its Overseas Aid Unit. An experienced
project manager and an accountant with specific responsibility for the
proposed project would be added to the Unit. A project manager whose quali-
fications and experience are satisfactory to the Bank has been appointed.



- 15 -
During negotiations agreement was reached that the accountant would be
appointed by January 1985. Consultant services included in the project would
support the project manager.                                                {
43.       The project, which would be implemented during the five-year Period
1984-1988, is in an advanced stage of preparation. The design for the
Standards Division building has been satisfactorily completed and bid
documents are under preparation. Sites have been acquired for the two new
provincial high schools for which construction is scheduled to begin in
1984. Bid documents for classrooms and related facilities to be contracted in
1984 are under preparation. Furniture and equipment lists and specifications
are under preparation and would be completed by March 1984 for items to be
purchased in 1984. Proposals for facilities upgrading would also be completed
by March 1984. Terms of reference for the study on upper secondary education
and descriptions of programs of study for overseas fellowships have been pre-
pared.
Costs
44.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $78.5 million equiva-
lent, including the capitalized front-end fee. Local costs are estimated at
$48.6 million and foreign costs at $29.9 million. Investment costs of the
project would represent about 25% of estimated development expenditures for
education during the implementation period. The Government judges this level
of investment to be affordable and appropriate in view of priority gi4v n to
strengthening secondary education. Base costs refer to February 1984-
prices. Equipment and materials imported directly under the project would be
exempt from duties and taxes. Import duties or taxes on building materials
have not been identified separately in project costs since such taxes are
negligible. The project includes 93 man-months of consultant services
(foreign) and 5,583 man-months of fellowships (252 man-months foreign and
5,331 man-months local). In addition, a sum of about US$600,000 has been
included for preparation of future projects. In line with recent experience
in PNG, unit costs for technical assistance were estimated to average about
$6,000 per man-month for foreign consultants (inclusive of salaries,
allowances, and international travel); and about $1,300 per man-month for
overseas fellowships (inclusive of international travel); and $400 per man-
month for local fellowships.
45.       The contingency allowance of $18.1 million includes contingencies
for unforeseen physical conditions of 10% for civil works, furniture, equip-
ment, and materials and 5% for all other categories. Price contingencies were
calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies in accordance with the
implementation schedule, the Bank's experience with educational equipment and
technical assistance price increases and following expected annual average
increases in prices: local - 8% for 1984 and 7% for 1985-88; and foreign -
7.3% for 1984, 6.7% for 1985 and 6.2% for 1986-88..
4/ Date of negotiations.



- 16 -
46.       As a result of the project and the planned increase in the progres-
sion rate for grade 8 students, the share for secondary education in total
recurrent expenditure for education would increase from an estimated 17% in
1983 to 20% in 1988. At the lower secondary level, enrollments would increase
by about 24% over the period 1982-88. However, costs per student are expected
to decrease from about $550 at present to $490 by 1988 (1982 prices), as a
result of the targeted increase in the share of national teachers. At the
national high schools, enrollments would expand by about 25%. At this level,
total recurrent costs, at about $3.2 million in 1982, would remain relatively
c:onstant, primarily as a result of an increase in the student-teacher ratio,
from 17:1 to 20:1 and savings in the average teacher's salary on the order of
1.5% expected to result from the planned increase in the share of national
teachers. The Government plans to absorb the incremental recurrent costs
attributed to the p5rject in its routine budgets, and should be able to do so
without difficulty.-
Financing
47.       The proposed Bank loan of $49.3 million would finance 65% of total
project costs exclusive of church agency financing, including 100% of the
estimated foreign exchange cost plus the front-end fee, and 43% of estimated
local costs. Local cost financing is justified as a result of current financ-
ing constraints in PNG and the priority given to the project. The Government
and the church agencies would finance the remaining costs of $29.2 million.
Retroactive financing amounting to $4.0 million would be provided for under
the loan for expenditures in all categories beginning January 1, 1984, since
work on the project has already begun.
Procurement
48.       Civil works under the project comprise a number of relatively small
iitems which would be widely dispersed geographically. Based on past experi-
ence in Papua New Guinea, these civil works (totaling about $40.0 million,
including contingencies) would not attract foreign bidders unless they operate
Locally. Contracts for the Standards Division building, about half of the new
government provincial high schools, housing and expansion at national high
schools would thus be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding to
prequalified contractors under regular government procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank. The remaining government provincial high schools
which are in isolated locations (estimated value, $8.0 million) would be con-
structed on the basis of competing quotations obtained locally or by
5/   Continuing priority is given by the Government to educational develop-
ment. Total expenditure on education is expected to grow by 3% annually
in real terms during 1984-88. As a result of general budgetary con-
straints, however, expenditure on education as a share of total public
expenditure would increase from about 19% in 1983 to 21% in 1988. Due to
an expected upturn in export-related growth and investment, the share of
expenditure on education in GNP should, however, remain constant at about
5%.



- 17 -
Department of Works and Supply force account by hiring local day labor for the
period necessary to complete construction. Upgrading of provincial high
schools and construction at church agency schools would be arranged by the
individual schools with Department of Works and Supply approval. Recommenda-
tions for awards for all civil works contracts would be subject to post-review
by the Bank. Equipment, and materials and printing services would be grouped
to the extent practicable to form attractive bid packages. Packages estimated
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more (estimated value, $3.3 million) would be
awarded in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for international competitive
bidding. In bid comparison, local manufacturers and printers would be given a
preferential margin of 15% over the c.i.f. cost of competing imports or the
customs duty, whichever is lower. Other items, which cannot be grouped to
form packages of $100,000 equivalent or more (estimated value, $0.4 mil:Lion),
would be procured under local competitive bidding procedures. Miscellaneous
items, in packages not exceeding $25,000 in value, and subject to an aggregate
limit of $0.2 million, would be purchased on the basis of at least three
competitive price quotations. Furniture (estimated value, $2.0 million) would
be procured under regular government procedures. Library books and other
printed materials (estimated value, $1.0 million) would be procured through
direct purchase after negotiations for discounts. Prior Bank review of
procurement documentation and recommended contract awards would be required on
equipment, materials and printing contracts of $100,000 or more. Consultancy
services financed under the project would be obtained in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants.
Disbursements
49.       The proposed loan of $49.3 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of six years. Disbursements would be made as follows: (a) 56%
of expenditures on civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported equipment and materials, and for printing, 100% of the ex-factory
costs of locally manufactured and printed items and 85% of the costs of other
items procured locally; and (c) 100% of the costs of consultant services,
fellowships and expatriate teaching and technical staff. Disbursements are
expected to be completed by the end of 1989. The estimated disbursement
schedule is three-and-a-half years shorter than the average for past education
projects in the region due to a shorter implementation period and the advanced
state of preparation. Disbursements for the expatriate teaching and technical
staff, construction of provincial high schools under competing quotations or
force account day labor as certified by Department of Works and Supply,
upgrading of provincial high school facilities and construction at church
agency schools would be based on statements of expenditure, as would disburse-
ments for library books and local fellowships. Submission of numerous, small
withdrawal applications for these expenditures (estimated value, $35 million)
would be unduly costly for the Government and the Bank. The statements of
expenditure would be submitted quarterly and normally aggregated to amounts of
not less than $50,000 per withdrawal. Supporting documents would be retained
by the Overseas Aid Unit and made available for review, as requested, by
visiting Bank missions. Disbursements against remaining project expenditures
would be made against full documentation.



- 18 -
Auditing and Reporting
50.       The Overseas Aid Unit would establish and maintain separate accounts
for all project expenditures. The Government has given its assurance that
accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound practices and audited
annually in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank, including
separate audits of accounts related to disbursement against statements of
expenditure; and that annual audit reports would be sent to the Bank within
six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year (Section 4.02(c) of
draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
51.       The main benefits of the project would be an expanded number of
secondary school graduates and improved quality and efficiency in secondary
education. The policies for enrollment expansion and student progression at
provincial and national high schools would increase the overall number of
secondary school graduates from 7,500 in 1982 to about 11,000 by 1988,
comprising 10,000 provincial high school and 1,000 national high school
graduates. The implementation of a policy to replace high cost expatriates
with national teachers at provincial high schools would reduce recurrent costs
per student by about 11% by 1988. To improve educational quality, some
450,000 curricula-related textbooks would be provided for provincial high
school students and national teachers would receive increased training in
their subjects of specialization. To reduce inequities in the distribution of
secondary school places, about 4,500 new provincial high school places would
be located mainly in provinces with below average enrollment ratios.
52.       A risk exists that provincial commitment to the provincial high
school building program would be inadequate. To reduce this risk, provincial
government participation would be encouraged through central government
provision of tied grants to cover 50% of construction costs and financing
required for incremental teachers' salaries. A related risk is that project
implementation would lag as a result of delays in acquiring sites for new
schools. This risk would be reduced through efforts of the Overseas Aid Unit
of the Department of Education and the Department of Works and Supply to
monitor timely acquisition. A further risk, that individual assignments
planned for in-service training of provincial high school teachers would be
ineffective, would be minimized through follow-up by school principals, visits
by inspectorate staff and planned classroom sessions for the teachers.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Government of Papua New Guinea
and the Bank and the report provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
by
Ernest Stern
Attachments
March 1, 1984
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
T A B L E 3A
PAPUA NEW GUINEA        - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb      197lb  RECENT  lb          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960-       1970- ESTIMATE-            ASIA & PACIFIC       LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                461.7       461.7        461.7
AGRICULTURAL                           3.8         4.4          4.7
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    190.0       390.0       820.0             1028.6                     2088.2
ENERGY ODNSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        36.0       166.0       332.0              792.8                     1407.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    1932.0       2418.0       3061.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)          2.7         9.8         19.1              32.9                       b5.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                4.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                 10.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EN.                          4.2         5.2          6.5             260.7                       35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND             508.4       555.9        637.1            1696.5                       93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                           40.5        42.0         41.9              39.4                       40.1
15-64 YRS                           56.6        55.0        54.9               57.2                       55.8
65 AND ABOVE                         2.9         3.0          3.3               3.3                        4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                1.8         2.2         2.3/c              2.3                        2.3
URBAN                               15.3        15.2          8.2               3.9                        3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          44.0        41.5         35.9              31.3                       31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          23.2        18.1         14.9               9.6                        8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..         2.9          2.5               2.0                        2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (7 OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..          ..           ..              46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                        100.0       100.0        97.0              125.2                      113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        79.0        83.0         90.0             114.2                      111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            42.0        46.0         49.0              57.9                       67.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          17.0        20.0         20.0/d            14.1                       34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           26.2        19.4         13.1               7.6                        5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         40.6        46.4         50.7              60.2                       64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)        165.0       133.0        101.9              6H.1                       62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         20.0/e            37.1                       64.8
URBAN                                 ..          ..         30.0/e            54.8                       77.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..         19.07W            26.4                       44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(X OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *-        14.0         18.0e            41.4                       54.6
URBAN                                 ..          ..           ..              47.5                       69.8
RURAL                                 ..         5.0          5.0_/            33.4                       29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           28840.0     11630.0      13590.0/f          7771.9                     1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             2450.0/g    1800.0        960.0/f          2462.6                     1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              170.0L/g    150.0        220.0/d          1047.2                      477.0
URBAN                                 ..        50.0        100.071           651.1                      667.5
RURAL                                 ..       260.0        270.078          2591.9                     1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..          ..              27.0                       27.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                3.1           ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                0.7          ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               80.0           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A B L E  3A                                   P
PAPUA NEW GUINEA        - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b         /b  RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960L-:-    1970    ESTLMATE-         ASIA & PACIFIC       LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                    32.0        52.0        60.0              101.2                      105.0
MALE                    59.0        63.0         70.0             106.0                     106.3
FEMALE                   7.0        39.0        54.0               97.5                     103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    1.0         8.0        13.0               44.9                      40.0
MALE                     2.0        11.0        16.0               50.0                      38.6
FEMALE                   1.0         4.0          7.0              44.6                      41.2
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)          16.0        19.4         16.2              18.5                      34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            35.0        30.0        31.0               32.7                      30.7
SECONDARY                          18.0        23.0         22.0              23.4                      16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)              29.4        32.1          . .              72.9                       79.5
CONSUNT ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           2.0         7.2          6.1/d             9.7                      45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           ..          ..         66.5             113.7                     228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP              ..          ..           ..              50.1                     108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               ..          ..          6.5              54.0                      64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        ..          ..          ..                3.4                       2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          1058.0      1257.0       1516.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   41.4        41.3         40.8              33.6                      24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              89.0        86.0         82.1              50.9                      31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.3         5.8          7.7              19.2                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              54.8        52.0         49.5              38.6                      31.3
MALE                               61.2        58.5         56.4              50.7                      49.8
FEMALE                             47.7        44.9         42.1              26.6                      14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             0.8         0.9          0.9               1.1                       1.4
INCaE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..          ..           .               22.2
HIGHEST 20T OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..          ..          ..               48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..          ..           ..               6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..           ..              15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         ..        400.0             194.5                     289.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       275.0              155.0                     184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..          ..             178.0                     519.8
RURAL                                ..          ..          ..              164.8                     372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                ..          ..         10.0              24.4
RURAL                                ..          ..         75.0              41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are populatior-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Indigenous population growth rate is 2.8%; Id 1977; /e 1975; /f 1978; /g 1964.
May 1983



- 22-                                                                                 ANNEX I
DFNT ONSO  SOCIAL IOSICATORI                                                           Page    3   of   5
Mates   Although the dote er  drawn ftra   o-rce  generaly jedged the most athorit-ri- and reliable, it shald als  he notd that they may not hettratao
comparable becnn  o f the lac  of atan,dar :deddeiiiosad.concepts.  -d by diffeI-Irent . conries in colct     the dat.   The.daa ar * nenhbeea, ane.1tano
otecribe order  or. nagoitde , od ica_o tr_dn,ad characeizeI certain major difterenee   hoteecoatre
8,orfrnc   ruaat   1   h  naae c--ory Eroupof the nabje-  ....ctry and (2) a cu...cry group aith aeehet higher a-rage Incom  then she r-ntry geoap of the
tabjct  oanry  oncet fr nlgA,_om'. 0Iiitpreagtoup ehete  tMldde tor-s  Nuorth Africa end Middle  Esint Is chaset beoann  of stonersi-ralteeei
hfiile)    nthe rfetene   gconl,p date ihe  -aecgea are papulati-t wighted arithtaaio meaaa for each indicator and uh.- only ehet  Jajeiy of the enantele  in a
groap h.n dat  for  ha  i-iaa           ic  the caerge of ceretis aI og the indi-atar  depetnis en the  -eilebility of data aad Ia set anif-, weaies uta  he
-neei-d in relngaeagso            ioeldicator to another.  These averges  -r  only aaetli tom-pnring the -1ls  of one iadiater It Itfe amoNg the ueautey end
rfereore groaps.         rg.  o
AREA (thoaneod  qk.m.)                                                                             Peeulaito- pe      yicigae-  np~Ulties dlided hy nasher of pratining
Total - Totu  lsuface area              1.rtg  ad area and iuIuud eatera; 1960,                    phscasqeite   rmamdina1 sehu1 t    -as  aieriny leel
1970 and 1980 data.                                                                           P..uLotiien ear tensl   Person - Pepletion dtvided by asharatpaseg
WAgriultr1 - Etittnat  of agri-tc-ur   are  used t-perarily or perm-etly                          maead  eaegrdae" uss  assistoIt . no"e   pretiea  nme  end
for crepe, pat-rea  market and kiecrhe. gardeoa or to Ie. fallen;I 190,daagani ':iae.
197  and 1900 data.                                                                           PaplienprtnielMd- tana1. arbea, and rural - Population (tete.1
arbor, and rura)dioldd  bthir repective ohr of hespite1 bada
GNP Pit CAPITA (US$) - GMP pet ca.pita  -ais-t         atcretmrket pricen,                           -nslabie In publir and prIate general and specielisd hspitol and
cer bae    ysm  covrnio.thnod as Wacid tack Atlen (1979-81 basis);                           rehhliaimetew              Zopitals  -e  estahiisheets permaatlp stffed
1960, 1970, end 1981 dor.-b  as leastone physician.  Estebliah.etn  preiding prineipelly rastdia1
care  r   u I -includd.      o  hopial. h'wer  ia"Iad  hesith cad
tENtRrY CONSUOIMPI  PtE  CAPITA -Avulappwo   onuyion of cammri-a1                                    medica-   etesI   a  permw-ly steffad by ephysician (hut by e   milua1
pIIe neg   ca  end lignite, petrolen, eatrol gas and hydra-, nula                        essot,tm,  iwf, et.) whih offer iu-petist  -atsdatien and
endgethema  elctIciy)Iu kilograma of coaI equivalen  Per -pita;                             pvdI  ilidrnE o  medica  ftaillitte.  Par atetistirmj purpema
1960, 1970,..ad 1980 deit.                                                                         arhuthospitalt iwniuds WO. priipe1/general hospitals, and rural
.optitl, l-u  or rare1 hospitals and medicl-  end seterity testrs.
p0Pff.AlIONf AND flTAL STATISTICS                                                                     pcieliwed henpitels ar  ivauded aaly under total.
fetal Poenlatiow. Md-Tear (th-uada) - A. of J.iy I; 1960, 1970,. ad 19ff                         udissot  pe PI, oopital te  - Total nmbet of adisostoo  dtscheegea
dato.                                                                                            from  haspinela dIvided by the usher at beds.
Irben  opuietIco (percentr of rtal) -   Iiavi  of arbuo to total popltlilt;
difIffeen  det iuitln   of urhbearanm pffect comparbility of dara                           HOffSING
amog tautten  lOi,1970, and 1981 data.                                                  ArrgSewo  Iueheld -122 (              PEreIu---e hubld)     ae.ub       n   oa
vurala.iuu P,ojecc....                                                                             - A huueld  iuteti  of agrop of individne Ia shehar   li En  qsrier
PapIrniocieti  year 2000 - Curret poplatotplrojctict-ae              don 1980                    and termi  mels   Ahrder or ledger may ur may ne  he iwudd  Is
toa   oplto  byaeno   onud' theIvor ty Iad-eriIt                                       rh. househld fo   totiticel purposes.
leesaeno    fa  uetnya   it  tcaao    ibuncyspro   esn  per room  tt elig -b                                           urhon, oaf...r.rel ocrapd ooae1ensiaaa         b
oplcu Iur...   locai, fud  omal  IferpctI         yuthlaiga  77.5"                            doollinga, r-pecti-ely.   .Inliiigt eaclde ne-permaet  treturma sad
yer.The par  'rtesfr fetlt   at   lohv  thrt leel                                         aec- apiod porte.
nmaming decline In ferility accorlding to intone leve  and peat family                      Accoaato iletricity (ecu   ofj2deeliteg    -  total  urban  and mea  -
P,aunig prfrate   ic  coutey La the- aaaigued ate of rhenwuine                                ConvrtiEua   welng ith ;  ele iriaty in lInin   qauteremprtntg
to.b. atlon  of surta,lty an  fertilitry trends tar peojeonion purponwa.                      Of totl, ur .uiad rural dwell logs .  remei-ely.
statiooovy yPuPLatln-o         s .Itationery ypalat.i-n theetsoroh
t-tuce the birthrate In equal to the death r-i, adal   the ago                           EDUCATION
ntue "ermioso aa.TIs  sahee   nyaftor ferility ratoa                                  fAdJoted Enr1lim.ot tatIIs
decline to ehe repinc..ent level of hni   e    ruat     rate,  he-                            Primry scel- toa,  male and fesa.Ir - Grams tota, male and fesalo
oath gene.ratiou of oome  rploe  itel    ety. ITe  tottot..ry                                   etoletatalae   ttthe yrissey 1ere  amIec fagsa  repe-im
poyleton  iressesimated on the hauls of the projected fha-tara-                           primay nhoal-age         1 pouaions; normally iatludes ehildren  Sgd h-il
Inio   of tho pcylatl~ou io the yto  2000, and tIe rote of danIiln  of                          years hutadjusted fur dfl tret lengths of primary IdnToase; far
f     Itliyrte h rwple......t leve.                                                       -uuetries withunera  edaties  -erlm-n  may enosed 100 peegat
Tearutalonoy voalo Ian is rnhbd - OTho year ohoo tonoicoa.ry                               str  tm   "Piy"  aro ho"' arehoo    he officialI bhoot age.-
pplto niew Will he veau.hed.                                                            Oroda...      el    onl maleand t          Io   - Competed am shov; mrendary
popolatiet lenoity                                                                                   edui..a,reoie t best four years tf approved primary iagtrsotfas;
mid - a   IPopLatiotPv  q..r. kll..otate  (Ii0 boctare) of                                provides  etou   toativ           ,,oreah,r trloinig ienssoafer
ifti? %; Sti 19702, -Aa 198  dta                                                          porilsonua11y of 12 to 17 yearn of age;  --repondeIc c-oI ssIor
ft   I    .,uxyPf.                                   . 1860'180 anri90 dae-                   Ewegaa  enrly en   prato   sotay      oainllsiai
hA yare),  od inred  (y yman wadnear)em peuencoos atmOd-pst             eiy  r n  dapsetmansr at  Ifeaesddarp  istuon...t-               .ttt
pril-ie.  160,  1970,"ad19   aa                                                            ai-.ea  ratio - eiey   n   sa r      Tonl stdi et spr                 ledi
pearL popuato  Icr0 1970,-hi 1940-1 dU anId70                                                                                                            tdrsoninllvIs
pernetin Gowt Mae (prrec)    nabaa- aIIual greoth tote  of erb,sa                     Adl  iere   ae(eras  -Ltet  aat   sIn  oe                          n   wt)a
peporlanun  Oarr  Rlb-l 19 rO,oaf190MI                                                             perenae  t  oaladl pod tenagd15yer  and eas.   h
Crade ti-b0ae     Iy ieed)   -- A a  line hirtbm  per thonIad at mid-
yerpeplatin  190.190,sa  1991 Ct.CONSUMfPTION
CaadZ tu-th Mane -prruad) -1anua  death  ro thonead at mid-year                                  Passenger Car  (per theand pproelsiot  - Passenger, tars tomo    motor
pwpnlomlwn; (980  1970, and 1991 da.-                                                            oars msting lassthe  eih-esm; incldes ashalasn, hearsas snd
Gr-  SpI. ti-  teto- A-eWg  nnb-r of daughters aIun             I bea  to                    silitoe   t-hiol1a
activ-perod ifaeaperewt  pesm   ag-arifle                                            Badia Reeter  (Pr thousan  poulasIoa  - Al sa a1- tl              i ractn     for r.indt
fayi..c  vane; sously fin-yas   a-aeo  ending in 1980. 1970, sad                                hbuwaa  ognrl  pthi  pe  hu d at popuLane; aneade  ea
1981.                                                                                           Ii-mend  -eaevae   in. e trias  sad ia years ah.. rngisarstin of radio
reall  Piawine -derarorm. ousol(thouands)- Annal abr of a-teapat                    ete ems in effect; data feer .. oa  year may sat he tmparoble mica mot
of bn-i-nosrelArnves  nde  tuPitr  of uan i fmily ptmaing                              emmtri  uheliahed lirensing.
peng_a                                                                                        TVMacrivers (perth-nead peeloties) -;TV emneIver- fa hremdwest to
yam-ily Plawebne - O..rs (eretu   srloleeu  -Prrt    of marrid                                     gwrol poli  per thousand popelattin; .neI.d.  oIIsosed TVtr-ci-er
Iuto   f -rhilg-evn   age   1-  p.-rt)  -i  a-  hlrc--cnae1 derice  toIn  -nties and itoyears  hcrgerro   of Tc set  -u  to sttmnt.
al  mrIedecaIvtnae groat.                                                                   Moaav   iclto    prtasn    naate                       hawe the  -t-rge
POOD AND gUTRIT1Ot                                                                                   cicito,f~a1   eea   eaetnepaper, defited a   periedlal
le,desa   ydFoaho   a P          arlc  (16-7.)0             e  Of per capita                        yubtliati   d-a-td primeily tc recordIng geoIa  neat   It Is ..n.ida...d
-Ise  pred-cIuno   lllu t.    oiia.   rdntta - -la  seed  Pan                                   to he 'doily" if it apper. at leas  fou  times aIek
fas  sd "   n we welnka  year heas.  Iseedtiuia  coe  primary geeds (e.g.                     Cinem  Annual  itendawe per Canto Per leer- Based It the nambe  at
sagerren    ehad at sua)bth se  edibla sad a--ta. sreaeI.g.                                 - thkets sold during the year, inclding odissian  tc driv-in oin-a  and
coff wead na   r   ninde).  aggregat  Proudwetn nof eah weaty Is                                mobile auts.
hamd  o ntiesisnsgeprduca  price nelghtn  198f1O5. 1970, asd 1991
Pead-: t,oi  soaly ofa   lra  (nep a   fralrao)- CaPs4tad tramTotal Labor Porce (thousands) -  unoialymti- persons, isoodiag seem
smg    giaetofIwtfndsnke   vilbei   -a ry Per -pi- per                                 to rte  aad anaplayd but enoludIng hoom-i-ma, std.nts, Itmn, novrin
fa-y     A. fltlsMl   Lepieasi         mtcp ntn,IsPari  les                                      'popultio  of all ages.  Dmfinitious in various o-arins erg net
nsrns, sad tht        t. i  stack.  Matl senIas ealde anima  toad, needs,                        comarble; 1980, 1970 and 1981d dta.
.sIoitie  amin  in fond prswesfq  sa  tese  In diatribstins.                                    f!TJ      yf5)-Pmelaottsmmpostg etsalabrsnm
Maqnreiwnm    e etlamedby PAD hama d se pcyninlqgica  seds tee nus-a                     agiotnrefrer t) - Labor forge In taming, tn...try, hasting and
aeminap en  healh ton i.eig  -erene      ltamp-ranar, hadp weibts.,                          fishing as percetage of tonal 1ahor tort  1 190, 1970 set 1981 dare.
. md  a   iribetiw  of pupLanin, and allowingL  PIf eoan  fur                                 Inield-try (rerveat) -   blao  tarts In minig  tsnssruoslnn, manadnusaeis
a.r =homl  Imel19-0   90  a   93dt,ad oLett ricity, estee and  Ia  m  peuesgs of stEal Ilbsr te..sef 1940,
tee  meit astwly  f prteim(gra   we day)-Pai   --ten  oF Per wepita                        1970 oud 1981data.
ami -Mnpy at fandper .y.  Ma supply of fund is dftluad so abov.                               PatcotonMt   pr f-nta.ml.ed female - Presiniptsies w
gsnrmssfnr Il  c toneri-n  mtablished by ISIA provide tar minOa-n.i ariotystsrecw-patsd amstmti, ..I., sad tfals 1abe 1  sean as
aIlenus   of 40 gram  of t-ta  prtein vet day and 10 gram  at salo  and                         p-e.rentgma at tutal, male and fsaln pepulattan at aLL   S   ssemP.ntie_Ly
yt.In  praoat, of Witih 110 gron  shoa1d hesim   p-ntet.  These                                  1980, 1970, aed 19891data.  Ths   r             ,hsda  IlCs pa-tisipalln estee
mine -ase lowe   ,r ob vh     5 o   0gram  nf tota  p-rnin and 23 gram                   rfLtstn  age-man struntrmof thin  pepeltin, aid Long time tr.nd.  A
sO  niml psoem  s  sooneagefar the  -nId, p-up-ne  by FAD In the                         s f- imte   re tram ntin..nI.. snreme.
S.rd-r        , on   ore; 1981-60. 170 and 1983 daa                                   taol    rnme  tat~in - lfst1o nO pnaaIa ndse If .an  65 snd aes. ts
Per eeita,r=ni  moewly flru  mais1 and 2!Ine - Prutsin mspply of fund                              sstslabr fes
dm-fred fra  aIna1s and pn1ae  in gram  per day; 1961-695, 1970 sod 1977
dare.                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INCOME DISTIBUTlIOlN
anita (ato  I-h) Inath Sat  (yr thousand) - annua  datho per thousand In                         tstnam    tPrvt  lcm    both Ints   n   Is)-Iaiedb   ihe 
age  tms  I-  yeas.  o cildesa it this age grua; frma dovelaptu                           peen,rtet2   eoo,poet2   enu,edpenemas 60 psemes at
csrisdar  drte   fromlif   btaa; 1980,1970 ad191dst.                                       heasnhtlds.
saw                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POVERTY TAgitO GOtUPS
fLIT. Tsertar- anBirth (vests) - A,rraS. sobr of P-ars at life reaIing                           TbrlTlf~j I0ls   arm vsey '.Ypprna1mtm  masee                 at pee.i rt vs  sid
at birth; 1960, 1970 Imd lgat data,                                                              should be Itnte1rpesad With ..m.sLdneb"mnais
Inim- la-tait' Bate  ov  Ihed)   dAtne1 deaths at infonin Inda ..M                              tstlmtsd Ahauluta Pse..rlo In.-m  L.-vef ~iM1 wee,. saia       te  s   4C
ee  of ag  par thmnndib   hit,a   960, 1970 and 1981 data,                                      Absolut  povrty mamm        Is is then       .. Innsle Hi.ba   MIsha  inma
J,-ren  of bat Water (Percot of P,pltion)-ttL. oa. end rua- aritttnemly sdmqast  diet plus semntiol n.a-fgad reqelramete s togac
SNmber uf po-pleIntatl, atbam-an , eAe-L)it  roetsatohbLm. Ill     ta safo                      affnrdhle..
untt  uply  inluestreat d .st.. f    etern or sotremid but                              Entlmonsd talstlvn  Pavrt  ItomIaa   01alqsa      ea   n    torl-
orctratoued  ate  suh a  tht f-wepraactd hrbo eII, apringe, and                    Eoro  reaiepvey antums lvs  isassiS   tgaigspeap
sanosr  welt  asporen uge  o  their wepecttv  pepolatuona.  i  nproe   nnso  tha  aaerp.                                      brhe  lel is derived ftra  tI  coral
rb-n Itro  a publi  fooeo   sdutlntad not Ir  ta  109  otera                                    lvol sIth sd3uasant for figer coset nt livIng is atbas ieam,
fro-    house nay hcosdere  obing ahtbi ... -ennble acesof that                               tmiste   aeioln  61wabuli  Puoste tnna                         ff Iaoel-ra
-anerb   f h  hueod.A  tt bane tco on    dinrper.tiacte pets of                                 pear
the day Lc fething the  aiy  eae   eoe
macweto Ecesta Dtine' a   v        nio  pploin) - total  uba,  e
dlsPesl amP.r-Itng.t of thnir respeciv  po siom.-  tacreta dIspo..oI
mayinlea  he  ol taio  ad dtaosl,rth or   ihatrsen,ttenmcwAHolBteivit
bs enrtanssII-estarby  -etor-orve systm  or the useof pt                                                              totmic analysts and Peejertinne bipafiee
pinion and similar inteltin.                                                                                                                        n  1893



ANNEX I
- 23 -                           Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA /a
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(at current prices)
1960-69 1970-76 1975-82
US$ mln    %             --- (constant prices) ---
GNP at Market Prices            2,280.8  100.0              6.5/b    2.7/b    1.7/b
Gross Domestic Investment         686.4   30.1             19.2      5.6       5.3
Gross National Saving              199.5    8.7
Current Account Balance          -486.9  -21.4
Exports of Goods, NFS             863.6   37.9             9.9      18.1       1.9
Imports of Goods, NFS           1,395.3   61.2            16.5       2.7       3.0
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value Added /c   Employment          Value Added per Worker
US$ mln    %        000    %     US$   % of National Average
Agriculture            659.4   32.1    996   87.6       774            39.9
Industry              699.0   34.1       27    2.4  25,141          1,295.3
Services              696.3   33.9    114   10.0   6,642              342.2
Total/Average       2,054.7  100.0  1,137  100.0   1,941              100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
K million                    % of GDP
1982               1982            1976-78
Current Domestic Receipts               373.0               21.4              19.7
Current Expenditures                    539.7               30.9              32.2
Current Deficit                         166.7                9.5              12.4
Capital Expenditures                    127.4/d              7.3               4.5
External Assistance (net)               186.7                10.7             13.5
/a  As of January 1, 1978, PNG changed its fiscal year from July 1 - June 30
to January 1 - December 31. All data have been adjusted to a calendar
year basis.
/b  Growth rates are calculated in line at end-points.
/c  At factor cost.  These figures are for 1981.
/d  These include capital transfers to provincial governments and to public
enterprises.
not applicable
not available
November 1983



- 24 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                          1978        1979        1980        1981        1982
(Million K outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                           449.0       571.7       553.1       554.7       567.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector, net                 13.5        35.0         8.1       43.4        71.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector, net              193.8       229.0       303.9       342.6       373.2
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                31.4        35.3        31.9        33.5        32.5
Consumer Price Index (1977 = 100)               109.0       117.6       131.4       138.7       148.3
Annual Percentage Change in:
Consumer Price Index                            5.8         5.8         8.0         5.5         6.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  41.8        18.2        11.7        12.7         8.9
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979-82)
1980      1981   1982                                 US$ mln    %
Exports of Goods, NFS          1,038.9    875.0    863.6  Coffee                         142.5   15.8
Imports of Goods,. NFS         1,288.4  1,237.0  1,395.3  Cocoa                          61.4    6.8
Resource Gap (Deficit = -)    -249.5   -362.0   -531.7  Copra & Copra Products            36.1    4.0
Timber & Timber Products   66.8    7.5
Factor Services (net)           -175.7    -88.6    -93.4  Copper Concentrates           206.9   22.9
Transfers (net)                  162.0    190.3    138.2  Gold                          238.2   26.4
Balance on Current Account    -263.3   -260.3   -486.9  All Other Commodities           150.0   16.6
Private Capital (net)             27.9    155.7    378.3  Total                          901.9  100.0
Public MLT Loans (net)            68.9    137.9    101.7
Errors and Omissions /a           85.7       4.0    -32.6
Increase in Reserves             -80.7    -37.3    -40.7  EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1982
US$ mln
Imports of Fuel and Related
Materials                      176.0    235.2    198.1  Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed    748.0
Nonguaranteed Private Debt         545.7
Total Outstanding & Disbursed  1,293.7
PUBLIC DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982 /b
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                   x
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed         9.9
1978-79                        1980                         Nonguaranteed Private Debt           10.4
US$1.00 = K 0.71               US$1.00 = K 0.67             Total Outstanding & Disbursed        20.3
K 1.00 = US$1.41               K 1.00 = US$1.49
1981                           1982                         IBRD/IDA LENDING (AS OF 9/30/83)
US$1.00 = K 0.67               US$1.00 = K 0.74                                             US$ Mln
K 1.00 = US$1.49               K 1.00 = US$1.36                                           IBRD    IDA
1983                                   Outstanding & Disbursed   127.7  113.8
Undisbursed                  70.1   25.2
US$1.00 = K 0.83
K 1.00 = US$1.20                             Outstanding incl. Undisb. 197.8  139.0
/a Including capital n.e.i.
/b Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
. Not available.
November 1983



- 25 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PNG
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
(as of September 30, 1983)
Amounts (US$ millions)
Loan or                                                         (less cancellations)
credit
Number         Year   Borrower  Purpose                       Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
Six loans and eight credits fully disbursed               58.5      62.4           -
1333-PNG       1976     PNG      Agriculture                  12.0                     2.19
841-PNG       1978     PNG      Rural Development                       20.0          6.43
1856-PNG       1980     PNG      Third Highways               17.0                    10.82
1934-PNG       1981     PNG      Primary Education             6.0                     6.00
1087-PNG       1981     PNG      Primary Education                       12.0 /b       9.14 /c
1149-PNG       1981     PNG      Second Agric. Credit                    15.0 Id       5.42 /c
2125-PNG       1982     PNG      Enga Provincial Dev.          6.0                     5.00
1227-PNG       1982     PNG      Enga Provincial Dev.                     2.0 /e       1.44 /c
1279-PNG       1983     PNG      Technical Assistance                     3.0 If       2.76 /c
2265-PNG       1983     PNG      Road Improvement             31.0                    31.00
2276-PNG       1983     PNG      Agric. Support Serv.         14.1                    14.10
Total                                         144.6      114.4         95.30
of which has been repaid                       16.6        0.6
Total now outstanding                         128.0      113.8
Amount sold          8.1                        0.3
Repaid               7.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA                127.70    113.8
Total undisbursed                              70.11      25.19        95.30
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
None
/a   The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b   Credit amount is SDR 9.4 million (equivalent of US$12.0 million at time of
commitment).
/c   Amount expressed here is US$ equivalent of undisbursed SDR amount in terms of US$
commitment.
/d   Credit amount is SDR 12.3 million (equivalent of US$15.0 million at time of
commitment).
/e   Credit amount is SDR 1.7 million (equivalent of US$2.0 million at time of
commitment).
/f   Credit amount is SDR 2.7 million (equivalent of US$3.0 million at time of
commitment).



ANNEX III
- 26 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare the project:           12 months
(b)   Agency which prepared the project:          PNG Department of Education,
with UNESCO assistance
(c)   First representation to the Bank:           June 1981
(d)   First Bank mission to consider the
project:                                  February 1982
(e)   Date of departure of appraisal mission:   April 1983
(f)   Date of completion of negotiations:         February 1984
(g)   Planned date of effectiveness:               August 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a) implement the study on upper secondary education in accordance with
a schedule agreed with the Bank (para. 36); and
(b) appoint staff for new positions in accordance with a schedule agreed
with the Bank (paras. 37-40).



I RI AN    JAYA   (INDON ESI A)
>                      Z '-   - --
.5                                  I .5    g C      g. jf     ; f   
E ~ ~ /                       / k3) 9    
|-----------------------
.N0/          -
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ,  ':  '       \ m      \        
t-                    j\J ------------------ --  ------"
?/W~~~~~~~~~  Q ~ ~      ---     ---  4---/   --- ----4       
.0
\ 4,                                         II  nn,<  
0,                        2*
C)  0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C                              C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
I                   C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
"5        C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-->                    M



