CREDIT NUMBER 1252 UG
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Reconstruction Program)
between
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                 , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1252 UG
DEVjPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                        , 1982, between REPUBLIC
OF UGANDA (hereinaf      called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIA ON (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Bank of Uganda" means the bank established by the Bank
of Uganda Act 1966 for the time being responsible for the admin-
istration of foreign exchange pursuant to the Exchange Control
Act, Cap. 158;
(b)   "Central Tender Board" means the board established by
the Public Finance (Tender Boards) Regulations, 1977, pursuant to
the Public Finance Act, Cap. 149, which is responsible to the
Minister of Finance for the review and supervision of procurement
by Government ministries;
(c) "Central Tender Board Procedures" means the procurement
procedures set forth in the Public Finance (Tender Boards) Regu-
lations, 1977;
(d) "Recovery Program" means the program for high priority
investment and recurrent expenditures covering the 1982-1983 and
1983-1)84 fiscal years adopted by the Borrower on April 12, 1982;
(e)   "Project Account" means the account to be established
at the Bank of Uganda pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(f)  "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M. No. 34/Rev. 2
(1975); and
(g) "Uganda Advisory Board of Trade" means the board estab-
lished by the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade Decree No. 9 of
1974, which is responsible to the Minister of Commerce for the
licensing of all external procurement other than by Government
ministries.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to sixty two million nine hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 62,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)  The Borrower shall cause the coordination and collec-
tion ot relevant documentation and the preparation of withdrawal
applications under the Credit to be undertaken on its behalf by
the Bank of Uganda.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment and service charges shall be paya-
ble semiannually on February 15 and August 1S in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1992, and ending
February 15, 2032, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency.


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower shall take such action as may be required
to ensure that:
(i) the   Bank  of Uganda    shall  make  available   to
approved importers, promptly as needed, such
amounts of foreign exchange as shall be required
to import goods so financed;
(ii) the timely importation of such goods shall be
facilitated;
(iii) applications shall be made in appropriate form to
the Central Tender Board or the Uganda Advisory
Board of Trade for procurement approval in respect
of all goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit;
(iv) approval shall be granted only       in  respect of
applications satisfying such criteria as to the
import priority of the goods required, their pro-
posed utilization, the operational and financial
qualifications of the applicant, and otherwise, as
the Borrower and the Association may agree; and
(v) such financial and administrative measures are
adopted and implemented as are necessary to ensure
that all goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit are utilized for the purpose for which the
relevant approval was given, and in accordance
with the terms of such approval.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Bank of
Uganda to open and thereafter maintain a project accont in the
name of the Borrower, and to credit to the Project Account, upon
each withdrawal from the Credit Account, the equivalent in
Ugandan Shillings of the currency or currencies withdrawn from
the Credit Account (such equivalent to be determined as of the
respective dates of such withdrawals).
(b)  Except as the Association may otherwise agree, with-
drawals shall be made from the Project Account exclusively to
finance the local currency capital or recurrent costs of develop-
ment projects included in the Borrower's Recovery Program.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Central Teider Board in
the carrying out of the functions set forth in Section 3.01 (b)


﻿-5-
(iii) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall employ experts whose
selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association in accordance
with the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be insured, or that adequate provision shall be made for
their insurance, against hazards incidental to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be paya-
ble in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the purposes of
the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall cause the Bank of
Uganda to maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and serv-
ices financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
their use for the purposes of the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's representatives to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular in-
tervals all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(b)   Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(c)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿-6-
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shal-Y prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the carrying out of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accowplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the actions set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 4.02. In order to ensure that the actions set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement are accomplished, the Borrower
and the Association shall exchange views on the progress achieved
in carrying out said actions by not later than September 30,
1982, or such later date as the Borrower and the Association may
otherwise agree upon.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall periodically exchange views
with the Association on the operation of its annual foreign
exchange budgets and its foreign exchange budget guidelines for
the duration of the Recovery Program.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall seek the views of the Asso-
ciation on the terms of reference of, and the timetable for the
completion of, the production or updating, as appropriate, of
audited accounts and financial statements, statements of affairs
and other financial analyses of parastatal organizations in the
agriculture, public utility, industrial and commercial sectors.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the Bank of Uganda, the Central Tender Board and the Uganda
Advisory Board of Trade.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause the Bank of Uganda
to:


﻿-7-
(a)  register in the Project Account all receipts and pay-
ments for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project,
in accordance with appropriate accounting principles and proce-
dures consistently applied; and
(b)   (i)  have the Project Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Borrower and the Association, as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of the fiscal year, the report of such audit by
.aid auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the Project Account
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date                   is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Min'ster of the Borrower for the time
being responsible for Finance is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala, Uganda
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINSEC                               61170
Kampala


﻿-8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D,C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
0    Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    All goods (including contractual services for the forward-
ing, transportation and clearance of goods through customs)
imported into the Republic of Uganda may be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, except that no withdrawals shall be made
in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract
which a national or international financing institution
(including the Association) or any other agency shall
have financed or agreed to financea;
(b) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption;
(c) without limitation to the foregoing paragraph        (b),
expenditures for items iacluded in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group          Sub-group          Description of Items
112              -               Alcoholic beverages
121              -               Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122              -               Tobacco, manufactured
667              -               Pearls, precious and
semi-precious stones,
unworked or worked
688              -               Uranium depleted in U235
and thorium, and their
alloys, unwrought or
wrought, and articles
therefrom, n.e.s.; waste
and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of
thorium


﻿- 10 -
Group          Sub-group           Description of Items
718.7            Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, n.e.s.
897.3            Jewelry of gold, silver
or binum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares (in-
cluding set gems)
971.0            Gold, non-monetary (ex-
cluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(d) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $7,000,000
may be made on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1982;
(e) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower;
(f) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importa-
tion, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; and
(g) expenditures for goods procured under invoices costing
less than $10,000 equivalent each.
2.   Without limitation or restriction upon any other provisions
of this Schedule, no withdrawal shall be made and no commitment
be entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in
respect of expenditures to be financed under this Agreement after
the amount of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the amount of commitments entered into by the
Association upon the Borrower's request in respect of expendi-
tures to be financed under the Credit shall have reached, in the
aggregate, the equivalent of $40,000,000, unless the Borrower
shall have taken the actions set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.


﻿* - 11 -
3.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Association under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
increasing agricultural exports and domestic production and to
strengthen, inter alia, its administration, planning and foreign
exchange allocation capacities.
It consists of the provision of the requisite foreign ex-
change for the importation into the territory of the Borrower of
part of the essential capital and intermediate goods and raw
materials included in the Recovery Program.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.     For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Contracts for procurement of goods shall be bulked whenever
reasonably practicable.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 14 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Goods to be procured under contracts of a value not exceed-
ing US$1,000,000 equivalent shall be procured under contracts
awarded: (i) in the case of goods to be procured by ministries of
the Borrower, and in the case of all other entities with respect
to goods having a value of more than US$20,000, in accordance
with Central Tender Board Procedures; and (ii) in the case of all
other goods to be procured, on the basis of price and quality
review by the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade and otherwise in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a)  Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)    After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.


﻿- 15 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the   Borrower   shall  furnish  to  the  Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
1.    The Borrower shall: (i) establish a unit within its admin-
istration to analyze domestic and international costs, prices and
supply trends of its major agricultural export crops and to make
recommendations on the level of agricultural producer prices; and
(ii) shall prepare and consult with the Association on the terms
of reference and staffing required therefor.
2.    In order to strengthen the administrative, managerial and
planning capacities of its Ministries of Finance and of Planning
and Economic Development, the Borrower shall prepare, and consult
with the Association on, a program outlining, inter alia, steps
to obtain priority technical assistance.
3.   The Borrower shall prepare and consult with the Association
on a program to improve the monitoring and management of its
external debt.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional D,velopment Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of          ,
1980-.
FOR SECRETARY


