Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18010
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
SRI LANKA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 2072-CE)
June 11, 1998
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = SLRupees (Rs)
Rs  1.00   =  US$0.0172
US$ 1.00   =   Rs 58 (January 1996)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB           Asian Development Bank
GEP           General Education Project
IDA           International Development Association
MEHE          Ministry of Education and Higher Education
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
PAR           Performance Audit Report
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
Fiscal Year
Government of Sri Lanka:     January 1 -December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation            .             Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Dept.              :             Ms. Elizabeth McAllister
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluations Group     :             Mr. Roger Slade
Task Manager                                       *             Ms. Helen Abadzi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 11, 1998
MEMORANDUM TO THIE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Performance Audit Report on Sri Lanka
General Education Project (Credit 2072-CE)
The Sri Lanka General Education project supported by Credit 2072-CE for US$49 million
equivalent, was approved in FY90. After an extension of one year, the credit was fully disbursed and
closed on December 31, 1996.
This was the first education project IDA financed in Sri Lanka. Its objectives were to: (a)
increase the effectiveness of the education system by upgrading facilities and increasing the supply of
educational materials; (b) improve efficiency through better management and supervision; (c) reduce
regional and local disparities in the quality of schools; (d) support decentralization; (e) strengthen
planning; and (f) better calibrate education and training to labor market requirements. The project
financed construction and rehabilitation of schools, maintenance, equipment, books and materials, teacher
and staff training, technical assistance, and labor-market studies.
The project disbursed very little during its first three years owing to the civil war, which also
exacerbated institutional weaknesses. However, implementation accelerated after a mid-term review, and
by the end of the project, planned activities had been carried out. Targets for civil works and supply of
educational equipment were met or substantially exceeded. In-service training of staff principals was
successful. Studies of educational finance and management, physical facilities, teacher deployment and
absenteeism were successfully completed despite delays in the provision of technical assistance. During
the last three years, the project also financed the study of important policy issues, in areas of teacher
training and educational finance. The studies and related seminars developed into two follow-on projects
that supported long-ranging reforms. Thus a hardware project was turned into a policy-oriented project.
An important vehicle for coordination and communication was an education development committee of
provincial officers, which met every month during the second half of the project.
The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) rates project outcome as satisfactory, institutional
development as modest, sustainability as likely, and Bank performance as satisfactory. Both Bank and
borrower performance were unsatisfactory during the first half of the project. Lack of counterpart funds
prevented staff appointments, and management of the project implementation unit seemed unable to
coordinate work with provincial offices. In the Bank, task managers changed repeatedly, and until the
mid-term review, attention to the project was desultory. Following resolutions during the mid-term
review, however, implementation and disbursements accelerated, and the task manager paid minute
attention to policy and implementation details. Thus, Bank and borrower performance during the last half
of the project were highly satisfactory.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



2
Important lessons stemming from this project are:
* Task manager diligence, creativity, expertise, and implementation orientation can
significantly influence project outcomes. The Bank should use educators who have detailed
knowledge of the field and who are willing to innovate and to take risks.
*  Organized, long-tern communication between ministries and regional offices clearly
improves implementation outcome. The challenge is to provide the circumstances to make
this possible. Incentives and easy means for commuting are important in allowing
committees to meet repeatedly over time.
*  Insufficient attention may be paid to the instructional consequences of building designs.
Projects should study noise and heat levels in schoolrooms of different types relative to
instructional outcomes.
*  Remote schools are more likely to have cumulative problems, including low-quality
construction. More support in time and effort should be made to supervise those sites.
*  Instructional materials, particularly for science, may stay unused until expertise and a real
motive for using them exists. In addition to a clear rationale for choosing each item, training
must be provided in their use, and teacher supervision must include use of instructional aids.
Attachment



l
Contents
Ratings and Responsibilities .....................3
Preface .............5
1. Introduction ...........7
2. Project Objectives and Components ...........................................................8
3. Implementation Experience ...........................................................9
Component 1: Increase of Equitable Supply of Educational Facilities
and Materials ..........................................................                              10
Component 2: Improvement of Management and Supervision ................................. 11
Component 3: Strengthening the National Institute of Education
and Planning Offices: Education Policy Development ....................................... 12
Studies  .......................................................... 13
Results .......................................................... 15
Monitoring and Evaluation ..........................................................                       17
Institutional Development ...........................................................                      17
Sustainability ..........................................................                                  17
IDA  Performance ..........................................................                                17
Borrower Performance .......................................................... 18
4. Issues and Recommendations ..........................................................                                19
Teacher Absenteeism ..........................................................                             19
Instructional Deficiencies in Teacher Training Institutes .......................................... 19
Extra Burdens of the Poor Students' Schools ..........................................................  20
5. Lessons ..........................................................                                                   21
Annex
Basic Data Sheet .......................................................... 23
Box. The Meetings of the Education Development Committee ................................................ 16
Table 3.1  Project Activities ..........................................................                                13






3
Principal Ratings
Principal Ratings
ICR                 Audit
Outcome                                        Satisfactory          Satisfactory
Sustainability                                   Likely                Likely
Institutional Development                        Partial               Modest
Borrower Performance                           Satisfactory          Satisfactory
Bank Performance                               Satisfactory          Satisfactory
Key Staff Responsible
Task Manager          Division Chief        Country Director
Appraisal          James French Smith      Martin Karcher        Jochen Kreiske
Midterm            Albert Aime             Barbara Herz          Paul Isenman
Completion         Albert Aime             Barbara Herz          Mieko Nishimizu






5
Preface
This is a Performance Audit Report (PAR) on the General Education Project (Credit
2072-CE), which was approved on December 12, 1989, for US$51.4 million equivalent. The
project was completed, with the credit fully disbursed, on December 20, 1996, after a one-year
extension.
The purpose of the audit was to study the effectiveness of the International Development
Association's (IDA's) first primary education project in Sri Lanka and the. significant policy
changes that it engendered in the country's educational system. The Operations Evaluation
Department (OED) found it important to study the effects of IDA advice under the circumstances
of a civil war but also considerable commitment to quality education.
The PAR is based on the following sources: the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR), issued as Report 16654, dated June 9, 1997; the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the Credit
Agreement for the project; and the project files, particularly the supervision reports. An OED
mission visited Sri Lanka in January 1997 to collect other pertinent information. Many thanks are
owed to government officials and researchers for their cooperation.
Following customary OED procedures, copies of the draft PAR were sent to the relevant
government officials and agencies for their review and comments but none were received.






7
1.  Introduction
1.1    Sri Lanka achieved remarkable educational progress in the 1980s, despite a civil war that
started in 1983. Primary school enrollment rates rose to over 90 percent, and girls achieved
educational parity with boys. However, school management remained weak, unexcused teacher
absenteeism remained high, and the quality of instructional delivery remained low. The system
was highly inequitable: urban "national" schools for high-performing students received about
3000 percent more funding per capita than Type 2 and Type 3 rural and semirural schools.' The
schools of the rural poor had inadequate facilities and provided particularly low quality of
education. The General Education Project (GEP) was conceived to remedy the problems caused
by inadequately distributed resources. It also aimed to support devolution of authority to the
eight provinces, a process that the government decreed in 1989 in an effort to end the civil war.
1. Schools in Sri Lanka are classified as Al or "national," for which children are selected through competitive
examinations; "Type IA, B, or C" secondary schools for average students with or without science; "Type 2," large
primary and secondary schools often in semirural areas; and "Type 3," primary and lower secondary schools in rural
areas. Urban students of higher socioeconomic status are much more likely to be accepted into national schools than
poorer, rural students.



8
2.   Project Objectives and Components
2.1    The project objectives were to (a) increase the effectiveness of the system by upgrading
facilities and increasing the supply of educational materials; (b) improve efficiency through better
management and supervision, (c) reduce regional and local disparities in the quality of schools;
(d) support decentralization; (e) strengthen planning; and (f) begin adjusting education and
training to labor market requirements.
2.2    Total project cost was US$75 million, of which IDA financed US$51.4 million
equivalent (SDR 35.4 million). Project design was based on a sector study funded by a Project
Preparation Advance. The project focused on hardware, and about 90 percent of proceeds were to
be spent on civil works. Policy content was limited to agreements that solutions to teacher
absenteeism would be studied. Though the project supported decentralization, it did not initially
promote specific policies about it.



9
3.  Implementation Experience
3.1    The SAR identified several risks: (a) lack of counterpart funds, (b) concerns about
military security, and (c) piecemeal implementation of the management component, because it
relied on the informal cooperation of central and provincial staff. These risks and related
problems materialized soon after the project started implementation.
3.2    Civil strife caused communication difficulties and security problems. Due to financial
difficulties, the Central Bank created lengthy delay in the release of IDA funds. The consequent
lack of funds resulted in fitful starts and stops of activities and prevented the hiring of staff, such
as accountants and a procurement officer, during the first two years. There was some confusion
about when the project really started, and the director of the project implementation unit (PIU)
proved unable to respond to the many tasks at hand. The national devolution policy required that
provincial offices carry out civil works, but the policy was fraught with uncertainties, and the
provincial staff initially lacked the capacity to implement the necessary activities. The Bank's
project management was also less than optimal; task managers changed repeatedly, and Sri
Lanka changed departments within the Bank. These events caused some neglect of the project.
Although disbursements were low, the supervision reports indicated that progress was
satisfactory. However, due to all these factors, only SDR 4 million had been disbursed by mid-
term review.
3.3    During the third year of the project, prospects changed dramatically. A new Minister and
Secretary of Education became keenly interested in the project and took important steps to revive
it. About the same time, the Bank appointed to the project a task manager who had long
experience in managing educational systems before entering the Bank and who focused on
results. The govermment upgraded the project coordination unit (PCU) staff, established a
constructive dialogue with the provinces, and increased implementation monitoring. The new
government that took over in 1994 had a very clear commitment to education and further
facilitated implementation. With a one-year extension, credit proceeds were fully disbursed and
most numerical targets were met or exceeded (Table 3.1).
3.4   In addition to civil works and fellowships, broad systemic reforms were needed to reach
the project goals. These related to per capita student expenditures, teacher careers and needs,
curricular and textbook changes, classroom supervision, and school mapping. The initial project
design had not emphasized these, but the task manager who took over after the mid-term review
focused on these issues. He initiated detailed analyses of the issues and convinced the
government that the reforms would be desirable. To carry them out, two separate follow-on
projects were developed: Teacher Training and Teacher Development project (Credit 2881-CE),
which became effective in August 1996, and the General Education II project, which became
effective in January 1998. Thus, through the desire of the govermment and the efforts of the task
manager, a number of reforms became effective during the GEP or shortly thereafter. Among
those reforms were teacher salary increases,2 increasing the education budget to sustainable
levels, decisions on school rationalization through school mapping, and equitable distribution of
2. Teacher pay was low, but increased 48 percent in 1995, an amount that was fiscally unsustainable. Also, increases
did not differentiate between trained and untrained teachers.



10
financial allocations to schools, so that national schools would no longer get the lion's share. As
a result, a hardware-oriented project became the basis of far-reaching reforms.
3.5    Despite efforts to distribute project benefits equitably throughout the country, the effects
of the civil war confined project activities to predominantly Sinhalese areas. No civil works were
carried out in the predominantly Tamil areas of the north and east. Training of Tamil-speaking
principals also became problematic because they were hesitant to leave their areas, and trainers
were hesitant to go to them. However, equipment and materials were sent to the Jaffna schools in
1996 through the military commander.
Component 1: Increase of Equitable Supply of Educational Facilities and Materials
3.6    The project supported a construction program in rehabilitating and enlarging about 3,000
Type 2 and Type 3 schools. Schools received classrooms, toilets, wells, furniture, and
equipment. Construction plans were designed by the Ministry of Education, and the provincial
offices implemented appropriate choices. At their discretion, they identified the schools where
construction was needed. They costed the civil works, prepared tenders, evaluated bids, selected
contractors, and the provincial engineering offices supervised the works. The ministry
supervised and reviewed the execution of civil works but had no on-site control over
construction.
3.7    The mission visited 14 Type 2 and 3 schools in three provinces. In most areas, users
reported that civil works were satisfactory. However, there was some concern that contractors
carried out prearranged designs without taking local preferences into account. Also, two remote
schools were found to have significant problems, apparently caused by contractor neglect.
According to some provincial engineers, it was difficult to find qualified contractors for more
remote sites and to get a satisfactory product. One case of a defective building had dragged on
for years. Satisfactory constructions are likely to suffer problems in the future because there is
no preventive maintenance.3
3.8    Although construction quality was satisfactory, location was not always optimal. There
was no updated school mapping, which took into account population growth and changes.
Without it, decisions regarding site selection were open to political influence. Some new
buildings were built where they were not needed, while in other sites students remained crowded.
After a school mapping exercise carried out toward the end of the project, it became apparent to
the government that some schools where IDA financed construction should close.
3.9    The building design paid no attention to noise levels. The buildings were mainly large,
open halls. Very few Type 2 and 3 schools, old or new, had any partitions between classrooms.
("National" schools, however, typically have closed classrooms.) The open design has been used
traditionally and is still preferred because (a) it allows air to circulate, (b) assemblies can be held
inside the buildings, (c) classroom spaces can adjust to changing class sizes, and (d) teachers can
keep an eye on neighboring classes when teachers are absent. With classes sitting next to one
another, teachers compete for students' attention. The noise levels observed by the mission were
high, particularly when teachers were absent and classes were unsupervised. Principals and
3. A 1997 audit of the two Bank-financed construction industry projects in Sri Lanka (Credits 11 30-CE and 1698-CE)
has highlighted difficulties with contractor performance.



11
teachers reported that they do not like this situation and teachers often complain of the stress that
the open space creates.
3.10   To lower the noise and distraction somewhat, some schools use low partitions. However,
those clearly do not block the noise. To escape the noise teachers often hold class in the open air,
but then they do not have access to the blackboard and teaching aids. Despite attention to quality,
this issue was not given any attention during the project.
3.11   The mission found that the project had built some closed classrooms, but the air in the
rooms did not sufficiently circulate. Glass windows with metal frames permanently closed off
half the window opening, creating a stifling environment.
3.12   The mission heard several complaints regardingfurniture. In some schools, the wood
used to build the furniture was untreated and was being eaten by ants. The parent committees
had the option of painting the furniture, and some did, but the paint easily wore off, making the
furniture look much older than it was. Screws holding stools together easily came out. Efforts
were made in the last two years to obtain better and larger furniture, but overall, funiture quality
was unsatisfactory.
3.13   Educational equipment was supplied to schools, and the mission found it in all school
cabinets. However, in most cases the materials were not being used. The principals explained
this by citing lack of training or the recent arrival of the material. Some said that if teachers feel
the need, they come to use them. This raises questions about how well teachers are trained to use
the materials, particularly the chemistry and physics equipment.
3.14   Overall, some progress was made in breaching the gap between the rural and the urban
schools as a result of civil works, furniture, and equipment. National schools continue to have
better infrastructure (such as classrooms with walls), maintenance, and teacher distributions.
However, national schools are also very crowded, and this compromises their capacity to deliver
quality instruction. True equity, and a relief of overcrowding for the better schools, will be
achieved only when resources are equitably distributed.
Component 2: Improvement of Management and Supervision
3.15   Absenteeism. Teacher absenteeism had been a major problem at the time of project
appraisal. Many efforts were made during the project to reduce it, and reportedly some progress
was made. However, the evaluation mission visited many classes that were unsupervised. It was
not unusual to find 20 to 25 percent of the teachers absent on a given day. Principals explained
that teachers, who have 42 days of leave during the school year, take leave at their discretion.
Moreover, while they are supposed to give advance notification of an absence, they often do not
do so. As a result, their classes remain unsupervised. Children may roam the corridors, and the
noise of unsupervised classes in the open school buildings makes learning more difficult for other
students.
3.16   Principals expressed frustration with the situation and helplessness in solving the
problem. Many felt that they could not take action against noncompliant teachers. In principle
they could refuse to approve the unannounced leave, but then teachers could go to the provincial
offices and get it approved. Principals also felt that politically connected teachers could create
problems for them if leave was disapproved.



12
3.17   Management training. Although delayed by two years, most principals' training
activities were completed satisfactorily. Thirty-two young educators received one-year foreign
fellowships to become trainers. During their fellowships and upon their return, they developed
training materials at the National Institute of Education and were then assigned to provinces,
where they conducted 20-day training courses for principals. The courses used participatory
methods and focused on relations with teachers and parents, administrative and financial
regulations, and classroom observations. The trainers later visited the new trainees and held
shorter follow-up courses on problem they had identified. Principals were eager to participate in
the courses, which were held during vacations.
3.18   The 12 principals interviewed by the mission expressed satisfaction with the training.
The main benefit they cited was a greater understanding of financial and administrative
regulations. Another was teacher supervision techniques. During the courses, principals
designed teacher observation forms, which the mission found in use in several schools. The
training therefore may have helped increase classroom control. Unfortunately, lack of funds
prevented its repetition after the project ended. More training is expected to take place under the
follow-on project, GEP II.
3.19   Possibly as a result of training and other project inputs, many of the schools visited by
the mission had some of the characteristics that make schools effective. Buildings were kept
clean, the grounds were neat, and students took care of them. Textbooks were available, and
staff was willing to receive training during vacations. On the other hand, the many unsupervised
classrooms resulted in noise, and inefficient use of class time.
Component 3: Strengthening the National Institute of Education and Planning Offices:
Education Policy Development
3.20   The National Institute of Education trains various categories of educational staff and
contributes to the development of some aspects of educational policy. Thirteen of its professors
received foreign fellowships for masters degrees and doctorates. All but two trainees returned to
Sri Lanka and resumed their work.
3.21   The National Institute of Education selected fellowship recipients for principals' training
and helped develop training materials. It also monitored training. Ultimately its role in
developing policy, as envisaged in the SAR, seems to have been limited.
3.22   The management information system established by the project has worked satisfactorily
in most areas. To develop expertise for it, training was offered nationally and abroad.
Unfortunately, many trainees were selected through political criteria and were not suitable for the
tasks. In general staff judged the national training they received to be insufficient for the for the
task. However, the mission observed in two districts computer terminals in use for the of data.
The inappropriate staff selection and inadequate training, however, meant that some provincial
offices could only create simple statistics. They did not have the capacity to create and update
data bases for individual teachers, students, and schools.



13
Studies
3.23      The SAR had envisioned two studies: one of teacher attendance and the other of linkages
between labor and education. The studies required much effort and supervision to complete. The
labor linkages study did not provide particularly useful recommendations. Nevertheless, it
served as an input in an Asian Development Bank (ADB) vocational education project. The
teacher attendance study served as a major vehicle for the follow-on project.
3.24     When the project was revived at mid-term  review, IDA recommended several more
studies. (Table 3.1). These included mapping of school facilities, management structures of the
Ministry of Education and Higher Education (MEHE), financing of education, teacher
absenteeism and education, textbook quality, and a maintenance handbook. Several seminars
were carried out on study results and implications during project supervisions. The studies were
completed and provided the government with much-needed analyses and became the basis for the
reform package being carried out in the two follow-on projects.
Table 3.1: Project Activities
Components/                                         Target
Subcomponents                  Activities         Achievement           Outputs              Outcomes
A. Equitable supply of
educational facilities and
materials
Upgrade substandard      166% of target    100% of students in  Classes seat more
schools                  achieved          Type 2 & Type 3     students
schools seated,
compared to 40%     Enrollments did not
before the project    increase as a result
Supply teaching aids and   140% of target    Teaching aids in  Teaching aids not
science equipment        achieved          schools             sufficiently used
Provide water in schools   118% of target    Water available in    Possibly fewer
where unavailable        achieved          almost all schools   intestinal problems
Provide latrines in      123% of target    Latrines available    Students able to use
schools that lacked them    achieved       in schools          them; some do not
function
Provide school fumiture    330% of target  Despite targets,    Students use them, but
and equipment            achieved          fumiture is of poor   they may not last
quality
Provide provincial       82 vehicles given   All were reportedly  Increased mobility
officials with transport                   in working order    makes inspections and
for supervision                            and used for work-   meeting attendance
related purposes    easier, improved
teacher attendance
B. Improvement of
management and supervision
Strengthening divisional     59 administrative centers   180% of target    Centers constructed   Offices in use
offices to support           constructed              achieved
decentralization



14
Components!                                       Target
Subcomponents                Activities         Achievement          Outputs            Outcomes
Staff received training  80% of          Trained directors  Unknown
provincial       are more
directors        knowledgeable
about
38% of zonal     administrative
directors        matters
Principals received     8,976 principals   Trained principals   Principals may be
training                trained (70% of   reportedly know   more effective, may be
target)          more about         better able to monitor
financial,        instructional delivery
administrative
issues
5,042 English   Teachers know       Student perfornance
teachers trained    more English   in English improved
(new component)                    in 1996-97 exams
80% of target
Strengthening school                                                 Clusters did not   No results
management through clusters                                          effectively
distribute resources
and were abandoned
School          Boards were not     Parent participafion
development     effective in many   did increase
boards were      cases
attached to each
school
Training of school principals   2-year overseas     32               Trainers were      Trainers trained
fellowships for trainers                trained             principals
Preparation of training  Training modules  Modules given to    Principals were trained
modules in management                    principals
supervision for principals
Training of principals for  11,600 principals  65% of target  Reportedly avery
Type 2 and 3 rural      were to be       schools were       positive impact on
schools                trained           covered, i.e. 8,600    school administration
principals
Regional education tours                 Tours were carried   Impact unknown
for senior officials                     out; officials liked   though reportedly
them               positive
Education planning and policy  International training  13 fellowships    All fellows    Unknown whether
analysis                                            awarded          completed and      they became more
returned           effective teachers
Technical assistance                     Only short-term    Marginal
consultants were
hired for studies
Computer supply                          Computers provided  Formed basis for
Management
Information System



15
Componentsl                                       Target
Subcomponents                Activities         Achievement           Outputs             Outcomes
Development of          MIS working in   System partially     All provinces able to
management information   all provinces   working              provide basic school
system                                                        statistics
Studies of management       Study of teacher                          Carried out         Proved very useful for
systems and personnel       attendance                                                    follow-on project
procedures
Teacher. handbook of                      Printed handbook    Unknown whether it
operational rules                                             reduced the still high
absenteeism rate; use
mandatory
Vocational education study  Education-employment                      Contributed to the    No results yet on
linkages                                  design of ADB       recommendation
secondary and       effects, but increased
vocational          awareness of issues
education projects
Additional studies          Physical facilities     Developed a       Recommendations    No results yet
school map       used in follow-on
project, closure of
unneeded schools
Management structures of  Adjusted        Three studies       To be applied during
MEHE                                                          GEP II
Financing of education  Revealed         Findings to be used   Financing formula to
important        in establishing     be implemented in
inequities in the   financing formula    1998
system
Teacher absentees and                     Study led to new    Reduced absenteeism
teacher education plan                    project             from 35% to 20% in
1997
Maintenance handbook                      Handbook available  Unknown
Results
3.25    The project substantially achieved four of its five objectives. It did not calibrate
education and training to labor market, but it significantly expanded capacity in primary
education, improved management and regional cooperation, and helped reduce regional and local
disparities. In terms of policy development and implementation, it achieved a great deal more
than it set out to do.
3.26    Possibly as a result of principals' training, the schools seem  to be under control. Schools
were clean and neat despite poverty. Principals seem able to carry out the administrative work
needed to run the schools, and teachers seem to be control of the classes (when they are present).
Such characteristics are included in the hallmarks of effective schools.
3.27    An important factor in the successful implementation of this project was close and
regular communication withprovincial officials. Due to devolution policies, MEHE had to plan



16
the project inputs but rely on provincial offices for imnplementation. After some initial frustration,
the ministry established an educational development committee to coordinate all donor projects.
Provincial directors and secretaries met every month at the MEBE offices in Colombo and for
several hours discussed details and problems of implementation. To deal with procurement
issues, the IDA, and other donor-financed projects, provincial accountants and engineers held
monthly meetings before the directors' meeting; the problems that could not be resolved were
brought before the committee. These contacts greatly increased the implementation capacity at
the provincial level. It was very significant that these monthly meetings were held regularly and
were maintained throughout the project. They continued after the GEP closed.
Box. The Meetings of the Education Development Committee
Many projects create coordinating boards and committees, but their meetings frequently become
irregular and eventually cease altogether. What made it possible for Sri Lanka's educational committee
meetings to be held every month for at least four years?
The mission observed one such meeting. About 50 people-mainly provincial directors and
secretaries of education-attended from all over the island. To accommodate Tatnil participants, the
meeting was held in English. Some food was served, but there was no break; the work went on
uninterrupted for about six hours. A detailed agenda was handed out, and each donor project was discussed
separately. During the meeting observed by the mission, an official appointed by the prime minister to
oversee education reforms explained the planned implementation of those refonns in detail and asked for
feedback.
Participants said they had to come every month to this meeting. If someone could not come, a
replacement was sent. They found this the only workable means of coordinating the efforts of eight
provinces with the center. Another important reason for attending was political. Some provincial
governments represented opposition parties, who did not always communicate effectively with the central
government. Participants saw themselves as the contact point between opposing political parties and
viewed the meetings as a means of fnding out government policies in a neutral environment.
Very important was the fact that participants had the means to come to the meetings. No honoraria
were paid, but they traveled using provincial cars, many provided by the GEP. Most needed only 2 to 3
hours to get to Colombo and returned the same day. Participants from the northeastern part of the island
had to travel for six hours and spend the night in Colombo. They received adequate allowances to buy
gasoline and stay in hotels if they did not have relatives with whom they could stay. They were reimbursed
easily and quickly.
Are such meetings especially sustainable in Sri Lanka? Not necessarily. One meeting participant
reported that the Ministry of Agriculture had once held coordination meetings, but they were not sustained
in the long run. Along with the means to come, and with the political importance of the meetings,
therefore, the leadership of MEHE may have been an important factor.



17
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.28   The project essentially had no monitoring activities. This is unfortunate, because its
work could not be measured. It would have been particularly useful for future project activities,
for example, to measure the effects of principals' training on teacher and student performance.
Institutional Development
3.29   Institutional development is rated as modest. The successful training of master trainers
and the effective implementation of principal training courses resulted in a wide dissemination of
management principles. Also, the implementation experience that provinces gained and the
effectiveness of the education development committee resulted in substantial institutional
development at the provincial level. However, the extent of institutional development envisaged
in the project was not achieved.
Sustainability
3.30   The sustainability of the outcomes is rated as likely. Buildings, curricula, textbooks, and
teacher training will probably have a sustained effect on the government's ability to provide
education in Sri Lanka.
IDA Performance
3.31   IDA's performance, while satisfactory overall, was uneven. Quality at entry was
marginally satisfactory, because the objectives were many and disparate. Also, important policy
issues and deficiencies (such as a lack of school mapping) were glossed over to concentrate on
civil works. The quality and quantity of supervision were unsatisfactory for the first two years,
when Sri Lanka operations changed country departments and task managers. Supervision
missions were short and often did not include educators.
3.32   Supervision became highly satisfactory after the mid-term review. It is impossible to
ignore in this project the qualifications of the task manager who took over at mid-term. This staff
member had lengthy experience in classroom teaching, school management, provincial
administration, and in-service teacher training, but he also had advanced academic credentials in
education. This profile is unusual among Bank educators. The task manager's professional
qualifications were enhanced by a willingness to take risks, to supervise consistently from
headquarters, to provide sophisticated analyses to the government, to persist, and to help officials
understand study results so that they could be adopted.
3.33   Government officials widely agree that IDA analyses and initiative were critical not only
to project completion but also to the policy reforms the project initiated. However, some officials
expressed concern that many of the reforms were generated outside the government system and
warned of lack of ownership in such cases. Nevertheless, it is not apparent that task manager
leadership compromised borrower ownership.



18
Borrower Performance
3.34   Overall, borrower performance was satisfactory. The fact that the government overcame
the delays caused in the first half of the project indicates considerable implementation capacity,
which is being tested in the two follow-on projects.
3.35   Examination of project files revealed some minor problems that were not resolved. The
first project director, who did not perform satisfactorily, was allowed to serve during the entire
project, thereby compromising the project. Annual audit reports in the project files have
indicated some losses and use of funds for purposes not intended. For example, some funds for
upgrading substandard Type 3 schools were allocated to national schools (1993 audit); some
vehicles were found to be used about 50 percent of the time for nonproject purposes, and some
stationary and chairs were lost. Govermment officials who were questioned did not recall such
incidents.



19
4.  Issues and Recommendations
4.1    An important factor in improving the quality of education in poorer schools is the
presence of teachers in schools and their performance. The GEP started out with a study on
teacher absenteeism and proceeded to a separate project to deal with these problems.
Nevertheless, these problems still existed at the time of the audit.
Teacher Absenteeism
4.2    Although teachers do not abandon classes at whim, as they used to, the liberal leave
policy enables them to be absent for 1.5 month of the school year. The number of leave days that
teachers have in Sri Lanka is excessive by international standards. Certainly changes in labor
conditions are difficult, and acquired rights, such as extensive leave, often cannot be taken away
without much struggle and unrest. But reductions in leave could be traded for other benefits and
for future increases in salaries.4
4.3    Compounding the problem is the fact there is no system of substitute teachers in Sri
Lanka. Sometimes excess teachers take over, sometimes students from nearby teacher colleges
are asked to do so. In rural areas, principals do not have recourse even to these solutions. Use of
volunteer teachers is prohibited for security reasons. Unsatisfactory arrangements may also be
made when a teacher is pregnant and gets three months of maternity leave. There is clearly a need
for substitute teachers or other suitable arrangements.
Instructional Deficiencies in Teacher Training Institutes
4.4    Given the emphasis on teacher development, the mission visited one pre-service teacher
training college, which had been built with Japanese funds. Despite the excellent buildings, the
college did not appear to impart teaching skills to students effectively. The problems were:
- Negative role modeling. Despite the emphasis on teaching child-centered and
participatory methods, the classes themselves consisted of lectures. The teacher
stood in front of the class, often at a considerable distance from the students, and
lectured. Because there were no textbooks, teachers spent much of the class time
dictating notes to students.
*   Lack of textbooks and materials. None of the classes observed (physics, music,
mathematics) had textbooks. Students took notes and then studied from textbooks in
the library. Instructional materials were also insufficient. The physical education
teachers did not have sports equipment, and the music teachers had very few
instruments. College administrators expressed concern about the limited equipment.
4. Frustration with political influence seems widespread, though in some areas it was reported as a larger problem than
in others. Some provincial staff members expressed a dislike of principals who had been appointed for political
reasons rather than on merit. There was widespread concern that angering politically active educators could result in
difficulties and unfavorable transfers.



20
4.5    Textbooks for most subjects do exist, and students can buy them at reasonable prices, but
they are not asked to buy a single textbook for a course. As in many other countries, it is thought
that university-level students are mature enough to study from a multitude of texts and learn
enough about a subject the professor has assigned. However, research does not support this
assumption, and the use of multiple sources is a very inefficient use of time. Many students do
not spend the needed hours in libraries, and they study mainly from notes. The result is that they
cover very little material and in insufficient depth.
4.6    To improve the quality of pre-service education, professors must teach trainees as they
expect them to teach later in classes. Research shows that role modeling changes teaching
behavior more than textbooks discussing the benefits of the modeled behavior. By memorizing
information about participatory processes in a lecture environment, teachers receive conflicting
messages. It is not surprising, therefore, that they do not necessarily practice what they learn.
The mission observed much wastage of classroom time that resulted because the teacher worked
with one student, and the rest of the class had no meaningful work. Reportedly, teachers had
been lectured about the wastage of time, but college experiences teach them differently.
4.7    Classroom instruction will become much more efficient if a single textbook is assigned
for the course, and students unequivocally know what to study from day to day. Most textbooks
are available in Sinhalese. Methodology textbooks may have to be written in Sinhalese, but
many existing in-service instructional modules could serve for this purpose with some
modifications.
Extra Burdens of the Poor Students' Schools
4.8    The open classrooms of Sri Lankan rural schools are an unusual feature by international
standards. The lack of self-contained classrooms is a major problem that interferes with the
instructional process and diminishes the quality of learning. Clearly research on building designs
is needed to balance the needs for air circulation versus attention to the lesson. Noise levels can
be measured in various classroom types and related to teacher satisfaction levels, quality of air,
and student achievement. Results will probably indicate that in the majority of schools, sound-
blocking walls must go up. These may be built from relatively inexpensive materials, using
various soundproofing techniques.
4.9    Overall, building condition can become a considerable source of work for principals and
teaching staff. Because schools have a limited budget to carry out repairs, they depend
considerably on parents' good will for maintenance and must make contact with them. When
buildings have defects, principals have to write letters requesting repairs and deal with teacher
and student complaints. Since building and maintenance problems have been identified in remote
and poor schools, the burden of extra work seems to weight disproportionately on the staff of
poor schools. There is a concern that such principals and teachers may wish to transfer to better
schools and escape the problems.
4.10   The problems of open classes, building defects and low-quality furniture seem to
accumulate on the schools of poorer children. It may cost more in contractor and supervisor fees
to build schools in remote areas, but this issue can be taken into account. The problems of poor
schools are compounded with existing teacher recruitment policies. To improve equity, at the
very least, teachers must be deployed on the basis of clear and objective criteria, such as the
"ready reckoner" formula that was used in the 1980s.



21
5.    Lessons
*   Organized, long-term communication between ministries and regional offices
clearly improves implementation outcome. The challenge is to provide the
circumstances to make this possible. Incentives and easy means for commuting are
important in allowing committees to meet repeatedly over time.
*   Task manager diligence, knowledge, and implementation orientation can
significantly influence project outcomes. The Bank should use educators who have
detailed knowledge of the field and who are willing to innovate and to take risks.
*   Insufficient attention may be paid to the instructional consequences of building
designs. Projects should study noise and heat levels in schoolrooms of different
types relative to instructional outcomes.
*   Remote schools are more likely to have cumulative problems, including low-quality
construction. More support in time and effort should be made to supervise those
sites.
D   Instructional materials, particularly for science, may stay unused until expertise and
a real motive for using them exists. In addition to a clear rationale for choosing
each item, training must be provided in their use, and teacher supervision must
include use of instructional aids.






23                                      Annex
Basic Data Sheet
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 2072-CE)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal       Actual or         Actual as % of
estimate    current estimate   appraisal estimate
Total project costs                         75             60.02               80%
Loan amount                                 49             55.80               114%
Cofinancing                                  0
Cancellation                                 0               0                   0
Date physical components completed       12/31/95         12/31/96           one year
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (amounts in US$ thousands)
FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97
Appraisal estimate             2,500   8,100  16,700 26,200 36,600 46,100 49,000  49,000
Actual                           0      1,033  3,656  11,403  15,867 26,497 46,317  55,802
Actual as % of appraisal        0%      13%    22%    44%    43%    57%    95%    114%
Date of final disbursement: June 1997
Project Dates
Steps in project cycle                        Original                    Actual
Identification                                                         March 13, 1988
Preparation                                  August 1988              August 22, 1988
Appraisal                                     April 1989                May 7, 1989
Negotiations                                June/July 1989             October 4, 1989
Board presentation                           August 1989             December 12, 1989
Signing                                           -                  February 14, 1990
Effectiveness                              November 1989               April 19, 1990
Project completion                          June 30, 1995            December 31, 1996
Loan closing                               December 31, 95           December 31, 1996
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Steps ofproject cycle          Planned               Revised                Actual
Weeks    US$000    Weeks    US$000    Weeks    US$000
Through appraisal          39.0       72.5       39.0       72.5       39.0       72.5
Appraisal-Board            19.3       39.7       19.3       39.7       19.3       39.7
Board-effectiveness         3.7        9.1        3.7        9.1        3.7        9.1
Supervision                58.6      159.7       56.5      159.8       64.8      180.6
Completion                  5.0        7.4        5.5       17.2        4.7       14.8
Total              125.6      288.4      124.0      298.3      131.5      316.7



Annex                                           24
Mission Data
Performance rating
Stage of      Date      No. of Staffdays  Specializ.  Implement  Develop.
project cycle (monthlyear) persons  infield  representeda status    objectives    Types ofproblems
Identification  March 88      1        29         EC
Preparation      Aug. 88      3        23     EC ,GE ,C
Preappraisall    May 89       5        24    EC, GE,C,C,C
Appraisal
Supervision I    Aug. 90      2        7       EC, GE.         I          I
Supervision II    April 91    1        6          EC           2          1
Supervision III    Jan. 92    2        11       EC, ED         2          1    Disburs. lag; absence of
progress & audit reports; &
using societies for
construction
Supervision IV    June 92     2        17       ED, EC         2          1    Disburs. lag and absence of
progress and audit reports
Supervision V    June 93      3        14    IS, ED, EC.       2         2    Disb. procedures markedly
behind; no submission of
progress & audit reports;
lack of close superv. by a
sen. manager of MOEHE; &
pr.steer. commit. inactive.
Supervision VI  October 93    1        6         EC            2         2    Disb. & accounting
procedures remain unsat.;
pr. not supervised by sen.
ministry official; & MDU
has not become the agency
for admin develop.
Supervision VII   Feb. 94     4        13   SEP, A, POO,    2            2    Mid-term review; reviewed
SA                           project objectives
Supervision VIII  June 94     2        7       SEP, SA         2         2    Project staffing; slow
disbursement; slow
procurement
Supervision IX    Sept. 94    1        13        SEP.          S         S    Serious disburs. gap; slow
proces. of procurement &
disburs. applic.; lack of
adequate staff at PCU; &
inadeq. monitor. & lack of
importance attached to
implemen. schedule
Supervision X    Jan. 95      2        7       SEP, EC         S         S
Supervision XI   April 95     2        10      SEP, EC         S         S
Supervision XII   Oct. 95     2        5       SEP, EC         S         S
Supervision XIII  March 96    2        7       SEP, EC         S         S    Supply of counterpart funds
Supervision. XI   July 96     2        2       SEP, EC         S         S    Slow disbursement
Supervision. XV   Nov. 96     2        4       SEP, EC         S         S
a. A=Architect; C=Consultant; ED-Educator; EC=Economist; GE=General educator; IS=Implementation Specialist;
POO=Project Operations Officer; SA=Senior architect; SEP=Senior Education Planner.



25                                Annex
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                Credit no.    Amount      Effectiveness
(US$ million)     Date
Teacher Training Teacher Development      2881-CE       64.1       August 1996
Project
General Education II Project              3014-CE        40        January 1998



