Document of
The World Bank
FOk OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZZ~~~~- Zoz_
Report No. 7918-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
GENERAL FDUCATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 7, 1989
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



crLI V mAM
Currency Unit - Sri Lan!'- Rupee (Rs.)
US$1.00      -  Rs. 33.5 (Kay 1989)
SLks 1       _  US$0.0303
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31 (Government of Sri Lanka)
July 1 - June 30 (IDA)
Abbreviations
ADB                    Asian Development Bank
DEO                    Divisional Education Office
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
GOSL                   Government of Sri Lanka
HRDC                   Human Resources Development Council
'CB                    International Competitive Bidding
IDA                    International Development Association
LCB                    Local Competitive Bidding
MDU                    Management Development Unit
MOE                    Mir.istry of Education
MOECAI                 Ministry of Education, Cultural Affairs, and
Information
NIE                    National Institute of Education
p.a.                   per annum
PMOE                   Provincial Ministry of Education
PPF                    Project Preparation Facility



SRI LANKA
General Education Project
Table of ConLents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..............................    iii
I.  EDUCATION, TRAININC,, AND THE ECONOMY ............................                         1
A.   Introduction ...............................................                        1
B.   Structure of the Education and Training System .............                        1
C.  Education-Employment Linkages ..............................                         4
II.   THE GENERAL EDUCATION SYSTEM .............................7  .....                        7
A.   System Characteristics .....................................                        7
B.   Institutional Arrangements .................................                        9
C.  Management .................................................                        11
D.   Staffing and Personnel Practices ...........................                       13
E.   The Role of Clusters and School Boards .....................                       14
F.  Teacher Quality and Training ...............................                        15
G.   Physical Facilities and Regional Disparities ...............                       17
H.   Public Expenditure on General Education ....................                       18
I.  Educational Planning and Policy Analysis ...................                       20
J.   Sector lending Strategy and the Role of the Bank ..                     ....       21
III.   THE PROJECT ...................................................                        22
A.  Project Objectives .........................................                        22
B. Project Description . ..............................  22
C.   Project Costs ..............................................                       26
D.  Financing Plan and Items for IDA Financing .................                        27
E.   Implementation Arrangements and Status of
Froject Preparation .....................................                     27
F.   Proc..rement and Disbursements ..............................                      28
G.  Accounts, Audit, and Reporting .............................                        30
H.  Environment ..............                                                         ...................................  31
I.  Project Benefits and Risks .................................                        31
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..........................                         33
This report is based on the findings of a mission to Sri Lanka in May 1989,
consisting of W. James Smith (Mission Leader), Frank Farner (Principal
Education Planner), Anita Nazareth (Education Planner), Barbara Butterworth
and Troels Ritzau (Consultants). Logan Van Tassell and Deborah Ricks
assisted in preparing the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their otuicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNES
Annex ; - Comparative Education Indicators ........  ..................... 35
Annex 2 - Education, Training and Employment ............................. 37
2.1 Characteristics of the Education and Training System
2.2 Education, Employment and Unemployment
2.3 Terms of Reference - Study of Employment-Education Linkages
Annex 3  The General Education System        .................... 45,
3.1  Characteristics of the School System
3.2  Distribution of Schools by Type and Size
3.3 Internal Efficiency of the Education System 1987
3.4 Public Expenditures on General Education
Annex 4  Teacher Supply Issues          .. .................. 50
4.1 Teacher Utilization and Absenteeism
4.2 Terms of Reference - Teacher Absenteeism Study
4.3 Teacher Supply and Demand (1986-2000)
Annex 5 Organization Charts ....................                             59
Annex 6 Detailed Project Description - Physical Eacilities .64
6.1 Description of Physical Standards
6.2 Criteria for Physical Investments
6.3 Equipment List
6.4 Consumable Supplies
Annex 7 Management Component           ..70
7.1 Strengthening Divisional Offices Component
7.2 Supervision, Clusters, and Boards Component
7.3 Management Development Unit
7.4 Management Procedures Development
Annex 8 Management Training Component .78
Annex 9 Education Planning and Policy Component ................ ........ 82
Annex 10  Project Costs and Implementation       ...... 84
10.1 Project Cost Tables
10.2 Implementation Schedule
10.3 Disbursement Schedule
10.4 Project Co-ordination and Implementation
Annex 11  Documents on Project File ......                                  91



- iii -                          n                          1
SRI LANKA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
5orrmmrs            Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
d eg8 MtSDR 38.5 million, (US$49 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard, with 40 years' maturity
Prolect
DeucriDtion:      The objectives of the project are:  (a) to increase the
effectiveness of the school system, by upgrading physical
facilities and increasing the supply of material inputs; (b)
to improve operational efficiency through better management
and supervision; (c) to reduce large regional and local
disparities in the quality of schools; (d) to support
decentralization of the school system, and facilitate the
transition to Provincial Councils; (e) to strengthen
educational planning capability; and (f) to begin the process
of adjusting the balance between various types of education
and training - to bring them more closely in line with
employment opportunities and manpower requirements. The
project consists of three main elements: (a) Physical
Facilities: an infrastructure component designed to upgrade
substandard schools to an agreed minimum level by the
provision of classrooms, furniture, water supplies, basic
sanitary facilities, equipment, and recurrent material
inputs; as well as rehabilitation of buildings, including
those damaged in recent flooding; (b) Management
Strengthening: a management component designed to improve
school and teacher performance by upgrading management
skills, strengthening management structures, and revising
management and supervision procedures; and (c) Education
Policy Development: including (i) a study of the linkages
between labor market requirements and the output of the
educational system, with a view to exploring options for
longer-run adjustments of the education and training system;
and (ii) strengthening of the planning and analysis
capability within the Ministry of Education, Cultural
Affairs, and Information.
Benefits
and Risk.t         The principal benefit of the project will be better education
for children in Sri Lanka through: (a) improved teacher
attendance and performance due to increased supervision and
better management; (b) better conditions for teaching and
learning, due to relief of over-crowding, and provision of
basic facilities; and (c) improved teacher morale and
performance due to provision of basic classroom supplies and
teaching aids.   The project will also improve the



- iv -
effectiveness of the overall training system by laying the
groundwork for a re-adjustment of secondary and post-school
training - reducing redundant training expenditures and
increasing the employability of those leaving the system.
There is a risk that implemwntation of the mariagement
component will be piecemeal because it relies on the informal
cooperation of central and local staff. Recognizing this, a
Hanagement Development Unit will be established to coordinate
and guide management activities. In addition, there is a
danger that competing pressures on the budget might limit the
Government's contribution to project costs.  This has been
hendled by keeping counterpart funding relatively low in the
'-irst years, and by explicit commitment to GOSL financing for
certain items. Provided there is not a major deterioration
in the security situation, it is expected that the projezt
can be implemented as designed.
Project Costs:                                         Local    Foreign    Total
-(US$ million)------
School Upgrading                             16.6         1.1     17.7
Furniture                                     3.8         0.9      4.7
Classroom Equipment                           2.2         2.3      4.5
Management Strengthening                      4.7         3.5      8.2
Schooj  Rehabilitation                       15.9          -      15.9
Education Policy Development                  0.1         0.5      0.6
Recurrent Costs                               5.2          -       5.2
Total Base Costs                             48.5         8.3     56.8
Physical Contingencies                        4.8         0.8      5.6
Price Contingencies                          11.4         1.0     12.4
PPF Refinancing                                           0.2      0.2
Total Costs                                  64.;        10.3     75.0 /a
Findncing Plan:                                        Local    Foreign    Total
------(US$ million)------
Government                                   26.0          -      26.0
IDA                                          38.7        10.3     49.0
Total                                        64.7        10.3     75.0
Estimated Disbursements:
FY90    FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
-----------------(US$ million)------------------
Annual                            2.5     5.6    8.6    9.5   10.4    9.5    2.9
Cumulative                       2.5      8.1   16.7   26.2   36.6   46.1   49.0
a/ Includes identifiable taxes and duties of US$0.7 million. Totals may
not add due to rounding.



SRI LAN
GENERAL EDKEATIOk PROJECT
I. EDUCATION, TRAINING, ANr THE ECONOMY
[.
A. Introduction
1.01     Sri Lanka has attained remarkable achievements in the -ducation
sector fot such a low-income country. A well developed school system
covers the whole country, almost half of the population has at least some
secondary school education, and literacy rates approach 90?. Enrollment
rates are over 901 for primary school, relative to about 70X for South Asia
as a whole (Annex 1). Of particular note in Sri Lanka is the equal
participation of boys and girls in education.
1.02     These achievements are largely the result of a long continuing
Government commitment to the universal provision of education, and the
allocation by successive Governments of a high proportion of public
expenditure to education (consistently 15Z up to the the late 1970's).
B. Structure of the Education and Tra 'ing System
1.03     The training system consists of the generai   "aoot system, which
provides academic education to anyone up to the age of a t 8; a small
university network; a growing number of technical institutions for post-
secondary training; and a large number of relatively srmall vo:ational and
technical training programs.
1.04     The major issues confronting the system as a whole are variable
quality and weak management in general education on the one hand; and the
unemployment of graduates on the other. The problems of inequitable
distribution of rescurces within the school system, and their poor
management are being addressed by the current project. Post-secondary
school unemployment is largely a function of population growth in the
adolescent age group, coupled with the failure of the economy to create
sufficient iobs, however, it also reflects inappropriate curricula and
excessive emphasis on paper qualifications, and the underdevelopment of
alternative post-school training programs.



- 2 -
1.05      The general structure of the educational system is illustrated
below. The following sections briefly summarize the salient features of
each segment of the system.
About 350.000
ONRAL   Yo 1 -ao  46,000 Drpol
EDUCATIONI
SYSTEM  -_------LON    U M _
Figure- 10   - Tar000 DucaS
Note 2s0:  o   a/
s~~~~bu 1 abOU 2 0,000    PA
6.00G0 pawS b/
a I   75,npe  a/
abOut 55 D000
A - L@   I  *                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~abOUt
j                         t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25,000 p.a.
20,000P bt                          Na,o,t
6. §000 P.a.f   1 7,000 P.a.        Napp l;o-
Ge l En25 Tec                        Assood
aUr whictetlk    & TuaCners         e VrCaOnc a
There1is subtantialdro-outatbt    >levegls  TraihN8 Pro dt
_                          ~~~~~~~~~~~TPANG
about 350,000 P.a.
~~~~~I 1 oa C/- 
EMPLOYMENT   UNEMPLOYMENT
Figure 1 - The Education  and Training System
Organization and Throughput
a/ Irgftr  r,atfrsg
bSWww DUfir 'pd *Pe uroontal - bUA 9wallY mOan quaWngya bf neXl IGV*
Vi Proporbon of untono eimabed only, totab may, at add bue to data iNncossenis
General Education
1.06      The state school system currently conEists of about 9,600 schools
serving some 3.8 million students. Schools are divided into four segzentes
primary (years 1-5), junior secondary (6-8), senior secondary (9-11), and
collegiate (12 and 13).
1.07      Students take exams after year 10 which determine entry into the
final 2 years, after which they take a university entrance examinationf
There is substantial drop-out at both levels. While 86Z of students make
the transition from primary to junior secondary school, only about 202 So
from junior to senior secondary. At the same time repetition rates are
extremely high, with 40Z of students repeating grade 11 in ordet to to-sit



the earlier exam and 302 repeating grade 13 for their university entrance
examination. Emphasis on exams, and the importance of paper qualifications
for work, contribute to the high repetition rates and repeated attempts at
exams.
1.08     Performance standards in general education are variable, as is
illustrated by the fact that even in the lower grades almost lOt repeat
each grade each year. Such problems are due mostly to strains placed on
the system by its rapid expansion, coupled wi-h cutbacks in ftunding in the
early 1980's in order to finance investments in other sectors. The
principal issues in the general educatior. system are discussed in
Chapter II.
Technical and VocatTonal Training
1.09     Recognizing the dual problems of a shortage of technical manpower
and unemployment among graduates, coupled with the limited opportunities
for university entrance and white collar employment, the Government has
undertaken a major expansion of technical and vocational training. These
efforts fall into three broad areas: formal technical education at
technical colleges and within the school system; vocational and on-the-job
training; and non-formal programs aimed at adults, school leavers, and
others.
1.10     Technical Education.  The technical college system under the
Ministry of Higher Education has been expanded rapidly in the last ten
years. It now consists of 23 technical colleges which offer courses up to
the Diploma level (roughly equivalent to a university first degree). Pass
rates are low, however, due partially to institutional problems such as
delays in holding trade tests, and shortages of equipment and skilled
instructors, but also because of unenthusiastic attitudes toward technical
and vocational training among students.
1.11     There are about 350,000 secondary school leavers each year, of
whom 752 will receive no further training, even with the places provided in
technical colleges. Recognizing this, a number of modifications have been
introduced into the school svstem, designed to better equip young people
for employment. These include: (a) the introduction of technical courses
in the school curriculum; (b) the establishment of a Life Skills project
within schools to better prepare students for the world of work; and, (c)
the establishment of Technical Units to provide basic training to school
leavers. These programs have had only mixed results so far.
1.12     Vocat.tonai Training.  The National Apprenticeship Board, under the
auspices of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Employment, runs a program of
on-the-job trade apprenticeships sandwiched with classroom training.
Enrollment currently averages about 8,000, but it appears that the output
rate is less than 252, implying high drop-out rates. There exist a large
number of other vocational training programs. The National Youth Services
Council runs 16 vocational training centres designed to provide basic
employment skills. The Department of Labor also operates a network of
vocational training centres teaching skills such as mechanics, repairs,
etc. The Institute for Construction Training and Development, supported by
1DA, provides short courses in construction trades (see Annex 2.1 for a
breakdown of programs).



1.13     The multiplicity of programs and agencies in vocational training
has been a serious problem. There has been neither an overall policy and
planning of vocational training for the country as a whole, nor any active
coordination of the efforts of different agencies. This problem has been
recognized and the Government is attempting to overcome it with the recent
establishment of a national Human Resources Development Council (HRDC),
which also has a mandate to look at broader manpower issues.
Universities
1.14     The tertiary education system consists of eight universities which
offer a full range of degrees and professional training. Entry is
restricted (only about 25Z of those academically qualified to enter
university are actually admitted), and total enrollment remains very low,
at only 20,000 students in l986. This represents some 22 of the relevant
age group, and is low relative to the rest of Asia. Given _he high costs
of university education, as well as the limited employment opportunities
for graduates, the Government appears to be following a rational strategy
in restricting entry.
1.15     However, the demand for tertiary education has been based more on
*ocial demands than on the overall manpower demands of the economy. It has
been perceived (correctly) that a general arts degree is the minimum entry
requirement for public service jobs which offer high status and security.
However, the limited n,mber of such jobs has resulted in a glut of
unemployed arts graduates that are reluctant to take positions outside the
public service. Recognizing this, government has slowly been shifting the
focus of university education towards more technical subjects. However,
there continues to be a strong social demand for university education. the
Government is responding to this by allowing moderate increases in total
intake, while systemarically cutting the arts intake and boosting
enrollment in science-based courses.
1.16     Even with the reduction in intake, it is still expected that the
supply of arts graduates will exceed demand for the foreseeable future.
With the knowledge of these facts, it appears that students are still
willing to spend considerable amounts of time waiting in unemployment in
the hopes of eventually securing one of the available attractive jobs.
From 1987 until 1989 the universities have been closed due to civil unrest,
thus contributing to the pool of unemployed and disaffected youth.
C. Education - Employment Linkages
1.17     For some time it has teen widely claimed that there exists an
imbalance in Sri Lanka between the demands of the labor market on one hand,
and the output of the education system on the other. The fact that a large
number of unemployed youth hold secondary school qualifications, and the
relatively long times that graduates wait before finding employment, are
usually cited as the basis for belief in this education-employment 'mis-
match'.
1.18     Unemployment is becoming increasingly corcentrated among young
people with substantial formal education. According to Government
estimates, 842 of the unemployed had some secondary school education



- 5 -
(1986 Public Investment Plan document)l/ This reflects largely the very
good coverage of the school system, but also to som extent the mismatch
between output of the school system and manpower requirements of the
economy. The emphasis on examinations and on academic subjects means that
many secondary school graduates lack the skills required for employment.
1.19     It is estimated, for example, that the unemployment rate among
A-level passers is SO1, as opposed to about 302 for 15-24 year-olds
overall; and that it is about three times more likely for an A-level holder
to be unemployed than it is for someone with no education at all. While
this does not account for differences in quality of work and pay (which are
of course substantial), or in expectations, it does serve to underline the
problem of relative unemployment and skills redundancy.
1.20     The converse of this problem is that there has been an absolute
shortage of people with more practical skills. As a result of the economic
growth in the late 1970's there were large increases in the demand for
engineers, technologists, and skilled workers for constructior. and for
operation of expanded industrial and service units. These shortages have
been compounded by the emigration of large numbers of technical,
managerial, and tradesmen to tne Middle East.
1.21     On reviewing the evidence on this issue, it appears that the
problem is more one of slow growth in employment opportunities, combined
with other labour market imbalances, rather than a function of excessive
education  e  se.  The high overall unemployment rates (in the neighborhood
of 20Z), the fact that the relatively highly educated (e.g., A-level
holders) make up a small absolute number of the unemployed, and the long
waiting times for unemployed youth in general all indicate that the problem
is largely one of insufficietnt employment creation at acceptable wage
levels - perhaps coupled with some degree of rigidity in the labor market -
including queuing for public sector jobs.
1.22     There do nonetheless exist a number of inefficiencies in the
education system which both reduce the cost-effectiveness of current
expenditure on training, and leavc those being trained with inappropriate
skills. For example:
(a)  the emphasis on exams and paper qualifications leads to rote
learning of material which is often of limited value, as well
as to the costs of high repetition rates in years 11 and 13;
(b) excessive reliance on the secondary/university entrance
examination system limits the number of formal exit points at
which a child can move into parallel training schemes, witt
the result that many stay on for academic training which they
will not be able to use;
(c) teaching of vocational subjects in the general curriculum is
expensive and generally ineffective;
(d) the formal technical education system is for the most part
cumbersome, outmoded, and unresponsive to the needs of the
labor market;
1/ See Annex 2.2 for data on employment and unemployment by educational
t



- 6 -
(e)  there is a plethora of vocational and technical training
programs which are uncoordinat,d, and often duplicate each
other; and,
(f)  large amounts are spent on a university system to produce a
small number of graduates - and most of those are in general
arts and humanities.
1.23     The Government has expressed its desire to take a more
^omprehensive look at the overall configuration of secondary and post-
ichool training, and its links with the labor market. A study of
education-employment linkages will thus be financed under the current
project.
1.24     The proposed study will:
(a)   re-examine data and evidence on employment-education
linkages, to identify education and training related
bottlenecks which affect employment opportunities;
(b)   examine the balance of effort between academic education on
the ene hand, and vocational, technical, and non-formal
post-school training on the other; and the scope for niaking
adjustments;
(c)   assess the most effective (and cost-effective) forms of
vocational and technical training;
(d)   evaluate the appropriateness cf secondary academic training,
and the scope for changing the emphasis on examinations and
reducing repetition costs in years 11 and 13; and, coupled
with this, the scope for increasing the number of recognized
exit points from the school system (apart from 0- and A-
levels) into poe'.-school training;
(e)   examire the scope for changing the mix of student throughput
at the universities;
(f)   examine means of making techrical rnd vocational training
more responsive to market needs.
1.25     Output of the study would consist of a series of recommendations
to Government which should form a blueprint for reform and adjustment of
the education and post-school training system over a number of years.
Proposed terms of reference and implementation arr%ngements are described
more fully in Annex 2.3.
1.26     It has been agreed that  the study will be executed under the
auspices of the Human Resources Developmen.. Council, and that the
Government will convene a group of senior officials and private sector
representatives to guide the study and review its results. At
negotiations, it was agreed that the Government will complete the study by
June 30, 1991, that thereafter it will review the findings with IDA, and
prepare an action plan by December 31, 1991, for implementation of the
agreed recommeadations.



- 7 -
II. THE GENERAL EDUCATION SYSTEM
A. System Characteristics
2.01     The growth of the school system is illustrated in Lhe following
tables
Table 2.1: Evolution of the School System and
Educational Status 1970-1985
1970            1980            1985
Number o' Schools
Government                     8,750            9,120           9,635
Non-Government                 1,180              675             415
Total                        9,930            9,795          10,050
Teachers                      96,000          141,000         147,000
Enrollment (000's)                2,716           3,390           3,740
Participation Rate                  56Z             702              85Z
Literacy Rate \a                    792             87Z              9o0
Notes: a/ Literacy rates may exceed enrollment rates due to non-formal
education, and possibly over-r:porting of literacy.
Source: MOECAI and Annex 3.1
2.02     A large expansion of the state system took place in the 1960's,
during which time the number of government schools doubled, both through
the building of new schools and absorption of formerly private schools.
The total number of schools has remained more or less constant since,
although the num'.er of students and teachers has continued to increase.
Student/teacher ratios are good (in the neighborhood of 26), and there is
wide geographical coverage. Most students have to travel less than two
miles to school.
2.03     Unlike in other countries, the majority of schools in Sri Lanka
provide both primary and secondary cycles - making it difficult to classify
schools strictly as one or the other. There is great variation in the size
of schools, from single-teacher one-room schools to massive urban complexes
with up to 4,000 students. An approximate breakdown is as follows:
Numbers of
School Grade Arrangements                              Schools
Single teacher schools  (Type 3)                          520
Years 1-5                 (Tp   )3,480
O-Level - Years 1-11  (Type 2)                         3,915
A-Level - Years 1-13  (Type 1C)                         1,290
A-Level with Science  (Type 1AB)
Note: Additional details are provided in Annex 3.2.



2.04     Table 2.2. below. summarizes the salie.it feature of the internal
efficiency of the education system.
Table 2.2: Indicators of Education System Efficiency-1987
Proportion of
Average        Total          Oricinal Cohort
Repetition    Dropout         (E  : 1) Eventually
Rate  \a      Rate \b        Grtauatint
Years 1-5               9.12         11.62             88.12
Years 6-8               5.92         18.61             71.02
Year 9                  3.72          7.12              -
Year 10                 1.62          0.42
O-Level 2/             38.92         42.02             16.0Z
A-Level 2/             29.82         47.02              5.02
a/   Average annually throughout the cycle.
b/   Cumulative sum by the end of the cycle.
Sourcet MOECAI and see Annex 3.3 fcr additional details.
2.05     Dropout rates in the earlier years are low relative to Asia as a
whole, although by year 11 they are more *'pical, reflecting the heavy
emphasis on the examination system. Apart from the very large numbers re-
sitting the school leaving (0- Level) university entranci (A- Level)
examination each year, the principal inefficiencies in the system are the
relatively high repetition rates in the primary years, and the very low
proportions which eventually pass to complete the higher level exams (202
and 232 respectively).2/
2.06     Overall, the system provides a standard of education well in
excess of that afforded by most developing countries. The challenge now is
to make the transformation to the higher level of effectiveness associated
with much more developed countries. The principal problems are:
(a) a paucity of school-level management and supervision;
(b) excessive teacher absences;
(c) significant disparities among regions and among schools;
(d) an emerging problem of insufficient teacher training capacity;
and,
(e) shortages of material inputs.
These are addressed in the following sections.
2/ Pass and Drop-out rates at 0- and A- Level are misleading - as 'passes'
are reported only for those passing enough subjects to qualify for A-
Level (university entrance).



B. Institutional Arrangements
2.07     Traditionally manage ment of primary and secondary education has
been a highly centralized process, with the central Ministry responsible
for policy formulation, curriculum development and most aspects of
administration. This system is now being revised due to both a recognition
of the need to decentralize school management to a lover level, and as part
of an overall devolution to a system of Provincial administration. Support
for this decentralization process is a key element of the proposed project.
2.08     The 13th Amendment to the Constitution (1987) and the Provincial
Councils Act have officially devolved responsibilities f3r implementation
of the educational program to the nine Provinces. However, the transition
is still in its early stages, and it is not yet clear how much real
autonomy Provincial administrations will eventually have. During this
period of on-going devolution, both the existing and anticipated
institutional structures need to be taken into consideration.
2.09     Until recently the school system was run by the Ministry of
Education (MOE). following the formulation of a new cabinet in
February 1989, it is now under the Ministry of Education, Cultural Affairs,
and Information (MOECAI). Education is headed by a State Minister for
Education, an  is administered by a Secretary to the State Minister for
Education. With the devolution of authority to the Provincial Ministries
of Education (PMOEs), the national Ministry will remain responsible for
overall policy formulation, the development of guidelines and standards,
curriculum development, the supervision of a small number of elite National
Schools, and the procurement of selected equipment   A quasi-autonomous
National Institute of Education (NIE) has been established to provide
professional support in curriculum development and related areas. The
current structure of the Ministry is shown in Annex 5.
2.10     The role and structure of the PMOEs is still evolving, but in
general they will be responsible for implementation-related act viti2s
including supervision, operations, and development planning. They will be
headed by Provincial Ministers of Education, assisted by a Secretary
appointed by the Provincial Minister. A Provincial DirectoL of Education,
appointed by the national Minister of Education, will be responsible for
the delivery of educational services within the province. The relative
roles of these two positions have not yet been clarified. The proposed
institutional arrangements are shown in Figure 2 below.



- 10 -
OF S'=TU0N
g PROINOUS
\   MOEsA 
31 OISTRICT
100 OMSOt4SO
X~~~~~~~~~~~~Guo F3  CCA d
~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~awoul 10 hoeac)
ABOUT 0OO SCHOOLS PER DSIVOH
Figure 2 - Organization of the School System
2.11     Regional (or District) Education Offices covering the 31 ecducation
administration areas have to date been the principal unit for school system
operations. Recognizing that the Districts covered too large a span of
control (300 schools each) a program was introduced in 1984 to establish
Divisio:ial Education Offices (DEOs) at the sub-regional level to handle the
over-concentration of functions at the Regional level. The establishment
of divisional offices began the decentralization process well before the
passage of the 13th Amendment.
2.12     Divisional Offices are to serve 100-150 schools.  As of April
1989, 74 DEOs (out of a proposed 90-100) have been established, although
many of these still lack buildirgs, staff and facilities. Currently, the
DEOs do little more than prepare the divisional payroll and make
recemmendations to the Regional Education Offices in all but the most
routine matters. Within each division, most schools are organized into
groups known as clusters. These clusters are intended to eventually serve
as a more decentralized level of school management (para. 2.29).
2.13     At present, this structure is in a state of transition (Annex 5).
Gradually, powers are being devolved from the national Ministry to the
PMOEs. The Regional Education Offices will be phased out with most of
their responsibilities devolving down to the DEOs. DEOs, in turn, will be
encouraged to develop the cluster system within their divisions and invest
these clusters with more authority to manage cluster level affairs.



- 11 -
2.14     The Government has expressed a commitment to devolve
responsibility for the development and management of the educational system
to the lowest viable organizational unit. However, with the coming of
Provincial Councils there is a need to define the relative roles of
District and Provincial offices in supervision and management. From the
standpoint of educational management the proposed project thus comes at an
opportune time. The project will support this process of organizational
development and devolution by the establishment and strengthening of
Divisional Education Offices. In addition, the project will provide
management consultants to work with education officials to define and
institutionalize the role and responsibility of the DEOs in relation to the
PHOEs.
C. Management
2.15     There is a shortage of managerial and supervisory skills
throughout the school system. With the expansion of the system, many
principals have had to make the transition from being head teachers to
being managers of complex instituticns. Similarly former principals have
become regional and district education managers. All of these staff have
been drawn from the teaching cadre, but lack background or training in
management, personnel, or financial matters. In addition, the highly
centralized system has lacked the direct management linkages with
individual echools and regions.
27.6     Divisions and clusters have been designed to overcome the last of
these problems. At the moment, however, there is a paucity of active
management at the ground level. Many schools, especially smaller ones, go
for a year or more without being visited by a supervisor, or by anyone from
the school system. The role of clusters - potentially an important
contribution to improved management and more efficient use of resources -
is still to take shape. In addition, School Boards are being proposed on
a pilot basis (to correspond to clusters), to increase the responsiveness
of school management to the community. The key, however, will lie in
making principals better managers. This will require both more frequent
and better supervision, coupled with some devolution of authority, and
training of principals in the fundamentals of management.
School Level Supervision
2.17     The lack of frequent stpervision, especially of smaller schools,
is a major contributing factor to poor performance and high levels of
teacher absences. Frincipals do not feel that they are being monitored,
and there is thus little incentive or compulsion to enforce standards or to
effectively manage the teachers under them. At the same time neither the
principals nor teachers feel that they are part of a larger system, and
morale and performance deteriorate accordingly.
2.18     The Regional Education Offices, which covered about 300 schools
each, had provided infrequent supervision, mostly to the more prestigous
Type 1 schools, in the form of high-level team visits. Under this system a
team of 8-10 persons, including subject matter specialists, would visit a
school for a whole day. While they may provide some useful pedagogical
supervision, such visits have little effect on overall management



performance since: (a) they are very infrequeit (often visits to a given
school vould only take place once every three years); (b) they are
scheduled well in advance and the school staff prepare for them; and (c)
they tend to reach only the largest schools.
2.19     The move to Divisional-level supervision is a potential solution
to the problem. With 1o0 schools the division is a unit in which the
director could conceivably know each principal and the location of each
school. His subordinates, if properly selected, trained and deployed,
could be expected to become familiar with the problems of each school and
perhaps know most teachers by name. These are the ingredients of effective
supervision. To date, however, the DEOs have had little impact on
managerial supervision since:
-    many are not yet functioning;
-    they have insufficient staff for frequent supervision;
-    there is a tendency to continue the team visit system; and
-    they lack sufficient vehicles and transport funds.
What is needed now is to staff and strengthen the Divisional offices (which
currently have only about one supervisory staff for every 30 schools), and
to develop supervision procedures which reach all schools frequently -
including making use of the cluster system. Such measures will be
supported under the project (para. 3.11).
2.20     A second route to improved school supervisin is to make the
principal responsible for the quality of instruction in his or her school.
The present situation suggests that some principals are more part of the
problem than the remedy as they lack appropriate teaching sk:ills. Many
condone excessive teacher absences and are themselves often absent.
Especially in Type 3 and often in Type 2 schools, a sense of hopelessness
pervades the werk of the principal. The remedy begins with more attention
to the selection of persons to become principals, coupled with more active
supervision and support, including weeding out those who really are unable
to perform. In addition, a thorough restructuring of principal training is
needed.
Management Training
2.21     At present two types of management training are offered.  First
the NIE Staff College operates formal programs in management training for
senior educaticnal staff and principals of type 1 schools, much of which is
of a residential nature.  To overcome the lack of management expertise
HOECAI is expanding the Staff College to provide training in planning,
management and supervision of personnel.  However, this will only be able
to handle the senior 25Z of the management cadre.  The heads of small- and
medium--sized schools who constitute the other 752 were to be trained at
Management Centres to be established in conjunction with the Divisional
Education Offices.
2.22     Small numbers of experienced principals were to be released on a
part time basis to staff these Management Centers. However, it is now
recognized that this system is not working due to: (a) insufficient
trainers and lack of commitment thereof; (b) sporadic attendance and lack
of interest by trainees; and (c) insufficient attention to the training of
trainers, development of instructional materials and provision of adequate



- 13 -
facilities for training. This system is being abandoned and a new system
will be developed under the project using full-time trainers based at the
provincial level (para. 3.14).
D. Staffing and Personnel Practices
2.23     The education system currently employs about 140,000 teachers,
10,000 principals, and about 2,500 administrative and executive officers.
The main problems facing the system are: (a) the lack of a career path for
teachers; (b) insufficient delegation of authority; (c) ezcessive leave
benefits; and (d) weak supervision of personnel - contributing to high
level of teacher absences.
2.24     Except for principal and supervisory positions, there are no
promotional posts available for teachers. This makes it difficult to
reward good teachers, is a disincentive for teachers to remain in the
profession, and results in a tendency to promote good teachers out of the
classroom. This situation is exacerbated by the extreme centralization of
responsibility for personnel matters: at the divisional, cluster, and
school level managers have no power to promote, transfer, or discipline
staff. Consequently they can neither reward good performance nor
effectively overcome poor performance. Coupled with the general inadequacy
of management skills, these factors seriously undermine the effectiveness
of teacher supervision.
2.25     There also exist a number of other problems that contribute to
difficult personnel management: the lack of clear job descriptions, of
evaluation systems, and of clearly defined operational procedures.
Assistance will be provided under the project to help develop and implement
new systems in each of these areas (para. 3.12).
Teacher Attendance
2.26     The most notable effect of the excessive and uncoordinate use of
leave benefits, weak management, and supervision is the high level of
teacher absences from the classroom, which constitutes perhaps the greatest
single problem facing the school system. System-wide data indicate an
absence rate of about 15Z (See Annex 4.1). There are four types of teacher
absences:
(a)  Casual leave - 21 days per year; or 122 of the 180 day school
year;
(b)  Sick leave - 20 days per year;
(c)  Study and examination leave - no fixed amount per year. but
significant. For example, the distance education teacher
training scheme holds its weekly contact program on Fridays
(a school day), and absences for examination marking is
widespread at certain times of the year; and,
(d) Absenteeism, i.e. absence without notice and charging any of
the above categories of official leave.



- 14 -
The problem is compounded by inefficient management of teachers when they
are at schools in many cases available teachers are not adequately used to
cover classes which are vithout a teacher. These latter problems are
largely a function of weak management by principals and insufficient
supervision of schools - and the management strengthening elements of the
project are designed to address them. The overall problem of absences,
however, is a more systemic result of the casual leave system.
2.27     District and division offices confirmed that the majority of
teachers utilize all their contractual leave.  Research in other countries
indicates that few allow teachers to take casual leave during the school
year - but instead maintain a separate teachers' service with different
terms and conditions from the civil service as a whole.
2.28     During project preparation, IDA staff explored with the Government
the possibility of changing teachers' conditions of employment to eliminate
casual leave (with appropriate salary adjustments). This was felt to be
politically infeasible, although Government recognizes the central
importance if this issue. Instead the Government has agreed to explore the
possibilities and experiment with schemes for compensating teachers for
leave not tak,n on an optional basis. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that the Government will develop proposals and implement them
on a trial basis (see para. 3.13).
E. The Role of Clusters and School Boards
2.29      A 1981 White Paper on education recommended the establishment of
School Clusters, into which adjacent schools would be grouped in order to:
-    optimize the use of resources by sharing among schools;
-    improve quality through better planning and systematic
management;
-    reduce disparity in the distribution of educational
resources;
-    increase public participation in cluster activities.
Each cluster was to encompass 10 to 15 schools including primary, secondary
and one or two collegiate (Type 1) schools. A collegiate school was to
serve as the core 4chool, and the principal of that school as the cluster
principal.
2.30     At present, about 75Z of schools are officially grouped into
approximately 700 clusters. It is generally acknowledged, though, that
only 10-t clusters are functioning well. By and large, the objectives of
this p-Jgram have not been achieved. The reasons for this are multiple:
the demarcation of schools into clusters was done administratively from the
center, and did not necessarily reflect local circumstances; while
training, supervision and admsnistrative support for cluster principals
proved to be inadequate. Hany of the problems arose from efforts to
implement the program too rapidly and without adequate devolution of
authority to the cluster level. The cluster principal vas also to play a
key role in supervision of schools within the cluster. In general this has



- 15 -
not happened, because the cluster principal - who is usually responsible
for a large and prestigous school, has neither the time nor the inclination
to actively engage in supervision of other schools. Possible solutions to
this include establishment of extra admiristrative capacity at the core
school, the appointment of a deputy cluster principal, or of a cluster-
level supervisor. These arrangements will be supported on a trial basis
under the project.
2.31     The White Paper also recommended the establishment of cluster
boards; advisory panels to the cluster principal. They were to be composed
of the cluster principal, other administrative staff within the cluster,
and members of the community. In many clusters these boards have not been
established, and existing boards are often not functioning satisfactorily.
However, the Government is still committed to proceeding with scme form of
'School Boards* as a means of increasing responsiveness to local
communities.
2.32     Experience in other nearby countries indicates that the school
cluster program can be an effective means for improving the quality of
education in Sri Lanka. With the move to decpr.cralize responsibility for
education and to encourage more community involvement, this is an opportune
time for revitalizing the cluster concept and exploring the role of cluster
boards. The project proposes to support this revitalization process.
Recognizing that conceptual and implementation problems need to be
resolved, the project will support an experimental unit which will
implement different school cluster models through a program of action
research. Attention will be paid to evolving models suitable to different
field conditions and the development of materials and training packages to
support repl'cation of successful models. The experimentation will also
incorporate alternative models for cluster school boards in order :o
increase community participation. (para. 3.11).
F. Teacher Quality and Training
2.33     Historically teachers were well paid and enjoyed high social
statuq in Sri Lanka; as a consequence the profession maintained high
standards and was able to draw from a pool of high calibre recruits. The
situation changed through the 1970's when the rapid expansion of the system
meant that many teachers were taken with little or no training, and real
salaries were eroded by inflation. The result was a large cadre of
teachers with inadequate experience, low morale, and declining professional
standards. At the same time, the established in-service training network
was not geared to cope with the massive influx of new teachers.



- 16 -
Table 2.3: Composition of Teaching Staff 1965-1986
1965      1975       1981     1986
Untrained                     52,180    31,275    40,000    28,750
Trained Teachers \a           32,060    56,875    72,710    67,245
University Graduates           5,400    10,920    20.540    33,845
Total                      89,640    99,070   133,250   149,840
a/   Peda-ogically trained - but without university qualifications.
2.34     The problem of quality is being overcome by a major teacher
training effort and increased salaries.  The minimum requirements for
teacher candidates were recently raised from 0-level to passes in three A-
levels, and following a salary increase (about 15?) two years ago the
teaching service is now drawing its intake from the same pool as the
universities, or from amorg university graduates. The situation should
improve further as the result of substantial additional pay rises recently
granted teachers under the recommendations of the Administrative Reforms
Committee (up to 75Z).
2.35     The teacher training system has also been revamped.  In-service
training capacity has been expanded (to 18 teachers' colleges). The
practice of recruiting untrained teachers has in principle been
discontinued, and a program of pre-service training introduced. (In fact,
however, a substantial number of untrained teachers are still being
recruited.) Under the new system, eight Colleges of EducatioL. have
recently been established, at which recruits spend two years, followed by a
-ne year internship at a school, before qualifying as teachers.
2.36     Although teacher supply is adequate at the moment, there are two
emerging concerns:
- insufficient teacher training capacity for the future; and,
- a growing backlog of untrained teachers.
The current annual requirement for teachers is about 6,000 (Annex 4.3).
However, if the Government continues its current policy of only placing
trained teachers in the classroom, the current pre-service training
capacity (1,400 p.a.) is clearly inadequate. Government is currently
considering its options, including opening more Colleges of Education.
2.37     One solution (which is in fact being pursued by default) is to
continue to hire untrained teachers, who will eventually receive in-service
training. However this approa~.h will compound the existing problem of
insufficient in-service training capacity. There is currently a backlog of
about 30,000 untrained teachers, along with a program to hire a further
25,000; while in-service training capacity is only about 5,000 p.a..
Consultants financed under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) have
recently proposed a number of potential solutions to accelerate the
training of this backlog.



- 17 -
2.38     The Government recognize. the emerging problem, but consideration
of the issue was not far enough advanced to include a teacher training
component in this project. In order to ensure that in the long run teacher
supply is not a constraint in the sector, agreement was reached at
negotiations that by December 31, 1990 the Government will prepare and
review with IDA a plan for increasing teacher training capacity to adequate
levels. Such a plan vould include a program to increase pre-service
training capacity to equilibrium levels (about 4,500 p.a.) by the mid-
1990's; along with a plan for training the current backlog of untrained
teachers.  It should in-lude a specific implementation schedule as well as
a financing plan.
2.39     Apart from the quantitative issue there remain a rumber of
problems relating to the deployment and utilization of teachers. While the
aggregate student-teacher ratio is 26, class sizes can be very much higher
(up to 70 or more) because: (a) it is difficult to get teachers to serve at
remote schools; (b) available teachers are not fully used due to weak
management by principals; and (c) there is a substantial level of teacher
absence through use of cortractual leave. Measures are being designed
undeL the project to address these problems (paras. 3.09-3.14).
G. Phvsical Facilities and Regional Disparities
2.40     In crder Lo gain universal coverage at an affordable cost, most of
the schools built during the expansion phase were of minimal standard. As
a result many schools lack sufficient classroom space, and the most basic
facilities such as water supply, toilets, blackboards, and furniture. It
is estimated that about 8,000 additional classrooms are required to provide
the minimum standard of 10 square feet per pupil; and about 2,000 schools
lack adequate fuxsiture and/or basic sanitary facilities. Despite the
stated goal of improving technical and science training, many secondary
schools lack any form of science units or technical workshops.
2.41     At the same time recurrent budget limitations have led to the
dilapidation of buildings, failure to replace furniture and equipment, and
shortages of teaching supplies and materials. The net result is that the
productivity of good basic investments in buildings and teachers could be
increased with marginal additional expenditure on upgrading and material
inputs. It is filling these requirements which forms the basis of the
proposed project.
2.42     However, upgrading all schools would not be justified.  There
exist a substantial lumber of small Type 1 (A-Level) and Type 2 (0-Level)
schools with very low enrollment in the upper grades, some of which may
have only 5 to 10 students in the graduating class. At these small schools
it is inefficient to provide specialized facilities; impossible to secure
specialized teachers; and unrealistic to expect to be able to provide the
whole curriculum. MOECAI accepts the desirability of closing the higher
grades at some of these schools, but finds it very difficult to do so due
to community resistance. Criteria have been agreed to ensure that the
proiect does not provide specialized facilities for the higher grades at
such schools (para. 3.05).



- 18
Regional Disparities
2.43     ThLre are great differences among regions and among individual
schools in the quality if teaching, of facilities, and of purii
performance. Host of the regional disparities reflect more general
inequalities in income and development status, and are a result of the
difficulty of attracting staff and funds to the poorer, more remote &teas.
2.44     However, there are also great disparities among individual
schools. Despite notional school boundaries, parents have been allowed
fairly free choice in the selection of schools. The tendency in the past
has been to allocate resources in response to demand. The result has been
the growth of some very large and well-endowed schools, and the parallel
development of schools with very poor facilities. This has been compounded
by the under-funding of recurrent costs, and the advent of Schoo'
Development Societies through which parents and the community are
encouraged to finance additional supplies and facilities for schools.
While this system serves to share the costs of education to some extent, it
also exacerbates the inequalities. Investments under the proposed project
will be aimed at upgrading those schools which have been left behind in the
development process - particularly primary and lower secondary schools in
rural areas.
2.45     Over the last five years MOE has attempted to identify less
developed schools and regions and to target them for special treatment.
These efforts have not met with much success, due partially to political
pressures, and partially to the inability of central management to
accurately pinpoint and direct activities at the local level.
Decentralization to the Divisional level, and the system of school clusters
is being introduced in order to overcome this problem.
H. Public Expenditure on General Education
2.46     Total recurrent expenditure on the school system in 1987 was Rs.
3.7 billion (about $125 million equivalent). Although this represents real
growth over the last dec2de, it constitutes a decline in expenditure per
student, as a share of GDP, and of the Government's recurrent budget.
Table 2.4: Recurrent Expenditure on General Education - 1977-1987
Recurrent Education Expenditure    1977         1980     1983       1987
Nominal Recurrent Expenditure       849       1,399    2,305      3,753
(Rs million)
As a Proportion of:
GOSL Recurrent Expenditure        13.8Z       10.62     9.71       9.7Z
GDP                                2.4X        2.2Z     2.02       2.12
Real Expenditure per Student
(Constant 1987 Rs.)             1,063        874       917       980



- 19 -
2.47     Real expenditure per student declined consistently throug. 1982,
at which point it had fallen 202 since the mid-1970's. Although it has
started to recover since, in 1987 it still remained below the 1977 level.
As would be expected, salaries constitute far and away the largest element
of school operating costs (802 of the total). Basically the Government has
had to meet the demand for increased teachers' salaries - both politically,
and to maintain quality - but to do so and still contain overall recurrent
costs it has underfunded other areas of operations. The composition of
expenditure on general education is shown in the following tablet
Table 2.5: Recurrent Expenditures on General Eaucation (1987)
Total MOE             Pe- Student
Education Expenditures                Expenditure            Expenditure
(Rs. million)         (US$ equivalent)
Salaries and Allowances                  2,950                $25.25
Supplies                                    11                   .09
Text Books and Publications                115                   .98
Examinations                                100                  .86
Maintenance and Repairs                       4                  .03
Travel, Transportation, Utilities            o0                  .25
Sub-total                             3,210               $27.46
Indirect Education Expenditures
Administration and Overheads a/          185                 $1.58
School Lunches                           125                 $1.07
Bus Vouchers                             130                 $1.11
Special Education                        103                   .88
Sub-total                              543                $4.64
Total                                3,753               $32.12
a/ Includes teacher training.
Source:  Summarized from Annex 3.4.
2.48     The very low allocation for consumable supplies is a continuing
cause for concern; at Rs. 11 million it averages the equivalent of only
about 9 cents US per student annually. The effects of this are evident in
the schools, where one generally observes a complete lack of teaching aids
or even the most rudimentary classroom supplies. In order to help overcome
the problem agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government will
increase the allocation for recurrent inputs to Rs. 40 million per annum -
to be funded by the Government with support from IDA (para. 3.07).
2.49     The  low allocation for repairs and maintenance is due in part to
the introduction of a special project for rehabilitation and improvements
in the capital budget (Rs. 100 million in 1989); however even with this the
total provision amounts to only US$310 per echool - which seems less than
adequate - especially when one considers that at least half of these funds



- 20 -
cover major upgrading works at a small number of schools. For the routine
replacement of fu--nitura alone, for instance, MOECAI estimates t}at it
requires some Rs. 100 million a year, yet the available udget is only Rs.
35 million. The project will support the purchase of fu-niture to overcome
this backlog, as well as agreement that the Government will continue
funding for the special rehabilitation and maintenance program for at least
the next five years (para. 3.08).
I. Educational Planning and Policy Analysis
2.50     Within the MOECAI, the Planning Division is responsible for
preparing the annual implementation program, assessing infrastructure
needs, determining the number of vacancies in the teacher cadre, monitoring
special projects and conducting the annual school census. The census data
provide a comprehensive, historical picture of the educational system.
However, there is no established procedure for using the data as a basis
for policy formulation and review, and, at present, this information system
is not used to address broader education'l needs such as the development of
long range plans and analysis of costs, trends, and efficiency issues.
2.51     There is a need to expand the analytical and planning capacity of
MOECAI. In the face of increasing financial constraints and limited
resources, the Ministry needs to be able to analyze the efficiency of the
existing system, review alternative approaches, and anticipate the
consequences of policy decisions. Stronger analytical skills are a
prerequisite to developing the capability to prepare long-range strategic
plans and to guide the establishment of national policies and objectives..
As implementation responsibilities are devolved to the provinces, MOECAI's
role in providin, coordination and analytical support to the PHOEs will
become particularly critical.
2.52     The process for data collection and dissemination needs to tie
together the national, provincial and divisional offices of education with
a commonly shared data base. At the same time the capacity of the Planning
Division to monitor and review implementation needs to be strengthened, to
ensure a link between planning and action, and to improve the quality of
future plans. In addition, the linkage between the development of long-
range and annual plans needs to be more closely coordinated with the budget
preparation process.
2.53     The project will provide technical assistance to the Planning
Division in the areas of policy analysis, long-range planning, and program
monitoring and review. Assistance will also be provided to develop a
comprehensive education management inforration system.
J. Sector Lending Strategy and Role of the Bank
2.54     To date IDA has had limited involvement in the educaticn sector in
Sri Lanka, with two construction industry training projects. The proposed
project represents the extension of a broader sector dialogue started under
an Education Sector Review in 1985. The Bank Group's strategy is to first
support essential upgrading of th- general education system (which is the



- 21 -
area in which the Gcvernment has initially requested IDA financial
assistance), while at the same time laying the groundwork for a longer-term
support for adjustments to the education system. The Government has
expressed its desire for IDA to play a major role in this analysis through
the proposed education-employment study.
2.55     The objectives of IDA involvement under this project would be:
(a) to help strengthen school system management; (b) to help prepare for
the coming of Provincial administration by building up local level
management structures; (c) to strengthen the institutional capacity of
MOECAI to undertake planning and policy anaLysis; and, (d) to encourage the
Government to critically assess the linkages between job-market demands and
education and training needs. and to start the process of adjusting the mix
of education and training programs. IDA's financial involvement will allow
the Government to accelerate its program of upgrading substandard schools,
and will encourage the provision of more adequate recurrent funds to
general education.
2.56     While other donors are supporting numerous initiatives in higher
education and training, none to date have been addressing the general
education system as a whole, cr issues of the overall mix of education
strategy. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is currently financing a study
of the education s2ctor, including a preliminary analysis of the role of
technical and vocational 0-qining. It has been agreed that the two
institutions will work cl aly together in monitoring the progress of this
work, and that IDA efforts will be designed to complement and build on it.
The Bank Group brings to the project its experience of general education
policy in other developing countLies, as well as its expertise in assisting
education management and institutional development.  Furthermore, the
Bank's involvement in many spheres of the economy gives it a comparative
advantage over other education sector donors in dealing with the linkages
between employment, tne labor market, and education.



- 22 -
III - THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01     The proposed project is designed to help the Government address a
number of the key issues identif'ed in the preceding sector analysis. The
specific objectives of the project are to upgrade the quality of basic
education in Sri Lanka by:
(a) increasing the effectiveness with which existing resources
are used, by upgrading physical facilities ana increasing the
supply of material inputs;
(b) improving operational efficiency through better management
and supervision;
(c) reducing large regional and local disparities in the quality
of facilities; and,
(d) supporting decentralization of the school system, and
facilitating the transition to Provincial administration.
Further, the project is designed to increase the effectiveness of the
overall education system by: (a) strengthening monitoring and planning
capabilities; and, (b) beginning the process of adjusting the balance
between various types of education and training - to bring them more
closely in line with employment opportunities ar,d manpower requirements.
B. Project Description
3.02     The project will consist mostly of support for upgrading the
general education system (primary and secondary schools), but it will also
include elements that address the longer-run development of the education
and training sector as a whole. The project consists of three main
elements:
(a) Physical Facilities: an infrastructure component designed to
upgrade substandard schools to an agreed minimum level by the
provision of facilities, equipment, and recurrent material
inputs; and rehabilitation of dilapidated schools, including
those damaged in recent flooding;
(b) Management Strengthening: a management component designed to
improve school and teacher performance through upgrading
management skills, strengthening management structures, and
revising management procedures and systems; and,
(c) Education Policy Development: including (i) a study of the
mis-match between labor market requirements and the output of
the educational system; with a view to exploring options for
longer-run adjustments of the education and training system;
and (ii) Education Planning: strengthening of the planning
and analysis capability within the Ministry of Education.



- 23 -
The following sections give a brief summury of the components and their
relationship with the issues outlined in the previous chapters. Detailed
descriptions are provided in Annexes 6 through 9.
Physical Facilities
3.03     Infrastructure.  This component will support the upgrading of
substandard schools. The emphasis will be on those schools which have
received insufficient attention in the past - generally small schools, and
schools in remote areas. The objective is to raise such schools to basic
minimum standards by the provision of adequate classroom space, water
supplies, toilets, desks, chairs, and blackboards (Annex 6.1).
3.04     This component represents a time-slice of the Government's ongoing
program of school upgrading. As such the project does not specify in
detail the facilities to be financed, bu. will rather provide a fund for
upgrading, with specific agreements on (a) the standards of facilities to
be provided, and (b) the precise criteria for selecting schools to be
upgraded under the project. The selection of schools and programming of
facilities will then be left up to the Government.
3.05     The facilities to be provided include:
-     classrooms (about 4,000);
-     water supplies (650), latrines (700) and urinals (about 3,000);
-     science rooms (about 700);
-     teachers, rooms/offices/store rooms (about 800);
-     desks and chairs (about 150,000 sets);
-     cupboards (about 3,000), blackboards and room dividers (about
18,000).
In general facilities will be provided only at schools where they are not
currently available at all, or where there is severe over-crowding; support will
be focussed on schools going up to year 11, and those lying in rural areas. A
precise statement of the criteria is attached as Annex 6.2. Agreement to these
criteria was reached with the Government at negotiations. The same criteria
would govern the selection of schools to be provided with equipment and supplies
under the project.
3.06     Equipment.  Given the absence of any sort of equipment at most of these
schools, funds will be provided under the project for the purchase of basic
equipment. Equipment will be limited to a list of high priority items such as
primary teaching aids, basic science kits, equipment needed for school
operations, and selected audio-visual aids (Annex 6.3) for schools meeting the
same criteria as specified in Annex 6.2 for upgrading infrastructure.
3.07     Recurrent Inputs.  Given the critical under-funding of school supplies
other than textbooks (para. 2.48), the project includes agreement that the
Government will increase expenditure on classroom consumables to Rs. 40 million
per annum. (The Rs. 40 million is approximately tha amount estimated to be
required to provide a minimal set of supplies to the subset of schools targetted
under the project; the current level iq about Rs. 20 million p.a.). Du.ing the
life of the project partial financial support for this increase will be provided



- 24 -
by IDA. The Government has agreed that the additional funds will be used to buy
basic items such as chalk, paper, pencils, etc. (list attached in Annex 6.4),
and that the additional supplies trill be directed towards less advantaged
schools, as defined in Annex 6.2.
3.08     Rehabilitation.  To compunoate for inadequate routine maintenance in
the past, the project will include! continuation of the Government's
'Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Capital Assets' program - at a level of Rs.
100 million p.a., to rehabilitate dilapidated schools and perform major periodic
maintenance over the life of the project. Agreement was reached with the
Government that it will sustain the program at this levcl over the life of the
project. These funds would be used for upgrading and maintenance of schools
only - with priority given to less developed schools. In addition, the project
includes a provision of US$l million equivalent for the rehabilitation, and in
some cases re-location, of schools damaged by floods and landslides in 1989.
Management
3.09     The focus of this component w.'ll be on improving school level
management, with particular emphasis on improved teacher performance and reduced
teacher absences. This will be achievez by:
-     strengthening Divisional Education Offices;
-     developing luoal supei-vision methods and the role of clusters;
-     developing new management and personnel procedures;
-     providing managernent training for principals; and
-     measures to redu':e teacher absences.
This component is also designed to support and accelerate the Government's
efforts to decentralize school system administration, and support the transition
to a system of Provincial Councils.
3.10     Strengthening Divisional Office's.  The project will help establish DEOs
in areas where they do not exist, and strengthen those which exist but lack
staff and facilities. This will consist of constructing offices (about 30),
providing office equipment and computers,, and vehicles for supervision (for
about 60). In addition, the staffing of Divisional Offices will be upgraded to
allow' for more intensive supervision, to manage financial and administracion
affa_'rs, and schools works. Details are provided in Annex 7.1. The Government
has agreed that it will staff the DEOs at the agreed levels.
3.11     Supervision, Clusters, and Boards. Development - in order to strengthen
local level school management and supervision, the pro4ect will support
establishment of a Management Development Unit (MDU) withln the Ministry to: (a)
develop and test new methods and procedures for school supervision; (b)
strengthen and test school cluster arrangelinents; and (c) to design and pilot
test the establishment of School (or Clustwr) Boards to increase responsiveness
to local communities.l/ The proposed compcinent would include funding for the
1/ The establishment of the MDU as a separate unit was felt to be necessary
because the linf sections of the Ministryr are overloaded with day-to-day
operational problems. Since this is larg;ely a transition and strengthening
exercise, it was decided that a five-yea: life for the unit was adequate -
rather than committing to expansion of the civil service by creating a
permanent unit.



- 25 -
operations of this unit, for expert assistanc.i in developing supervision
systems, and in equipment and transport facilities to strengthen selected
clusters. A more detailed description is included in Annex 7.2 and 7 3.
3.12     Develovment of Management Systems and Procedures.  In preparing the
management component consultants employed under the PPF have identified a
number of areas in which development and refc,rms of management systems would be
useful, including administrative, personnel atnd financial systems (paras.
2.23 - 2.25). While the problems have been tidequately identified most of the
proposals require more detailed analysis before system reforms could be
implemented. Consequently funds will be pro'rided for further studies of
selected issues, along with a general fund for the implementation of agreed
recommendations. A tentative list of areas of investigation is given in Annex
7.4, and includes development of: (a) a career path for teachers; (b) personnel
evaluation systems; (c) revised financial and accounting procedures; and
(d) maintenance and supplies management systema. Agreement was reached with
the Government during negotiations that tervis of reference would be agreed with
IDA before proceeding with these studies.  'he results will be reviewed jointly
and the subsequent use of the fund to implemaent new systems would be subject to
approval by IDA.
3.13     Teacher Attendance.  In addition to the efforts to strengthen
management and aupervision, the project will support further analysis and pilot
measures to increase teacher attendance by compensating teachers for leave not
taken. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that by
December 31, 1990 it will complete an analysis of teacher absences and its
possible remedies (para. 2.28); the results will be reviewed with IDA, and an
action plan for reduction of absences, saitisfactory to IDA, will be prepared by
June 30, 1991. Terms of references are given in Annex 4.2. A fund is provided
under the project to share the costs of compensating teachers for leave not
taken, on a trial basis.
3.14     Management Training will focuE; on tra:ning principals and supervisory
staff in very specific aspects of school level supervision and management
practices to improve the effectiveness with which teachers and resources are
used (Annex 8). The emphasis will be on building a system for decentralized
training of principals of smaller schc.ols not currently reached by the staff
college. The component will include cievelopment of course material, and
training of trainers. During negotia:zions the Government agreed to the
appointment of 32 management trainers at the provincial level.
Sector Policy Development
3.15     Educational Planning and PoLicy Analysis will consist of assistance to
build up the capacity of the central Ministry to undertake analysis of
education system issues, to formulate educational policies and programs, to
provide support to the Provinces, and to monitor the education system. It will
include selected training, speciali2;ed consultancies, computing services, and
software. Assistance will also be p)rovided in establishing a uniform computer
system and data base at the national, provincial, and divisional levels for
school operations (Annex 9).
3.16     The Study of Education-Employment Linkages will analyze the scope for
adjusting the mix and Lontent of thie education and training system, in order to
improve cost-effectiveness and to increase the likelihood that those emerging



- 26 -
from the system are able to more rapidly enter into productive employment.
Among other issues, the study would assess the scope for adjusting the mix of
effort between academic, technical and vocational training, as well as the
cost-effectiveness of various types of vocational training. At negotiations
agreement was reached with the Government on the terms of reference,
implementation arrangements, and follow-up to the proposed study (paras.
1.25-1.27 and Annex 2.3).
C. Project Costs
3.17       The total project cost is estimated at US$75 million equivalent,  of
which about US$10.3 million (142) is expected to be in foreign ixchange. A
sumary is shown below, and details are provided in Annex 10.1.
Table 3.1 Project Coat Etimates
I.  Investment Costs
A.   Infrostructure                          (Re. Milions)                (USS Millons)
(i)  School Upgrading                Local   Foreign   TOTAL     Local   Foreign   TOTAL
Classrooms                           862.0       0.0   808.0       10.5       0.0    10.6
Water Supplies A Toilets              81.6      81.7    68.3        0.9       0.9      1.9
So" tIts a I Id Rome                 171.1       5.9   177.0        6.1       0.2     5.8
5ub-lot I a s 692.3  1          9 9   5  131.7  T   "         I 1         T     17
(ii) Furniture                       126.2      30.6   158.9        3.8       0.9     4.7
(iii) Classroom Equipmnt               76.0      76.0   160.0        2.2       2.2     4.4
B.  Management
Strengthening Divisional Offices      62.6      96.0  177.6         2.6       2.6     6.3
Supervision and Cluster Development  11.7        8.4    20.1        0.3       0.8     0.6
Management Procedures Development    14.7        2.0    16.8        0.4       0.1     0.6
Teacher Absences Reduction            20.0       0.0    20.0        0.6       0.0     0.6
Sub-Total                       129.0     106.4   234.4        3.9       8.1     7.0
C.  Monagement Training                   27.2      14.2    41.4        0.8       0.4      1.2
D. Rehabiitat ion                        633.6       0.0   633.6       16.9       0.0    16.9
E.  Strategic Planning                     1.6      10.3    11.9        0.0       0.3      0.4
F.  Education/Employment Study             1.5       6.4      6.9       0.0       0.2      0.2
G.  Protect Implementation A Coordination 1.8        0.4      1.6       0.1       0.0      0.1
Total Investment Base Costs   1449.9      278.8  1728.7       48.8       8.3    61.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Classroom Inputs                      100.0       0.0   100.0        8.0       0.0      8.0
B. Monagment and Management Training    76.9         0.0    75.9        2.8       0.0      2.3
Total Incremental Recurrent Costs        176.9       0.0   175.9        6.8       0.0      5.3
Total Bae  Costs                        1626.9     276.8  1904.8       40.6       6.3    58.9
Physical Contingencies                   169.2      27.9   187.1        4.7       0.8      6.5
Price Continaeeiee                       $82.0      81.0   418.6       11.4       1.0    12.4
PPF Refinancing                           --         6.7      6.7      _          0.2      0.2
Total Project Costs                     2167.8     844.4  2612.2       84.7      10.3    75.0



- 27 -
Cost estimates, in mid-1989 prices, are based on current contracts and
purchase prices for similar works and services. Physical contingencies are
1OZ of base costs, and price contingencies are based on the following
rates: for local expenditures: 72 in 1990, 6Z in 1991, and SZ p.a.
thereafter; and for imported goods and services 1.5Z in 1990 and 3.62 p.a.
thereafter. Of the total cost identifiable taxes and duties constitute
about US$0.7 million equivalent.
D. Financing Plan and Items for IDA Financing
3.18     US$26 million equivalent (35Z) of the project costs will be
financed by the Government, and US$49 million (65Z) equivalent by the IDA
credit; as shown in Table 3.2 below.
Table 3.2 Project Financing Plan
(US$ millions equivalent)
Item                           GOSL          IDA            Total
Infrastructure                             5.0         3C.5             35.5
Management Strengthening and Training    0.4           10.4             10.8
Studies and Other                          --           0.8              0.8
School Supplies                            2.8          1.1              3.9
Rehabilitation and Maintenance            14.8          6.0             20.8
Incremental Operating Costs                3.0           --              3.0
PPF Refinancing                                         0.2              0.2
Total                             26.0         '9.0             75.0
of which:  Foreign Exchange        --          10.3             10.3
Local Costs           26.0         38.7             64.7
26.0        49.0              75.0
The Government will finance the Rehabilitation and M1aintenance of Capital
Assets program largely out of its capital budget.  IDA will provide US$5
million equivalent to support this program, and US$1 million for the
rehabilitation of flood-damaged schools. The costs of doubling the budget
for classroom consumables will be financed jointly by IDA (about one-third)
and the Government (two-thirds), with IDA financing declining from 60Z in
the first year to 202 by the last year of the project. The Government and
IDA will share equally in the costs of the fund for payments for teacher
absences reduction. The Government will bear all incremental operating
costs, except for the costs of project coordination and of the Management
Development Unit. It is expected that recurrent salary costs would be met
largely by transfer of existing staff. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government that it would provide local financing for these
items.
E. Implementation Arrangements and Status of Project Preparation
3.19     The project mostly supportf. the on-going functions of MOECAI, and
as such will be executed by the line units of the Ministry. A steering
committee, chaired by the Secretary MOECAI, will provide overall direction
to the project. A small group will be established withir. MOECAI to
coordinate project activities and to serve as principal point of contact



- 28 -
with IDA (Annex 10.4). The Government established a Project Steering
Comimttee and appointed a project coordinator prior to negotiations.
3.20     Construction vill be performed by local contractors working to
standard plans, under the direction of the Ministry's school works staff.
The management component will be implemented by the Provincial and
Divisional education offices, with guidance and direction from a
specialized group (the MDU) in the Ministry which will design, manage, and
monitor the pilot work on supervision procedures, cluster strengthening,
and establishment of school boards (see para. 3.11 and Annex 7.3 for terms
of reference). The management training component will be jointly executed
by the NIE's Staff College, which will develop curriculum and train
trainers; and by the Ministry, which will do the actual training. The
study of education-employment linkages study will be managed under the
auspices of the Human Resources Development Council (para. 1.27).
3.21     With the advent of Provincial Councils, some of the project
functions will be devolved to the Provinces, however: (a) foreign aid
projects will remain a national responsibility; and (b) the PHOEs will, for
the foreseeable future, continue the practices and policies of the national
Ministry. Prior to negotiations, the Government provided IDA with a legal
opinion confirming that the Provinces are legally bound to implement the
project as agreed between IDA and the Government.
3.22     Status of Preparation.  The project's physical components are
based on an estimate of infrastructure requirements prepared by MOECAI
using a survey of school principals, and reviewed and refined in
consultation with IDA. The buildings, facilities, and furniture are all
based on standard type plans.  The management and policy components have
been developed in consultation between IDA staff and the Government
officials, with the help of a comprehensive report prepared by management
consultants financed under an IDA Project Preparation Facility
(US$225,000).
F. Procurement and Disbursements
3.23     Items valued at about US$6.4 million will be procured by
International Competitive Bidding (ICB); these include vehicles, computers,
and science equipment. Goods will be procured by ICB if they can be
grouped into packages of $100,000 or more. IDA will undertake prior review
of all contracts velued at US$100,000 or more, and of all ICB contracts.
Model bidding documents will be developed and agreed to for all ICB and LCB
procurement. Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), in which foreign firms may
participate, will be used for items which are not suitable for
international competition, such as civil works (US$47 million), furniture
($6.7 m.), classroom consumables ($l.lm.), and other minor items such as
classroom and office equipment costing in aggregate $3.6 million. The
nature of upgrading works at small schools, often involving construction of
only one or two classrooms at a remote location, is such that LCB
procedures are the only viable approach. MOECAI's procurement practices
have been reviewed and are consistent with standard IDA practices.
Consultancies, training and other spacialized services valued at $2.6
million equivalent will be procured following IDA guidelines, and all
consultants will have experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA. The
following table sutmmarizes procurement arrangements for the project:



- 29 -
Table 3.3 - Procurement Arrangements a/
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
ICB        LCB c/    Other b/ N.A. c/  Total
Civil Works                 -         47.0        -         -       47.0
(27.2)                -      (27.2)
Equipment                  5.1         3.6        -         -        8.7
(5.1)      (3.6)                -        (8.7)
Furniture                              6.7                 -         6.7
(6.7)                -       (6.7)
Vehicles                   1.3         -          -        -         1.3
(1.3)                           -        (1.3)
Studies, Training, and    -            -          2.6      -         2.6
Technical Assistance                           (2.6)     -        (2.6)
Supplies                   -           3.9        -        -         3.9
(1.1)                -       (1.1)
Salaries, Operations and  -            -          2.5      2.3       4.8
other costs d/                                  (1.4)    (--)      (1.4)
Total                      6.4        61.2        5.1      2.3      75.0
(6.4)     (38.6)      (4.0)    (--)    (49.0)
/a  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts which would be
financed by IDA.
/b  Includes direct cont:acting, procurement of technical services for
which Bank guidelines will apply.
/c  Includes local costs only.
/d  Includes PPF refinancing and project implementation costs.
/e  Includes taxes, duties, and salaries not financed by IDA.
3.24     Disbursements:  Phasing of the estimated disbursements of the
proposed IDA Credit is shown in detail in Annex 10.3. Disbursement of the
proposed Credit has been estimated on the basis of the credit becoming
effective by February 1990. Projected disbursements extend over seven
years, and are consistent with the country profile for Sri Lanka. A
closing date of December 31, 1995 is proposed. The Credit will be
disbursed against the following categories.



- 30 -
Allocation of Proposed IDA Credit
Disbursements
Category                        Amount               Z of Expenditures Financed
(US$ million)
Civil Works                      24.3                 90Z of expenditures
Equipment and Furniture          13.9                -10OX of foreign expenditures
100Z of local expenditures
esx-factory
85? of other local
expenditures
Classroom Supplies                1.1                -60Z until January 31, 1992
40S until January 31, 1994
and 20S thereafter
Vehicles                          1.1                 100? of foreign expenditures
Con ltants and Technical
Services                       1.7                1001
Training and Fellowships          1.0                 100S
Project Co-ordination             0.9                 100X
and Operations a/
PPF Refinancing                   0.2                 100?
Unallocated                       4.8
Total                            49.0
a/  Includes salaries and operating costs of the Project Coordination and
Management Development Units, the funds for implementation of new
management procedures, and teacher absences reduction measures,
LLsbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding US$20,000
equivalent would be made against normal documentation. Disbursements
against contracts below that level would be made on the basis of Statements
of Expenditures (SOEs), available for examination by IDA missions. The
Government would establish a Special Account in the Central Bank, under
conditions satisfactory to IDA, to which IDA would make an initial deposit
equivalent to about US$2.5 million (about 4 months disbursements). The
Special Account would be replenished as appropriate when the undisbursed
balance of the account falls below an amount equal to 50? or less of the
amotnt of the Special Account. Withdrawal applications would be supported
by appropriate documentation.
G. Accounts, Audit and Reporting
3.25     MOECAI will maintain separate financial records and accounts for
project activities. Annual audits of project accounts (including the
Special Account) by the Auditor-General, or by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Association, would be made available to IDA within nine
months of the close of each Fiscal Year.  Every six months the Government
will submit reports on project progress, in a format agreed between IDA and
the Government; and by June 30, 1992, the Government and IDA will jointly
hold a mid-term review of project progress (see tnnex 10.4). Agreement on
these arrangements was reached at negotiations.



- 31 -
H. Environment
3.26     The project will have little effect on the environment; the
provision of sanitary facilities and water supply will have a beneficial
health impact upon the students and the community.
I. Project Benefits and Risks
3.27     The principal benefit of the project will be better education for
children in Sri Lanka through:
-    improved teacher attendance and performance due to increased
supervision and better management;
-    better conditions for teaching and learning, due to relief of
over-crowding, provision of adequate sanitation, and basic
facilities such as blackboards, desks and chairs;
-    improved teacher morale and performance due to provision of
basic classroom supplies and teaching aids; and,
-    more equitable provision of facilities and supplies,
especially to more remote areas and poorer schools.
It is of cearse difficult to directly estimate the value of improved
supervision and management, but if the management component can achieve a
lOZ increase in teacher utilization through lower leave benefits, this
would increase teaching-days by at least 400,000 per year. It is expected
that physical improvements will directly affect over 20,000 teacl.ers and
about 500,000 students.
3.28     In the longer run the project will improve the effectiveness of
the overall education and training system by:
(a)  laying the groundwork for a re-adjustment of secondary and
post-school training - reducing redundant training
expenditures and increasing the employability of those
leaving the system - thus reducing the social costs of time
spent waiting in unemployment (currently about 168 million
man-days per year); and,
(b) improving the effectiveness of the general education system
by establishing a workable management information system, and
-omputerizing the routine administrative work of Provincial
and Divisional offices;
3.29     The project will also have a number of direct non-educational
benefits including:
(a)   the creation of about 5,000 jobs for workers involved in
classroom conistruction over the life of the project;



- 32 -
(b)   direct health benefits through the installation of water
supplies and sanitary facilities, this will serve to
inculcate about 200,000 children with practices of personal
hygiene, a well as having a demonstration effect on adjacert
villages.
3.30     There is risk that continuing high level of teacher absences (both
contractual and unscheduled) will reduce the effectiveness of other
investments made under the project. This is being handled by increased
supervision a*d training under the management component, and by specific
measures to reduce absences (para. 3.13). There is also a risk that
implementation of the management component will be piecemeal because it
relies on the cooperation of central, Provincial, Divisional, and Cluste'.
level staff. Recognizing this, the MDU will be established to coordinate
and guide management activities (para. 3.11). In addition, there is a
danger that competing pressures on the budget - particularly the Jana Saviya
program - would limit the Government's contribution to its share of project
costs. This has been handled by keeping counterpart funding relatively low
in the first years, and by explicit commitment to the Government financing
for certain items (para. 3.18). There are no appreciable risks associated
with the physical components of the project.
3.31     At the country level, there is a danger that a deterioration in the
security situation or uncertainly regarding the transition to Provincial
Councils would impede project implementation. It is judged that the project
could be implemented with the current level of civil unrest, and that the
risk of a major deterioration is not currently sufficient to halt project
processing.  With respect to Provincial Councils, the Crvernment has assured
IDA that the transition process will continue, and the project has been
designed accordingly.



- 33 -
CHAPTER IV - AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01     Prior to negotiations, the Government provided IDA with a legal
opinion confirming that the provinces are legally bound to implement the
project as agreed between IDA and the Government (para. 3.21).
4.02     At negotiations, agreement was reached on:
(a)   terms of reference and implementation arrangements for the
Education-Employment linkages study (Annex 2.3), the analysis
of teacher absences (para. 3.13 and Annex 4.2), and for the
activities of the Management Development Unit (para. 3.11 and
Annex 7.3); and,
(b)   the criteria to govern the selection of schools for upgrading
under the project (para. 3.05 and Annex 6.2); and for the
supply of equipment and supplies purchased under the project
(paras. 3.06 and 3.07, and Anneres 6.3 and 6.4;.
4.03     In addition, at negotiations Government provided assurances that it
would:
(a)   complete a study of employmei,t/education linkages by June 30,
1991, review the results with IDA, and prepare an action plan
by December 31, 1991 to implement agreed recommendations
(para. 1.26);
(b)   by December 31, 1990, prepare ar.d ieview with IDA an action
plan for expansion of teacher training capacity to adequate
levels, (para. 2.38);
(c)   agree terms of reference with '.DA before proceeding with
studies undertaken under the management development
component, (para. 3.12);
(d)   by December 31, 1990, complete an analysis of teacher
absences and its possible remedies, rev!.ew the results with
IDA, and prepare an action plan for reduction of absences
satisfactory to the Association by June 33, 1991, (para.
3.13);
(e)   increase the financial provisions for classroom supplies to
Rs. 40 million p.a. (para. 3.07); sustain the program
'Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Capital Assets' at a level
of Rs. 100 million p.a. over the life of the project (para.
3.08); staff Divisional Education Offices at the agreed
levels (para. 3.10); ensure the appointment of 32 Provincial
level management trainers (para. 3.14); and commit
sufficient local financing to complete the project (para.
3.18).
(f)   provide IDA with audited project accounts within nine months
of the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.25); and,



- 34 -
(g)   submit semi-annual project progress reports in accordance
with the format agreed at negotiations, and hold a mid-
project review with IDA by June 30, l99k (para. 3.25).
4.04     On the basis of the above conditions and agreementa, it is
recommended that the Association support the project with a credit to the
Government of US$49 million equivalent on standard IDA terms with a 40
years' maturity.



- 35 -                                                                                     Annex 1
Page I of 2
COMA"TIVI 9DUCATION IMICATONS
;CIWM&L
:Qw&Rman
:RUINDITUM    ;EDUCATION                                 XOMPLITEON:                RACIJRAENT
:00 IWCATION  :RSCURRAMT            4OULT                :RATS PDA   :              UW IT C(IST  :P2141SAStON:
GM  Pat:                !As PERCZKT    :IXPUMITURES  :LIYF.AACT:PRIMAAT:PR%MARV    :p1tt%A2Y   PRIKUY                      .Art PWM    qItCDNO4AY:S9CrWOaRY:HlLAVR
imAN; PW. ;CAPITA ;F91CL01T G":TOTAL C9WrRAL;ALLOCAT9O TO;:1AT1I    :RV-V-1...!SCAOOL                           :STUogrrS: tOUCATION  :PRIMARY TO  :ENROLL.  :sTUO9m                    !Emao--
;11aR:MILL3.:(US$)   :09VOTED TO  :00URAMMIMPT   :Pal  SEC  91                  (t)    :RATIO    :CYCLS         :nR         :AS PERCMff: SZCDMARY   RATIO             : pen        RATto
EDUCATION  ;IXP"DITURB                             (1976)    (1)           (2)      :TSACHIR  ;GAP/cAPtTA:          (Z)          (1)       :T9AC"9R        (t)
DgVELDPZD couirmigs
ARISTPALIA             60      la.6b  :::70,        6 1:                                                           3         00           21          -                              71,         13        20 90
&I     23.7b        5(       1:7           j`:6,-,                                       o          :Oo           2i          19.907         1 1")o         92          la        22:60.
GCBPANY F.&.           79      61.2   L2.200        4.6             1.9a         -       -      -     "b                    100,                                      100.           94a         --        12.110-
nTHERLANOB             7       14 0 to 4.90         7               5I           20    35    25       91b                                 Is          is 3            99             :2         II         12 40
1 6:081  5:1-          13            37    31    2                    DD         00           24          I1:6            100             2           S        zs:ao.*
VtV ZLALAND                         b         b                                               g          b?
SWEDU                  79       8.3  12.250         1.0            16.2          31    10    to       ggb         99-       100           IS&         19.9           100             79-        1007       34.iloar
t"TZRN AFRICA
BOTSWAN                 3       I.Ob      920b      6.0            22.0         41    34    22        40        100          77           32          10.0            40             20         21          1.80
But NOIA,              :1       4.2       235       2.8bo          19.0         41    28    27        25          29-        35           17          20.2             12             3.         17         1.00
%.,Uaos                         0.4b      345        ).$-          28.0          49    29    22       49          76         40           39          -                .1            36         Zs          0.60
WIBMTI                 64       0.4       440       3.0            11.9          73    26    ...      10          42         66           40          '37.0           40             to          it         0.60
MIOPLA                 as     43.0          10      3 bp            9.5          55    28    17       39          37         306          63          L9.3            934            14         44          0.50
17.4b                5:8-b                       6.    16    11                  113          Ss           36          14.4            35             la         26
KENYA                  82                 120                      20.1b                              4gb                                                                                                   -
L, SOM                 82       1.4b      435b      5.5            16.9          34    32    26       53b        116-        41           48           9.b            46             21         21          t. 10
HADAGASCAIL            77       a         330       4 0-                         53    11    19       So          94ba       33                          .o            38            14         a]          I joby
MALAWI                 4I        :'lb     z3o b     3:5            "L:',         38    1 1    I 5     25b         6 2        21           6"            .a             12             4         2 1         -3:40
ML-RITIUS              a 3      I.Ob   1.1700       4.3            14..O         46    36      7      sob         93         7 2          23          13.0           100             so         22          I.w
RWANDA                 43       5.9b      270b      3.6            27.4          7 1    1 6    13     III,        65         30           40          L6.0              9             5         I 6         0.40
SEYCKEI-1              79       0.6    1,710        5.4            22.0          348  330   10-                                           2 5
OKALIA                           5       280                      10.5          Sob  44b    bb       Sob         22b        Sob          29b          9.0b           W b            12b        2 2         1.00
h:Z   380  'O                        66    39    ...       3 2                    64           34          1.4             44            16          1 6       ...
SUDAN                  so      j    b         b                    -                                              $I..
SWAZILAND              a 3      0.1b      940b       3.epb         20.4          5 1    34    1 5     65b         93         so           3 1         ii.0            96             29         la          1.00
TANWIA                 w       16.5       260        S.,           17.7          47    I 0    1 6      79b        gab        87           43          11.0             L9b            3         20-         n.)o
uc AMDA                96      15.2b      22( b      1.6           L2.0          I a    I 1    26      5 2        1,6 b      42           34           1.5b            I I           19b        22          n.6ob?
LAIRE                  $I      29.gb      2 lOt'    7.7            2614          -     -      10       A b        76         25           10          21.0            40             is         26          2.00
ZAMBIA                 so       5.7b      sabb      4.5p           II.L          48    23    22       446         95         so           48          12.9             19            16         22          1 . SO
ZIKLtBbM               $I       7.7b      700b       5.!           19.5          62    32      6       Ab         90         55           19          20.0            as             Is         23          0.50
WtS?`ERX AFRICA
BENIM                  79       3.4. b    320b       6.5-          35.0          43    2 1     5     ilb          42          30          46          14.0            30             11         43          11007
SUILKINA               83       b.s       Zlob       2.1-          21.7          43    ill   28       9           16         2 5          5 7         24.3            16              3         24          0.01
CAMEROON               84k    10.0        S!ob       I.IP          -             3 3    38    28     20           A9         45b,         so          -               --             23         29          2.70
C.A. R                 56       Z.&b      2bob       3.07          24.7-Y        49    16    7 4     -            79         45           65.7        ka.0            --             la         67          1.40-Y
CMAII                  a?       5.2        179       2.6           6.9           M?  14?    3 7    -                          39          60           5.5            35              74        37          O.W&
CONGO                  78       1.5       670       9.00"          27.7-7        -     --   -        -            --          --          56by        -               30             --         43bY        4.OD-7
EQUAT. CUINLA          85       0.3b       270b      2.0            3.8          47    24            2(b          13          I 0         go           5.2            40             25         17"         -
GABON                  7 7      0.6    3,420         1.7by          8.4y         -     -                                                  46by        -                              -          igby,       ?." y
CAPMIA                 7 7      0.6        220       3.3"           6,sb         46    254    6-    job           40by        go.          27bT      44.79            40             12b.7      11
GMANA                  76      11.3       4w         4.07          15.5b         -     -      -      -            7lb-Y       -           27by        -               -              36b-Y      2k
Glil"LA                79       5.3        29op      4.6ap         -             25-  28-  28-    20              34          36          31          20.0ap          as             16         29          7.000
GUINEA BISSAU          86       O.9b       17ob      -              9.6          46    1 2    -      150)         sa          10          26           2.0                           -          I b         -
IVOItY ODAST           83       9.3b      720        7.1           42.8          51    40      9     35-Y         72          79          3)         29.0             49            22.5        30          k.as
LIBEItIA               so       1.9       520       4.6            19.6          43    23    24      30           52          32          is         20.0             76            22          20          2.90
MALt                   el       7.0b       I"        4.20          21.7-         38    21    It      to           20         60           44          15.7            S6              I         It          0.90"
HAURITAXI&             86       1.7b      410b       5.0           22.4          32    40    25       17          55          35          50         30.0             elk            L6         23          4.60
NIGER                           5.2       loo        2.8           21.0          40    25    20      14           25         20           36         4L.U             37             6          Zs         O'so
VlGtRLA                83      93.6b       760b      7.47          16.0          -     -      13     36           93          70          36          19.5            47            23          10          2 , ,
AL              64       6.4        380       5.0b          24.0          46b  35h   lgb    28             52          59           46         26.0             198           16A        24          2.20a
77       3.4       250       4.0b          16.0b         -      -     --    j5b           37x         -            35         25.0b           94             is-        22          0,6047
TOGO                   a        Z.4       4m        6.54,          26.5q         306  26-  21A    IS              74         0            54,by      34.0             52            l2b.y       46b          .6ciby
tATIN AMERICA AO  Tllg CAIII  KM
AJtCVffLXA                         I    Z.210       2.7            10.9          438   31a   IS&    93b           89         52           1;         -                87            31           8        23.00
LARAKU                 79       0.2    2,770        S.?            19.1          36    36    11      gib                     97           24         -                97            75          to        -
'ARIADDS               is       0.2    2."O         1.5"T          22.10         436  314   168    " b           1007        196          277        !S.'s            994           787         201,      -
IMIVZA                 so       5.4       sso       4.1ay          30.50         -       -     -     63           74Y        -            20Y        -                -             157         -         12.607
am iL                  is    116.5    1.770          3.9            6.2          St           14     76           7347       -            "ay         4.5h            614           tsay        iAay      11.62b
CMIL9                  74      10.9     1"O          I 2by          ,:.Ob        -            -      -           llgbxy      --           3407       -                --            55bly       20 by     I I qObIp
cotmet h               as      28.4b I:320b          3:0 P         'o            40    30    20      "            go*        4.1          29          8.0             -             $of         20        la.,ult
ODSTA RICA             so       2,;b    ,&job        8.4           31.1          40    27    33      910          93         71           3 3                         77            40          27        14.00
CUSA                   76       9.6       -         E.0            11.0          -     -      --    96           1121bay     Oa           Igby                        96            71buY       Is        19.01by
DOMINtCAN UP.          so          3    1.030       2.9            13.0          It    21    22      68b          so         31           59          3.2.            94            30          33        i6.na
ECUAWK                 to       :-.4b   1,110       6.0p           36.7          45    31    16      el          105         --           36         12.6             ab            4.7         16        29.00
9L SAILVADOR           77       4.4       640        3.4by         23.1by        64     a    27      62           82bxy      32           I$         --               41            26-*Y       27bY       ?.Wbl
GUATEMALA              76       6.6    1,01C         Iday          12.6b                                          6qb.y       --          35by       --               69            15--y       igby       S.Sov
GUYANA                 76       0.6       610       S. I by        1).gby                                         ggb.y       --           32by      ---              --            59 1-Y      --          3.001
RAITt                  so       S.jb      230        3.4-           7.9-Y        65     9      6     23b          50         20           41         k9.0             b2a            4.         21         0.90
NMDUIAS                76       3.6       szo        3.5by         14.1by        628   IS-   19-    60            8qb.y       30.         .1by       12.014           ba.           ZIIY        Is         8.007
JAMAICA                so       2.1    1.110        6.5            13.7          37    43    20      90           98         98           40          2.3             qs            SI          22         4.00
mzxlco                 so      65.5    L,680         4,7           17.0-         46    39    15      92           98          53          44          4.5             86            56          17        10.30
MICARACUA              78       2.6b      6101,    3.0b.           14.0b         --  - -  -          gob          gSb.       i4           " b        --                             201         30b       -
PA14AMA                78       j.gb   :,55(b        5.5"          21.81by       426   II*  13       92b          95by        --          2sby       II.,             85            , 1.7      27by      20.4.nby
PAPLAGUAT              79       3.0    1.140         1.4w          14.2          42    17    20      84           a)          32          28          3.IT            76            22          12         0. Yk)
PtRU                   so      16.6    1 000        3.6            14.3          S3    Is    19      so           93         56           39          9.8             99            19          22        14.407
TRINIDAD 4 TOB.    77           1.1    1:910        4.Sby           8.6by        ha    32    2u      95           98         91            30        10.5?            49            62          24        -
UtUrOAT                76       2.9    2,500         2.5            9.4b         - -  - -  - -    9,             iosb-        --          24t,       ---              ---           6kh.        --        11.60ty
VZNZZUBLA              76      14.4    1.440         5.1y          13.9b                             82          1,)bb.                   28         ---                                        k?        21.107



- 36
weemw                                                                Annex
Page 2 of 2
IC= Is"
IMMI"u   :900,116111481    ;,AMT                    CUMPLvftop
.10  wl""O                                                                :QUIT CM   1POWAUSION.
WIN,                                                    .. . : .:: un in" TM   M    T . ftliVWU  :RATS                                                      :
"mu: Mr. : CLIP.                 U., I               UU=A0='M "TO. i .         ZBT 'SCOM    :6T=OMM: SM$rATIN  PllrAMW To                             :87400M  MLVA.:
VW    IULLS. (go)   NW"             10 .00               me  in       (1)   :IATIO  :CTOA          :Fu         AS pokcm:sgcon"l   IATIO    :M                  :24110
I    :0979),(193)   sewATIM  lwmtlm                  I     (s)         (1076)   (s)    j    (S)       vt%am     GW/CAFITAi    (1)              (t)   :TIACM          (2)
I    I       I                      I                                                                                                                 I
I    I (1)  ,  (2)          (1)    I       (4)       I    (5)           (6)       (7)                   (9)                                    O 2):   (131    (14)
UXA M2 TM  M            .D.      ..        .I          7.1         33   44   II       16b       $6         64         Is          5.0           6y           36        Is         4.00
iquomiA             $I   150.51,   S20         2.1          9.3         to   34      6      131,      n         41          I?         11.0           7           21         26        1.10
&mu                 a      39.3b  1.636b    1.1-            30.4        34   36   31        96        Us                    A?         14.0           87           12        If        4.010
0        66   ts      3     611        81        is          27                       40.1         1 S        Is        1.36
S                                                                                               I
MAIAW LA            46                         6                        3s          2       11                                                                      I        la        4
PAFV                83                                                  as                                                                            11;         11 S.      2"          Z
1,                            X                      .,.o        be          -       ?%b                 6s          31                                                          1.0
PIIL.,,    9        ?9    J  3         lob                                                                                              7.1                        Ss        M        II
SLNCAPWS            so      I4   4.420         2.7           6.7        Is   40   16        as        la        12          31          8.4           96           55        1.        ..Go
SOL==    M.         a       O:lb    "a         6.6p         19.0b       49   34   20        15        N         so          27         10.5           60           20        ks         3.1541
TUILAW              a      4::Ob    soob    3.4             30.3        "    14   to        ebb      101        66          21          9.1-          44           46        is         4.0
WAIRLATU            46         lb    -         8.3          33.5        61   I?      4      13       115        40          24         li.0           as           20        La         2.00
som A&u
L40CLAOM            U`   103                                            -                   zob       *1        AS          4s          ?.S           13           21        26         4.90.7
siaffAm                               I 'No                                                            2
IMIA                7 7   6".6       zio       2.9y          9.907                          x         I                                                            2s.
MP"                 u      15.06      ISO      1.4                                          I 0       ?o                    118                                    z 1       2 3        3.100-
?AAtTTA2            n      07.1b    idob    2.0              7.0        is   30   24        22        so        4 1         30          5.9           56           I I       I 5        3.00
M -Ar  lhq"  ,    "'    I 7                                  3 7    4 7 I 9                           ilby  69                                         2            8    22by  1.007
?I    IS:'       -                                    .    ,I I        I I                             l;b        -              11
MAIAL&                      6 I   1,170        3:0-         12:3        34   26   11.    11          'IV        45                                    1 5          29Y       26         3.107
WT"                 92    ').3,    630-    4.6-              7.9        11.  3S.  26.    44           Is.       SD,         34.         9:4.          al:          ,34        1        11.40
GRUM                76      1:1    .I,         1:1          I,:lib       17   36   1 1      -         syby                  2 I.'       6.2?                       ?9h.                 I oiby
79   .9                      :,         4.y   -   -                             iol                                                                                4 ft"
lux                                  -         5                                                                            II                                     "aa       11
IRho                79     12                     -Y                                                 iooy                                                          4547      I"         I.3w
IRELAW                      3:6b  2'710        4.3 1        6.9",
Z. b,             ':           'O':','      1 9   46   I 4               :2.        as         '2        I-S.,
OaDAN                         Z   I 420b                                                   70b
LEMA"               ?9   2.3   -               -            12.6"T   -   - -    -                     161    -              19         -                           1A.                 27.40,01
01011I)CCO          "      "       6 soob    6              21:5        15   Al   18        40bl      ;2         75.        26.        26.0           6L           I         S
OKO                         I:       4906    3:121P         12 7_             -     -       30         lea      65          25         -              so
Poa?UCAL            86    Io.jb        lob    4.4           1 I.S       so   36   1 3       10       125         70         is         16.11          64           Ss         16
22      2. L                                 -        -     -            lob.        -          23b                        16          66 h.      22b       :Zclov
2  Y             y                                       by                   ,b                       -              by                     by
:"A'a               I      ":.'   "',                                                                                                                              I I        -        24 10
.IA               is      I. .   "i ?o                   I..                2s   26       W           by      W                                     66           "by       lib       k, :60
rntsLA               1      7.5   1,210        5.6:         16.03       45   37   Is        62       III        0 7         32         11.0           Z 7          so         is        1.507
TU&M                               I.M                       I                                                                                          S
:,I       1    12   11       11       I'll        ;I          3          40            5           2:         It
Y11141111 A                           "O'                               I           I       2:                  la          5          2 :.           -                      20         I
$I      I.Ob    120'b                   9.7         .01.  1104.        S 3       11,        So         25          22'.0.         #A           I 7       SD        I.".
SM FMor =9MING CDUWMI93.
oo:                      64               93        70   69   67       $1        92         as         95          65             75          Si         04       as
Lawg..                                                       (3.7;) (23,  (S-)  S--)   W)    OZ-)    (12-                 (71?-         4           (10-         (1-       (6-       (0.03-
1; -                                      F9.0)
S4.    94)   46   33        "           9                     7)        I.0)           100)         66)       48)
qoei,ttlasl upp.                              5.6            21.7      Si   36   23        $I                  so          43         20             a?           41         26       11.0
.1                         4.0            16.1       41   28   it       53         I        61          is         11             GS           26        22         1.7
tMearl                           1.0            LI.0      is   11   13        25        60         is         II           9             40           14        Is        1.0
Q"Itit. oorli.ctop:                           1.3             5.4    615  7.5  6.5   26.0          19.0      22.5         7.0        5.4            23.5        16. S       ).%        3.4
me",                                          4.4            17.0      46    n     I a     SI        76         III        36          1 6            62          3 1        23        6.9
steed.14 Devi.tioal                           1.9             M        12   10      7      29        I?         24         11          Is             27          23          7        7.4
Madibe:                                       4.0            16.0      43   as   It        S3        43        61          is          13             Is          26         12        1.1
OTIUM)Ls:                                                                    powrowm
MIM  MATAILOU                                                   A DAIM  PIUOR TO "U  TSAA                             S - NIAISTU  M  ADWATION 001g) OLT
NamiTt=  NIL, OR omicinA                                             DATUM Mu             TRAN LUg TLAA                T - 111011 AM  IfATI GWSDJBGW  OLT
BATO  quosTionaLa                                               : CWRRDR PIIOS                                        W - PUBLIC BIPMIIVM  *OLT
uscLum    P"T-Ttpn rrussarrs                                       a                                                           IKU093 ow  -00111 st
08=    ISIDLLMM    ILATtO                                     soull
P
bmam.             C01-11OW  I -d 3.  World 8-k Atlea W  140"tt-  Meter field alls.lom.
WaMea 3 to 14, WerI4 lamk Idcatles eactm adaeleow. COVe-ow-C seacow.
OW/, -. Clooto Stattect-I I-rbmk.
coalmlatt"  94hcactee VGC4 are his.1.1 to the -61"ti"  of earidee edtottoa "et*ho Md &"179t*  f MI&Ztft  $to$   of
04-ce'loool &O"I.Potat wtvban ... t-    ._.t,leo.  NoorroeT, M  the b"is  f tlw p's"m  dt..                                   C."Ortae.
;ha,ld M appmethad Itk P"t c-,gtoo. ome preo"ted 1- CO's Meft tabi. t.- 1G.- MLI..t.4 L.19.17 by Zwk .90si-
1-  go..'awft  oper..0; the romln"r .1.  taff ootimtw  W  date free,                        Wefts I's.  b.-  -4. t. Itsederol..
lialtai.to dwek trtacc:COCY of the dot.. lft"rtMiess. ft.b dot& .1. till tamrfe.t la
a"  t   LaM       mritiog t      P, "  thee PMOM8.1imtFlon the fttft  .9 It.                         .*Th.  la the
"a -I thest date, t%e fell-1.8 ilalifleatteat  K-ld b. kept I.    d
(1) 'U-Catlao- - d.1leed is tM tobt. t..I.&O all edtlm OW tr.i.ing, both (.,-I NW -f.roo,L.
(2)   'P,Imw     d.cetto. mtr. t.  d.-ti.. at the Itrat level. md                             Md.-tier mt.r. t. .11 ad.t.tt-
et to. Mad.ry I.Ml _gs,dlahe ot type (e.g., gour.l. t.chl..I, AgrimLt.,.1).
(1) -Lit ree- rat"' (eol. 6) &M ft.. bt.I.W free c-.ty ftaa...A. 1. Way -nt,lah they r. ..Iy
appzIftclaaa Md te to do.bal.l. tkt my ealf.M, deti-itim   f 'lit ... to' liho b..* f.1looad cai.tste.tly.
(4) 'Peblic asposalt." to ed ... cl-, (-I. A ..d 5) Mt-'* 90 411 -Pit-I NW ftC.1M.t e2padtt.M. deMced t.
GdOc-ties By ftbLic OW 4wint-goblie &..CIS.
(1) 'Jor"Imag catiog, ("Is. 1. If Mail 14) Mfor to oth"l Pea, mad are tt. pr_.Csp et eligible abild,ea
"Mildd 1-11-tift lm the 4pprepriAte Ocb"l. P-blic mbd twi-StO bY Wool- TVAY are oft.. wbj*ct t. a wtdo
rsla ad          a                              earins ta .            '. t.  -wee, at'liesic date
I.  Well "a    Burgs trg""tip we bAsh                  . t ft
Zq-%PaeiII. p".1.11.   WA          lone,.                   t ;,                             .   tha   he   mm
't odests set"lty i. school. o"r-.sed 00-40-t- M" 1111 Idel.404 1- tkdft 91S.Ma ..d u. Wista tho ratie.



- 37 -
SRI LANKA                                       Annex 2.1
Page 1
General Education Project
Characteristic of the Education and Training System
---------------------------------------------------
Table 1: Enrollments (Government Schools) /I
IYear     Yr. 1-5     Yr. 6-8   Yr. 9-11  Yr. 12-13    Total    I
11982   1,791,800     828,836    597,300    180,120   3,398,056
11984   1,853,494     850,166    715,879    119,557   3,539,096
11987   2,000,563     884,343    778,025    168,164   3,831,095
11990   2,126,326     952,527    811,630    245,900   4,136,383
11994   2,206,371   1,056,214    908,127    292,070   4,462,782
11997   2,206,018   1,102,049    985,801    325,666   4,619,534
12000   2,178,623   1,113,083  1,039,171    361,083   4,691,9G0
/1 Actuals up to 1987 and projections thereafter
Source: Ministry of Education
Transition rates (1986):      Participation Rates (1987)
Yr. 5 to Yr. 6  - 86.72       Age 5-9   - 91.02
Yr 11 to Yr. 12 - 20.6?       Age 10-14 - 85.61Z
Age 15-19 - 37.7Z



- 38 -
Annex 2.1
SRI LANKA-
.-------- ........Page    2
General Education Project
.. .......................
Characteristics of the Education and Training System
....................................................
Table 2: VocationaL Training Programs -National Apprentice Board
lProgram        Duration lEntry         l<----1982---->l<--  1984----jI<---1986---- 1--Intake- j
IRequirementllntake Output lintake Output lintake Outputi 1987  1988 j
lEngineering   6 Mth.   jUniversity I 1,138    917 1 1,148    618 j   561   741 ! 947                 - I
|Undergrad.                IStudent    I                 I                I
I                          I            I                I                I              I              I
ITechnician    12 Nth   IN.D.T.         |   377    369 j    .        340 j   317   295 j 309    68 j
IApprentice.               I2yr theory I                 I                I                             I
I                          I            I                I                I              I              I
|SpeciaL(TTI)  48 Mth   |O/L            I   187      57 |   164    120 |   286   141 | 248   243 |
IApprentice.               I            I                I                I              I              I
ISpecial        12-48    lO/L           I    36      25 1    63       82 1   100    54 1    5   111 I
lApprentice.   Mth         j                                               j 
ISub Tech.      12 Mth   lO/L           I   141    141 1   207    233 1   225   155 j  179   152 j
Apprentice.               I     I                       I                 
I                          I            I                I                I              I              I
|Craft Appren. 6-48        |O/L         | 4,447  2,612 | 4,228  2,867 | 4,293 2,697 14,147 3,158 |
lincl. ATI      Mth        17th&8th yr I                 j
ICraft(Situ.)  6-48        j8th yr      j   567    175 j   464    311 1   884   269 ! 483   480
|Apprentice.   Mth         I                             I j
I                          I                             I                I
village Level 12 Mth   16th yr          |   594    259 |   728    767 | 1,649 1,017 11,171 1,569 |
Apprentice.               I            I                I                I               I             I
I                   I           ~        ~~~I  I                   I               I             I
Table 3: SkiLls Development Programs of the Department of Labor
...............................................................
.................................................................................
1                                 1980         1982         1984           1985          1
.................................................................................
ITaitoring (12)                  3,025       3,992         4,213           4,220
Carpentry (9)                    973        1,112        1,253            1,273
M Nasonary (9)                   1,217       1,355         1,031            1,331
M Mat Weaving (6)                   45          100           86               92        I
Indust.Sewing (45 days)          578       1,406         1,310            1,448        j
I English Typing (4)                             88          120               85        j
Self Managed Woman's Farms (12)                20           25               25        j
M Mechanics/Fitting (12)           277         407           352              373        j
I Electrical Wiring (12)            32           38           40               48        j
Others                            160         406          581              483         j
.................................................................................



-39 -
Annex 2.1
SRI LANNKA
..... .....                    Page  3
General Education Project
Characteristics of the Education and Training System
..................... .............................................. ...........
Table 4: Technical Education 1980-1986
ITEM                                     I       1980       1986 I
No. of Technical Institutions            I         20      27(a) I
Intake(Full time & Part time)            I      9,458     15,001
Total No. of Students                    I    14,492      21,562
Higher National D4oloma & Professional  I     7,450      3,345 1
Diploma Courses                        I      3,13.      1,040
Certificate Courses                    I          -    10,152
Trade Courses                          I      3,910      1,847
i   Others                                  I                 5,178
(a) Including 4 Affiliated Technical Units
Source: Ministry of Edtcation(1987)
Table 5: University Education 1980-1986
I ITEM                                      i       1980      1986 I
No. of Universities                      I          8          9 1
No. of Students                                17,094     18,913 1
No. of Teachers                          j      1,443   1,683(a) I
New Admissio-is                          I      4,810      6,054 |
No. Graduated                            I      3,295      3,997
I   Arts & Oriental Studies/B.A.            I      1,650     1,764
Education                              I        144            I
Commerce & Management Studies          I        325        718 |
Science -B.Sc.                         I        581        759 I
Engineering -B.Sc.                     I        213        286
Medicine & Dental Surgery              I        176        219
Others                                          206        251
(a) Including Temporary Staff
(b) Universities were closed from 1987 until early 1989 due
to civil unrest.



- 40 -
Annex 2.2
SRI LANKA                          ---------
--------                          Page 1 of 2
General Education Project
Education-Employment Linkages
.............................
Table l:Distribution of Employed and Unemployed by Educational Attainment
................... ........................................................ ..... .............
(millions)
Total
Population \a      Employed          Unemployed
No Schooling         1.51   (12%)       0.57  (11%)        0.05  ( 6%)
Primary              4.78   (35%)       1.46  (28%)        0.06  ( 8%)
Some Secondary       5.36   (34%)       2.L2  (41%)        0.27  (32%)
Passed O-Level       1.51   (11%)       0.73  (14%)        0.19  (22%)
Passed A-Level       0.31   ( 2%)       0.15  ( 3%)        0.16  (19%)
University           0.11   ( 1%)       0.09  ( 2%,        0.08  (10%)
Total             13.7  (100%)        5.13 (100%)        0.84 (100%)
NOTE: a/ over 5 years of age
Source: Labour Force & Socio-E-onomic Survey, 1986
Table 2: Unemployment Rates by Age and Education
<-------- Age ----------
15-19    20-24    25-29
No Schooling                   21%      10%       4%
Primazy                        27%      18%       9%
Some Secondary                 39%      40%       20%
Passed O-Level                 55%      43%      25%
Passed A-Level                 54%      52%       36%
University                              53%       16%
Total                        32%      30%       17%
Source: Labour Force & Socio-Economic Survey, 1986



- 41 -
Annex 2.2
SRI lAANKA                                  ..
---------                                  Page   2  of   2
General Education Project
Education-Employment Linkages
Table 3: Unemployed Population by Educational Attainment
IAll  Levels            839,264       100.0   895,143      100.0
I?Jo Schooling/         100,936        12.0     4,889        5.1 |
IUnspecified
IPassed Grades 1-5      112,045        13.4    66,377        7.4 I
jPassed Grades 6-10    502,679         59.9   630,551       70.5
IPassed GCE O/L         112,814        13.4   126,450       14.1
IPassed GCE A/L           6,892         0.8    21,658        2.4
Passed Degree             3,898         0.5     4,219        0.5 |
Table 4: Distribution of Population by Educational and Employment Status
ILevel of           <-------Proportion of:------->  Ratio of:
lEducation                Total   Employed Unemploy.
Population Population Population (3):(L)  I
1                        (1)         (2)       (3)
INo Education           13.8%      10.5%       3.8%        1:3.4
jPrimary School         77.8%      69.2%      64.3%        1:1.2
10 Level Pass            7.1%      16.0%      25.7%      3.6:1   1
IA Level Pass            1.4%       3.1%       5.6%        4 1
JUniversity              1.7%       1.2%       0.6%        1:1.1 1
1982 Data



A mx 2.3
- 42 -                       Page 1 of 3
SRI LANKA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
STUDY OF EDUCATION-EMPLOYMENT LINKAGES
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.       The perceived mis-match between education and employment appears
to be largely a function of imbalances in the labour market, including the
failure of the economy to create sufficient jobs, rather than of excessive
education. However, it is recognized that there also exists room for re-
adjusting the mix and type of education and training efforts to:
-    increase the cost-effectiveness with which resources are
used; and,
-    ensure that those leaving the system have skills which will
increase their chances of gaining employmsnt rapidly.
2.       The proposed study will:
a.   Re-examine the data and evidence on employment-education
linkages to:
- confirm the extent of the problem, and
- identify education and training related bottlenecks
which affect employment opportunities. This work should
build on previous analysis of education-employment linkages
in Sri Lanka and available data to ascertain:(i) the dynamics
of changing composition of the unemployed by educational
status, (ii) the reasons for and duration of unemployment by
educational status, and (iii) the extent to which skill
constraints contribute to unemployment of individuals and to
difficulties in finding qualified workers.
b.   Assess the most effective (and cost-effective) forms of
vocational and technical training, including apprenticeship
programs, labour training centres, etc. This would include
reviewing existing programs, assessing their effectiveness in
equipping students for employment, including the
appropriateness and cost-effectiveness of their subject
content and training methods; and making recommendations as
to which should be expanded, modified, or curtailed; and
suggesting new programs (if appropriate) based on experience
elsewhere in the world.
c.   Evaluate the appropriateness of secondary academic training,
including the curriculum and educational methods, and the
scope for changing the emphasis on examinations and reducing
repetition costs in years 11 and 13; and, coupled with this,
the scope for increasing the number of recognized exit points
from the school system (apart from 0 and A levels) into post-
training. This should include the effectiveness and



Annex 2.3
- 43 -                        Page 2 of 3
relevance of the current secondary curriculum to employment
opportunities, and assessing the likely effects and cost
implications of a shift toward a less academic curriculum,
towards continuous assessment, and towards a more flexible
range of educational streams. It should also examine the
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of past, current, and
proposed in-school technical and vocational training, and
make recommendations.
d.   Examine the scope for changing the mix of student throughput
at the universities -- including the balance between general
arts and other streams.
e.   Examine means of making technical and vocational training
more responsive to market needs and responsive to current
employment opportunities.
f.   Examine the balance of expenditure and effort between
academic secondary and tertiary education on the one hand,
and technical, vocational, and non-formal post-school
training on the other; and the scope for making adjustments.
This would build on the analysis under previous sections. It
would involve assessing the appropriateness of the current
balance of effort with respect to costs and effects on
employment prospects of varioub types of training, and
mapping out a number of scenarios for Government to cor.sider
for different mixes of education and training, with the
likely cost implications, educational output, and
employment/unemployment ramifications of each one.
These Terms of Reference will be refined following further consultation
between IDA and GOSL.
Output
Output of the study would consist of a series of recommendations
to Government on each of the above issues. The recommendations should be
closely focussed on operational issues and development of specific
programs. After review, the accepted recommendations would form the basis
of a blueprint for reform and adjustment of the education and post-school
training system over a number of years.
Organization and Execution
The proposed study cuts across a number of areas. In order to be
useful, it is important that it reflects the perceptions of employers and
the private sector, as well as those of the providers of education, with
respect to the appropriateness and effectiveness of various types of
education and training. It would be managed by a committee of Secretaries
(or similar level officials) representing:
-    The Human Resources Development Council (Chair)
-    Ministry of Finance/Planning
-    Ministry of Education
-    The Employer's Federation of Sri Lanka



Annex 2.3
- 44 -                        rage 3 of 3
-    Ministry of Higher Education/UGC
-    CEO's of selected large corporations
-    Ministry of Employment and Youth Affairs
to steer the study and to consider the results.
A working group of professional staff from each of these agencies
would be set up to manage the study, with support from local and foreign
experts on a consultancy basis. Experts will be required in the areas of:
(i) labour economics and education/labour linkages; (ii) vocational and
technical training programs; (iii) secondary school curriculum, examination
systems, and educational methods; and (iv) the economics of education. It
is proposed that a study manager be appointed within the Human Resources
Development Council. It is expected that such a study might take about
nine months to a year to complete.
Task Budget
The task budget has been developed assuming about 16 man-months of
foreign consultancies (4 experts at an average of 4 man-months each), 20
man-months of local consultancy (5 experts at an average of 4 man-months
each), and a provision of about $15,000 equivalent for surveys and other
local costs. Total budget is estimated at US$200,000 equivalent.



- '45 -
Annex 3.1
SRI LANKA
General Education Project
Characteristics of the School Systes
....... ....................... ....... ... .... .
I  ITEM               |                    1980       1982       1984      1985        1986 i
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I.          . . ........ . .
gTotal No. of Schools                I   9,794       9,901      9,914    10,051      10,100
No.of Govt. Schools                   9,117       9,544     9,556     9,634       9,657
Primary                          4,156(a)   4,623(a)  4,000(b)  3,998(c)   3,906(c) I
Secondary                        4,961(d)   4,921(d)  5,556(e)  5,636(f)   5,751(f)
Other Schools                    I      677         357       358       417         443 I
ISchool-going Population             13,389,776  3,484,661 3,625,897 3,738,633  3,864,187 1
Government Schools               13,280,787  3,398,056 3,539,096 3,640,080  3,751,708 1
Other Schools                    I 108,989      86,605    86,801    98,553    112,479 1
INew Admission(Govt.Schools)         I 364,552    338,629   363,557   372,105    390,782
ITotal Teachers(Govt.& Others)       I 141,185    133,802   140,190   147,513    149,129
Government Teachers              I 136,714    129,210   135,514   142,240    143,398 1
Science Graduates              I   2,238       2,488      2,801     3,208       3,487 1
Arts & Other Grads.            I  18,449       18,480    22,996    25,299      29,380 1
Diploma (Sc. & Maths)          I      187         247       268       230         237 1
Trained Teachers                   73,677     74,662    81,069    82,380       82,305 1
Others                         I  42,163      33,333    28,380    31,123       27,989 1
Private & Other School Teachers I   4,471        4,592      4,676     5,273       5,731 1
{Pupil/Teacher Ratio (All Schools)  I    24.0         26.0       25.9      25.3        26.0
Source: Ministry of Education
Central Bank of Sri Lanka(1987)
Primary Education:
(a) 1978-1982 schools having classes from Grades 1-8
(b) 1983-1984 schools having classes from K.G. to Grade 5
(c) 1985-1986 schools having classes from year 1-6
Secondary education:
(d) 1978-1982 schools having classes up to Grade 12
(e) 1983-1984 schools having cl;sses up to Grade 8, Grade 10 & Grade 12



- 46 -
Annex 3.2
SRI LANKA
General Education Project
... ................................... .......
Distribution of Schools by Type and Size
ENROLLMENT (Number of Students)
TYPE of SCHOOL                I    1-100     101-500    501-2000        >2000       Total I
3 Years 1-5                  I    1,299         684           80           0       2,063
2 Years 1.8                         705       1,485          121           3       2,314
2 Years 6-11                          7          24            8           0          39
2 Years 1-11                         81       2,587          822           6       3,496
1C Years 6-13 (All)           i        0           74         246          21         341
lAB Years 6-13 (with Science)l          0            5         169          21         195 1
1C Years 1-13 (All)           1        2         235        1,101         100       1,438 1
1AB Years 1-13 (with Science)l          0            3         184          87         274
TOTAL                      I   2,094        5,089        2,378         130      9,691 1
Percentage Distribution  I       21.6        52.5         24.5         1.3      100.0 1
Number of Schools:                                        Source: Ministry of Education(1987)
School Type 1AB - 469
School Type 1C  - 1310
School Type 2   - 5849
School Type 3   - 2063



- 47 -
Annex 3.3
SRI LAMKA
General Education Project
Internal Efficiency of the School System 1987
1< --------Percentage----------->1
IPromotion  Repetition  Dropout
YEAR  I Rate         Rate        Rate
----------------------..-------------------
1 1       91.5         8.2        0.3
2    I   89.5          9.6        0.9
3         88.4         9.5        2.1
4         87.2         9.8        3.1
5    I   86.3          8-5        5.2
6         87.6         6.4        6.0
7         87.2         6.6        6.3
8         89.1          4.7       6.2
9         89.2          3.7       7.1
10        98.0         1.6        0.4 I
11   I   20.4         40.1
12   I   90.2          1.3        8.5 I
Source-----inis--ry-of---ducation--(1987)-
Sourcet Ministry of Education (i987)



Annex 3.4
- 48  -                               Poow    of 2
SRI LANKA
Genral Education Prolect
Public Expentditure on Education
Costs of General Education in Real Term - Bv Expenditure Cateaory
(Constant n 97 Re. millions)
1977     1960      19"8    1966       1967     1966(a)  1919(a)
General Administration              63.6     61.7      60.5     96.9      96.5     66.8    108.3
Grants and Welfaro (b)              71.6      U .C    56.3       36.5    125.4    191.4    186.9
Teacher Training                    39.C     42.3      43.8     68.6      35.1     96.7    112.2
Examinlations                       70.0     7C.5      90.2     96.5    100.1      96.8    102.3
Public2tions Dept.                   0.3      1.6       1.9      2.3       2.1       1.9      2.6
GENERAL EDUCATION (I-pleontation)
Salarioe and Allowances           2406.6   2378.7   2624.7   29686.3   2948.0   2625.7   3204.8
Suppli-                             17.0     22.8      20.0     17.0      11.1      18.9      9.3
Maintenaneo and Repairs             14.5     41.6      45.6      4.3       3.6      3.2       3.6
Travel, Tranp't, Utilitioes         10.3     12.3      23.5     94.9      29.4     28.6      19.7
Grants (c)                           7.7    124.3    100.8    264.4    247.4    226.6    214.8
Sp cixl Education                   27.0     48.8      86.7     97.4    103.3      88.6    109.9
Total                             27i0.1   28C8.2   3174.0   2763.2   3a.6T9   344i-7    4074.3
NOTES: (a) 1988 estimated, 1989 bse d on budgetted amounts
(b) Mostly mid-day meals program.
(c) Mostly schoolt.xtbook program (introduced in 1979)



- 49 -
Annex 3.4
P* 9--Y 2of
Public Expenituro on Education
Unit Costo en GOnerol Education
(Constnt 1W7 me. per student)
1977    1990    1963    1966       1967     1939(G)  1989(a)
EDUCATION EXPENDITURES
Salarloo *nd AlIowancee         9U0M     72C.0   753.6   796.6   769.5   671.9   797.0
Supplies                          6.6       6.9     5.6      4.5      2.9      4.0      2.3
Toxtbbo,ok  and Publications       3.1    38.4    29.7    61.9    56.3    50.0    46.0
Teacher Tralning                  15.4    12.9    12.7    18.3    22.2    24.5    27.9
Examinations                     27.8    23.0    26.1    25.5    26.1    24.8    25.4
Maintenance and Repairs           5.6    12.7    13.2        1.1      0.9      0.8      0.9
Trovel, Transp't. Utilities       4.0       3.6     6.8    25.3       7.7      7.3      4.9
Sub-Total                      1000.7   622.7   862.7   933.2  866.6   734.1    904.5
NON-EWUCATIONAL EXPENDIlURES
General Administration           24.8    13.6    23.3    25.6    25.7    22.2    26.9
School Lunchoo                   27.9    17.8    16.3        9.7    32.7    49.0    46.5
Bus Voucher.                                                S4.7    U3.9    33.3       32.3
Spelal Education                 10.5    14.9    25.1    26.0    27.0    22.6    27.3
Sub-Total                        63.2    51.5    64.6    96.0   119.3   127.1   133.1
Total                           1063.9   874.2   917.3  1029.2  1005.0   911.2  1037.5
Summary Unit Costs
(1987 Re per studont)
1977    1980    1913    1966    1I"7        1988(a)  1989(a)
Salar'%                         30.77    23.77    24.87    26.12    25.25    22.03    26.13
Toxtbooks                        0.10     1.26     0.97     2.08     1.U4    1.64      1.51
supplies                         0.22    O0t$    0.19       0.15     0.09     0.16     0.06
Other Direct Costs (b)           1.21     1.29    1.51      1.70     1.14     1.05     1.02
Indtr ct Costs (el               2.58    211    2.U         3.75     4.64     4.97     5.26
Total                           34.68    28.66    30.06    33.74    32.95    29.36    34.02
NOTES: (a) 1968 eetim?ted, 1a9 baod on budgeted aounts.
(b) Includoe ey minations, mintenance, trovol utilities, etc.
(c) Includs adminstration, teacher training, and non-ducational costa



- 50 -
Annex 4.1
SRI LANMA
General Education Prolect
Teacher Attendance and Utilization
1.       Problems arising from the inadequacy of the teacher cadre and
consequent under-staffing of schools are compounded by absences which are wide-
spread. The lfngth of the school year is about 180 days. Teachers, who are
employed under the same conditions as other civil servants, are entitled to 21
days of casual leave and 20 days of sick leave. Female teachers are granted 42
days maternity leave. All these are ill addition to school and public holidays.
Statistics shown below indicate that the index of wastage as 15. If anything.
these ntatistics underestimate the magnitude of the problem since they do not
include study leave, unreported leave and tardiness and early departure.
2.       The project will include funding for pilot experimentation on policy
changes designed to alleviate the problem of teacher absences. The most
straightforward policy change would be to alter the conditions of employment for
teachers to exclude casual leave entirely and to reduce sick leave from the
Dresent level to a more reasonable figure of 10-12 days, in keeping with
international standards. Alternatively, it was recotmended to recompense
teachers for casual leave not taken each year. This would require the
establishment of a tighter monitoring and report system. Other remedies such as
a periodic term off in return for leave not taken will also be considered.
Relevant data for 1987:
Number of teachers in the system 140,385
No. of person-days lost through overrun absences:  3,850,982
Average No. of days absent per teacher: 27.4
Total teacher salaries (Re. '000): 2,737,824
Average teacher salary per annum (Rs.): 19,502
Average no. of school days per year: 180
Average Teacher Salary/School days (Rs.): 108
No. of casual leave allowed per annum: 21
No. of sick days allowed per annum: 20
Teacher Equivalent
Index of Wastage a/       of Lost Person-days
Male Teachers:                     14.5                        8,073
Female Teachers:                  15.5                        13,321
All Teachers:                      15.0                       21,394
a/ Source: MOECAI. Empirical observation suggests much higher rates of
absences, at least at some 3chools and in some areas.
_Cost Implications for Compensating Teachers for Leave not Taken
1.  If one day's salary is paid for each of the 41 days of leave not taken, the
maximum budget increase is 23X; from Rs. 2.74 to Rs. 3.37 billion p.a.
2. If one day's salary is paid for each of the 21 casual leave days not taken
the maximum budget increase is 11? from Rs. 2.74 to Rs. 3.04 billion p.a.



- 51 -
Annex 4.2
Page 1 of 3
SRI LAMK
General Education Proiect
Teacher Attendance Study
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.       It has been agreed that GOSL will prepare an analysis of teacher
attendance and propose a plan of action to increase teacher attendance to
the Association. These Terms of Reference are intended to guide the
execution of this analysis. It is recommended that the analysis be
approached in two stages: (a) a fact-finding stage and (b) a policy and
procedures stage.
2.       Fact-Finding Stage.  The first step in this stage would be to
develop an accurate data base on the extent of the problem. The Bank
missions estimated that teacher classroom attendanLce are 70Z. The two
principal types of leave, casual and sick, if taken to the fullest extent
would come to about 222. It is true that not every teacher takes casual
and sick to the full extent authorized, but the majority do. Added to
these two major leave programs, there is study leave (largely for the
distance education program for in-service teacher education), some cases of
absences without leave, and maternity and other extended sick leave to
consider which account for the rate being at the 30? or higher range.
3.       An independent agency should be engaged to conduct a thorough
investigation of the situation. An established management consulting firm
would be a good choice. The method of investigation should have two
approaches: (a) analysis on the basis of official records for the most
recent year for which data are available (perhaps 1988) of a perhaps 20-25?
sample of the entire school system, with careful attention to
stratification to assure adequate urban-rural, type of school, and regional
coverage. This will have two uses: (a) it will reveal the strengths and
weaknesses of the leave reporting system and it will become a basis for
comparison with the second approach which should be (b) field surveys of
absences in perhaps a 2? sample--that is, 2? of the schools and 2? of the
days. Field enumerators would need to visit schools on a surprise basis on
school days to record absences. In the time available, it may not be
possible to compare the results of this field investigation with what
principals report but this should be considered for future use. This field
investigation should not only tabulate which teachers are absent, but
record the reason given for absence, the duration of the teacher's absence
(to date and expected) the day of the week, number of days this teacher has
already been absent this school year, and whether leave for absence had
been requested before the absence occurred.



- 52 -
Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 3
4.         The enumerators should also report instances of late arrival and
early departure, cases where present teachers are not present with their
classes when they are supposed to be vith them, and how principals cover
the classes of absent teachers.    Where another teacher is called upon to
fill in for an absent teacher, the readiness of the interim teacher to
carry on instruction should be assessed, if this assessment is within the
capability of the enumerators. If it is found that enumerators are not
qualified to assess this dimension of the problem, a smaller sample should
be drawn where more qualified persons can make such an assessment.
5.       In other words, all causes of a situation in which a class of
students ib left without a teacher should be investigated. This should be
viewed as a national audit of teacher absencees. The report of this
segment of the study should be sent to the Association for review and
comment.
6.       Policy and Procedures Stage.  Upon receipt of the report of the
audit, MOECAI should consider optional remedies such as those listed below
and assess their economic, social, psychological and political
implications. The possible remedies could, inter alia, include the
following:
a.   Change the terms of employment of teachers to eliminate
casual leave on school days, possibly impose more
restrictions on sick leave, severely punish those who are
absent without leave and curtail the use of study leave. It
would be necessary to compensate teachers in return. A
variation on this option would be to introduce the new
employment terms to only teachers employed after now, but
with a higher salary schedule. It is possible that presently
employed teachers would later elect to join this arrangement.
b.   Without changing the terms of employment, offer ways to
compensate teachers for leave not taken. One way would be to
pay teachers for casual leave not taken at par or even at the
rate of 1.25 days of pay for each day not taken. Another way
would be to offer a semester or year off with pay after a
teacher foregoes leave.
c.   Pay teachers for unused leave at retirement.  This would
apply to casual leave. Payment for unused sick leave could
also be considered if there were provision to keep teachers
from coming to school when they are truly sick.
d.   Remove the regulation that leave must be used in the current
year and permit teachers who do not take leave to either be
paid for it at retirement or retire earlier. Perhaps some
interest rate could be used to add additional days of leave
to the balance of leave foregone.



- 53 -
Annex 4.2
Page 3 of 3
e.   Overstaff all schools with sufficient teachers to compensate
for leave. This will be expensive and educationally unsound
because class groups would lose continuity with their
teachers, but it would be a way to avoid class groups sitting
without a teacher present.
f.   Hire substitute teachers to replace absent regular teachers.
This would be feasible in urban areas or where there is a
supply of reLired teachers or other persons qualified to
teach living in suburban or even rural areas. However, this
could not be an island-wide solution. The Government should
explore the substitute teacher idea in any event since here
may be a need even after the teacher absences problem is
solved.
g.   Elimination of some of the reasons for absence.  For example,
having banks stay open in the evenings or on Saturday so that
teachers can go without missing school. Or better yet, make
direct deposit of teacher pay to the Banks. Scheduling
weddings only on non-school days, etc.
h.   Heighten the awareness of principals and DEOs to the
seriousness of the problem and provide incentives to assist.
Pay school and cluster principals and DEOs a bonus if their
teachers do not take leave or, the reverse, reduce the pay of
managers whose teachers take excessive leave. Hake
contributions to the School Development Fund of schools with
good records of leave not taken and publicize such cases.
6.       The list of possible options above is only a sample of remedies-
-others will surely be proposed. The policy and procedures stage of the
study should include a cost analysis of each remedy. There are other
factors affecting choice of remedies such as: (a) feasibility of keeping
records needed under some remedies, (b) attitudes of teachers toward the
remedies, and (c) attitudes of managers toward remedies. This process may
involve sample questionnaire work with teachers and principals to assess
reaction to possible remedies.
7.       The study should include a systematic analysis of all factors
related to all options. The goal should be to cover all class groups with
a teacher every hour of every school day. The outcome of the HOE
consideration of policy and procedures options should be sent to the
Association for its review and comments. After that the plan of action
should be developed.



Annex 4.3
Page 1 of 5
SRI LANKA
General Education Prolect
Teacher Demand and Supply (1986 - 2000)
Introduction
1.       The education system experienced an enormous expansion in the
fifties and sixties. Enrollment grew from 0.9 million in 1946 to 3.8
million 1986, teacher numbers from 26,767 to 145,930 and the number of
schools from 5,759 to 9,694. This expansion, however, occurred under
resource limitations which inevitably brought with it a multiplicity of
problems. This annex focuses on problems associated with teacher demand,
the adequacy/inadequacy of teacher supply, the capacity of existing teacher
training programs and other related issues.
Teacher Demand
2.       Table 1 (at end of annex) shows annual teacher requirements to
meet enrollment growth and for replacement of teachers due to attrition.
In this analysis a student/teacher ratio of 27 is used to calculate the
required classroom teachers.l/ Sectional heads, who also have a one-third
teaching load are allocated to bigger schools as needed. The annual
teacher requirements for enrollment growth and teacher attrition range from
about 6,000 in 1989 to just under 4,000 by the turn of the century, when
enrollments are expected to reach a steady state. At this point teachers
are needed mainly for attrition wb'ich is taken at 2.02, resulting in
teacher replacement of about 3,500 per annum (Table 1). An alternative
scenario is considered for calculating teacher requirements. It takes into
consideration that the attrition rate will r'se slightly within the next
decade because of the fact that the present teacher-cadre is aging.
Teacher Age Profile (1986)
Age        Hale         FPmale             Total          Percentage
Below 20         63             163              226
21-30      8,075          16,739           24,814                17?
31-40     18,392          33,041           51,433                36?
41-50     18,131          24,061           42,192                29?
51-60      3,871           4,818            8,689                 6?
Over 60         110              30              140
3.       A teacher may opt for retirement after 20 years of service
regardless of age.  For shorter service lengths, a teacher may retire at
the age of 50 and is expected to retire by age 55. However, with special
permission, a teacher may stay in the service beyond age 55. The model
1/ Circular No.3/PP/G3.1 of 1983 known a the 'Ready Reckoner" sets out the
basis for teacher requirements for schools of various types and sizes. It
is used by GOSL to estimate the demand for teachers. For some schools,
this method underestimates, and for other schools, overestimates teacher
requirements.



-55 -                           Annex 4.3
Page 2 of 5
retirement age is 55. At present the attrition rate is 2.0S. If attritiln
is taken at a higher rate of 2.3Z, based on the age profile of the teacher
cadre. the annual replacement for attrition would range from about 3,500 in
1989 to about 4,000 by the year 2000 (see Table 2). Added to teacher
requirements for enrollment increments the annual need would range from
6,500 teachers to 4,500 teachers in the year 2001. The difference between
using the two attrition rates is about 500 teachers per annum.
4.       One of the parameters which affects the demand for teachers is
their distribution by qualification categories (graduate. non-graduate,
trained and untrained) as well as subject specializations. Another
parameter is the medium of instruction. In addition, there is the problem
of inter-provincial disparities which are exacerbated by the fact that it
is very difficult to reassign teachers from one province to another. For
these reasons, an average student/ teacher ratio of 27 for primary and
secondary schools is not considered too generous. This ratio excludes
sectional heads who constitute under 6Z of the total number of teachers
required. The prevailing average student!teacher ratios for different
types of school are shown below.
Student/Teacher Ratio by Type of School
School Type         1AB        1C         2         3
Students        680,639  992,192  1,466,786  612,087
Teachers         26,932   40,028       56,783   19,655
Student-Teacher
Ratio          25.3      24.8        25.8      31.1
Problems arising from the inadequacy of the teacher cadre and consequent
under-staffing of schools are compounded by absenteeism which is wide
spread. A study of the incidence of absenteeism has shown that the index
of wastage is 15Z (see Annex 4.1). This means that on any given day the
effective number of teachers in the system is not 145,930 but closer to
124,000. This gives an effective student/teacher ratio of about 31.0 which
is clearly insufficient when the need for specialized teachers is taken
into consideration.
Teacher Supply
Teacher Status (1986)
Male       Female     Total
Non-Graduate (trained)       32,424      49,881      82,305
Non-Graduate (untrained)   10,662        15,995      26,657
Graduate                     14,233      18,634      33,867
5.       The present system has about 27,000 untrained non-graduate and
30,000 untrained graduate teachers (i.e. not pedagogically trained). The
Government plans to recruit a further 25,000 A-Level graduates as teaching
assistants in the next year. This will result in a backlog of 52,000
untrained non-graduates in the system who will need to be trained as soon
as possible in the most efficient and effective manner in order to help
improve the quality of education. There is an adequate supply of non-
graduates and Arts stream graduates from which to recruit teachers.



- 56 -                        Annex 4.3
Page 3 of 5
However, the supply of science and math graduates who opt for the teaching
profession is inadequate. Although an increasing number of graduate
teachers are being employed, a number of them are assigned to years 1-8
instead of the higher grades because they are Arts graduates and are unable
to fill the posts for specialized teachers.
Training Canacity
6.       A number of institutions in the country offer in-service and pre-
service teacher training courses.
Annual
Duration      Trainee/Award         Capacity
In-Service:
Teacher Colleges (16)             2 Years       Non-graduate Teachers  2,500
(Full Time)    Diploma in Educ.
Institute of Teachers Ed.        16 Months      Graduate Teachers
(NIE)* (14 Regional Centers)  (Part time)    Post Grad Cert.
Institute of Distance Ed.         3 Years       Non-Graduate Teachers  5,000
(NIE) (35 Regional Centers)   (Part Time)
Universities                     2-3 Years      Graduate Teachers       1,000
(Part Time)    Post Graduate Diploma
Pre-Service:
Colleges of Education (7)         3 Years      A-level Graduates        1,400
(Full Time)
w National Institute of Education
At present, the Institute of Distance Education is functioning at half-
capacity enrolling only 2,500 untrained non-graduate teachers per year.
Recommendations and Conclusions
7.       One of the most persistent problems facing the education system is
the elimination of the backlog of 27,000 untrained non-graduate teachers.
Of these, at least 2,000 have less that five years to retirement and hence
need not be trained. The present in-service training throughput is about
5,000 each year, 2,500 by Teacher Colleges and another 2,500 by the
Institute of Distance Education. At this rate it would take 5 or 6 years
to eliminate the backlog if no new untrained teachers were engaged. There
are several ways in which this process can be improved. The 16 Teachers
Colleges average only about 300 trainee places ea h and therefore only 150
throughput each year. They should have a capacity of at least 500 to make
eff3ctive use of staff and facilities. Moreover, it is questionable if a
full two-year program is needed to bring untrained teachers up to the
standard of a trained teacher. Programs of 12 or 18 months duration have
been found to suffice in many other countries. Many of the teachers who



- 57 -                    Annex 4 .3
Page 4 of 5
comprise the backlog have long experience as teachers and could do well on
an exaination of the knowledge and skill required. Such an examination
could reasonably be expected to eliminate 20-40Z of the backlog. The
private education sector would be interested in developing programs to
train untrained teachers. A program under which the Government would
reimburse tuition costs of teachers who completed training would encourage
this approach. Once the backlog is taken care of, these Teacher Colleges
can be used for pre-service and in-service courses for new recruits.
8.       The Government is planning to recrlit 25,000 untrained A-Level
graduates as teaching ass.stants as an employment generation program. They
will be given a stipend and a reduced teaching load. After three yedrs
they will be eligible for training and consideration for regular teaching
posts. It is obvious that the present training capacity will not be able
to handle these numbers. It is recommended that training centers be set up
at the newly established Divisional Education Offices where teacher
trainers from the NIE can come for fixed periods of time to conduct in-
service training courses. Alternatively, the 'cascade' method of training
can be established whereby master trainers who are trained at the national
level are sent out to various Resource Centers throughout the country to
conduct training courses throughout the year. This way a greater number of
teachers will be exposed to some form of training.
9.       Table 1 shows that there will be a continuing annual need for an
average of 5.000 new teachers to meet enrollment growth and teacher
attrition. The policy of the HOECAI should move towards the recruitment of
o .ly trained teachers. This means that the pre-service training capacity
must also be expanded from the present 1,400 per year. It is recommended
that once the backlog of untrained teachers are taken care of the Teacher
Colleges can be used for this purpose. The existing 7 Colleges of
Education and the 16 Teachers Colleges combined would constitute an
adequate base for a dual function: (a) Pre-service output of about 5,000
p.a. with some help from the universities and (b) a training of trainers
programs for continuous recurrent in-service training of trained teachers
which is needed in all systems.



- 58 -                                          Annex 4.3
Page 5 of 5
Table 1:  TEACHER DEZANb (1986-2000)
(Attrition Rate of 2.02)
--_--------------------------------                                2.00 2
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,we .........Sa=................................ -am".00........... -num
ENROLL.           CLASSROOM SECTION  TOTAL    ANNUAL REQUIREMENTS  I
|    YFAR  ENROLLMENT  GROWTH STUDENT/ TEACHERS  HEAD        TEACHERS <-FOR NEW TEACHERS->
|           YR.1-13       RATE TEACHER  REQUIRED  REQUIRED REQUIRED GROWTH ATTRIT.TOTAL
...  ...... ,,.............                       ........................................   __
1986   3.751,708
1987   3,831,244    2.12    27.00   141,898    8,633  150,531
1988   3,907.869    2.00    27.00   144,736    8,798  153,534  3,003  3,011  6,014
1989   3,982.119    1.90    27.00   147,486    9,045  156,531  2,997  3,071  6.068
1990   4,053,797    1.80    27.00   150,141    9,301  159,442  2,911  3,131  6,041
1991   4,122,711    1.70    27.00   152,693    9,514  162,207  2,765  3,189  5,954
1992   4,188,675    1.60    27.00   155,136    9,701  164,837  2,630  3,244  5,874
1993   4,249,410    1.45    27.00   157,386    9,868  167,254  2,416  3,297  5,713
1994   4,304,653    1.30    27.00   159.432   10,018  169,450  2,196  3,345  5,541
1995   4,354,156    1.15    27.00   161,265   10,151  171,416  1,966  3,389  5,355 1
1996   4,397,698    1.00    27.00   162,878   10,268  173.146  1,730  3,428  5,158 1
19S7   4,435,078    0.85    27.00   164,262   10,361  174,623  1,477  3,463  4,940
1998   4,466,124    0.70    27.00   165,412   10,434  175,846  1,223  3,492  4,715 1
1999   4,490,688    0.55    27.00   166,322   10,483  176,805    959  3,517  4,476
2000   4,508,650    0.40    27.00   166,987   10,518  177,505    700  3,536  4,236
2001   4,519,922    0.25    27.00   167,405   10,536  177,941    435  3,550  3,986
--- ------ -.------------ --.-.-.------------                     .................................... -
Assumptions:
a)Growth rate of total enrollments will decrease gradually because of reduced intake
at Year 1.
b)Student/Classroom Teacher Ratio constant at 27.00 accounts for sectional
heads having some teaching duties.
c)Section Head requirements are as calculated by MOE (assuming policy approved).
d)Teacher attrition rate at a consta;t 2.0i .
Table 2: TEACHER DEMAND (1986-2000)
(Attrition Rate of 2.3Z)
.__--------------------------------                                2.30   2
ENROLL.           CLASSROOM SECTION  TOTAL    ANNUAL REQUIREMENTS
I    YEAR  ENROLLMENT  GROWTH STUDENT/ TEACHERS  HEAD        TFACHERS <-FOR NEW TEACHERS->
|           YR.1-13       RATE TEACHER  REQUIRED  REQUIRED REQUIRED GROWTH ATTRIT.TOTAL
.==._..... ._   --..-. ............. a ..................................
1986   3,751,708
1987   3,831,244    2.12    27.00   141,898    8,633  150.531
1988   3,907,869    2.00    27.00   144,736    8,798  153,534  3,003  I.4t2  6,465
1989   3,982,119    1.90    27 00   147,486    9,045  156,531  2,997  3,Y1  e528 
1990   4,053,797    1.80    27.00   150,141    9,301  159,44 .2  2,911  .         6,511
1991   4,122.711    1.70    27.00   152,693    9,514  162.207  2,765  ,. i  6.433
1992   4,188,675    1.60    27.00   155,136    9,701  164,837  2,631)  3.7 1  6,361
1993   4,249,410    1.45    27.00   157,386    9,868  167,254  2,416  3,791  6,208
1994   4.304,653    1.30    27.00   159,432   10,018  169,450  2,195  3.847  6,n43
1995   4.354,156    1.15    ?7.00   161,265   10,151  171,416  1,966  ' .eQ7   ,864
1996   4,397,698    1.00    27.00   162,878   10,268  173,146  1,730  3.94'  5,672 !
1997   4,435,078    0.85    2-.00   164,262   10,361  174,623  1,477  3.982  5,460
1998   4,466,124    0.70    27.uO   165,412   10,434  175,846  1,223  4.016  5,239 1
1999   4,490,688    0.55    2/.00   166,322   10,483  176,805    959  4,044  5,003 1
2000   4,508,650    0.40    Z7.00   166,987   10,518  177,505    700  4,067  4,767
2001   4,519,922    0.25    27.00   167,405   10,536  177,941    435  4,083  4,518
......= .. Now......      .        .        ... ...............



- 59 -                           Annex 5
Page 1 of 5
SRI LANM
General Education Proiect
Organization Charts
BEFORE DEVOLUTION                  AFTER DEVOLUTION
NATIONAL                        NATIONAL MINISTRY
MINISTRY OF           .-_         OF EDUCATION
EDUCATION
\          Xlo~~~Naf- EduCnon Podby
Guidelnm kwr Imlwuahon
Cunm Debpne
REGIONAL     R___             PROVINCIAL MINISTRIES
OFFICES                          OF EDUCATION
(31)
_Pnrvina4 Eductlon Objeptve
wn Naional Podcy
IlefWIta on of Poicy
MonVting a Prograss Control
DIVISIONAL                     DIVISIONAL EDUCATION
EDUCATION                           OFFICES
OFFICES
Op-ationai Management
Supwv\    & Evauation
CLUSTERS
CLUSTERS
._____________        Delivry of Edxation Svicee
SCHOOLS                            SCHOOLS
-i MOVEMENT OF FUNCTIONS
This chart illustrates the process of devolution of functions
associated with the abnlition of Regional Offices, the decentralization to
Provinces, and the establishment of Divisions. The following pages show
organization charts for the national Ministry, the Provincial Ministries of
Education, and the oxisting and proposed arrangements for Divisional
Education Offices.



- 60- -ne 
Page 2 of 5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
t I tI Ii
-~S iSi i 



SRI LANKA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZAITONAL ARRANGEMENTS
PROVINCIAL MINISTRIES OF EDUCATION
PROVINCIAL
MINISTER OF
EDUCATION
(PMOE)
lIL
THE SECRETARY
TO THE
PMOE
PROVINCIAL
EDUCATION
PROVINCIAL
DIRECTOR OF
EDUCATION
PLANNING  ~   EDUCATIONAL            SHO               DIITAINFIAC
PLANNIONG          MANAGE 'NTWOKDISONPIN
DIVISION  DVk.DIS
W I
od_ m E                    O 
0
La



SRI LANKA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
EXISTING ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
OF A DMSIONAL EDUCATION OFFICE
DVISIONAL
EDUICATION
OFFICE
DIVISIONAL
EDUCATION
OFFICER
GENERAL
EDUCATION                EDUCATION                FINANCE                ADMINISTRATION
DEVELOPMENT             ADMINISTRATION              DIVISION               N
DIVISION                 OFFRCE                  DIVS                      D
DIVISKAL                   CHIEF                 FINANCIAL                   CHIEF 0E
EDUCATION                EDUCATION               ASSISTANT                 EDUCATION
OFFICER                  OFFICER                                           OFFIC
COODNTING
COMMflfTE
PROGRAMMING           EDUCATION 
& E"ALUATION         MANAGMENT                                                                 ADMIISTRATION
BRANCH               BRANCH                                            ESTAIIENT                BRANCH
BRANCH
PLANNNG             2 EDUCATION                                                                  OFFICE
OFFICER             OFFICERS                                                                   A_TANT
Oa
0 



_63                    Annex 5
Page 5 of 3
I
1      11~11        11111
ii                  I"1!  hu5lh.,f 
III I'I ;l*i0lItId
O~~~~~j.jjIiuiil
ri~~~~~~~



Annex 6.1
- 64 -                       Page l of 2
SRI LANKA
General Education Prolect
Phsoical Descriptions and Standards
Classrooms follow a standard country-wide format - each 20' by 20'
with half-open outside walls. They will be constructed according to School
Works Division standard drawing No. 1092/93 and 1085 in minimum blocks of 2
classrooms. Pillars are 1 1/2 x 1 1/2 brick and walls are 1/2 brick thick
up to sill height. Gable walls are 1 brick thick. Foundation setting
according to standard drawing no. 1092 sheet 3, and flooring consists of 3
inch bricks on hard core with cement screen as top surface. Roofs are clay
tiles on battens or asbestos sheets on steel purlins. Trusses are standard
wooden or steel trusses. The use of steel mesh in openings as indicated on
drawing No. 1471 is recommended in general and is always supplied in
laboratories and multipurpose rooms. Cupboards form an integrated part of
the external wall.
Dimensions:  20' x 20' center - center wall
Wall plate light is 9 ft.
Rps. 220/sq.ft.
Multipurpose Rooms - are very basic laboratories for use by lower
secondary classes. They will be constructed as classrooms, but in
dimensions of 20' x 30' and with built-in furniture and storage cupboards
as indicated on sketch proposal prepared by the school works division.
Rps. 350/sq.ft.
Teachers rooms, storage, or offices - are plain additional half-
size classrooms, which may serve any of these three purposes. They will be
constructed as classrooms, but in dimensions of 10' x 20' and as a rule are
only build in conjunction with classroom blocks of 3-4 classes.
Rps. 250/sq.ft.
Lavatory Blocks and Urinals will be constructed according to
drawing No. 1060 and 1155. Urinals are without roof and are built in units
of 3 or 4 for girls and boys. Each set will consist of two units per
lavatory block and 1 urinal unit per 200 students.
Price per 200 students: Rps. 30,000.00
Water Supplies will be constructed and supplied by National Water
Supply and Drainage Board, and as a rule with pump and concrete slab for a
flat rate of Rps. 50,000.00 down to 50 meters. Below 50 meters the cost
per meter is an additional Rps. 530.



Annex 6.1
-65                          Page 2 of 2
School Furniture. Standard low cost furniture types are already
in use throughout Sri Lanka. Drawings of school furniture have not yet
been developed and "t present tendering is based on submission and approval
of samples. Design of school furniture and of blackboards and roo
dividers and development of documentation for tendering wvil take place
during the initial period of the project.
The present design for the Divisional Offices will be reviewed
with the aim of creating a standard design which takes differences in
climactic conditions and topography into consideration.



Annex 6.2
- 66 -
SRI LANKA
General Education Pro1ect
Criteria for the Physical Investments (Infrastructure and Equipment
1.       Only Type 2 (Secondary up to year 11), and Type 3 (Primary).
schools located in rural areas will be eligible for assistance under the
project. This means that Type 1 schools and schools located in Urban
Council or Municipal Council areas will not be eligible.
2.       In addition, infrastructure will be provided at Type 2 schools
only if they have an enrollment of more than 30 students in years 9-11,
with preference being given first to those schools having more than 60
students in years 9-li.
3.       Infrastructure and equipment will not be provided to schools
where it is already being provided under another project - for example,
by the Emergency Schools Restoration Project (ADB), the Rehabilitation
and Maintenance of Capital Assets program, the Primary School Development
Program, or Estate Schools Project (SIDA).
4.       Subject to these general conditions, a number of more specific
criteria will also apply to certain types of infrastructure.
Specifically:
(a) Classrooms: will be provided on the basi. of 10 square
feet per student, at schools with overcrowding of at least
60 students, with preference given to those overcrowded by
at least 100 students.
(b) Toilets: will be provided on the basis of one latrine and
one urinal per 200 students with a minimum overcrowding of
at least 100 students relative to current provision of
toilet facilities at a given school.
(c) Water Supplies: Only wells and pumps will be provided.
Water supplies costing more than Rs. 120,000 at any one
school will not be financed.
(d) Science or Multipurpose Rooms: will be provided only at
Type 2 schools having more than 60 students in years 9-11.



Annex 6.3
- 67 -                       Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
General Education Project
Equipment uist
Following is a list of the types of equipment to be purchased
during the lifetime of the project. Items should be purchased only for
schools which do not already have them, and which meet the general criteria
outlined in paragraph 1 of Annex 6.1.
(i) General Education & Administration Equipment of Schools
Duplicating Machines                  Overhead Projectors
Radios                                Clocks
Typewriters                           Notice Boards
T.V. Sets
(ii) Basic Classroom Equipment
Scissors, Rulers, Staplers.
Basic lower primary classroom kits, Geometric shapes set;
Basic Maths & Science kits, for upper primary.
(iii) Secondary Science (years 9-11)
Standard secondary science kits may be purchased for those schools
meeting the criteria in paragraph 1 of Annex 6.1 which do not already have
them, especially at the schools where multipurpose rooms are being provided
under the project. It is understood that the standard equipment set
generally consists of some or most of the following items:
Ammeter - 0 to 5A                              Spring Balance 5N, lON
Triple Beam Balance                                 Aneroid Barometer
Blow Pipe                                   Bucket and Cylinder App.
Bunsen Burner                                    Calorimeter-Aluminum
Cell-Lead/Acid                                     Calorimeter-Copper
Chisel-flat                                             Circuit Board
Stop Clock                                        Compass-Traveller's
Diodes - Germanium                      Dissecting forceps - Pointed
Diodes - Silicon                          Dissecting forceps - Blunt
Dissecting Needle                       Dissecting Scissors - Medium
Dissecting Scalpel                                   Dissecting Trays
Dynamo Assembly - Bicycle Type                      Headphones - Pair
Dynamo - Motor Model                                     Galvanometer
Dynamo - Demonstration                                      G - Clamp
Hare's Apparatus                                        Holder - Lamp
Hygrometer - wet & dry bulbs                     Holder - Lens/Mirror
Laminated Transformer Core                         Holder - Test tube
Lens - Hand x 2                                     Loudspeaker - 2 W
Magnets - Bar pairs                      Slotted Masses - Set 110 kg
Magnets - Ba/Fc                               Micrometer Screw Gauge
Microphone Condenser                   Mirror - Steel,Convex/Concave



Annex 6.3
- 68-                       Page 2 of 2
Pollution Study Pac for Air &                 Photometer - Ganong's
Steam
Rectifier - Bridge                      Resistors - Carbon Film, 14
Rod - Acrylic (Perspex)                           Resistor- variable
Rod - Ebonite                                             Ruler - Im
Searl's Apparatus                                    Slinky - 150 _
Stand - Test Tube                                   Stove - Pressure
?ape - Measuring (2m, 20m)                   Telescope - Refracting
Ticker Timer - (Vibrator)                                   Trolleys
Tuning Fork - set of 8                       Vernier Calliper Gauge
Voltameter - 0 to Sv
Electroscope - Gold Leaf                Flask - Flat bottom, 250 ml
Funnel - Thistle                         Flask - Volumetric, 250 ml
Petri dish                                      Prism - 60 x 60 x 60
Thermometer - 50C, 11OC                                     Tube - U



Annex 6.4
- 69 -
SRI LANKA
General Education Proiect
Consumable Supplies
Funds for recurrent supplies under the project will be used to
purchase basic classroom and operating supplies. The following is a list
of the types of consumable instructional materials to be purchased during
the lifetime of the project. Supplies purchased under the project vill be
directed to schools fulfilling the criteria in paragraph 1 o' Annex 6.2.
Classroom Supplies
Chalk                                                Exercise Books
Pencils                                               Writing Paper
Assignment Cards                                   Felt-Tipped Pens
General Education & Administration
Typing Paper                          Paper and ink for Duplicating
Typewriter Ribbons                                  Ball Point Pens
Staples                                                     Dustpans
Brooms
Secondary Science
Basic/essential chemicals for science experiments.



- 70 -
Annex 7.1
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
General Education Pro1ect
Strenathening Divisional Education Offices (DEOs) Component
1.       The project provides for buildings. furnitute, equipment, vehicles
and staff for DEOs as follows.
-    buildings for 30 DEOs (those which do not already have a
building or are not expected to occupy the former district
facility).
-    Furniture for these buildings.
-    Office equipment for 60 DEOs--copiers, t7pewriters, adding
machines, calculators. There is also a provision for a micro-
computer for 100 DEOs (Annex 9).
-    Vehicles - one - 4-wheel unit for 60 DEOs and 1 less than four
wheel vehicle for 30 DEOs (those where the supervision
experiments will take place (Annex 7.2));
-   Staff - in addition to existing staff at DEO's, the addition of:
- about six professional staff (an accountant, a school-works
supervisor, anu three or four school supervision officers).
- About six support-level staff (three or four
bookkeeper/clerks at two or three school works supervisors.)
2.       In addition to building office space and providing office equipment
for the DEC., the project plans to support the development of the
administrative capacity of these offices through the MDU working with the
Provincial Ministries of Education (PMOEs) and with additional services of
management consultants.
3.       The 13th amendment to the Constitution and the subsequent Provincial
Councils Act have delegated powers from the National Ministry of Education to
the PMOEs. As theee offices evolve there will be further devolution of powers
to the DEOs for the immediate support and administration of the approximately
100 schools within each Division. Although a few DEOs have existed since
1984, most are now in the process of being established. Gradually,
responsibilities will be devolved from the regions to these divisions.
Creating a new administrative level within the educational system is a complex
process made even more so during this period of devolution of powers from the
national to the provincial level.
4.       An organization chart for a typical existing DEO is provided in Annex
5, page 4 and a structure for a new DEO has been developed by e team of
management consultants (Annex 5, page 5). The exact functions and
responsiWlitics of each office will need to evolve over time in response to
the requirements of the PMOEs and the needs of the schools within the
Divisions. Therefore, one of the primary responsibilities, initially, of the
PHOEs will be to strengthen the DEOs. This project will provide staff in



- 71 -
Annex 7. 1
Page 2 of 2
the MDU to work with the DOs to implement the proposed organizational
structure. They vill be supported by a team of management consultants.
They will make regular visits to the DUOs in order tot
-    Advise the Assistant Director of Education (head of the DZO)
in decision making and problem resolution;
-    Assist the Division Heads (Chief Education Officers) clarify
their functions and establish procedures accordingly;
-    Assist the Assistant Director of Education develop an
effective management team in the DEO;
-    Provide 'on the spot' training in management techniques as
needed;
-    Help establish lines of communication and patterns of
coordination with the PMOE; and
-    Help coordinate the resolution of matters requiring follow up
at the PMOE.
This process may also involve the coordination of inter-divisional meetings
undar the direction of the PHOE to establish operating procedures and
institutionalize the devolution of certain responsibilities.
5.       By the end of the project, there should be: (a) an organizational
chart for each DEO accompanied by a list of well defined functions and
responsibilities; (b) DEO staff who are familiar with these
re-nnosibilities and have the basic skills needed to implement them; and,
(c) other documents as needed to assure the efficient functioning of the
DEO.



Annex 7. 2
- 72 -                       Page I of S
SRI LANKA
General Education Proiect
Supervision, Clusters and Boards Component
1.       This component involves developing and testing new arrangeoents to
improve school-level supervision and management, including:
(i) supervision procedures, methods, and schedules;
(ii) attempts to make clusters more effective units; and,
(iii) pilot development of school (or cluster) boards.
This will involve experimenting with a sample of divisions and clusters on
a pilot basis, determining which are effective, and formalizing them for
wider use in the system as a whole.
2.       The process of improving school management and supervision will
involve the revitalization of the school cluster concept. The project ieill
support a series of experimental approaches to school cluster organization.
The purpose of the experimentation is to identify successful approaches for
effective utilization of school resources including teachers, equipment and
materials. Since the principal is central to the process of school
improvement, the design of school clusters will search for ways to make him
or her a more effective manager and educational leader. Cluster
experimentation will also provide a mode for the introduction of cluster
school boards.
3.       Issues:  In designing effective approaches to school clustering,
certain issues need to be given particular attention:
(a) Grouping criteria. Although a geographical location is the
paramount criteria, within this constraint, schools can be
clustered to form groups that are homogeneous (e.g. only
primary schools) or heterogeneous (e.g. a type 1 school
clustered with type 2 and 3 schools). Schcol groupings may
include schools with different or only the same media of
instruction. Approaches to grouping schools will need to
recognize that all schools within a division will need to be
grouped to provide effective supervision whether this is
cluster based or divisional office based. As a result there
may need to be very small school groups as well as larger
ones.



- 73 -                     Annex 7.2
Page 2 of 3
(b) The organizational structure ol the clusters
- Decision making responsibilitles with respect to cluster
resources, particularly the allocation of teachers,
furniture and equip mnt
- Responsibilities for supervision of schools within the
cluscer,
- Responsibilities for the developwent and implementation
of cluster level plan..
(c) coaounity participation through Cluster School Beards: How
best to improve the accountability of the schools to the
comunity and mobilize comn.ity resources to support the
schools? Issues related to composition of the Board and
the process for appointment will need to be addressed.
(d) Autonomys The degree to which responsibilities will be
devolved to the cluster level particularly in the areas of
financial and personnel management.
4.       It is anticipated that the MDU will be responsible for the
design and implementation of various approaches to supervision and
clustering of schools. The unit will work through 8 divisions (one in
each Province), to implement a series of designs which cover all schools
within a division. This central unit will also be responsible for:
(a) developing materials to guide the implementation of the various
designs; (b) developing procedures and guidelines for conducting school
supervision; (c) providing materials for developing cluster plans and (d)
preparing materials for evaluating teachers. This unit will support the
DEOs in providing orientation to cluster principals in how to manage
their clusters.
5.       In addition, this unit will be responsible for monitoring and
evaluating the implementation of the various cluster designs with a view
to identifying effective models for implementation by provinces and
divisions throughout the country. This may lead to several experimental
programs designed to assess the feasibility, efficiency and costs of
varying ways to provide supervision. Among these might be:
a.   Supervision primarily by DEO staff with only minimal
supervisL a by cluster principals.  Hov frequently could or
should DE" staff visit each school? Who will make the
visits? How would transport be arranged?
b.   Reliance on cluster level supervision with the role of the
DEO reduced. In cluster supervision, who would do
supervision? The cluster principal? The deputy? A cluster-
level supervisor?
c.   Would there be a case for different supervision arrangements
for pa ts of ,he supervision task? Supervision of
instruction may need one arrangement while supervision of
school buildingt  financial records, etc. may be best done in
another way.



- 74 -                         Annex 7.2
Page 3 of 3
6.       Special emphasis should be placed on the analysis of the role and
function of Cluster Boards. Various models should be tested covering such
variables as the composition of the board and the relationship of the board
to the principals, especially to the cluster principal. Should the cluster
principal be a member of the board? How would community members of the
board be elected? What is the relationship of the cluster board to the
School Development Colnittees?
7.       The project will provide funds for the implementation of pilot
trials, including:
-    one - less than 4 wheel vehicle for each of 90 experimental
clusters.                                                                  -
-    Staff - 2 persons for each of the 90 experiment clusters:
*    a cluster clerk to assist the cluster principal and/or
has deputy.
*    a fund to hire additional staff or to pay overtime for
extra supervisory tasks.



- 75 -                        Annez 7.3
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
General Education Prolect
Management Development Unit (HDU)
1.       Coverage.  The MDU would have responsibility for coordination and
management of the components of the Project related to management: (a) the
management component activities at tie provincial, divisional, cluster and
school levels; (b) the management training program; and (c) the Eduration
Planning and Policy component.
2.       Liaison.  The MDU would need to work closely with MOECAI,
provincial authorities, DEOs, cluster chairmen and boards, school
principals, the Staff College and the Project Coordinators Office in
fulfilling its task.
3.       Responsibilities.  The specific tasks of the MDU emerge logically
from the presentations of the management and management training components
in paras. 3.09 through 3.13 and the related Annexes and the policy and
planning component described in para. 3.15 and Annex 9. While all aspects
of the management components would come under the purview of the MDU, there
are several areas of highest priority:
(a)  Strengthening Divisional Officeo is a major goal of the
project and therefore will merit special attention by the
MDU.  The MDU should monitor the progress of MOECAI and the
provinces in their efforts to blanket the island with
effective educational management divisions. As the coverage
is increased, there will be a need to refine patterns for
staffing of divisions to perform their functions with
differentiation to compensate for variation in the size and
functions ot divisions. Most importantly, there will be a
need to work with the staff of divisions to develop effective
working procedures for the important school supervision
function of divisions as well as their finance and personnel
management tasks.
(b) A second priority area for the MDU will be to work with the
90 clusters in the sample to develop structure and procedures
to be tested under the project which will lead to the
emergence of an effective level for school leadership between
the division and the school itself. Such questions as who
should be the leader of a cluster, how many schools per
cluster, variations in the types of schools in a cluster, and
whether to group schools of differing media of instruction in
a cluster, the special needs of urban schools, the
composition, selection of members, and extent of powers of



- 76 -                        Annex 7.3
Page 2 of 2
cluster boards will need to be addressed. The study tour to
nearby nations where clusters have succeedoed vil be en early
task-
(c)  The MDU should also play a ;ole in assuring that the
management training component gets off to a good start.
Again, a study tour will be an early task. Working with the
overall leadership of the Staff College and especially vith
the special unit to be created within the college for design
and administration of the training program of the project,
the MDU should assure that the training program meets the
needs of managers, especially the principals of Types 2 and 3
schools toward which the training r*rogram should be directed.
(d)  Although the priority areas listed in (a) to (c) above are
the principal areas for MDU attention, the management
studies, policy and planning component and other elements of
the management and management training components also would
need attention.
4.       Composition.  The MDU would be headed by a director (equivalent of
a Class 1 officer) and staffed with five experienced education officers,
selected to include experience in data handling and service as a practicing
school administrator at the principal level. Expatriate and local
consultants would be provided (24 mm expatriate and 96 mm local).
Appointment of the director of the MDU would take place early in the
project life and full staffing should be completed by Junse 30, 1990.
Provision is made in project costs for travel and operational funds.
5.       Relation to the Prolect Coordination Office (PCO).  The Project
Coordinator would not be over the Director of the MDU -- they would be
parallel. The MDU director would have independent authority to perform in
his domain. He would provide information on progress to the PCO for use in
preparing the semi-annual progress reports to the Association. Of course,
there would also be overlap in areas such as construction of divisional
headquarters, procurement of vehicles for divisions and clusters, selection
and deployment of local and technical assistance, arrangements for study
tours and the management of evaluation programs.



- 77 -                         Annex 7.4
SRI LKA
General Education Proiect
ManaRement Procedures Development
In preparing the management component the Ministry's consultants
have identified a large number of areas in which development and reforms of
management systems would be useful, including administrative, personnel and
financial s,stems. Most of the proposals require more detailed analysis
and cannot be finalized in time to include them under the project,
consequently funds will be provided for further studies of selected issues,
along vith a general fund for the implementation of agreed recommendations.
A tentative list of possible areas of investigation is attached.
Agreement between IDA and GOSL on terms of reference would be expected
before proceeding with each specific study. The conclusion of each study
would be jointly reviewed, and implementation of agreed recommendations
could be financed from the proposed implementation fund.
Possible sub-studies and tasks include:
(a) development of maintenance and supplies management systems;
(b) development of revised financial and accounting systems;
(c) development of a career path for teachers, including creation
of promotional posts, succession planning, and job
descriptions;
(d) review and rationalization of the schooling system, including
development of a consistent system of school classification,
sizes and facilities;
(e) development of manuals;
(f) developme-it of well defined evaluation systems and criteria,
for personnel and institutions.
These would follow from proposals made by the management
consultants employed under the Project Preparation Facility, and described
in the Summary Report on Organizational Development and Educational
Management, and Human Resources Management (May 1989) -- and in 10
supporting volumes.  A fuller description of poss_ble studies will be
developed following further consultation between IDA and GOSL.
Financing for this -omponent would consist of US$200,000 for
further studies and systems development over the first two years of the
project, and fund of US$300,000 for implementation of new systems and
procedures (about $100,000 p.a. over years 3, 4 and 5).



Amex S
- 78                      Page 1 of 4
SRI LANKA
General Education Prolect
Management Training Component
1.       The performance of principals, especially those of Type 2 and 3
schools, is considered to be far less than satisiactry.  The project is
designed to develop s continuing arrangement for their training and
retraining. Long-range potential of this program would be over 8,000
principals of Type 2 and 3 schools. Principals, deputiea and sectional
1-Ads of Type 1 schools also need training but they have been favored in
pb   programs of the Staff College and therefcore are deliberately
di_tmphasized in this program. One exception is specialized training for
cluster chairmen wio almost invariably will be principals of Type 1
sarhools. However, their past training has not prepared them for the new
r e of cluster chairmen. Three other types of educational officers will
receive training under the project: the division director, the division
chief education officer and the division education officers including
seconded teachers and assistant education officers provided under the
project. The design of the management training component calls for
initial priority in training to be given to the personnel of the 8
divisions and 90 clusters in the experimental sample of the project. Six
sequential activities are provided in this component:
a. Training of provincial training staff.
b. Curriculum design of training modules for training of Type 3
and 2 school principals, cluster principals and DEO staff.
c. Testing and redesign of the above.
d. Conduct of training of the management personnel of the 90
experimental clusters and the DEOs of which they are a part.
e. Evaluatlon of the training and transfer of this type of
training to the PMOEs,
f. A staff development prcgram for the NIE Staff College.
2.       Provincial Level Staff Training Unit.  As part of the devolution
of educational management within the country it is planned that training
of low and middle management and supervisory personnel would take place
at the provincial level. Training of higher-level staff would continue
to be provided by the Staff College of NIE. In order to prepare for this
prog-am an initial step under the management training component would be
tn idmntify 32 promising persons who would become the nucleus of



Annex 8
Page 2 of 4
provincial management training unit (4 persons, 8 provinces). These
potential trainers would receive eighteen months of local and overseas
training in two batches of 16 per year. More than half of the training
would be provided by the Staff College supplemented by a specially
designed overseas training at at least two selected locations with
expertise in developmental education. Since the selection of these 32
persons, the design of their training program and the execution of
training will require at least three years, this program should be a high
priority at the beginning of the project. The project does not include
additional resources to establish physical plants for the provincial
training unit. Conditions in the provinces varv as to the need for such
training facilities and for residential quarters. This should be studied
under this project but will have to be financed outside the project.
3.       Curriculum Development.  The NIE Staff College, as the leading
agency in the country for management training, will play an important
role in this component in three ways, by: (a) in the first two years of
the project designing and testing curriculum modules suitable for
training of principals and other managers below the provincial and
national levels; (b) designing and conducting a special program of
training in the first three years of the project for division directors,
cluster chairmen, and, most important, principals of cluster member
schools in the sample of 8 divisions and 90 clusters; and (c) extending
the training as staff, facilities and time permit to managers beyond the
sample. The initial design phase would begin with a study tour of about
five members of the Staff College and/or Ministry personnel to Malaysia,
Thailand and India to observe successful programs for the training of
large numbers of principals. This study tour, like the one on cluster
development, should be scheduled before or early in the project so that
it can be completed before the project is more than one year into
implementation. This would be followed by an intensive program to design
modules for training of principals (Annex 8, page 4). A program for Type
3 school principals of about 4 weeks duration should be a keystone of the
program. The program for Type 2 principals might be as long as six
weeks, and a two to three week duration for Type 2 deputy principals
and/or section headw. It is probable that training modules of about one
week each would be developed on such topics as: educational leadership of
a school, management of facilities, school accounts and personnel and
school-community relations. The successful programs of the countries to
be visited on the study tour may be expected to provide excellent
examples for the design of such modules. After design, the modules
should be tested at the Staff College on groups of principals drawn from
the 90 sample clusters.
4.       Training.  After the Staff College is satisfied that the program
has been tested enough, full-scale training should begin. In the 90
clusters there will be about 900 principals; about 400 Type 3; about 450



- 80-                          Annex8
Page 3 of 4
Type 2 and about 150 Type 1, however the latter would not be trained in
the project except when they serve as cluster principal. The Staff
College has agreed to direct its major attention for the next four years
to this program and with its existing staff and special technical
assistance should be able to cover the entire target group. A special
project director would be appointed to oversee this training program as
well as the provincial level training described above for the duration of
the project. He would be assisted by one expatriate advisor, serving for
about 12 months of service spread over three or four visits, and three
local consultants up to five years each. Alternatively, the local
consulting could be provided by a group of specialists on specific module
topics. Provision of a limited amount of additional equipment for the
Staff college would be provided.
5.       Staff Development.  The ongoing needs of the Staff college after
the project would be assisted by provision of support for other staff
development programs of the College. Two doctoral programs and four
masters degree programs would be provided. The management training
component would be evaluated by an independent group in the last year of
the project. Training of educational management is a never-ending task
and the evaluation report should recommend long range programs to be
conduicted and the provincial training units.



- 81 -
Annex 8
Page 4 of 4
SRI1 LANKA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
PROPOSD STRUCTtR  FOR MANAGEMENT TRA0G
SLEAS 2 N
[ SLEAS 2 C~~~~~~~R                         LINKED TO
SLEAS 3     E       PROMOTIONS
GENERAL                        ~~~~~~M IN THE
M / iUODULES                  SLPSI       E       CAREER PATH
/ | ~~~~~~~~~~SLPS 2                      T
/   z  e S                -~~~~~ ~ ~~SLPS 3  L
MANAGEMENT                      U
TRAINING                       L
N
R       LINKED TO
PLANNING           E      REPLACEMENT
Dir. Level       M       TO THE KEY
A _/t Dir. Level  E      JOB POSITIONS
*Ch.EO Leve      N
-EO Lev          T
SPECIFIC                   -EOLT
MODULEtS    ^_-    - SUPERVISION          A
& EVALUATiON    '
MANAGEMENT
OF CLUSTERS
OTHER
Cw461 ISO



- 82-                         Anne-9
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANMA
General Education Proj1ct
Educational Plannina and Policy Components
In order to expand the capacity of the MECAI in the areas of
long range. strategic planning and policy analysis and formulation, the
project will provide technical assistance to the Planning Division.
Division staff will bo trained in the use of a variety of analytical
techniques and the use of educational models for planning. A
computerized system will be developed for monitoring specific projects as
vell as the annual plans of the MOECAI. Management consultant expertise
will be provided to develop a management information system which will
organize a flow of data from the schools to the HOECAI and assure that
each level (national, provincial and divisional) will have the
information needed for operations and to develop educational plans.  One
computer will be provided to each PMOE and DEO.  Training of staff in
these offices will be provided by the management consultants to
operationalize the system.  One computer will be provided to the Planning
Division, HOECAI, to computerize the monitoring and review of programs
and special projects. A power back up system (UPS) will also be provided
to the HOECAI to reduce the effect of the frequent power failures.
Under the planning and policy analysis component, expatriate and
local technical assistance will be provided. Their responsibilities will
include the following:
Expatriate Technical Assistance (24 man-months - one expert for about two
years, or several experts for 2-4 months at a time)
(a) Train staff to apply analytical techniques to problems and
policy issues as they arise.
(b) Train staff in the use of educational models including
projection, resource allocation, teacher supply and demand,
cost efficiency, internal efficiency, and cohort survival
models.
(c)  Work with the Planning Division to develop communication
channels to link the policy formulation and implementation
processes.
(d) Develop and implement a system for collecting and utilizing
data from other government and non-government sources.
(e) Train staff in the use of long range planning techniques.
(f) Train staff in the Program Review Branch to computerize the
program monitoring and review process using program
management software.
(F) Work with the local technical assistance to design and
implement an Education Management Information System
(EMIS)%.



- 83 -                         Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Local Technical Assistance (48 man-months) vill be responsible for the
development of an EMIS. They will:
(a) Assess the information needs for operations reporting,
planning and policy development at the National MOECGI, the
PHOEs, and DEOs.
(b) Design or revise data collection instruments as needed.
(c) Design and implement a coordinated system for data
collection and storage for DEOs, PMOEs, and the MOECAI.
(d) Develop computer software, using existing softvare as far
as possible, for data entry, managemnt and reporting.
(e) Train staff in the DEOs, PMOEs, and MOECAI to use the EKIS
system.



- 84 -
SRI LAA                                                                                 m l i0.i
Geeal Educaton  Project                                                                          Pag  1 sf 2
Project Cost Tables
Component by Type sf Ezpnitwe
1. Invntnt Costs                                  (USt thoumndil               Training
-------                             Equipmt                          I
A. Infrastructure                          Civil      I                          Fullo,-           Servicn
--------------                            orks Forniture Vehicles    TA        ships  Studin  I Others   Supplies Salaries                  TOTAL
Wi School Upgrading                        -----  ----------------   ----         ----  ------  --------   -------- -------- q--
Classroom                                  10507        0         0         0        0         0           0        0           0              10507
nater Supplies I Toilets                     942      946         0         0        0         0           0        0           0               1N
Specialized Roos                            5284        0         0         0        0         0           0        0           0               5284
(ii) Furniture                                0      4482         0        0         0         0          0         0           0               4U82
(iii) Classroom  Equipmt                      0      4478         0        0         0         0          0         0           0               4478
B. ManageEnt
Strengthening Divisional Offices            2687      1680      934         0         0        0           0         0          0                S3W0
Supervision and Cluster Developent             0       35       133       16        0        52           0         0        213                 599
Managent Proceedurs Developeent                0         0        0       200        0         0         300         0          0                 500
Teacher Absnteeis  Reduction                   0        0         0         0        0         0           0         0        597                 597
C. Managmnt Training                            0        49        0       260      926         0           0         0           0               1235
0. Rehabilitation                           15925         0        0         0         0        0           0         0          0               15925
E. Strategic Plan.ng                            0        71        0       284         0        0           0         0           0                355
F. Education-Employmnt Study                    0         0        0       190         0       15           0         0          0                 205
S. Project Co-ordination                        0        10        0         0         0        0           0         0          37                 4
Total Investuet last Costs         35345    11"9       1067      1100       926       67         300         0         847              5103
11. Increeental Rcurret Costs
A.ClaC  rme lpute                               0         0        0         0        0         0           0     2S05           0               2n5
3.  laguet                                      0         0        0         0         0        0         235         0       1667                1902
C. Iuag_t Traini iro                                               o          0  0    0        0           0         0                  3U
Total Incrmtal IlKurnt Costs                            0         0         0        0         0         235     2S15        2030               5250
Total mu  Costs                           35345    21951       1047      1100      924        47         535     2915        2877              5483
Physical Contisgnies                       3435     1I1        107       110       93         7          53      29S        2                 555
Price Coetin ze;ies                       8181      2200       105       122      145        13         15       689         720              12341
Total Project CWts                         4961    15344       1279      1332     1144        U4         744     3972        39                74779



- 85 -                                    Annex 10.1
Page 2 of 2
2*   5   t- 5 -         
-       s,   -     -   -   'I   S 
j .,             ,.^-         
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I      
, .  ~ 5   o.  o-  0                                a- j_
-. 5
g _~~~~~~ .                     _             . _ 
U,         ,                                             ,S 
- | ~~~~~~s -  0  Sr   0   - SW ea
~~~~   5- . b      n.~  - S  
Is                      5.  5-             c o
:I    -                        .X
EI t  e' j                 0 et 



- 86 -
SRI LANKA
........                                   Annex 10.2
feneral Education .roject
.........................
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDUWLE
!                               |'~~~~~~~~~-198->|:P<-1990O-.%I<-199 1 ),<-199 2->Ic-1993->I<-1994-l<-1995->I
I                                          11 2 3 4 t1 2 3 4 11 2 3 4 11 2 3 4 I1 2 3 4 11 2 3 4 1i 2 3 4 1
........................................................................................................
[INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT                  j        I         j        j         i         I        i         i
I------------------------1                          1         11                      
Detailed Design & Contract Documents   I   XXXXlXXXX    I               I                  j        j
iTendering Award/Construction                       I I   XXXX|XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXlXXXXXXXXlXXXXXXXX             I
ISupervisionCGurantee Period               I        I   xxxxlxxxxxxxxlxxxxxxxxlxxxxxxxxlxxxxxxxxxxxx          I
IPrep.of Furniture/Eqpt. List              I        |XXXXXXXX|XXXXXXXX|          I         I        I         I
IFurniture/Ept. Detiveries                 I        I         I        IXXXXXXXXIXXXXXXXXIXXXXXXXXIXXXX       I
IT.A. (Design Architect,12 Mos.)           I      XXI      XXI       XXI       XXI         I        I         I
IMANAGEMENT COMPONENT                               I         I        I         I |                I         I
I--------------------1                              1         111111
lEstablishment of MDU                      I   XX                      I         I         I        I         I
lOperation of MDU                          I      XXiXXXXXXXXIXXXXXXXXlXXXXXXXXlIXXXXXXXXIXXXxxxxx xxxxxxxxI
ITA for MDU                                I        lxxxv    ixxxx    |xxxX           I         I             I
|Cluster Study Tour                        I        Ixxxx    I         I         I         I        I 
I                              ~    ~ ~       ~ ~      ~~~~~I  I  I  I  I       I                  I
IEstablishing aLL Divisions                                        XX                      I
lEstabLishing all 90 Sampte Cluster                           I        I   XX  I           I
ICoistruction of Division Ho (60)          I        I    xxXx|xxXXXxXX|XXXXXX|             I        I
lEstabLishment of PMOEs                             I I    XXXXXxXXXXXXxXXXXXXXlXXXXXXXXXX xxxxxxIxxxxxxxX!
Ivehicles for Divisions                             I I    XXxxXXXxxxxXjxxxxxxXf           I                  I
IVehicles for Clusters                              I I       IXXXXXXXXlXxxxxxXI
I                                          I        I         I        I         I                            i
IConduct of Management Studies                      I I    XxlxxxxxXXxlxxxxxxxXlXxxxxxxXIXXxxxxxxxI           I
I                          I         i        I        ~    ~ ~       ~ ~       ~ ~      ~ ~~~I  I  I  I  I
IMANAGEMENT TRAINING COMPONENT             I        I         I        I         I         I        I         I
I-----------------------''-'-'''                               
IStudy Tour                                I    XXXX|                  I         I         Ii
ISelection of PMOE Trainers                       xxxx             I        I         I         I        I
ITraining of PMOE Trainers                 I        I  XXXXXX|XXXXXX  I          I         I        I
IEstb.of Special Units at Staff College I           lxx       I        I         I         I                  I
1Operation of Unit                         I        I xxxxxXXXxXXXXlxxxxXXxXlxxxX         I
ICurriculum Design of Traininp Modules  I         XX|  XXXXXX|XXXX     I         I         I        i
JTesting of Modules                        I        I      XXIXXXXXXXX           I         II
IStart of Training by PMOEs                I        I         I        lxx       I         I        I
IFellowships for Staff College Staff            XXXXIXxXXXXXlXXXXXXXXIxxxXxxxlxxXxxxxxlxxxxxxxxlxxxxxXxxXI
lEvaLuation of Training                             I         I        Ixxxxxxxxlxxxxxxxxlxxxxxxxxlxxxxxxxxl
ITA for Management Training               |         lxx       lxx      lxx       lxx       I        I         I
IPOLICY AND PLANNING COMPONENT             I        I         I        I         I         I        I         I
I------------------ ----------                                                                      I         I
ITA (24rm)                                 I   xxxxjxxxx    'xxxx    jxxxx    I            I!
IComputer Procureent:                     I         j         I        I         j         I        j 
I Bidding Documents                       I         j      XXI                   I         I j
I Delivery and Installation               j         j         I    xxxxlxxxxxXXXl          I        j
ISystme DesIgn and Test                   I         j         IxxxxxxxxlxxxxxxxXl          I        I         j
ISystem  in Operation                                                            I j  j  j    Ixxxxxxxxlxxxxxxxxl
IMi mtch Study                             I        I   xxxxIxxxxxxrxl           j         j        j
........................................................................................................



- 87 -                        Annex 10.3
SRI LANKA
General Education Prolect
Estimated Schedule of Disbursemnts
(US$ Million)
Disbursement             Percent Disbursement
IDA FY and Semester            Semester   CuMulative            of Total Credit
1990
lit (Dec. 31, 1989)            0            0                          -
2nd (Jun. 30, 1990             2.5 a/       2.5                       5?
1991
lit (Dec. 31, 1990)            2.6          5.1                      10?
2nd (Jun. 30, 1991)            3.0          8.1                      16?
1992
1st (Dec. 31, 1991)            3.6         11.7                      24Z
2nd (Jun. 30, 1992)            5.0         16.7                      34Z
1993
lst (Dec. 31, 1992)            4.1         20.8                      42Z
2nd (Jun. 30, 1993)            5.4         26.2                      53?
1994
lst (Dec. 31, 1993)            5.0         31.2                      64?
2nd (Jun. 30, 1994)            5.4         36.6                      75?
1995
lst (Dec. 31, 1994)            5.5         42.1                      86?
2nd (Jun. 30, 1995)            4.0         46.1                      94?
1996
lst (Dec. 31, 1995)            1.9         48.0                      98?
2nd (Dec. 31, 1996)            1.0         49.0                     100?
a/ Special Account.
Closing Date: December 31, 1995.



- 88 -                        Annex 10.4
Page 1 of 3
Proiect Co-ordination and Implementation
Pro1ect Co-ordination. The Project Steering Camittee, chaired by
the Secretary, MOhCAI, and including the Secretaries of Finance, and Policy
and Plannin, (or their designated representatives), the Secretary to the
Minister of tate for Education, and the Directors for School Management
and Supervision, and School Works, will take overall responsibility for
ensuring that the project is implemented according to the agreed scope, and
for guiding the project and liasing with IDA on issues of educational
policy and school system management reform involved in the project. The
committee will be supported by the Project Co-ordinatior Unit, and the
Management Development Unit.
In order to facilitate project co-ordination and implementation a
small Co-ordination Unit will be established in MOECAI, to be financed out
of the project. The unit will consist of one project co-ordinator, an
assistant professional level officer, a clerical/accounts assistant, and a
typist/secretary. The role of the group will be to:
(i) serve as a central point for co-ordination of project
activities, and for communication with IDA;
(ii)  ensure that the line units of MOECAI and the PMOEs are aware
of the project scope and implement it according to the
agreed program;
(iii)  monitor and guide procurement of goods and services financed
under the project, and communicate with IDA on procurement
issues;
(iv)  process disbursements under the project, and ensure project
accounts are adequately maintained;
(v)  prepare semi-annual progress reports (described below);
(vi)  co-ordinate the project launch workshop, annual reviews and
the project mid-term review; and,
(vii)  serve as secretariat to the Project Steering Committee.
Financing for the co-ordination unit will cover salaries, operating
experses, a vehicle, and a limited fund (USS 15,000 equivalent) for the
purchase of equipment.
Reporting Format. The Government will provide the Association
with semi-annual progress reports by June 30 and December 31 of each year
covering the following items:
(i)   Construction of infrastructure under the project:
- new contracts awarded
- buildings completed
-  expenditure and phy;ical progress (sumary);



- 89 -                       Annez 10.4
Page 2 of 3
(ii) Summary of equipment, furniture, and supplies ordered wnd/or
delivered;
(iii)  summary of work undertaken under the Rehabilitation and
Maintenance of Capital Assets program;
(iv)  with respect to Divisional Office strengthening:
- number of new DIOs established,
-  suary of progress on office construction, equipment and
vehicle procurement and delivery,
- summary of Divisional office staffing;
(v)  Suumary of the work of the MDU (prepared by MDU); including
efforts ont
- cluster development ezperiments,
- pilot testing of Boards,
- development and testing of supervision arrangements;
(vi)  sunmary of progress of the management training component;
(vii) Summary of progress on studies under the project
(Educational/Employment Linkages, Teacher Absenteeism, and
Teacher Training Capacity);
(viii)  Sumary of studies and systems implementation undertaken
under the Management Procedures Development component;
(ix)  Summary of progress under Education Planning component;
(z) Estimated procurement and disbursement data for the review
period.
It is expected that the reports would consist of approximately one-half
page on each item or sub-item, with substantial standard tables on physical
progress and procurement.
Supervision and Annual Review. IDA supervision missions would
visit Sri Lanka approximately twice each year. One of those visits would
be a formal joint Government-TDA Project Review. It would cover the items
included in the semi-annual report, as well as:
- An Action Plan for the following year,
- A Management Reform Review, and
- Educational Policy Consultations.
The Action Plan would include target.: and a work program for: (i)
construction and procurement of good., under the project; (ii) the staffing
of Divisional Offices; (iii) for the work of the MDU on cluster
strengthening, action research on school Boards; and development of new
supervision procedures; (iv) plans for studies and implementation of new
managemeut systems and procedures; and (v) a detailed work plan for the
management training component.



- 90 -                        Anne  10.4
Page 3 of 3
The Mana_ement Reforms Review would consider Pr4grese and plans, * sccesses,
and problem arising ,with respect to Divisional Offices, clusters, boards,
and supervision arrangeoents; developmenv. atd implementation of new
personnel, financial and administrative syctems under the Management
Procedures Development component; teacher absenteeism reduction measures;
the effectiveness of the management training component; and progress in
strengthening the planning capacity of MZOCAI and development of the
Educational MIS. The review would zonsider revisions to the project scope
and approaches if necessary. The Educational Policy Consultations would
consider recent developments in the overall education and training sector,
and provide a forum for GOSL and IDA to consult on new directions in
policy, the impact of changes elsewhere in the economy, and the experiences
from other countries.
Project Mid-Term Review. The review would consider all of the
issues covered in the annual reviews, but take an overview of progress to
date over the first two and a half years of the project, and consider what
re-direction of the project is necessary, if any.
Project Launch Workshop. This workshop will be held as soon as is
practical after the project becomes effective. The objectives will be to
introduce staff involved in the project to the Project Co-ordination and
MDU teams, to ensure that they are familiar with the project scope and
procedures, and to discuss the best arrangements for implementing the
project. The workshop should involve all of the key staff involved in
project implementation as well as IDA representatives, and cover a period
of 4 or 5 days. Sessions will cover:
- Agreed infrastructure scope, standards, and criteria;
- Equipment and supplies to be provided;
- Objectives and design of the Management Strengthening
Component;
- IDA Procurement and Disbursements Procedures;
- The Education/Employment Linkages and Teacher Absenteeism
Studies
- The Hanagement Training Component; and
- The Educational Policy and Planning Component.



- 91 -                          Annex 11
SRI LANKA
General Educacion Project
Documents on rroject File
1.   A Plan for the Devel3pment of Facilities of  he School System,
Ministry of Education (MOE); May 1986
2.   IDA Financing of Sri Lanka - General Education Project - Management
Component (in twelve volumes) Ernst and Whinney; May 1989.
Vol. 1   Summary Report
Vol. 2   Organizational Arrangements at the National Ministry of
Education
Vol. 3   Report on the Schooling System
Vol. 4   Report on the Divisional Education Officeb
Vol. 5   Proposed O-ganizational Arrangements at the Provincial
Ministry of Education
Vol. 6   Report on Regional Education Offices
Vol. 7   Report on Planning and Monitoring at the Nat.onal Ministry of
Education
Vol. 8   Report on thie Planning System at Schools and Clusters
Vol. 9   Report on Career Development Analysis
Vol. tO  Report on Proposed Organization Structure at the Certral
Ministry of Education after Devolution of Powers
Vol. 11  Report on Finar-ial Management (in two volumes)
and 12
3.       Some Indicatorb anid Prcjections Relevant to First and Secnd Level
General Education - Sri Lanka; MOE December, 1986
4.       Management for Educational Development in Sri Lanka; MOE,
September 1984.
5.       Report on Management '.efurms in the Minstry of Education, MOE,
July 1984.



