Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16654
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(Credit 2072-CE)
June 9, 1997
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withough World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =     SLRupees (Rs)
US$1.00         =     Rs 58.0 (January 1996)
FISCAL YEAR (FY) and ACADEMIC YEAR
(Government of Sri Lanka )
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
ADB                Asian Development Bank
DCA         =      Development Credit Agreement
GTZ                Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Technische
Zusammenarbeit
GDP         =      Gross domestic product
GEPI        =      First General Education Project (this project)
GEP2               Second General Education Project (project under
preparation)
GNP                Gross national product
GOSL        =      Government of Sri Lanka
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
IDA                International Development Association
MEHE        =      Ministry of Education and Higher Education
MOFP        =      Ministry of Finance and Planning
MDU         =      Management Development Unit
NCB         =      National Competitive Bidding
NIE         =      National Institute of Education
PCU                Project Coordination Unit
SDR         =      Special Drawing Rights
SWD         =      School Works Department
UNDP        =      United Nations Development Program
Vice President:          Mieko Nishimizu
Acting Director:         Fakhruddin Ahmed
Acting Country Manager:  Roberto Bentjerodt
Division Chief:          Barbara Herz
Task Manager:            Albert Aime



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
PAGE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction ....................................................i
Project Objectives ....................................................i
Implementation Experience and Results ....................................................i
Component 1: Increase of Equitable Supply of Education
Facilities and Materials ...................................................                                ii
Component 2: Improvement of Management and  Supervision ..........................                                     ............. ii
Component 3: Strengthening of NIE  and Planning  Offices ............................................ iii
Sustainablity  of the Project and Future Operations ...................................................                                 iv
Bank Performance ....................................................v
Borrower Performance ....................................................v
Future Operations ....................................................v
Key Lessons Learned ....................................................v
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background ....................................................1
B. Policy  Context and Linkages to Sector Policies ....................................................1
C. Project Objectives and Description ....................................................1
D. Implementation  Experiences and Results ....................................................2
Component 1: Physical Facilities ....................................................2
Component 2: Improvement of Management and  Supervision ...........................................4
Component 3: Education Policy  Development ....................................................6
E. Other Project Features ....................................................9
F. Project Sustainability ...................................................                                                                  10
G. Evaluation  of Program   Objectives ....................................................1.1
H. Bank Performance ...................................................                                                                        12
1. Borrower Performance ...................................................                                                                    13
J. Future Operations ...................................................                                                                       13
K. Key Lessons Learned ...................................................                                                                     13
PART II - STATISTICAL AND DATA TABLES
Table 1               Summary of Assessment
Table 2               IDA Credits Relevant to the Project
Table 3               Project Timetable
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 4     Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
Table 5     Key Indicators and Project Targets and Achievements
Table 6     Studies Included in the Project
Table 7-A    Project Costs
Table 7-B    Project Financing
Table 8      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10    Bank Resources: Missions
Table 11     Summary of Technical Assistance Costs
ANNEXES
Annex 1     Mission's Aide-Memoire (with Operation Plan)
Annex 2     Borrower's Contribution to ICR
Attachment 1: Physical Facilities
Attachment 2: Education Equipment/Vehicles Supplied
Attachment 3: Training Programs and Activities
Attachment 4: National and International Training Programs
Map: No. (No map in SAR)



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
General Education Project
(Credit 2072-CE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the General Education Project in
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for which a credit in the amount of SDR
38.5 (US$49.0 equivalent) was approved on December 12, 1989 and made effective on
April 19, 1990.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1996 following a one-year extension of the
project closing date with SDR 35.4 million (US$51.4 million equivalent) disbursed. The
last disbursement for this project occurred on June 3, 1997 with the credit being fully
disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. A. Aime and Ms. S. Vedamuthu with the assistance
from Mr. Allak and Ms. R. Serrano (SAIPH). Peer reviewers were Messrs. J. Bregman
(SAIPH), F. Farner and J. Smith (former Task Managers). The report was reviewed by
Ms. L. Lowenstein (SAlCO), Ms. V. Abraham (LOAAS), Mr. D. Mead (LEGSA);
Messrs. Singh/Litvak (SASVP), J. Socknat (ASTHR), and by the Environmental
Division (ASTEN). The report was also reviewed by Mr. P. Blay, Principal Operations
Officer (SAIPH); Ms. B. Herz, Division Chief (SAIPH); Mr. H. Gassner,
Acting/Project Advisor (SA1DR); and Mr. F. Ahmed, Acting Director (SA1DR). The
borrower provided comments on the draft ICR and its own evaluation of the project is
included in Annex 2 of the ICR.
The preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in
November 1996 and is based, inter alia, on the review of the Staff Appraisal Report
(Report No.79 1 8-CE), the Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence
between IDA and the BorTower, and internal IDA memoranda.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
General Education Project
(Credit 2072-CE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    This was the first project financed by the International Development Association (IDA)
in the basic education sector in Sri Lanka. It was designed to address quality and equity in
primary and secondary education with a focus on rural primary and lower secondary schools (the
so-called Type 2 and 3 schools), where most shortages were being experienced.
Project Objectives
2.    The project objectives were to: (a) increase the effectiveness of the system by
upgrading facilities and increasing the supply of educational materials; (b) improve efficiency
through better management and supervision; (c) reduce regional and local disparities in the
quality of schools; (d) support decentralization; (e) strengthen planning; and (f) begin adjusting
the balance between education and training by adjusting to labor market requirements. The
project was responsive to national education policies. The objectives were highly appropriate,
particularly, as the project also set the ground for activities supporting other education quality
objectives. The project was designed with the assistance of a substantial study of the education
system by the Sri Lankan branch of a major international management consultancy firm funded
by a Project Preparation Advance.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project experienced a slow start during its first two years due to: (a) slow staffing of
the project coordination unit (PCU); (b) continued civil strife; (c) changes in national devolution
policy, requiring a reassessment of the decentralization component; and (d) lack of continuity of
IDA task managers and inadequate supervision input.
4.    A mid-term review determined that project goals were still valid, although only SDR 4.0
million out of SDR 38.5 million had been disbursed. The mid-term review focused on: (a)
increasing the dialogue and participation of the provinces; (b) increasing Government and IDA
monitoring efforts; (c) shifting the civil works responsibilities to the School Works Department
(SWD), which had national and provincial offices; (d) transferring project planning activities to
the Planning Unit in MEHE; and (e) clarifying communications between the provinces and
MEHE/PCU and formalizing the implementation roles, thus enhancing implementation.
5.    Following the mid-term review, the Government took immediate action to upgrade staff
of the PCU, established a constructive dialogue with the provinces and increased its monitoring.
IDA also substantially increased its input by focusing on project implementation and preparation
of a second project based on the findings of an education sector report. These efforts paid
i



dividends with project implementation experiencing a major improvement. By the end of the
fourth year, disbursements had already more than tripled that of the first three years. In spite of
the improved performance, it was impossible to overcome the time lost. Based on the validity of
the project objectives and improved implementation, IDA agreed to extend the closing date by
one year to December 31, 1996. By the closing date project goals had generally been reached
and the Credit disbursed.
Component 1: Increase of Equitable Supply of Education Facilities and Materials.
6.     The project was intended to upgrade substandard schools by improving infrastructure
(classrooms, water supplies, latrines, and furniture) and rehabilitating existing classrooms. The
project targets were met or substantially exceeded. Inputs were directed primarily to rural
schools with the worst facilities. As a result, the project also greatly increased equity. Students
in the poorer rural schools, who prior to the project had only about 40 percent seating were all
seated by the end of the project. Implementation, which had been slow, progressed well when
responsibility was re-assigned from the PCU to the MEHE School Works Division.
7.     Supply of educational equipment and materials also exceeded project goals. The
equipment input was the largest of its kind in the last decade. Consumables were financed by
IDA on a declining basis, with the annual national allocation increasing from Rs 10 million to
about Rs 70 million, a level that has been maintained in the national budget in 1996 and 1997.
Project inputs are having a positive impact on education quality by giving teachers and students
needed equipment. This component was successfully implemented during the last three years of
the project: Little procurement had occurred by the mid-term review because the PCU lacked a
procurement officer and the procurement capacity of the MEHE had been over-estimated at the
time of appraisal. Once a trained procurement officer was recruited, implementation progressed
well.
Component 2: Improvement of Management and Supervision.
8.    The sub-components were implemented unevenly.
(a)  The strengthening of divisional offices to support decentralization was halted by a
series of changes in national devolution policy; it was only re-started after the mid-
term review when policy became clearer. Eventually, 59 administrative centers were
constructed (Table 1) and administrators trained. Because training started late, 80
percent of the provincial directors and only 38 percent of the zonal directors were
trained.
(b)  Strengthening school management through clusters and other arrangements was
intended to be supported by a "Management Development Unit (MDU)", to be
established for the life of the project in MEHE. In fact, the unit was combined with
PCU and two full-time staff were appointed to primarily overview the management
training programs but did not play the full role intended. The component was useful,
however, in support of a parallel government initiative, the creation of school
development boards at the community level attached to each school.
(c)  Studies of the management systems and personnel procedures, including a useful study
on teacher attendance, subsequently contributed to the design of the follow-up Teacher
ii



Education and Deployment (TETD) Project. A teacher handbook has been printed,
helping to reduce teacher absenteeism.
(d)  Training of school principals was successful. A team of 32 mid-level staff were
trained in the UK, USA and Malaysia for about two years to serve as trainers. They
prepared good training materials/modules in management and supervision, and
designed programs for principals of Type 2 and 3 schools and provincial and zonal
administrators. By mid-term review, the impact of the training programs were already
being demonstrated. On that basis, the MEHE requested that the training be expanded
to include all principals. However, due to the delayed allocation of the government
contribution (budgeted in January, but not released until May), the MEHE was unable
to reach the expanded targets. Although it reached the numerical target of training
8600 principals, opening it to all school principals meant that only about 65 percent of
target schools were covered. These training activities are now well established and the
MEHE intends to continue them. In the future, more hands-on activities taught by
experienced practicing principals and technology training should be added. Although
the project targets were not fully attained, much was achieved during the latter years,
and a very positive impact on the quality of administration is already evident.
9.    The management training of supervisors has, in turn, enabled the training of subject
supervisors and master teachers, whose school supervision activities have been facilitated by the
supply of vehicles. Another important training activity added during the mid-term review was
the training of secondary English teachers. The project targets were broadly met, despite delayed
budget release. It is premature to assess the full impact of these training activities, but early
indications of the application of more responsive management practices and improved English
language teaching are very positive.
Component 3: Strengthening of NIE and Planning Offices.
(a) Education planning and policy analysis. Strengthening of planning offices was to
occur as a result of international and national training, technical assistance
interventions and by focused studies. Only the overseas training allocated to National
Institute of Education (NIE) started during the first year of the project. All 13
fellowships were awarded and completed by 1994. However, since MEHE decided to
delay the recruitment of TA until its planners had completed their training--which was
only started after the mid-term review--the goal was only partially achieved. When the
component was re-assigned from PCU to the MEHE planning unit, implementation
accelerated and training goals were achieved. MEHE now intends to continue the in-
country training programs with the assistance of the University of Colombo computer
center and to use funds from the proposed Second General Education Project (GEP2)
to recruit needed TA. Computers were supplied for the Education Management
Information System (EMIS).
(b)  The study of education-employment linkages. This study was carried out entirely
by local consultants. It produced a series of analyses and recommendations of varying
value that have contributed to the ongoing dialogue on reform of vocational training
and technical education, as well as to the design of the project on secondary education
now being financed by ADB. The study did not, however, really meet its (perhaps
over-ambitious) objectives of providing guidance for a far-reaching reform of the
iii



education system so that those leaving education would more rapidly find
employment. A major accomplishment is that the National Education Commission
and the IDA Education Sector Report and studies funded by the project formed the
basis of a national education reform outlined by the President of the country in April
1997.
(c)  Studies. All planned project studies were completed and additional ones undertaken
with good use or follow-up underway. These studies have influenced important policy
decisions in teacher education, education management and financing of education.
Most of their findings are or will be addressed during the ongoing TETD project or
will be addressed during the GEP2 project scheduled for appraisal in June 1997; the
Credit financed valuable preparation studies for these projects, as well as a seminar on
the IDA Education Sector Report findings. If the proposed in-country follow-up
training focusing on the capacity building of planners occurs, it is expected that the
MEHE and provincial planning offices will be greatly strengthened. The project
prepared a teacher education action plan and supported national seminars on teacher
education; and it funded regional education tours for senior officials and the
preparation of a teacher handbook and a maintenance manual.
Sustainabiltity of the Project and Future Operations
10.   Most project activities seem likely to be sustainable. Potential sustainability aspects that
can be mentioned at this early stage are:
* Government has adopted a policy (in the TETD) of allocating 3 percent of the recurrent
provincial block grant (increasing to 6 percent by 1999), to sustain quality and
equipment inputs and I percent of the annual capital budget of each province for
maintenance of schools. These measures should assist with the sustainability of the large
facility, furniture and equipment inputs of the project.
-  A school facilities analysis is being carried out, resulting in the rationalization of
construction of schools to reduce costs. In addition, the development of facilities and
furniture norms will enhance the effective use of future allocations for equipment,
materials and facilities.
*  MEHE plans to sustain training of supervisors and principals that will continue to
improve school management.
*  The large number of staff trained in education planning will maximize the use of EMIS
equipment and improve the impact of project TA. The National Planning Office plans
to strengthen provincial planning offices starting 1997 complementing these efforts.
*  The formalized monthly consultation between the MEHE and the provinces will
continue to enhance administrative cooperation and facilitate the sustainability of the
project inputs.
*  The permanent structure of school boards will facilitate community participation.
*  The proposed follow-up GEP2 project being prepared will assist with the
implementation of management recommendations and continue to strengthen planning.
The strengthening of the financing of the education system, planned as part of GEP2,
will help sustain project achievements.
iv



Bank Performance
II.   Bank staff contributed substantially to project implementation by building a supportive
working relationship with PCU and MEHE. IDA missions lacked sufficient implementation
focus during the first two years when staff was in transition. In addition, during the review
visits of the final year of the project, when the TETD project was being prepared, missions could
have been longer. In general, after the second year, the Bank's performance was good. During
the latter years, it was able to improve its communication to an almost 48-hour turn-around.
Such quick and timely communication complemented by quarterly project progress reviews
helped PCU remain focused. Factors that assisted turn this operation around were continuity of
task managers, a high level of decentralization of authority to the task manager; and efforts by
IDA to frankly address issues with the Government when they arose. Once a clear understanding
was reached, implementation progressed well. Bank performance was generally satisfactory and
strong during the later years of the project.
Borrower Performance
12.    The Government's performance was initially weak but improved with time, especially
following the mid-term review when key staffing shortages were addressed and the provincial
administration were involved. By the fourth year of the project, when the PCU recruited an
experienced procurement officer, an accountant and support staff, the project took off. Initial
difficulties in the processing of civil works invoices and of procurement were addressed.
However, they were unable to make up for lost time, and on the basis of performance during the
fourth and fifth years, a one year extension of the Credit closing date was granted. The project
was completed in December 31, 1996, generally meeting or exceeding targets. Government
performance progressively improved and was satisfactory during the final years, with some very
significant accomplishments.
Future Operations
13.   As indicated above, the studies and intensive dialogue facilitated by this project led to a
focused policy dialogue and resulted in the preparation of the TETD project, which became
effective on August 27, 1996. The project studies are also assisting the ongoing preparation of
the system-based GEP2, a reform operation, is now scheduled for appraisal in June 1997.
Analysis of sector issues is scheduled to continue under the ongoing TETD project and the
proposed GEP2 with the intent of improving the cost-effectiveness, quality and responsiveness
of the education system. In addition, it is hoped that continued dialogue with the Government
will bring about sufficient policy progress to address management and cost effectiveness issues
in other subsectors of the education system.
Key Lessons Learned
14.   The following are the key lessons learned from the project implementation experience:
*  The need for Government to address the lengthy period required to staff new project
implementation units;
*  The need for Government to address the annual timing of resource allocation to ensure
that implementation occurs all year rather than as at present a "spurt-and-stop" approach;
v



*  Future MEHE equipment and educational materials inputs should also include staff
training;
*  That the membership of tender committees needs to be further standardized by MEHE to
reduce the numerous and lengthy reviews;
*  Firmer application or adherence to training selection criteria by MEHE is needed to
ensure that only staff involved or designated to apply training skills are selected to
maximize the return on investments;
* Joint efforts by the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) and IDA to standardize the content
of the progress reports should be continued;
*  The management authority of PCU needs to be clarified to facilitate PCU
implementation. Once a management decision is approved, PCU should have sufficient
authority to implement;
*  Project performance and sustainability increased when operational unit responsible for
continuation of the activities were given implementation responsibilities. This was well
demonstrated when the civil works activities were placed under the responsibility of the
central and provincial School Works Units following the mid-term review;
*  Future investments in the education sector should be criteria-based, and measures to
assess the impact of these inputs should be developed;
*  Formalization of communication and consultation (in decision making) with the
provinces greatly accelerated project pace and increased responsiveness of inputs; and
*  When IDA chooses task managers appropriately and gives the task manager sufficient
authority and resources to address policy and implementation issues, the implementation
pace of a project improves.
vi



Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
General Education Project
(Credit 2072-CE)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Part I:             Project Implementation Assessment
Proj*ect Identity
Name:        General Education Project
Credit:      2072-CE
Unit:        South Asia
Country:     Sri Lanka
Sector:      Education
A.    Background
1.    This was the first project in Sri Lanka that the International Development Association
(IDA) financed in the general and basic education sector in Sri Lanka. IDA's involvement in
the education and training sector had been limited to two construction industry training projects.
This input represented the results of a broader sector dialogue started in 1985. In 1988, in face
of major internal conflict, the Government determined that the quality of education had
deteriorated to the extent that it needed some external assistance to address quality, equity and
management issues.
B.    Policy Context and Linkages to the Sector Policies
2.    The project's direct links and response to national policies were very strong. The
national policies stressed: (i) improvements in education quality; (ii) strengthening of
institutional capacity; (iii) preparation for devolution to provincial authorities; (iv) increasing
linkages between the job market demand and education programs; and (v) strengthening
planning capacity. The project was responsive to these objectives and its conceptual framework
was shared and understood by the Government and IDA.
C.    Project Objectives and Description
3.    To address the education quality of basic education, the Government, in cooperation
with IDA set the following project objectives:
* increase the effectiveness of the system by upgrading facilities and increasing the supply
of educational materials;
* improve efficiency through better management and supervision;
* reduce regional and local disparities in the quality of schools;
* support decentralization;



*  strengthen planning; and
*  begin adjusting the balance between education and training by adjusting to labor market
requirements.
4.    The project was to focus on the upgrading of the general education system (primary and
secondary) while addressing longer-term development of education training needs. The
description of the project components are:
*  Physical facilities: an infrastructure component to upgrade substandard schools to an
agreed minimum level through the provision of facilities, equipment, and recurrent
material inputs. This would also include the rehabilitation of dilapidated schools,
including those damaged by recent floods;
*  Management strengthening: designed to improve school and teacher performance
through the upgrading of management skills, strengthening management structures, and
revising management procedures; and
*  Education Policy Development: including (i) a study of the mismatch between labor
market requirements and the output of educational system; and (ii) strengthening the
planning and analysis capabilities within the Ministry of Education (MOE), which is
now known as the Ministry of Education and Higher Education (MEHE).
D.    Implementation Experiences and Results
5.    The project experienced two amendments to the Development Credit Agreement: (i) the
first, as a result of the belated mid-term review held in January/February 1994. An amendment
dated April 15, 1994, added to the project the training of English teachers and expanded the
original principal training program (which focused on the training of Type 2 and 3 schools
principals) to include all the principals; and (ii) the second amendment occurred in December 1,
1995 when the project closing date was extended by one year, from December 31, 1995 to
December 31, 1996.
Component 1: Physical Facilities.
6.    The education system's effectiveness and equity was to be improved by the provision of
basic facilities, primarily for Type 2 and 3 rural schools where the greatest shortages existed.
7.    For physical facilities, targets and achievements were: classroom 116 percent; water
supplies 118 percent; latrine and urinals 123 percent; science and multi-purpose rooms 140
percent; education offices 180 percent; desks and chairs 330 percent; and chaldboard 98 percent.
Based on these results, the facilities targets were met or substantially exceeded targets and
achievements listed in Annex 2, Attachment 1.
8.    Achievements of project goals were:
(a)    The project has enhanced the equitable supply of facilities and educational
materials to the most deprived areas of the country and assisted with the
reduction of urban and rural disparities. The latrines and water supply provided
are generally working and are estimated to be positively improving health
conditions of school children. In respect to furniture, the students attending
2



classes in Type 2 and 3 schools were targeted since only 40 percent had desks
and chairs before the project. By the end of the project, all the students in Type
2 and 3 schools had desks/seats. In addition, desks/seats were provided to Type
C schools experiencing serious shortages. Standard seating and desks for
infants, child and students were designed to improve the seating comfort of the
children. Room dividers were reduced because schools preferred wall-attached
blackboards; and since primarily single classrooms were built, the number of
room dividers was reduced.
(b)    The supply of physical facilities in the end more than achieved its target. But it
experienced a very slow start due to: (i) a lack of clear implementation
guidelines; (ii) a serious shortage of staff within the PCU to overview civil
works activities; (iii) slow processing, by provincial staff, of invoices of civil
works activities completed; and (iv) delays to address the administrative
changes resulting from the total transfer of school construction responsibilities to
the provincial Ministries of Education and provincial Public Works offices
(following a devolution of power to the provinces shortly after project
effectiveness and for which new procedures had to be prepared). Matters were
further complicated by four additional factors: (i) the lack of the definition of
communication channels between the Central MEHE/PCU and the provinces;
(ii) the ongoing civil strife which made it difficult to undertake civil works
activities; (iii) the provincial directors not being fully briefed on the project
goals and procedures; and (iv) the implementation responsibilities for the
construction activities not being initially transferred from the PCU to the School
Construction Unit (SCU) within the MEHE and to its branches located in the
provinces until after the mid-term review.
(c)    Implementation was enhanced when monitoring engineers were hired at the
national and provincial levels. Once the management issues listed above were
addressed and particularly when the PCU was staffed to properly monitor and
process invoices, payments and submission of replenishment to IDA
implementation improved. At that stage, project implementation improved,
demonstrating a sufficient contractor implementation capacity and reducing the
need to rely on community groups or societies to build rural schools. However,
during project implementation, questions began to arise about the location and
links with the demographics and enrollment needs of some of the facilities being
constructed. To assist clarify this situation, it was agreed that the project would
fund a national primary and secondary facilities analysis. That analysis,
completed in mid- 1996, revealed that a few facilities had been constructed in
areas of little need while some sites were still experiencing serious shortages.
Efforts to address this issue were made during the final year of project
implementation. The school facilities analysis will assist future projects to
better respond to actual needs.
(d)    An important management impact resulting from the civil works and training
components was the formalization of monthly consultation between the central
Government and the provinces. These meetings were chaired by the Secretary of
Education facilitating the resolution of problems. Such consultation greatly
enhanced project implementation and communication of policy decisions,
3



enabled the MEHE to better address fiscal problems and is now facilitating the
beginning of a quality and management dialogue.
(e)    For supply of education equipment to schools, the project covered the priority
needs (mathematics and science) and accounted for the largest vehicle,
equipment and educational materials inputs to the Sri Lanka schools and
administrative offices during the last decade. The project inputs are outlined in
Annex 2, Attachment 2.
(f)    The equipment inputs exceeded the project targets and are said, according to
MEHE officials, to already have important impact on the education quality and
exams results particularly in the rural areas (where shortages were the greatest).
The supply of equipment in Jaffna demonstrated the flexibility of the project to
meet urgent needs as the civil unrest finally drew to an end, consistent with
project objectives. However, the use of the equipment could have been further
improved if teachers had been trained in their use. Only a limited number of
provincial and zonal teacher training courses were carried out to improve the use
of these inputs.
(g)    The procurement activities were hampered by MEHE's limited capacity to
undertake timely procurement activities, contrary to appraisal estimates.
Progress was further hampered by the lack of a full-time procurement officer
needed for the large scope procurement activities (about ten times greater than
done prior to project). This situation resulted in very little procurement progress
realized during the first three and a half years of the project. Most of the project
procurement was done during the last three years of project implementation
when a full-time procurement officer was employed. Lack of PCU staff greatly
retarded positive inputs in the schools and resulted in higher equipment and
material costs. Procurement was also hampered by the large numbers and
varying membership of the technical and tender committees established for each
procurement activity. Processing was slow with only a few procurement
activities meeting the procurement tender validity period. Other procurement
activities, (EMIS for instance) had as many as four different review committees
over a period of two years, with the committee memberships being changed each
time and expertise not always related to the activities in question. Following
discussions between IDA missions and MEHE, it was agreed to establish
standard tender committees with knowledge in the field and further streamline
and clarify the selection process. Progress has been made, but MEHE still
needs to continue to clarify and increase the transparency, standardization and
procurement procedures.
Component 2: Improvement of Management and Supervision.
9.     The goals of the project were to be achieved through the following key project inputs:
(a)    Training of national trainers to design and run the national school management
training programs. For that purpose, 32 staff members were selected for
management training in the UK, Malaysia and US. Part of the training included
the preparation of instructional modules covering all aspects of education
4



management. Without this well organized, although lengthy, comprehensive
training program, the quality of the management training programs would not
have been so positive. Upon their return, in 1992, the trainers (minus 2 who
were promoted) initiated the training for the existing and future principals and
deputy principals for Type 2 and 3 schools (rural schools) and of district, zonal
and provincial administrative officers. The 28 trainers continue to be assigned to
the provinces and are running training programs. Because of the two-year
period required to train the trainers and develop training materials, the training
did not begin until 1993. During the mid-term review, it was recommended
(based on positive improvements in management practices demonstrated by the
first group of principals trained) to expand the principal training to cover all the
principals in Type IABC schools (it was still estimated that all the principals
could be trained within the remaining project period). Contrary to mid-term
estimates, not all the principals were trained. The lack of attainment was largely
linked to the slow release of annual budgeted funds. Since funds were usually
not released until about May or June, training activities could not begin until
such release, leaving only about 50-60 percent of the calendar year for staff
training. This shortage of time and not the MEHE capacity prevented the project
from achieving its targets. Only about 64 percent of the project targeted Type 2
and 3 principals were trained. Although, if one takes into consideration all the
principals and deputy principals trained, the original target was exceeded, further
confirming that this component was generally successful. The various training
programs and activities undertaken by the project are outlined in Annex 2,
Attachment 3.
(b)    The principal and management trainers' training modules included management,
pedagogical, financial and administrative aspects of school management. These
courses were offered in blocks of 10 days to all the principals and appear to have
had a positive impact on school administration. However, assessment of the
training impact has not been done and should be undertaken before a second
round of training is undertaken (proposed for the Second General Education
Project (GEP2) now under preparation). The provincial directors have indicated
that the knowledge in management and performance of the zonal and provincial
management officers and principals appear to have improved management
practices. Management training has been decentralized to the provinces (where
the in-service budget is located) and such training is expected to be continued.
The MEHE and the 28 trainees however should develop plans for the training of
additional trainers for sustainability reasons. In addition, future courses should
reduce the theoretical elements and increase the number of hands-on
applications and introduce technology (computers, etc.) to the principals and
administrators. Without further training, the long-term needs to strengthen
education management necessary to improve education services will be difficult
to achieve.
(c)    The strengthening of divisional offices to support decentralization was halted by
a series of changes in national devolution policy; it was only re-started after the
mid-term review when policy became clearer. Because training started late, 80
percent of the provincial directors and only 38 percent of the zonal directors
were trained.
5



(d)    The project helped to improve the availability of divisional and zonal offices by
constructing 59 such centers to support decentralizing administration to lower
levels. The physical inputs were fully successful. However, weak definition of
roles of the management levels limited initial use of these facilities. In late
1995, MEHE consolidated its administrative structure, and the centers which
were built are now being used. As indicated above, about 80 percent of the
provincial directors benefited from management training. On the other hand,
only about 30 percent of zonal heads were trained once the roles were finally
clarified. MEHE rightfully waited until administrative structures were clarified
before training started. However, now that the zones play a more important role
with schools, the staff at that level should be included in ongoing and future
training programs (such is planned during GEP2).
(e)    The addition of three types of teacher upgrading in English using full-time and
week-end immersion approaches and direct contact modes, introduced during the
mid-term review, appear to have improved the performance of the secondary
English teachers. The weekend mode was to allow more practicing teachers to
attend courses. However, the materials (mostly self generated by the MEHE
staff) were not of suitable quality and it was unfortunate that resources and
materials from existing structured programs available within the country were
not used. In the future, the MEHE should use existing and available commercial
materials rather than try to re-create materials without sufficient resources. The
re-creation effort reduced the impact of the courses. Finally, the MEHE should
also link-up with existing language institutions that specialize in the teaching of
English as a foreign and second language to maximize the use of resources.
(f)    The principal and management training activities were coordinated by the
Management Development Unit (MDU) established within the PCU. The
trainers were located in the provinces and at NIE. Such management overview
of the training activities was good and allowed the MDU staff to concentrate on
the content quality and at the end evaluation of the management courses.
However, due to recruitment and attendance difficulties, largely as a result of the
national conflict, it is estimated that less than 50 percent of the Tamil principals
were trained.
Component 3: Education Policy Development.
10.   The goal was to support the decentralization and strengthening of NIE and the planning
offices at the national and provincial levels. The national and international training programs
targets were met and are outlined in Annex 2, Attachment 4.
11.   Observations regarding the training programs are:
(a)    The organization of the training programs except the NIE designated masters
and PhD programs were started only in 1993. Most of the candidates were
returning home at the final year of the project, leaving insufficient time to assess
the application of the skills learned. It is urgent that lists of all the trainees be
kept by the MEHE and that plans be made to utilize the skills of the upgraded
trainees.
6



(b)    It is expected that the trainees of the planning and management programs will
require further in-country hands-on applications of skills to ensure the
localization. The fact that the MEHE and provinces now have a core of better
trained staff will greatly assist with the ongoing strengthening of the education
planning offices. But, since the roles of the national and provincial offices,
particularly of the planning offices are still not clearly defined, the MEHE and
provinces need to urgently standardize their roles and responsibilities (good
recommendations of the 1993 Academy for Educational Development (AED)
study and the 1996 management study by Ernest and Young have yet to be
applied by the MEHE). The development of management system has only
begun and additional support and training are being considered as part of GEP2.
(c)    The EMIS national training is still ongoing and the setting-up of some of the
zonal offices was recently finalized. It is urgent that a standard format be
adopted, at the soonest, and further hands-on and on-site training be given to the
provinces if an effective EMIS program is to be implemented. ODA/UK
initiated a follow-up project in February 1997. In addition, the staff of the
central unit requires some technical assistance and training in the analysis of
data, preparation of tables for decision making and in report preparation. The
MEHE needs to prepare an annual report (as it did in the past). The national and
provincial planning units remain weak and it is unfortunate that the technical
assistance recommended by the project was not recruited. On the other hand, the
MEHE's position of not recruiting external specialists until their staff had been
trained was valid. But, due to the delayed training of planners, only two part-
time external consultants were recruited.
(d)    The MEHE has a good census (school data), but it does not utilize it effectively.
The organization, delegation of authority and general work patterns, within the
planning units needs to be rationalized with less dependency on part-time staff.
A permanent core of planning staff urgently needs to be established to enable the
MEHE to go beyond data input and to undertake analysis to make the unit's
organization more responsive to needs. Some short-term technical assistance to
assist with the implementation of the recommendations of the Educational
Organization Structure Study which focused on the strengthening of the planning
offices needs to be implemented at the earliest. Continued support for this core
activity and further strengthening of the planning offices and EMIS system are
planned as part of proposed GEP2 project.
(e)    Course selection criteria were not always applied in a satisfactory manner, since
some of the candidates that selected for training were not always working or
designated to work in the area of training. This was particularly evident in the
external EMIS program (an estimate of close to 30 percent of the candidates did
not work in the area of training and did not possess the required background
skills). Such practices reduce the long-term impact of the training programs,
lower the benefits obtained and negatively affect the implementation and
sustainability of the EMIS knowledge and technology. In the future, selection
criteria should be better adhered to in order to maximize the benefit of the
limited resources available.
7



12.    Supervision and School Board/Cluster Activities. In late 1993, the pilot development
of school boards was formalized and all schools were mandated to establish consultative
parent/community and school boards (now called societies) to improve the support for extra-
curricular activities. According to MEHE, schools have generally established such societies,
increasing the participation of parents. However, the cluster system was not fully implemented
because of the numerous administrative structure adjustments brought about during the project,
many as a result of political influences. The cluster system, though a good concept, was not
suitably defined, staffed or funded to develop; and in a few cases, did not in address inequalities.
It left resources in the lead school, giving marginal benefits to the small schools. By 1996, the
provincial administrative system was again adjusted and the cluster was not retained. The
MEHE should take note of recent research in the education sector, which indicates that when
management structures are continuously adjusted, it can defeat the purpose. It is now known that
sustainable impact on education quality and management usually only occurs when management
structures and staff (administrators and principals) remain in place for three or more years. This
ICR recommends that the MEHE establish, as recommended by the 1996 management study, a
four tier administration -- one at the center, the second at the provincial level, the third at the
zones and the fourth at the schools. It is felt that a more permanent and leaner staff (at all levels)
with clearer job descriptions would reduce existing duplication and would improve the efficiency
and cost effectiveness of the education system. Finally, the supply of vehicles to the zones
facilitated increased visits to the school and broadened the dialogue with the new parent boards,
improving understandings.
13.   Project financing. Difficulties were experienced during the transfer of counterpart
finds and replenishment of the special account. In many cases, lengthy intervals occurred
between the time IDA replenished funds to the PCU via the Central Bank. The Central Bank
often delayed the re-transfer of funds to PCU, sometimes for periods over one month. The PCU
in the meantime was unable to undertake further commitments in spite of the fund having been
replenished by IDA for the project. The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) should ensure that, in
the future, funds are placed directly into the special account of the project and not retained for
such long periods by the Central Bank. According to government procedures, the PCU could not
undertake contracts, even for activities receiving 100 percent financing by the project even when
all these funds were already available in the special account. To facilitate project
implementation, clarification of the process regarding the utilization of available donor funds
needs to be reviewed and resolved for future projects. As stated previously, the training
programs were also negatively affected by the delayed allocation of budgeted funds, and this
serious loss of three to six months yearly of crucial implementation time needs to be examined
and reduced in the future to improve the public service's output. The lack of budget slowed
down progress and made it very difficult for the PCU to control implementation when only part
of the total annual budgetary period was available. The timely receipt of budgeted funds and the
lengthy period required to obtain the multiple MOF and Public Service Commission
authorization to recruit staff and have them on task (even when over 30 percent of the MEHE
positions were vacant and budgeted) also need attention. The MEHE should be given more
freedom to staff and implement sector activities (international research shows that Ministries
with delegated implementation capacity execute projects better). Government controls are
needed but should have clear time frames and decision-making steps, allowing officers to
implement agreed programs. Further, to facilitate more timely implementation, the MEHE needs
to address the time required to process documentation and numbers of, often duplicating, reviews
required for each decision. Project efficiency was also negatively affected by the time required
by other government offices to review and clear documentation. For instance, it took up to six
8



months for the Auditor General's office to review prepared audit reports. If such reviews had
been shorter, it is likely that this project's disbursements would not have been frozen in late
1993.
14.    Studies. Identified in the SAR and additional ones were undertaken. The list of these
studies can be found in Table 7. Unfortunately, during the second year of project
implementation, when IDA staff was in transition, insufficient attention was given to the policy
issues in the studies and particularly those of the Labor Market Links and Teacher Absenteeism
studies. Teacher absenteeism is being addressed in the TETD project and some positive inroads
(controls) have been initiated and are reducing absenteeism. The teacher issues were later
addressed as part of further sector work. Attention to the labor market study was stopped when
project preparation of a technical project was dropped. There was an overall positive impact
from the studies which guided key policy decisions for teacher and general education and
assisted with the preparation of future projects. Both the Government and IDA could have
increased their efforts to address the recommendations of the studies, and more structured
follow-up should be undertaken during future studies.
E.    Other Project Features
15.    Other project features and activities worth noting are:
*  As a first operation in the sector, the demarcation of responsibilities between the
proposed PCU and the existing branches of the MEHE were not sufficiently defined. The
assignment of all the project implementation responsibilities to a new MDU rather than
assigning these to the responsible units confused the situation and delayed execution;
*  The extent of the proposed devolution or decentralization to the provinces had not been
foreseen and immediate adjustments to such changes in authority were not addressed
until the mid-term review;
*  The preparation, printing and distribution of a teacher attendance and record book for all
the active teachers is a helpful management tool to control teacher absenteeism;
*  About US$300,000 was allocated to support a working party in the development of
higher education strategy;
* Funds were allocated to MEHE for the preparation of the TETD and GEP2 projects;
* The project funded, in partnership with other donors, two national teacher education
seminars and a national textbook seminar;
* Project supported the preparation, printing and distribution of a school maintenance
manual;
* The project funded two education managers' tours to Asian countries (Australia,
Singapore and S. Korea) and initial provincial consultative meetings;
* As part of the civil works activities, funding was used to employ provincial staff to
monitor implementation progress; and
* The dissemination of the Education Sector Study which assisted to broaden the
education dialogue was also funded by the project.
9



F.     Project Sustainability
16.   It is too early to assess the project sustainability, but based on the ongoing efforts of the
MEHE and provincial authorities, it is likely that sustainability will occur for most of the project
activities. Potential sustainability aspects that can be mentioned at this early stage are:
*  As a follow-up to this project, and integrated in the TETD, there will be an allocation of
3 percent of the recurrent provincial block grant, increasing to 6 percent by 1999, to
sustain the quality and equipment inputs. In addition, as part of the same project, an
allocation of 1 percent of the annual capital budget of each province will be allocated for
maintenance of schools. These measures should assist with the sustainability of the
project's accomplishments, including future facilities, furniture and educational inputs.
Monitoring mechanisms are also being prepared for implementation as part of GEP2;
*  The current school facilities analysis has resulted in the rationalization/consolidation of
over 200 schools. In addition, the ongoing development of facilities, furniture and
educational material norms will enhanced the effective use of future allocations. Finally,
permanent lists of essential equipment and educational materials will be used as a guide
for future supply to schools, increasing equity and sustainability of the programs;
*  The training of supervisors and principals, which the MEHE plans to sustain, have
already and will continue to enable the MEHE to introduce improved management
concepts;
*  The large number of staff trained in education planning will enable the MEHE and
provinces to maximize the use of the EMIS equipment and improve the impact of the
planned short-term TA during GEP2. A 1997 National Planning Office project that aims
at strengthening all the ministries' planning offices will also complement these efforts.
All these efforts should enhance the collection and analysis of data and strengthen the
operation of the national and provincial planning offices;
*  The formalized monthly consultation between the MEHE and the provinces will
continue to enhance administrative cooperation and facilitate the sustainability of the
project inputs;
*  The permanent structure of school boards /societies will facilitate the community
participation in education activities; and
*  The proposed follow-up GEP2 project being prepared will promote further education
reform and in particular will assist with the implementation of the management studies
and continue to support the strengthening of the planning offices. The goal to address
the financing of the education system, as part of GEP2, will also assist in sustaining the
inputs of this project. Thus, through a combination of ongoing and follow-up-activities,
it is expected that most of the project's efforts should be sustained.
10



G.     Evaluation of Project Objectives
17.    The status of the objectives and ensuing activities and results are summarized below.
Objective               Activity / Component                      Result
Capacity Building and    *  Developing and setting-up a    .  Very effective management
Management                   team of national trainers in      training programs were organized
Strengthening                management for the training       by the 32 trainers trained
of administrators and            externally for two years. Of that
principals.                      group, 4 were promoted in the
*  Training of Education             Ministry and the others are
Planning Staff to improve        assigned to the provinces and
data collection and use of such  continuing the training. The target
data at the national and         number of principals was met
provincial levels.               (expanded to all principals during
*  Recruitment of TA to              the mid-term review) although
strengthen the planning          only about 70% of the Type 2 and
offices.                         3 principals were trained. Such
*  Upgrading of English teachers     training is already having a
as added during the mid-term     positive impact and is being
review.                          sustained by the provinces.
.  Due to project start-up delays, the
training of planners did not begin
until the third year of the project.
The project training targets were
met, but since the return of the
trainees only occurred around
project closing, further attention
will be needed.
*  The recruitment to TA was delayed
and only two short-term
consultants were recruited.
*  The upgrading of about 2,000
teachers in English language is said
to be improving exam results.
Institutional Building   *   Setting-up of construction    .  Clear construction norms were
criteria and norms to be used    used during the project. The
in the future for civil works    mapping exercise has assisted
and better linking these to      toestablish a more equitable and
enrollment and demographic       priority based supply of facilities.
needs;                       *   Norms for the supply of furniture
.  Establishing more suitable        to better fit the various sizes of the
desks for the various children;  students were established,
increasing the comfort of the
pupils.
Supply of Facilities and  *  Supply of needed classrooms,   *  The project supplied 166% of the
Qualitative Inputs           water supplies, latrines, desks   classroom target, 118% of the
and chairs and multipurpose      water supplies, 123% of the
rooms.                           latrines, 330%  of the desks and
.   Supplying the schools with       chairs and 73% of the blackboards
much needed equipment and        and classroom dividers. These
educational materials to teach   objectives greatly increased equity
11



Objective              Activity / Component                     Result
the curriculum;                 and supplied high quality inputs (in
Using the approach of           comparison with previous inputs).
declining contributions from    A particular factor to note is that
the project to increase the     prior to the project only 40% of the
availability of educational     Type 2 and 3 schools (project
materials and resources to the  priority) were adequately seated
students.                       and at the end of the project 100%
were seated.
*  More than expected quality inputs
of equipment and educational
materials were supplied to the
schools. The latter resulted in the
most equitable and largest support,
particularly to rural and poorer
schools of the last decade.
*  The supply of education
consumable was very successful
with the MEHE annual inputs
increasing from Rs 10.0 million to
about Rs 70.0 million with level-
sustained. These inputs are giving
the teachers more materials and
equipment to better teach the
curriculum better and are
improving the quality of education.
Increasing knowledge of   *  Undertake key studies to assist  *  Key studies in teacher education,
the Sector to Document      the MEHE address key policy     labor links, textbooks, curriculum,
Needs and Improve Data      and management issues.           school facilities analysis,
management, and for project
development were funded by the
project. These have enhanced
policy decisions for teacher
education and teacher deployment,
the allocation of facilities, and the
.____________________________________________________        organization of training programs.
H.    Bank Performance
18.    The Bank staff contributed substantially to the project implementation efforts by
building a supportive working relationship through the provision of professional management
and implementation advise to PCU and MEHE. IDA missions lacked sufficient implementation
focus during the first two years when staff was in transition. IDA missions would also have been
more effective if the duration of visits had been longer and number of staff tasks assigned would
have been reduced. Longer visits, particularly during the early period, could have facilitated
quicker resolution of issues. In general, after the second year, the Bank's performance was good.
During the latter years it was able to improve its communication to an almost 48-hour tum-
around. The quick and timely communication, complemented by quarterly project progress
reviews assisted PCU to remain focused on the tasks and kept IDA management sufficiently
informed on the project. Other factors that assisted this operation turn itself around were:
consistency of task managers, a high level of decentralization of authority to the task manager,
12



and overall efforts by the Division and Department to frankly address issues with the
Government authorities when they arose. Once a clear understanding was reached,
implementation progressed well, demonstrating MEHE's capacity (although still limited) to
implement large projects in the sector. Bank performance was generally satisfactory and strong
during the later years of the project.
I.     Borrower Performance
19.    The government's performance, which was initially weak, improved substantially with
time, especially following the mid-term review, when key staffing shortages were addressed and
the provincial administration become involved. The PCU did not have a full time accountant or
procurement officer and lacked support staff until the third year of project implementation
(problems were exacerbated because staff responsibilities were not being sufficiently defined).
By the third year of the project, when an experienced procurement officer was recruited from the
Institute for Construction and Training and Development and an accountant and support staff
added to PCU, the project took off. Initial difficulties in the processing of civil works invoices
and of procurement were addressed, making it possible to complete the planned procurement
activities. However, in spite of important efforts made by MEHE/PCU, they were unable to
make up lost time. On the basis of the good performance during fourth and fifth years, a one-
year extension of the project closing date was granted. The project was completed in December
31, 1996, meeting or exceeding the project targets. Government performance was weak at the
start, but progressively improved and became satisfactory during the final years. Some
important results were achieved and a process leading to further reform was begun.
J.     Future Operations
20.    As indicated above, the studies and intensive dialogue facilitated by this project led to a
focused policy dialogue and resulted in the preparation of TETD, with important policy reform,
which became effective on August 27, 1996. The project and studies are also assisting with the
preparation of the system-based GEP2 project, now scheduled for appraisal in June 1997, which
will carry the reforms of the sector substantially further. The studies also assisted ADB with
project preparation of the ongoing Secondary Education Project and the higher education
analysis has facilitated a potential reform dialogue with the post-secondary subsector. Analysis
of issues is scheduled to continue under the ongoing TETD project and proposed GEP2. It is
hoped that consensus on policies, cost-effectiveness and responsiveness matters regarding higher
education and technical subsectors could occur and result in future education projects.
K.    Key Lessons Learned
21.    The following are the key lessons learned from the project implementation experience:
*  The need for the Government to address the lengthy period required to staff new project
implementation units;
*  The need for the Government to address the annual timing of resource allocation to
ensure that implementation occurs all year rather than the present "spurt and stop"
approach. Also, the authorization of project activities expenditures totally funded by
donor should be clarified to prevent present delays;
13



*  Clearer follow-up procedures to address key policy recommendations of the National
Education Commission and studies need to be institutionalized;
*  Future MEHE inputs of equipment and educational materials should also include staff
training to maximize the benefits/use and maintenance of these inputs;
*  The membership of tender committees needs to be further standardized by MEHE to
reduce the numerous and lengthy reviews and speed-up the procurement process;
*  Firmer application or adherence to training selection criteria, by MEHE, is needed to
ensure that only staff involved or designated to apply training skills offered are selected
to maximize investments. Also, future training programs should put more emphasis on
in-county hands-on application of management practices;
*  The practice of MEHE not allowing candidates to do consecutive training has greatly
hampered EMIS application. MEHE should allow the same candidates to needed
follow-up training within reason;
*  Joint efforts by GOSL and IDA to standardize the content of progress reports should be
continued. Benefits derived from the computerization of project data were so great that
MEHE should ensure that future projects records are computerized;
*  The management authority of PCU needs to be clarified to facilitate PCU
implementation. Once a management decision is approved PCU should have sufficient
authority to implement;
*  Project performance and sustainability increased when operational unit responsible for
continuation of the activities were given implementation responsibilities. This was well
demonstrated when the civil works activities were placed under the responsibility of the
central and provincial School Works Units following the mid-term review;
*  Future investments in the education sector should be based on clearly defined criteria
and measures to assess the impact of these inputs should be developed. For instance,
future construction of school physical facilities should be based on the conclusions of the
recent facilities analysis to better match enrollment and demographic priorities;
*  Formalization of communication and consultation (in decision making) with the
provinces greatly accelerated project pace and increased responsiveness of inputs; and
*  When IDA identifies a task manager appropriately and gives the task manager sufficient
authority and resources to address policy and implementation issues, increased
consistency occurs and the implementation pace of a project improves.
14



PART II                           STATISTICAL AND DATA TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Sri Lanka
General Education Project
(Credit 2072-CE)
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial        Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                       E                D                El
Sector Policies                      E               l3                 0                 0
Financial Objectives                 E               lB                I                 i
Institutional Development             :                                E al
Physical Objectives                 i:                                                   El
Poverty Reduction                                                       0
Gender Issues                         :              i                  2l
Other Social Objectives              E                                 El                E0
Environmental Objectives             E               El                El
Public Sector Management            iZ               l1                E 
Private Sector Development                           El 1              El
Other (specify)                                      E]                i                 El
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
(/)                       (/)                        (,/)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                      satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                       i                                                   EJ
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                            i                                                   i:i
Supervision                          El                                                   El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                        satisfactory     Satisfactory     Deficient
(/)             ($)             (*f)
Preparation                                    E                               El
Implementation                                 E               it              E
Covenant Compliance                           E                                El
Operation (if applicable)                      El              El              E
Highly                                              Highl
E. Assessment of Outcome               satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
15



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2072-CE
Table 2: IDA Credit Relevant to the Project
Credit Number            Purpose of            Year of
Project Title             Project            Approval      Status         Comments
Ln. 1642-BB, Barbados  Broaden educational           1979     Likely      Project closed on
Education Project     opportunity, improve the                           September 30, 1985.
quality of the education and
training system and its
relevance to manpower
needs, and increase the
effectiveness of the system.
Cr. 1359-CF, Central    Strengthen the Government's    1983   Unlikely    Project closed on
African Republic Second capacity for education                            December 31, 1988.
Education Project     planning, evaluation and
implementation, and improve
the quality of primary
education in rural areas.
Cr. 1543-DJ, Djibouti    Expand the accessbility of  1985     Likely      Project closed on June
First Education Project  education in disadvantages                      30, 1991.
urban areas and in rural
communities, reevaluate and
review the management of
the education system, and
develop a system organized
on a sound basis for financial
planning and cost control.
Cr. 1767-MW, Malawi   Expand primary and             1987     Uncertain  Project closed on
First Education Sector   secondard schools and                           December 15, 1994.
Credit                institutional development of
education sector.
Cr. 1981-MV, Maldives   Finance overseas fellowship,  1989    Likely      Project closed on
Education and Training   expand secondary education,                     December 31, 1995.
Project               and strengthen
planning/efficiency of system.
16



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2072-CE
Table 3: Project Timetable
| Date actual!
Steps in project cycle             Date planned    | latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                03/13/88
Preparation                                              Aug-88           08/22/88
Appraisal                                                 04/89           05/07/89
Negotiations                                          Jun/Jul 89          10/04/89
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                NA                 NA
Board presentation                                        08/89           12/12/89
Signing                                                                   02/14/90
Effectiveness                                             11/89           04/19/90
First tranche release (if applicable)                       NA                 NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                                            02/12/94
Project completion                                      06/30/95
Loan closing                                            12/31/95          12/31/96
17



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2072-CE
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY90  FY91   FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96   FY97
Appraisal estimate          2,500  8,100 16,700 26,200 36,600 46,100 49,000 49,000
Actual                          0  1,033  3,656 11,403 15,867 26,497 46,317 55,802
Actual as % of estimate       0%    13%    22%    44%    43%    57%    95%   114%
Date of final disbursement                                                     Jun-97
Disbursement Pattern: Estimate/Actual
60,000
50,000
40,000 t
m                                               N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Actual
0
.~20,000
103,000
0
FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97
18S



Table 5: Key Indicators and Project Targets and Achievements
....    .....    .......    ..  .     ......    ............. ......     ..    . . ....   .....    .   . ...    .... ......    ..................    .    ...  ..... ....    ........    .....    ......    ...... ..... . .... ....    .....................     .................    ........... .     ....     ................................................ ...
Irldicitwi.                          FS;lliyg1 olsi1iiuaid  hiI              At hiiveimtil'
1. Institutional objective to      To supply                              Target and ratio reached:
upgrade physical facilities and    4,000 classrooms                       6,632 or 166%
supply of educational equipment.   650 water supplies                     767 or 118%
3,700 latrines/urinals                 4,544 or 123%
700 science/multi-purpose              980 or 140%
800 teacher offices/stores             290 or 36% (old classrooms used
meeting need)
30 education offices for provinces     54 or 180%
rehabilitation of classroom            1,834
(not specified)
cupboards                              3,000 (build-in classrooms)
blackboards/room dividers              13,124 or 73%
2. Reduce the disparity in         Allocate facilities and furniture      Facilities were provided primarily to
allocation of facilities.          allocations to the most deprived       types 2 and 3 schools greatly reducing
Types 2 and 3 schools located in the    the classroom shortages estimated at
rural areas.                           about 60% to less than 20% and
seating of pupils estimated at about
40-60% (dependent on provinces) to
100% seating.
3. Through training of staff       7,741 Types 2 & 3 principals
improve the efficiency of          420 Types 2 & 3 Deputy principals      5,433 or 70%
management, planning and           310 additional/new Types 2 & 3         179 or 43%
decentralization to the provinces.   Deputy/Principals                    261 or 84%
267 Zonal Directors                    106 or 38%
560 Type IAB Principals                337 or 60%
560 Type I AB D/Principals             510 or 91%
1280 Type IC Principals                787 or 61%
1280 Type IC D/Principals             866 06 67%
627 Prospective IAB Principals         497 or 78%
220 English Tutors                     100
2452 English Trainees/teachers         2053 or 80%
4. Strengthening the Planning      Training targets are listed in section  Although most of the training was
offices by training staff both in-  15 of this report with the intent to  only undertaken during the three final
country and abroad and through    train about 20 staff at the post-       years 100% of the project the training
the supply of technical assistance.  graduate, level and about 20 at the  targets listed in section 15 of this
degree level and about another 100 at  report were met.
practical level.                       Due to strategy to have TA assisted
About 6 years of technical assistance   trained staff and that the staff training
was planned.                           only occurred at the end of the
project, there was insufficient time to
recruit the TA
6. Undertake studies to assist     The Teacher Absenteeism; Teacher    All the planned studies were
assess education responsiveness    Action Plan; Employment Links and    completed.
and effectiveness.                 Analysis of Planning Office studies
were all undertaken as planned.
Additional studies were added to the    A school facilities analysis,
project.                               management and financing of the
system studies were added and
completed. Overall most of the study
recommendations are being taken into
account.
19



Table 6: Studies included in the Project
* Teacher Absenteeism and Teacher Action Plan were prepared, as planned, by
national consultants and became important resource documents for the two national
teacher education seminars, and assisted with the preparation of the Teacher
Education and Teacher Deployment Study (jointly prepared by the MEHE and
IDA),and became important sources of information for the Teacher Education and
Teacher Deployment Project (Cr. 2881-CE) which became effective on August 27,
1996;
* The Marga Institute Study on Employment Links and Management Structures
greatly assisted with IDA and ADB activities. It delineated ways to improve the
responsiveness of secondary education and became a key source of information for
the Secondary Education Project prepared by the Asian Development Bank (ADB)
and for the preparation of a vocational education project;
* The 1993 AED study of education planning structures made good recommendations
on how to strengthen the national and provincial education planning offices. Due to a
lack of staff in the Planning Unit the recommendations were not acted upon and again
repeated in the MEHE Management Study also funded by the project. The
Management Study examined ways to improve the efficiency of the MEHE, reduce
duplication between various units and the provinces. The conclusions of these studies
are being examined for implementation during GEP2;
* Physical Facilities Mapping which is assisting with the rationalization of the location
and types of schools. Various scenarios to implement the proposed education
structure are being examined as part of the project preparation activities for GEP2;
* A study reviewing the financing of education was carried out by a team of national
and an international consultants. The study revealed important inequities of the
system and showed that the examination results of qualified teachers exceed by a
minimum of three folds that of untrained teachers. That study was further
supplemented by a social sector finance study funded by ADB. The conclusions of
these studies are being reviewed and will assist the Ministry of Finance and Planning
and MEHE establish a revised unit cost based financial formula for the education
sector.
* A final study reviewing the management structures of the Ministry of Education and
Higher Education assessing how the provincial devolution could be best addressed
and duplication of services and structures at the central and provincial levels could be
better harmonized. All in all, the project studies have had a very positive impact on
the evolution of policies or are being reviewed for future applications.
20



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2072-CE
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)          Actual (US$M)
Local   Foreign               Local   Foreign
Components          Costs    Costs    Total       Costs    Costs    Total
Infrastructure               22.60     4.20    26.80
Rehabilitation               15.90     0.00    15.90 )     21.36    33.46    54.82
Management                    3.90     3.10     7.00
Management Training           0.80     0.40      1.20       0.17      3.99     4.16
Strategic Planning            0.00     0.40     0.40
Education/Employment Study    0.00     0.20     0.20 )      0.04      0.74     0.78
Project Implementation &
Coordination                 0.10     0.00     0.10        0.06      0.18     0.24
Recurrent Costs               5.30     0.00     5.30
Baseline cost             48.60     8.30    56.90       21.63    38.37    60.00
Contingencies:
Physical                     4.70     0.80     5.50
Price increase              11.40     1.00    12.40
Subtotal                  16.10     1.80    17.90
PPF Refinancing               0.00     0.20     0.20                  0.02     0.02
Total project cost        64.70    10.30    75.00       21.63    38.39    60.02
21



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2072-CE
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual (US$M)
Local   Foreign            Local   Foreign
Source                 Costs    Costs    Total    Costs    Costs    Total
IDA:
Civil Works                           23.80     3.40    27.20      8.22    22.37    30.59
Equipment and Furniture               10.90     4.50    15.40      8.63    10.24    18.87
Classroom Supplies                     1.10               1.10     0.05     0.14     0.19
Vehicles                                         1.30     1.30     0.24     0.71     0.95
Consultants and Technical Services   )                             0.04     0.74     0.78
Training and Fellowships         )     2.00     0.60      2.60     0.17     3.99     4.16
Project Coordination and Operations   )                            0.06     0.18     0.24
PPF Refinancing                  )     0.90     0.50      1.40              0.02     0.02
Unallocated
Subtotal                            38.70    10.30    49.00    17.41    38.39    55.80
Domestic: Government of Sri Lanka
Civil Works                           19.80              19.80     3.17              3.17
Equipment and Furniture                                            0.38              0.38
Classroom Supplies                     2.80               2.80     0.28              0.28
Vehicles
Consultants and Technical Services
Training and Fellowships                                           0.39              0.39
Salaries, Operations and
Other Costs                           3.40               3.40
Subtotal                            26.00             26.00      4.22              4.22
Total project financing             64.70    10.30    75.00    21.63    38.39    60.02
22



IMPLEMENTATIQN COMPLETION REPORT
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2072-CE
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Original  Revised
Covenant    Present  Fulfillment Fulfillment
Agreement   Section      Type       Status    Date    Date           Description of Covenant         Comments
Credit   Sch. 4, Para Project         C    06/30/91 09/30/94 Complete study of employment-education   In compliance.
1(a)       implementation                         linkages by June 30, 1991.
program
Sch. 4, Para Project        C    12/31/91 12/31/94 Prepare an action plan for employment-   In compliance.
1(c)      implementation                          education linkages by December 31,
program                                 1991.
Sch. 4, Para Project        C    12/31/90 06/30/94 By December 31, 1990, complete an        In compliance.
2(a)       implementation                          analysis of teacher absenteeism.
program
Sch. 4, Para Project        C    06/30/91 10/10/94 Prepare an action plan for reduction of  In compliance.
2(c)       implementation                         teacher absences by June 30, 1991.
program
Sch. 4, Para Project        C    12/31/90 10/31/94 By December 31, 1990, prepare and        In compliance.
3          implementation                         review with IDA an action plan for teacher
program                                education.
Sch. 4, Para Project        C              10/10/94 Increase the provision for classroom    In compliance.
5(a)       implementation                          supplies to Rs. 40 million p.a.
program; project
funds
Sch. 4, Para Project funds  CP                     Sustain the "Rehabilitation and       Partial compliance.
5(b)                                               Maintenance of Capital Assets" program
at a level of Rs. 100 million p.a.
Sch. 4, Para Project         C    01/01/93 02/12/95 Establish 32 positions of management     In compliance.
7          implementation                         trainees.
program
Sch. 4, Para Project         C                     Submit semi-annual progress reports.     In compliance.
8          implementation
program
Sch. 4, Para Project        C    06/30/92 02/01/94 Hold mid-term review.                     In compliance.
8          implementation
program
Article    Accounts         CD                     Submit annual audits by September 30.    In compliance afte
IVb(i), (ii),                                                                                      delays.
and (iii)
23



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GENERAL EDUCATION
CREDIT 2072-CE
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of           Planned            Revised            Actual
Project Cycle    Weeks   US$000   Weeks   US$000   Weeks   US$000
Through appraisal        39.0      72.5     39 0     72.5     39.0      72.5
Appraisal--Board          19.3     39.7     19.3     39.7      19.3     39.7
Board--effectiveness      3.7       9.1      3.7      9.1      3.7       9.1
Supervision              58.6    159.7      56.5    159.8     64.8    160.6
Completion                5.0       7.4      5.5     17.2      4.7      14.8
TOTAL                  125.6    288.4    124.0    298.3    131.5    316.7
Board date: 12/12/89
Effectiveness: 4/19/90
24



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 2072-CE
Table 10: Bank R"ources: Missions
Perfonmance rating
Number             Specialized    Implemen Develop-
Stage of   Month/   of    Days        staff skills     tlon     ment             Types of
project cycle   year  persons in field    represented   sialus  objectives         problems
Identification   Mar/88  1     29   Economist
Preparation    Aug/88    3     23   Economist
General Educator
Consultant
Preappraisal/  May/89    5     24   Economist
Appraisal                           General Educator
Consultant
Consultant
Consultant
Supervision I  Aug/90    2      7   Economist               1        t
General Educator
Supervision 11 Aprl91   1       6   Economist               2        1
Supervision III Jan/92  2       11   Economist              2        1    Disbursement lag; absence
Educator                              of progress and audit
reports; and using societies
for construction.
Supervision IV  Jun/92  2       17   Educator               2        1    Disbursebursement lag and
Economist                             absence of progress and
audit reports.
Supervision V  Jun/93   3       14  Implement. Specialist   2        2    Disb. procedures markedly
Educator                              behind; no submission of
Economist                             progress and audit reports;
lack of close supervision by
a senior manager of MOEHE;
and project steering committee
inactive.
Supervision VI Oct/93   1       6   Economist               2        2    Disb. and accounting proce-
dures remain unsatisfactory;
project not supervised by
senior ministr ofricial; and
MDU has not become the
agency for admin. development.
Supervision VII Feb/94    4    13   Sr. Education Planner    2       2    Mid-term review; reviewed
Architect                             project objectives.
Pr. Operations Officer
Sr. Archidct
Supervision Vil Jun/94  2      7   Sr. Education Planner    2       2    Project staffing: slow disburse-
Sr. Architect                         ment; slow procurement.
Supervkion IX  Sep/94    1      13   Sr. Education Planner    S      S    Serious disbursement gap, slow
processing of procurement and
disbursement applications; lack
of adequate staff at PCU; and
inadequate monitoring and lack
of importance attached to
implementation schedule.
Supervision X  Jarn95   2       7   Sr. Education Planner    S       S
Economist
Supervision Xl Apr/95   2       10   Sr. Education Planner    S      S
Economist
Supervision XII Oct/95  2       5   Sr. Education Planner    S       S
Economist
Supervision Xil Mar/96    2    7   Sr. Education Planner    S       S    Supply of counterpart funds.
Economist
Supervision Xl Jul/96   2       2   Sr. Education Planner    S       S    Slow disbursement.
Economist
Supervision XV Nov/96    2      4   Sr. Education Planner    S       S
Economist                                                                                 25



Table 11: Summary of Technical Assistance Costs
ITEM                            AMOUNT (Rs)
1. Teacher Record Book                                           6,446,195.50
2. Physical Facilities Mapping Exercise of Government Schools    2,664,947.50
3. Teacher Attendance Study                                        557,009.00
4. National Workshop on Teacher Education &                        127,305.00
Teacher Education Analysis & Teacher Education Sector
Development Project
5. Educational Organizational Structure                          2,271,448.55
Process & Staff Development
6. Education Employment Linkages in Sri Lanka                    5,835,700.00
7. Books & Information Sector Study                             10,176,595.60
(US$ 205,010.00 - Rs. 49.56 average)
Book Sector Study Seminar                                       16,300.00
8. Strengthening of Strategic Planning Policy Analysis &         7,690,954.02
9. Preparation of Higher Education Sector Development Project    1,545,049.97
10. Sri Lanka Training Sector Strategic Review Report               78,000.00
11. Teacher Education & Teacher Deployment Project                1,652,963.79
(Project Preparation Consultancies)
12. Supervision of Civil Works of Gramodaya Mandala                 25,000.00
and School Development Societies
TOTAL                                                        39,087.468.93
26



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
General Education Project
GEP I-Cr. 2072-CE
November 1996 Review
Summary and Conclusions of Discussions
1.     This project is scheduled to close on December 31, 1996. This being the final review, the Mission
within the limited time available, examined: (i) the status of the objectives; (ii) the expected disbursement
profile; (iii) the sustainability of the project; and (iv) steps for the preparation of an Implementation
Completion Report (ICR).
2.     The objectives of the project, as stated in the staff appraisal report (SAR) were to help the Government
upgrade the quality of basic education by:
* increasing the effectiveness with which the existing resources are used, by upgrading physical facilities
and increasing the supply of educational materials;
* improving operational efficiency through better management and supervision;
* reducing large regional and local disparities in the quality of facilities; and
* supporting decentralization of the school system, and facilitating the transition to provincial administration.
3.     The achievement of the first project goal was to improve the education system's effectiveness and
equity through the provision of Physical Facilities was as follows: 166% of the classroom target, 118% of the
water supplies; 123% of tLe latrines and urinals, 140% of the science rooms/multipurpose, 36% of the teacher
rooms/stores, 180% of education offices for the provinces and 330% of furniture. Based on the above, project
inputs the project will generally meet or exceed and the project targets will have assisted with the reduction of
urban and rural disparities
4.     The second goal was the supply of educational equipment: to schools in the country. The project
covered the priority needs which included the supply of vehicles for supervision, of 6,000 sets of upper primary
science education kits; 6,000 sets of upper primary mathematics kits; 4,000 secondary chemical kits, perishable
kits, permanent equipment and glassware;
about 600 Sinhala key board typewriters for schools and offices; vehicles for the project engineer and training
programs; main system and 9 provincial systems and NIE for a total of 10. Also, equipment for the information
system (EMIS) for all the provincial and zones offices to set-up the national EMIS service; supply of computer
furniture for the EMIS programs; supply of air-conditioning units for all the EMIS offices; supply of 50
photocopies and 10 duplicating machines to schools offices; supply of about 2,000 radio cassettes to schools;
supply of educational supplies (consumable) at a decreasing rate (starting at 100% financed by the project
decreasing to 40%) with the annual MEHE increasing its annual allocation from about Rp 10,000, at the start of
the project, to above Rp 70,000 in 1995. That increased allocation was sustained in 1996; and the special
supply of equipment and rehabilitation materials for the Jaffna area. The above important inputs exceeded the
project targets and are said to already have important impact on the education quality particularly in the rural
areas.
5.     As for the goal of improvement of management and supervision the project activity was not started
until after the mid-tern review and insufficient time and slow allocation of annual budgetary allocation did not
allow, even with a one year extension of the goals of the project closing date. The ratio of achievement of the
project target is as follows: the management training of type 2 and 3 principals and deputy principals with about
70% and 43% ; training of additional directors 84%; of zonal directors about 38%; of principals and deputy
principals from Type IAB schools about 75%; of Principals and deputy principals of Types IC Schools about
64%; of prospective principals and deputy principals IC about 78% and about 78% of the teacher upgrading
English training program. Considering that all the training was done during the final three years of the project
much was achieved and positive impact is already being demonstrated in the schools management and in the
exam results.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
6.    In respect to the support for decentralization and strengthening of the planning offices, at the national
and provincial levels. The following training programs were undertaken: training at IIEP of 6 candidates or
159% of target; I I master degrees and 2 PHD for NIE achieving 100% ; 21 diploma in education planning at
NIEPA in India reaching 100% ; study tours for 32 participants satisfying the target; training of 10 staff in
monitoring and evaluation in the Philippines (DECAP) reaching 100%; training in planning and management in
India, Thailand and Indonesia for 5 persons and 10 in the UK as planned; 50 trainees having short-term training
in education management at AIT in Bangkok and 8 in education management also in Bangkok 18 trained in
EMIS in Australia and about 60 given short in-county training in information systems; about 750 other staff
given in-country EMIS and technology training; and finally about 400 given computer literacy training. The
above are impressive achievements that are already assisting improve the MEHE 's performance.
7.     In respect to the studies planned at the time of appraisal all these have been completed and are were
utilized for the preparation of the TETD project and are being taken into consideration during the project
preparation of GEPII . These studies along with the IDA Education Sector Report, Teacher Study, Finance
Studies (IDA/ADB) will be taken into consideration during the preparation of GEPII.
8.     Project Covenants: The project covenant and agreements reached at negotiations have been met and
Project Financing and Disbursements: As of November 10, 1996 about SDR 3.8 million remained
undisbursed. At that time, applications for about SDR 0.5 were being processed leaving a balance of about
SDR 3.3. A review of the financial plan, estimated expenditures and disbursements for the months of
November an December reveal that all the project funds have been committed and that the total credit is
expected to be expended by the project closing date of December 31, 1996 and all disbursement completed by
April 30, 1997.
9.     Project Sustainability: it is too early to assess the project sustainability, but based on the ongoing
efforts of the MEHE and provincial authorities to assume the administrative and financial support for the
facilities and equipment received it is likely that sustainability will occur. A Sustainability Plan by
Government has been established through plans that include: (i) official integration of new facilities in the
provincial list of facilities and integration to budgetary allocation. The school mapping exercise will allow a
rationalization of the use and location of the schools based on size and norms; (ii) all the staff trained in
planning and management were and remain employed as part of the central government and provincial offices.
A plan to determine the use of the trained staff is to be prepared; (iii) MEHE is planning additional training in
the use of the EMIS equipment and will add national training programs in planning. The latter will assist
maximize the use of the EMIS equipment supplied at the National, provincial and zone levels; (iv) MEHE is
asking IDA for additional support for management and financial planning in GEPII project under preparation;
(v) all trainees who benefited from the management training are back in permanent positions and making
efforts to improve management; and(vi) the 28 management trainers remain at NIE and are scheduled to
continue the principal training programs. On the basis of the above planned actions it is very likely that the
project inputs will be sustained.
10.    Preparation of Implementation Completion Report (ICR): The mission discussed with the MEHE
and PCU staff the preparation of the ICR.



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO ICR
1.    A Development Credit Agreement was signed between Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka and International Development Association of the World Bank for a General
Education Project on February 14, 1990.
Aims, Objectives and Main Components:
2.   I.D.A. (World Bank) General Education Project of the Ministry of Education and
Higher Education goals were:
(a) increasing the effectiveness of the school system by upgrading physical facilities and
increasing the supply of material inputs specifically focusing the type 2 and type 3
schools of the system.
(b) improving the operational efficiency through better management.
(c) reducing large regional and local disparities in the quality of schools.
(d) supporting the decentralization of the school system and facilitating the transition to
provincial councils.
(e) strengthening the educational planning capability and adjusting the balance between
various types of education and training to bring them more closely in line with
employment opportunities and manpower requirements.
3.    The project contained of three main elements:
a) Physical Facilities: An infrastructure component designed to upgrade sub-standard
schools to an agreed minimum level by the provision of class rooms, furniture, water
supplies, basic sanitary facilities, equipment and recurrent material inputs as well as
rehabilitation of school buildings.
b) Management Strengthening: A management component designed to improve
school and teacher performance by upgrading management skills, strengthening
management structures and revising management and supervision procedures.
c) Education Policy Development: (i) A study of the linkages between labor market
requirements and the output of the educational system with a view to exploring options
for longer run adjustments of educational training system; (ii) Strengthening of the
planning and analysis capability within the Ministry of Education and Higher Education.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
4.    The main objective of the project was to upgrade the quality of General Education with
special focus on Type 2 and Type 3 schools. The project had been designed to address this issue
through too strategic approaches:
(a) upgrading the physical facilities and provision of basic class room supplies.
(b) strengthening the school management processes by providing training in school
management processes and supervision processes.
In general, the project objectives were achieved and impact of IDA project has greatly
assisted improve the World Bank's image in Sri Lanka. The project achievements are listed in
attachments 1- 4 and Table 5 of this ICR.
Lessons Learned
- For Projects Public Service Recruitment Scheme is found to be ineffective and Ministry of
Education and Higher Education (MEHE) recruitment authority need to be strengthened.
* Efforts made to standardize the Government's and International Development Agency (IDA -
World Bank) reporting procedures speeded up processing.
* For GEP-I until records were computerized data were unreliable and incomplete. Records
speak for themselves. It is not possible to manage a Project without an accurate data base
and clear records and communication channels. Implementation improved when records
were computerized.
* Procurement tender preparation and review procedures by MEHE need to be streamlined.
Too many parties are involved and the review process is too lengthy. However, this is a
general problem in Government Procurement.
* The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) needs to have sufficient authority to act. Once a
decision is made the PCU should have more authority to act. Tendency to intervene
sometimes by authorities on various grounds tend to slowdown the implementation.
*  Projects with the highest level of sustainability are those implemented by the staff working
within their area of responsibilities. i.e. Civil Works by the School construction unit. Such
emphasis after mid-term review greatly enhanced project implementation.
* Projects should be used to train younger staff and to strengthen the pipeline of future
managers. Employment of staff on the basis of skills rather than years of service needs to
be become a practice to increase the pipeline of future managers and MEHE efficiency.
* Decision making is controlled by very few persons and delegation and decentralization is
necessary.
* MEHE staff would benefit from training in monitoring skills.
* Dissemination of reports and follow-up actions needs to be better addressed and process
clarified. MEHE needs to develop clearer report and studies follow-up procedures.
* There is a need to establish clearer course selection criteria for Human Resources
Development. Unless more attention is paid to criteria and course pre-qualifications
marginal returns may result from training programs.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
+ There is a need to better use of staff trained abroad with a view of maximizing the
investment.
* Need to have criteria based investments. Some classrooms were built in response to
pressure. Thus, some classrooms and facilities were built at ites which according to the
recent mapping exercise did not match demand. Such actions reduce effectiveness and
increases system costs unjustifiably while real needs remain unresolved.
+ When senior officials keep managers informed on the project (monthly meetings of
Provincial Directors and MEHE senior staff) project implementation is facilitated.
* The need for building up of a sense of ownership and development of a Management Culture
with special focus on accountability.
Bank performance
5.    During the Project period the Bank staff contributed substantially to the successful
implementation of the project, by providing professional advice and guidance and unreserved
support as and when necessary. However, during the initial years of implementation the
change of Task Managers caused considerable delays in understanding the project
implementation environment, specifically the contextual specific problems. The Mid-Term
Review Missions' confirmed that project goals were still suitable and established an
implementation plan. The Task Manager, during the three final years, played a vital role in
building up innovative implementation strategies and supportive working relationships. The
Supervision Missions mounted by the IDA provided guidance and advice in building up
creative and innovative alternatives in implementing the project.
Government performance
7.   In general, the Government of Sri Lanka is pleased with the results of the project and is
making effort to overcome the PCU staffing and implementation problems experienced during
this projects. Efforts are being made to address PCU staffing, procurement and financing issues
within the ongoing Teacher Education and Teacher Deployment Project and are being discussed
during the preparation of GEP2. Involving and fitting future projects within the devolved system
is a priority.



ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Physical Facilities
* Type              Target                Achieved               % Target
._________________  _______________________       A chieved
Classrooms                       4,000                     6,632                166
Water Supplies                     650                       767                118
Latrines and urinals             3,700                     4,544                123
Science                            700                       980                140
rooms/multi-purpose
Teacher Rooms                      800                       290  36 In many cases
office/stores                                                      old classrooms
were used
reducing this
input
Education Offices                   30                        54          180
Rehabilitation             not specified                    1,834        N/A
Desks and Chairs     150,000 sets
infant desks                         94,611
infant chairs                       176,215
child desks                         319,924
child chairs                        354,051
teacher tables                       27,888
teacher chairs                       23,708
other chair/desks                     5,485                330
about 500,000 sets
Cupboards                        3,000  build-in provided most           N/A
classrooms
Blackboards                     18,000  Blackboards                            98%
room dividers        Blackboards                          16,767
Room Dividers                           898
about 17,665



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
Education Equipment/Vehicles Supplied
*  82 vehicles for the zone and provincial offices and PCU to improve
supervision of schools and project;
*  6,000 sets of upper primary science education kits;
*  6,000 sets of upper primary mathematics kits;
*  4,000 secondary chemical kits, perishable kits, permanent equipment and
glassware;
*  about 500 key board typewriters for schools and offices;
*  vehicles for the project engineer and training programs;
&  supplied the computers needed for the MEHE Education Management and
Information System (EMIS), 9 provincial systems and NIE for a total of 10
systems. Two mini computers were supplied for the processing of
educational, financial and examination data. Smaller EMIS systems were
provided for the provincial and zones offices (72 systems) enabling a full
network to be organized. Both national and international staff training was
supplied to over 200 staff. But due to the late implementation of the training
programs, insufficient time remained to undertake all the hands-on training
needed;
* supply of computer furniture and air-conditioning units for above EMIS
systems;
*  50 photocopy machines and 28 duplicating machines were purchased for
schools and administrative offices;
*  about 2,000 radio cassettes were supplied to schools with shortages;
*  educational supplies (consumable) at a decreasing rate (starting at 100%
financed by the project decreasing to 40%) with the annual MEHE increasing
its annual allocation from about RslO,000, to above Rs 70,000 in 1995
assisted institutionalize the supply of consumable. That increased allocation
was sustained in 1996; and
* special supply of education equipment and rehabilitation materials of about
US$0.7 million, was provided the last year of the project, for the Jaffna area.



ANNEX 2
Attachment 3
Training Programs and Activities
pe of Training,    _  - roject I'arvwt        I araet Reached          a 01 '!drCEt
Type 2 & 3 Principals                      7,741                 5,433                    70
Deputy Directors of Education                420                   179                    43
Additional Directors                         310                   261                    84
Zonal Directors (1)                          119                    36                    30
Zonal Directors (II)                         148                    70                    47
Principals of IAB Schools                    560                   337                    60
Deputy Principals I AB                       560                   510                    91
schools
Principals IC Schools                      1,280                   787                    61
Deputy Principals IC Schools               1,280                   866                    67
Prospective Principals for I AB
Schools (I)                                  320                   227                    70
Prospective Principals for IAB
Schools (II)                                 307                   270                    87
English Language Immersion              120 tutors           120 tutors                  100
program                             2,590 trainees         1069 trainees                  68
English Language TESL 1                  50 tutors             50 tutor                  100
and                                 1600 trainees         1441 trainees                  90
TESL 2
50 tutors            50 tutors                  100
Week-end immersion                    852 trainees         612 trainees                   72
Total Immersion                            2,590                 2,659                   103



ANNEX 2
Attachment 4
National and International Training Programs
1 raining Activities   TargeB    Target Achieved   % Achieved     Beneficiay
Fellowships IIEP         4                 6           150        MEHE, Prov.
in planning and
management in
Paris
Masters in UK           I                 1_           100            NIE
Ph.D. Australia and      2                 2           100            NIE
USA
Diploma in              21                21           100   MEHE and primarily the
Educational                                                        provinces
Planning/Adm. at
NIEPA, India
Study Tours in UK        6                 6           100          MEHE
and USA               _
Study Tours in          15                26           173    MEHE and provinces
Australia,
Malaysia, S. Korea
and Singapore
Monitoring and          10                10           100    MEHE and provinces
Evaluation in
Philippines
(DECAP)
Planning and             5                 5           100    MEHE and provinces
Management in
India, Thailand and
Indonesia
Planning and            10                10           100    MEHE and provinces
Management in
UK
(AIT) Education         50       50 underway           100    MEHE and provinces
Management
Information
System Bangkok
Education and            8                 8           100    MEHE and provinces
Management
Systems Thailand
Education and           18                18           100         Provinces
Management
Systems at
Macquarie Univ. in
Australia
Information             60                64           100    MEHE and provinces
System in-country
MEHE Computer          400               400           100    Done November 1996
Training
(NIBM)                750                                -  Scheduled Nov. and Dec.
Information                                                 1996 Only part of target
System in-country                                           achievable.
Information              -             2 mo.                  MEHE and provinces
System consultant                            I _















IMAGING
Report No.:          16654
Type:     ICR



