CIRCULATING COPY
Document ofCRCLTGCO(
The World BankTO        BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
FILE COPY                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1764-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PROGRAM LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
February 17, 1976
East Asia and Pacific Department
This document has a reticted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit     =     Won
Won 485          =      US$1.00
Won 1,000               US$2.06
Won 1,000,000     =     US$2,061.86
Fiscal Year      =      January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
PROGRAM LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
program loan to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of US$75.0 million.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, with
interest at 8 1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.        The latest Economic Report ("Current Economic Position and Pro-
spects of the Republic of Korea") was distributed under cover of Sec M75-437
dated June 9, 1975. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I., An
Industrial Sector Mission report is under preparation.
3.        Korea's economic performance over the last decade was outstanding.
It entered the sixties with one of the lowest income levels in the world;
it' had little experience of participation in international trade; and it
lacked natural resources. Despite these unpromising beginnings, Korea em-
barked on a course of export-oriented industrial growth that has led to its
recognition as one of the most successful examples of development. Its rich
endowment of human resources, including skilled labor and entrepreneurial
talent, a social environment which is conducive to rapid economic change,
and a national dedication to economic growth. all contributed to Korea's
impressive record.
4.        Around 1960, the Korean economy was still heavily dependent on
agriculture and tended to grow at 3-4 percent per year. Since then, how-
ever, the economy has been transformed and the growth of real GNP accelerated
to around 10 percent per year. Exports of manufactures increased from $65
million in 1964 to over $4 billion in 1974. The manufacturing sector grew
from 12 to 31 percent of GNP during this period while the share of agricul-
ture in GNP declined from over 40 percent to 22 percent, despite an annual
growth rate of 3 to 4 percent in value added in agriculture. The rate of
population increase declined from 2.6 percent per year between the censuses
of 1960 and 1966 to an estimated 1.7 percent in 1973/74. Consequently, real
per capita income more than doubled in the last decade and is estimated at
$472 in 1974.
5.        The growth of incomes has been sustained by a significant increase
in the proportion of resources allocated to investment. Expenditures on
fixed capital formation were below 11 percent of GNP in the years up to
1962, but have been around 24 percent of GNP in recent years. National
savings rose from very low levels of around 6 percent of GNP in the early
1960's to around 15 percent of GNP in 1970-72, both government and private
savings having increased very substantially. This indicates that large
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Of theit offMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
capital inflows (which averaged about 9 percent of GNP during 1970-71,
roughly the same level as in the early 1960's), did not weaken efforts
to mobilize resources domestically. However, Korea entered upon a period
of rapid growth with a very low level of domestic savings and, therefore,
the Government pursued a policy of relatively heavy dependence on external
capital in the interest of a rapid acceleration of investment and growth.
Moreover, since exports during 1964-74 were rising at an average rate of
nearly 47 percent (in current prices), the burden of additional external debt
was not excessive and the debt service ratio stood at around 13 percent in
1974.
6.        Korea's performance in attempting to achieve a balanced distribu-
tion of the benefits of growth is also creditable. Available data for 1964
and 1970 indicate that the distribution of income in Korea is among the most
equitable in the developing world and that the overall size distribution of
income changed little during this period. However, as a consequence of the
rapid growth in manufacturing and a shift of terms of trade against farmers,
income of urban wage-earning households tended to increase faster than that of
rural households and was twice as high in 1968. Since 1968 the Government has
succeeded in raising the relative price of farm outputs, increasing labor
productivity in agriculture through subsidized supply of inputs, and improving
the opportunities for off-farm employment principally as part of the Saemaeul
(New Community) movement begun in 1971. These measures have eliminated the
differential between average household incomes in urban and rural sectors.
Recent Developments and the Adjustment Process
7.        In the 1970's, the Korean economic situation has been subject to
sudden and sharp changes (see Economic Reports distributed under cover of
R74-42 dated March 4, 1974 and Sec M75-437 dated June 9, 1975). Following a
period of rapid growth the Government undertook a stabilization program during
1970-72 as a result of which real investment did not increase and the growth
of real GNP slowed to 8 percent per year. In 1973, international demand grew
rapidly and Korea took full advantage of its opportunities. As a result,
there was an unprecedented boom: real GNP grew by 16.5 percent and export
volume by 57 percent; national savings rose to 22 percent of GNP, and foreign
savings financed only about 15 percent of total investment.
8.        The transition from the boom of 1973 to today's difficulties re-
flects the impact of the twin shocks of the rise in food, oil and other import
prices and the recession in the industrial countries. The Korean economy
was particularly vulnerable to both of these because of its heavy dependence
on imported energy, raw materials, and foodstuffs, and on exports to the de-
veloped countries.
9.        From the last quarter of 1973 to the middle of 1974, the prices of
imports rose very rapidly. The immediate impact of the oil price increase
alone was to raise the import bill by more than twice the entire current
account deficit in 1973.   The payments required to maintain the 1973 volume



-3-
of oil imports rose from $277 million to over $1 billion; the increase was
equivalent to 19 percent of total imports and over 6 percent of GNP at their
1973 levels. The higher prices of foodgrains added another $300 million to
the import bill. Furthermore, the average unit value of imports other than
petroleum and foodgrains rose by 45 percent during 1974, while the unit value
of Korea's exports rose by only 27 percent in that year. The impact of the
adverse shifts in the international terms of trade was aggravated during 1974
by the sudden recession in industrialized countries which affected the demand
for Korea's exports. The United States and Japan, which took 70 percent of
Korea's exports in 1973, suffered a decline of about 2 percent in real GNP
in 1974. As a result, Korea's export volume, which had grown by 57 percent in
1973 (and by over. 29 percent in each of the preceding 5 years), grew by only
9 percent in 1974. The volume of exports to Japan actually declined by about
6 percent.
10.       The slackening of export demand and the adverse price movements
had a variety of effects on the economy. First, as a direct consequence
of the 18 percent deterioration in the international terms of trade, Korea
suffered a real income loss of the order of 4 percent of GNP in 1974. 1/    Ad-
justing for this terms of trade effect, real gross national income rose by
only 4.2 percent in 1974, following increases of 6.7 percent and 15.2 percent
in the previous two years. Second, the rise in import prices accelerated
domestic inflation. The rate of increase of wholesale prices rose to 42
percent in 1974 from an average of 7 percent in the previous four years.
Two-thirds of the increase in prices was the result of increases in the
landed cost of imported commodities. In an effort to prevent the emergence
of untoward distortions, the Government allowed import price increases to
be fully reflected in domestic prices (with the exception of basic foodstuffs
and fertilizers). Domestic prices of petroleum products rose nearly 300
percent from August 1973 to December 1974. These were also reflected in the
prices paid by consumers for electric power and transportation. In general
the burden of adjustment to higher import prices was borne directly by con-
sumers. Consequently, wholesale prices rose by 42 percent in 1974 and at an
annual rate of nearly 30 percent in the first half of 1975. In the second half
of the year, however, the index increased by only about 5 percent as domestic
prices completed the process of adjustment to international inflation, and
the' program of monetary restraint instituted by the Government began to take
effect. Third, the current account deficit on the balance of payments grew
from $309 million in 1973 to $2.04 billion in 1974 and net foreign exchange
reserves dropped from $1.1 billion to $0.3 billion during 1974. About half
of this external deficit was due to the terms of trade loss, the balance
being primarily due to the recession in the economies of Korea's trading
partners. Finally, part of the adjustment was made by a sharp slackening
in the pace of domestic economic activity. The annual rate of growth of
GNP slowed from 16.5 percent in 1973 to 13.8 percent in the first' half of 1974
and 4.3 percent in the second half. Import volume grew by only 4 percent in
1974, compared with an average increase of 16 percent per.year in the previous
1/    At 1970 prices and exchange rates.



-4-
5 years.  Industrial production (seasonally corrected) fluctuated sharply
from month to month but showed very little gain after the first quarter
of 1974. Employment rose by only 3.4 percent and was able to absorb
only three quarters of the increase in the labor force in the year.
11.       The slowdown in domestic production would have been greater but
for various government measures to sustain employment. In December 1974
the currency was devalued by 17.5 percent to W 485 per US$. Special
credits were extended through the banking system to enable industry to
finance accumulation of inventories, and the Government purchased excess
inventories of finished goods from industries particularly hard hit by
the fall in export demand. Subsidized credit was extended to' small firms
and exporters to ease their financial situation. The purpose of these
ameliorative policies (which characterized the second half of 1974 and
the first quarter of 1975) was two-fold. One was to sustain employment
levels, thereby easing the adjustment of the economy to the permanent
and sizeable loss of real incomes resulting from the terms of trade
movement. The second objective was to prevent too precipitate a decline
in investment and production levels of export industries in response to
a temporary recession in export markets. In support of Korea's long-term
goals, it was held desirable to maintain a minimal economic momentum and
to remain' poised to take rapid advantage of the anticipated recovery in
export demand.  This policy was, of course, predicated on the belief that
the world recession would be relatively shallow and shortlived, a belief
that was shared at the time by many economists and policy makers through-
out the world.
12.       Contrary to expectations, the recession in industrialized countries
continued well into 1975, with the GNP of OECD countries having fallen by an
estimated 2 percent in 1975. Despite the unfavorable demand conditions,
Korea's export volume is estimated to have expanded by about 21 percent in
1975. However, as a result of reduced demand and increased international
competition, particularly for iron, and steel and clothing exports, Korea's
export prices declined by about 7 percent and its terms of trade deteriorated
by about 11 percent in 1975. This, together with rising payments on freight
and interest obligations, has been principally responsible for a continued
large deficit in the balance of payments (estimated at $1.9 billion in 1975
compared with $2.04 billion in 1974).
13.       Korea has suffered heavy balance of payments losses in 1974 and
1975 due to an exceptional combination of adverse events. The average loss
in the two years on account of terms of trade movements alone is estimated at
about 7 percent of GNP (at 1970 prices and exchange rates). Any attempt to
adjust to such a large foreign exchange loss without incurring sizeable
balance of payments deficits would undoubtedly lead to large-scale unemploy-
ment and a loss of growth momentum, which would have severe adverse conse-
quences for Korea's long-term economic development. The essence of Korean
policy, therefore, has been to smooth the process of adjustment, while at the
same time attempting to ensure that-there is a steady movement toward long-
term improvement in the balance of payments. Toward this end, the Korean



- 5 -
Government has intensified measures by which it had already begun, earlier
in the decade, to tackle longer term structural problems in its balance of
payments and the need to increase the availability of resources for invest-
ment.
14.       The severity of Korea's balance of payments problems in 1974 drew
attention to the sensitivity of a trade-oriented economy to the economic
fluctuations of its trading partners. Because Korea is poorly endowed with
natural resources and its principal comparative advantage is a skilled and
energetic labor force, a relatively high degree of trade orientation is
unavoidable; however, the Government has made and is making strenuous efforts
to reduce Korea's vulnerability to international fluctuations by diversify-
ing the commodity composition of and markets for exports as well as reducing
import dependence.
15.       In recent years Korea has made considerable progress in diversify-
ing exports. In 1971 and 1972, 75 percent of Korea's exports went to the
United States and Japan. This proportion dropped to 57 percent in the first
nine months of 1975. In the same period, the share of exports to Europe
nearly doubled from 9 percent to 16 percent, and the share of other countries
(excluding the United States, Europe and Japan) has increased from 16 percent
to 27 percent. Commodity exports to oil exporting countries have increased
very rapidly from a small base, and amounted to $120 million in the first
nine months of 1975.. Similarly, the commodity concentration of, exports has
declined significantly; four major categories of exports (textiles, clothing,
plywood and miscellaneous manufactures) accounted for 60 percent of exports
in 1970 but only 48 percent in the first nine months of 1975. During this
period there was a particularly rapid growth of exports, of iron and steel,
electronics, electrical machinery and appliances and ships. During the last,
year, Korea has also been highly successful in winning construction contracts
in the Middle East. The development of new exports and the upgrading of the
quality and design of traditional exports are the major means by which Korea
hopes to diversify its exports and to further reduce its dependence on markets
in Japan and the United States.
16.       These developments suggest that Korea will be able to sustain a
rate of growth of exports that is relatively rapid compared to other countries,
although not as high as it was prior to 1974. Global projections indicate
that the volume of manufactured exports by developing countries is likely
to grow about 12-15 percent per year for the rest of this decade. Consider-
ing that 90 percent of Korea's exports now consist of manufactured goods,
that its links with the Japanese and U.S. economies remain strong, that
successful efforts are being made to penetrate new markets (especially in
Europe and the Middle East) and that some progress ha's already been made in
diversifying the industrial structure, the long-term prospects for Korea's
exports are markedly better than for developing countries as a whole. Pro-
vided measures continue to be taken to maintain price competitiveness, which
has been somewhat eroded by the relatively high rates of inflation in Korea
in the past two years, Korean exports may be expected to grow at 20-25 percent
per year in terms of current prices (allowing for international price infla-
tion of 5-6 percent, per year).



- 6 -
17.       The potential for strengthening the balance of payments on the
import side is not great. Of total imports in 1974, 29 percent consisted of
raw materials for exports and a further 27 percent was capital goods, cat-
egories in which substantial import savings are unlikely to be compatible with
maintaining international competitiveness of export industries. More than
half of the remaining 44 percent of imports consisted of petroleum and food-
grains. The scope for restraining petroleum imports (16 percent of the total)
is very limited; because domestic energy sources are limited to low quality
coal, firewood and limited hydroelectric power, petroleum supplies about half
of Korea's energy needs and is utilized almost entirely for essential indus-
trial and transportation purposes. The number of private automobiles is
relatively small and home heating needs are met by coal and wood. Despite
these constraints, the rate of growth of petroleum consumption has been
severely curtailed - from 1.8 times GNP growth in 1968-73 to about the same
rate as GNP growth in the following two years.
18.       In order to reduce depenaence on imported foodgrains, there
has been an energetic effort to increase agricultural productivity. In
1972-73 imports of grain accounted for about 30 percent of grain consumption
and about 11 percent of total imports. Since then, the rate of growth of
value added in agriculture has nearly doubled (from about 3.5 percent to about
6 percent per year). In part this was the result of good weather conditions,
but it was also in response to improved inputs and the assurance of high
grain prices. The proportion of land under high yielding varieties of rice
hlas increased from 16 percent in 1972 to 37 percent in 1975. Despite the
very severe topographical limitations (nearly 3/4'of the land area is too
mountainous to cultivate), there is a growing promise that Korea will be
able to achieve self sufficiency in its staple foodgrains - rice and barley.
As a result it is anticipated that, in the future, imports of foodgrains will
amount to only about 5 percent of total imports and will consist mainly of
wheat, which cannot be grown in sufficient quantity because of Korea's
climate and topography.
Medium-Term Prospects and Program
19.       The goal of Korea's economic policy in 1976 and the succeeding
years is the achievement of the maximum rate of growth consistent with the
maintenance of internal financial stability and a sound balance of payments.
The potential for improvement in the balance of payments was foreshadowed by
Korea's performance in the second half of 1975. While the full year deficit
is estimated at $1.9 billion, the deficit in the first half of 1975 was $1.7
billion. The striking recovery in the second half was the result both of
export recovery and import restraint. During the first five months of 1975,
exports were 10 percent lower and imports 22 percent higher (in current
prices) than in the corresponding period in 1974. Since then, monthly exports
have risen steadily and imports were held below their 1974 levels, so that the
increase in values for the year as a whole is expected to have been 12 percent
for exports and 2 percent for imports.' Allowing for 'changes in the unit value
of imports and exports, import volume is estimated to have declined by-3
percent in 1975 and export volume to have grown by 21 percent. Since the
Government had to increase grain imports to replenish food supplies and as



- 7 -
imports of other goods for domestic use amounted to less than 20 percent of
total imports and reductions could,therefore, not be quantitatively signifi-
cant, it was necessary to restrain the import of petroleum, capital goods and
raw materials for the production of export goods. As the restraint in the
import of raw materials was partially compensated for by the draw-down of
inventory levels and the decrease in the volume of capital goods imports, if
repeated in 1976, could adversely affect the expansion of capacity to produce
commodities for export in future years, the same degree of import restraint
cannot be sustained in 1976, when provision will have to be made for the
rising volume of production and trade.
20.       In the long-term, however, it is the firm intention of the Korean
Government to achieve a significant reduction in the size of the balance of
payments current account deficit both in absolute terms and, a fortiori, as a
proportion of GNP. The Government's aim is to reduce the deficit from the
peak of 12 percent of GNP in 1974 to 7.6 percent in 1976, and to lower it
further to about 1-2 percent of GNP by 1980. This strengthening of the
balance of payments will facilitate an improvement in the maturity structure
of external borrowing and reduce reliance on short-term credits.
21.       Before the recent international developments, Korea appeared to
be set on an economic course which could have led to its maintaining a rate
of growth of GNP of over 10 percent annually. However, these developments
have led Korea to lower its sights, modifying the expected rate of growth of
the economy to around 8 percent. In 1975, the growth of GNP is estimated
to have been about 7.4 percent compared to an average rate of around 10
percent in the previous decade. The rate of fixed investment is being sus-
tained at about 23 percent of GNP in 1976 but will have to increase during
the Fourth Plan period (1977-81) to permit achievement even of the reduced
target GNP growth rate. The great bulk of investment resources will continue
to go into the manufacturing sector and immediately associated infrastructure
requirements, with export growth being one of the principal criteria in
selecting investment projects. In this context, the Korean authorities have
recognized that efforts to deepen the industrial structure must proceed
selectively and investments must be geared to expand capacity in industries
which are skill-intensive, reflecting the country's international comparative
advantage. This recognition has led to significant modification of the
long-term investment plans which had been prepared in 1973 - specifically, a
postponement of planned rates of expansion of petrochemical and steel pro-
duction capacity and a shift of priorities towards electronics and machinery,
which are relatively labor intensive and have shorter gestation periods. The
development of the machinery industry is also seen as providing the basis for
greater import substitution in the coming years.
22.       In order to curtail aggregate demand in the effort to reduce
inflationary and import pressures, the Government proposes to continue to
restrain monetary expansion in 1976. and to monitor carefully the prices of
100 key consumer commodities. The increase in wholesale prices is expected
to be restrained to about 10 percent by the end of 1976, assuming that the
increase in import prices will be of the order of 5 percent during the year.



- 8 -
23.       Success in restraining inflation is expected to have a signifi-
cant favorable effect on the mobilization of private savings. In the ex-
ceptional boom year of 1973, private savings reached 17.6 percent of GNP
but, predictably, declined to about 15 percent in 1975 in response to the
slowdown in the growth of incomes and the high rate of inflation. Adjust-
ing for the terms of trade loss, gross national income rose by 4.2 percent
in 1974 and 3.2 percent in 1975; in 1976, no adverse movement in the terms
of trade is anticipated and incomes are projected to rise by about 7 percent
(at 1970 prices). The Korean Government is taking measures designed to
channel the higher private savings likely to be generated by these develop-
ments to an increasing extent into the financial system and, thereby, into
more effective use for productive investments. In addition to restoring a
positive real rate of return on financial forms of savings (through a reduction
in the rate of inflation and, if required, necessary corrective modification
of the interest rate structure), the Government is taking steps to increase
the supply of government and corporate securities to the public and to provide
more attractive schemes for savings mobilization by commercial banks. Among
the measures designed to mop up private purchasing power is the use of six-
month certificates, instead of cash, in payment for one-third of the rice
procured by the Grain Management Fund this crop year - amounting to about W 60
billion (US$124 million), and carrying an interest rate of 18 percent per
annum.
24.       The measures to increase the mobilization of private savings are
being supported by fiscal actions to increase government savings. The
subsidization of farmers and urban consumers through the Grain Management Fund
and the Fertilizer Fund has placed a growing strain on Government finances
since 1974. In 1975, the borrowing from the Central Bank on the two accounts
is estimated at about W 350 billion (nearly 4 percent of GNP). The Government
is conscious of the importance of reducing this financial burden and is taking
the necessary remedial steps to slow down stock accumulation and to adjust
prices so as to eliminate the operating deficits. The selling price of fer-
tilizers was raised by 79 percent in December 1975, an increase which is ex-
pected to eliminate the operating deficit of the Fertilizer Fund. Furthermore,
the Government intends to set prices paid for the procurement and sale of
grain by the GMF at levels which will enable the elimination'of the opera-
ting deficit in respect of wheat in 1976 and rice in 1977, leaving only a
small deficit resulting from the subsidy on barley, sales of which are pri-
marily for the lower income groups. The overall operating deficit of the GMF
is to be totally eliminated in 1978, although the deficit on barley sales may
continue; however, the GMF will be permitted to continue to incur cash deficits
for the accumulation of grain inventories as needed.
25.       In addition to these measures to eliminate progressively the
deficits in the extra-budgetary accounts, strong measures have been taken
to maintain budgetary savings performance despite increased expenditures
on defense and government salaries. In response to the perceived need
to improve Korea's defense capability following the events in Indochina
and related developments, expenditures on defense have increased from
4.3 percent to 5.1 percent of GNP in 1975 and are budgeted to increase



- 9 -
further to 6.4 percent of GNP in 1976; and to improve the salary levels
of government officials, expenditures on salaries and pensions are bud-
geted to increase by 43 percent in 1975 and 61 percent in 1976. Against
the anticipated increase of W 595 billion in expenditure on these two
items in 1975 and 1976, budget revenues are expected to increase by W 903
billion. In part, the increase in revenues is the result of inflation in
nominal incomes, but a significant proportion, W 214 billion, is to be
contributed by the defense surtax imposed in July 1975. 1/ The increased
revenue mobilization and the strong restraint on other current expenditures
(which are not permitted to increase at all), will result in the budgetary
current surplus being maintained at over 3 percent of GNP.
26.       This combination of measures to strengthen the balance of pay-
ments and to improve the mobilization and effective utilization of domestic
resources should help Korea to emerge successfully from its present econo-
mic difficulties. The continued high levels of balance of payments deficits
in 1974 and 1975 were, at least partly, due to the need to continue building
the foundations for future export growth which, as we have noted, is a key
determinant of its economic performance. Investment requirements are dictated
by the need to expand export volume, diversify the commodity composition of
exports and increase the domestic value-added component of exports. Although
Korea continues to look to exports for its growth momentum and to narrow
the balance of payments deficit, it is at the same time attempting to replace
imports with domestic production, particularly in the foodgrain and machinery
sectors, to the extent possible. This will further increase investment
'requirements in the short run. To sustain investment levels in the face of
severe balance of payments problems and uncertainties about the rate of
recovery of international demand doubtless involves an element of risk.
However, the risk does not appear to be unduly large, especially in the light
of Korea's past export performance and demonstrated flexibility in economic
policy making; and there is a significant payoff to this strategy in maintain-
ing the momentum of growth, which might be difficult to restore if more severe
contractionary policies were undertaken.
Financing Korea's External Requirements
27.       As noted in paragraphs 13-18, the Korean Government has already
undertaken a variety of measures to strengthen the balance of payments. Per-
haps the most direct result of these efforts is shown in the trade deficit,
which is projected at $1.15 billion in 1976, down from $1.54 billion in
1975 and a peak of $1.95 billion in 1974. The improvement in the trade
balance is partly offset by unfavorable movement in the invisibles account
(mainly due to higher payments for freight and interest and lagging tourism
receipts) and reduced inflows of transfers. Consequently, the improvement in
1/    The defense surtax is a temporary levy, until 1980, aimed at securing
financial resources required for increased national defense expenditures
without reducing public expenditures on development. The levy is pri-
marily a surtax on a number of existing taxes.



- 10 -
the current account balance is a smaller one, from a deficit of $2.0 billion
in 1974 to $1.9 billion in 1975 and a projected $1.7 billion in 1976.
28.       Financing the large current account deficit has posed a severe
challenge to Korea. In 1974, the increase in the deficit was financed sub-
stantially by monetary movements,'including a substantial draw-down of the
reserves which had been accumulated in 1972 and 1973. In 1975,'the propor-
tion of the deficit financed by medium- and long-term capital movements is
estimated to have risen to 57 percent (compared to 42 percent in 1974), the
bulk of the increase being from official sources such as the Bank and ADB.
The Korean authorities have also been very active in soliciting assistance
from oil exporting countries and have so far obtained $19 million from Abu
Dhabi and an assurance of $70 million from the Saudi Fund for Development.
Net inflows of medium- and long-term capital from commercial sources are
estimated to have increased only slightly to $572 million in 1975, and pri-
vate direct investment to have dropped from $104 million in 1974 to an
estimated $42 million in 1975 because of the poor international business
conditions. Drawings on the IMF and medium-term bank credits provided about
$200 million. An increase of about $700 million in short-term trade credits
filled the remaining gap and permitted a slight but essential build-up in net
reserves.
29.       Korea's debt service payments increased from $446 million in 1973
to $610 million in 1974 and an estimated $762 million in 1975 (13 percent of
estimated exports of goods and n6n-factor services). The increase was due not
only to an expanded volume of debt but also to the greater reliance on medium-
term borrowings and a hardening of the terms on which external debt is avail-
able. The average maturity of Korea's new external debt commitments (both
private and official, but excluding short-term debt) dropped from 23.6 years
in 1972 to 18.5 years in 1973 and 11.6 years in 1974. However, the average
maturity of aggregate outstanding'debt dropped much less, i.e.from 20.6 years
at the end of 1972 to 18.4 years at the end of 1974.



- 11 -
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(million dollars)
1974     1975 a/      1976 a/
Actual  Estimate     Estimate
Exports                                     4515         5064        6350
Imports                                     6468         6600        7500
Invisibles & Transfers                       -87         -402        -557
Current Account Balance                    -2040        -1938       -1707
Private Direct Investment                     104          42         135
Commercial MLT Capital                       498          572         568
Official Capital                             255          489         622 b/
Other Short-term Capital and Bank
Borrowing                                  291          787         307
IMF                                          132          128          75
Change in Net Reserves c/                    760          -80          0
a/    Mission estimates; Government estimates somewhat smaller deficits.
b/    Includes proposed program loan.
c/    Net reserves is defined as gross foreign assets minus short-term
foreign exchange liabilities of the banking system.
30.       The magnitude of the external financing requirement in 1976 is
shown in the Table above. As stated earlier, a full adjustment to the
deterioration in the terms of trade and slowdown in export earnings will take
several years, although significant gains can be expected in 1976. The
basic assumption underlying the projections for 1976 is that Korea's trading
partners will show at least a mild recovery in their levels of economic
activity, so that Korea's export volume could grow at 20 percent without the
deterioration in the terms of trade which characterized 1975. The projected
export growth is reasonable in the light of the sustained rapid growth
of Korea's exports, its aggressive penetration in new markets and greater
product diversification in recent years. Import volume is expected to in-
crease by 9 percent, notwithstanding a 15 percent decline in the volume of
grain imports. The required increases in imports represent a return to a
more normal relationship between imports of raw materials and production for
export as well as provision for a 10 percent increase in the volume of capital
goods imports.
31.       An improvement of about $231 million in the balance of payments
current account is expected this year compared to 1975; a deficit of about
$1.7 billion is projected for 1976. Net disbursements of medium- and long-
term capital (i.e., with maturities exceeding one year) are expected to be
in the region of $1.1 billion in 1976, excluding the proposed program loan.
This amount includes about $800 million in net disbursements from the ex-
isting pipeline of official and commercial loans; the remaining net dis-
bursements of $300 million will be forthcoming if Korea can obtain new



- 12 -
official commitments (from governments and international organizations)
of about $1.0 billion and new commercial commitments (from suppliers, pri-
vate banks and Eximbanks) of $1.2 billion. These are ambitious targets in
light of the 1975 official and commercial commitment levels of about $800
million and $600 million, respectively (although in 1974 new commercial
commitments were $1.1 billion). On the assumption that business conditions
will improve, direct investment is projected to increase to $135 million,
and there is a possibility that the IMF will provide up to $75 million in
1976. As observed earlier, net reserves are already very low (estimated at
about $375 million at the end of 1975) and cannot be prudently drawn down to
finance the prospective deficit. Thus, there remains a residual financing
requirement of approximately $400 million, or 23 percent of the estimated
current account deficit. Unless there is an increase in official aid commit-
ments which can be disbursed expeditiously and adequate medium- and long-term
capital is made available to Korea in 1976, this financing need would have to
be met by increases in short-term trade credits and bank borrowing, perhaps
combined with some further reduction in imports. Over the longer term, the
achievement of even the reduced income and investment growth targets will
require substantial external capital resources through the end of the decade.
An improvement in the maturity structure of new debt is necessary in order to
avoid a deterioration in Korea's debt service ratio. Assuming that capital
inflows will be forthcoming on reasonable terms, the debt service ratio
will rise from 13 percent in 1975 to about 16 percent in 1977 (due to heavy
medium-term borrowing in 1974 and 1975) and then decline to under 15 percent
by 1980.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
32.       As of December 31, 1975, Korea had received 22 Bank Loans and
8 IDA Credits, amounting in total to $883.8 million in loans and $107.0
million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the refinancing
of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank loan).
33.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been for the transport
sector --$219.7 million for railways, $101.5 million for highways 1/ and
$80 million for ports. $130.5 million has been lent for agriculture pro-
jects. The Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) has received $150
million, the Korea Development Bank (KDB) $60 million, and the Medium Industry
Bank (MIB) $30 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry. A
total of $80.3 million has been provided for three education projects; $25.0
million for a tourism project; and $15.0 million for a secondary cities
project. The First Program Loan to Korea of $100 million (1094-KO) was
approved in March 1975 and became effective on April 21, 1975. Disbursements
were completed by November 22, 1975. The administrative arrangements set up
to screen applications and arrange for disbursements under the First Program
1/   A $90.0 million loan for a Third Highway Project was approved on
Febtuary 3,* 1976.



- 13 -
Loan have worked most efficiently, and it is proposed to retain these for the
purpcses of the proposed loan.
34.       As of December 31, 1975, about $452 million of the total Bank lend-
ing remained undisbursed on effective Loans and Credits, mostly from commit-
ments in the past eighteen months. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of that date and Notes on
the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated in the Notes, progress on
project implementation is generally satisfactory.
35.       Excluding one project that was subsequently cancelled, IFC had,
by December 31, 1975, entered into nine commitments: five in the financial
sector and one each in the fields of textiles, electrical and electronic
products, synthetic fibers and tourism, totalling $30.4 million (net of
participations and cancellations). In December 1975, IFC's Board approved
a tenth commitment of about $5.5 million in loan and equity for a paper
manufacturing company. Currrently, IFC has under advanced consideration a
zinc smelting and a tire manufacturing project; under preliminary consider-
ation are projects in the fields of steel products, cement distribution,
construction materials, bearings, electronics and development finance.
36.       Korea's ambitious industrial development programs require large
capital expenditures and further loans to the three major development banks
are planned to meet this need. This will enable the continuation of assistance
to a wide spectrum of industries, including small and medium sized enter-
prises. With the closer relationship established as a result of recent
promotional efforts, we expect IFC's activities also to continue expand-
ing rapidly. IFC would seek projects that would: (a) result in foreign
exchange revenues or savings; (b) contribute to modernize or deepen the
industrial structure; and (c) increase value added in manufacturing.
37.       The emphasis which the Government places on agricultural and rural
development will be reflected in the programs for FY76 and FY77. A Second
Integrated Dairy Development Project was approved recently; in addition, a
rural infrastructure project, the Miho watershed'development project, the
second stage of the Yong San Gang irrigation project, and a second agricul-
tural credit project have been appraised; the Okseo irrigation and regional
development project has been identified and is under preparation.
38.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given relatively less
emphasis than in the past, the investments required are large, and thus there
is considerable support for this sector in the proposed program.
39.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt (dis-
bursed) outstanding at the end of 1975 was about 8.5 percent, and the share
of debt service was of the order of 3.0 percent at that time. These ratios
are expected to increase somewhat by the end of the present decade.



- 14 -
PART III - SECTORAL INVESTMENT POLICIES AND PROGRAMS
40.       In 1972, the Government prepared a macro-economic planning frame-
work for 1972-81 to present in some detail the growth strategy for the
period through 1981. The strategy was an extension of the high growth path
Korea had followed, on the whole successfully, in the previous decade. The
rate of growth of GNP was to be maintained at the level of about 11 percent,
and growth was to depend, as in the past, on a more rapid expansion of exports
than of GNP.
41.       Recent international economic setbacks have caused Korea to re-
examine its basic developmental objectives and strategy. The issues re-
lating to the formulation of the investment program and Korea's development
strategy in the light of the evolving international economic environment
are being addressed in the context of the preparation of the Fourth Five
Year Plan (1977-81). The Bank is in close consultation with the Korean
Government concerning the content of the Plan and is the executing agency
for a UNDP-financed project to provide technical assistance in the prepara-
tion of the Plan in a wide range of areas (see Annex V). The draft Fourth
Five Year Plan will also be reviewed by a Bank Basic Economic Mission
in mid-1976.
42.       Although the Plan targets and allocations have not yet been
finalized, the outlines of the development strategy are known, and it is
possible to identify in broad terms the policy framework for the next few
years. Korea will continue to look to exports, principally of manufactures,
for its growth momentum, at the same time attempting to replace imports with
domestic production, particularly in the foodgrain and machinery sectors, to
the extent possible.
Agriculture
43.       Korea's geo-physical features have been a principal determinant
of the pattern of its agricultural development. There is a concentration
of settlement, intensive farming and irrigation development on the alluvial
plains along the coastal areas in the west and south; increased double crop-
ping moving from north to south; frequent drought and flood damage to crops;
and widespread occurrence of acidic soils. Of the 2.3 million hectares of
cultivated land, the lowland and river valleys constitute about 60 percent,
on which rice is grown; the balance is made up of foothills bordering the
paddy fields, on which upland crops, fruits and vegetables are cultivated,
'and forest lands at the higher altitudes.
44.       The extraordinary expansion of Korea's export-oriented manufactur-
ing sector in recent years has, to a certain extent, obscured the tangible
and impressive, albeit less spectacular, gains made by the country's agri-
cultural sector. In the 1962-74 period, value added in this sector increased
by over 4 percent per annum; Korea's agricultural exports (including those
of the fisheries sub-sector) rose from about $70 million in 1967 to
approximately $423 million in 1974.   Further, despite the steady increase



- 15 -
in industrial wages, rising agricultural productivity and increased farm-
gate prices have contributed towards the achievement of quite high yields
per hectare and near-parity in the earnings of urban and rural households.
These achievements are all the more commendable in view of the fact that,
because of the geo-physical features referred to above, only about a quarter
of Korea's total land area of 10 million hectares is cultivable, and cultiv-
able area per capita is much lower in Korea than in, for example, the
Philippines, Thailand, Malaysia or Indonesia.
45.       Nevertheless, the growth of agricultural output has not kept pace
with domestic requirements. This has caused the Government to be increas-
ingly concerned with the need to raise agricultural productivity and to
devote additional resources to the development of agriculture. More than three
times the resources budgeted for agriculture in the previous Five Year Plan
(1967-71) are included in the current Plan (1972-76).
46.       The two major strands of the Government's agricultural development
strategy are: (a) the further intensification of grain cultivation to relieve
the strain which food imports place on the balance of payments; and (b) the
expansion of the output of fruits, vegetables, mushrooms, tobacco, mulberry
and livestock to increase farm incomes and to utilize labor more fully.
Irrigation and drainage are being extended wherever possible. The Bank
Group's lending for agriculture in Korea has been aimed at assisting in the
attainment of both these objectives.
Industrial Development
47.       Over the last decade planning for the development of industry
centered around the aim of expanding the export of manufactures rather than
concentrating principally on import-substitution, as many developing countries
had done in the early 1960's. An important ingredient in the success of this
policy was the fact that formal education in Korea had by the 1960's reached
a level comparable with that of countries with considerably higher income
levels. This gave Korea the advantages of a skilled and adaptable labor
force as well as the ability to quickly develop efficient managerial talent.
Thus, Korea adopted a policy of developing labor-intensive industries, such as
textiles, clothing, electronics and plywood, whose capital requirements are
modest. In this respect, it is noteworthy that the expansion of Korea's
industrial structure in recent years (1970-74) absorbed only 23 percent of
total fixed investment, and that value added per worker increased by about
10 percent per annum over the last decade, reaching about $2,000 in 1974.
The extent to which the Korean economy depended on its light industry can also
be gauged from the fact that in 1972 it accounted for nearly 90 percent of
the exports of the manufacturing sector and about 80 percent of the value of
total merchandise exports.
48.       This strategy served Korea well in a period of continuous growth,
but it has also made Korean industry vulnerable in a time of international
recession. Korea's industrial plans in recent years have, therefore, been
aimed at diversifying and deepening its industrial structure.    Since



- 16 -
1970, over half of the total industrial investment has been allocated
to chemical, petroleum and basic metal industries to ensure the supply of
raw materials at competitive and reasonably stable prices. The establish-
ment of Korea's first integrated steel plant at Pohang (currently being
expanded from 1 million to 2.6 million tons), the large shipyard at Ulsan,
and the naptha cracking plant and related operations at 'the Ulsan oil refin-
ing complex, were major steps in the deepening of the industrial structure.
49.       The recent economic setbacks have necessitated a re-examination
of the long-term development plans and the strategy underlying them. While
the emphasis on increasing the share of heavy industry in exports and on
enhancing the domestic content of manufactures remains generally valid,
the program of heavy and chemical industries is being critically evaluated
and reoriented to meet changing circumstances; some'heavy industry projects
have been deferred, or altogether eliminated, especially those which are ex-
tremely capital and energy intensive and those which will be heavily dependent
on foreign markets, foreign investment flows and imported raw materials.
50.       Notwithstanding the additional changes in Korea's plans that are
likely to result from further re-examination of its industrial strategy, it
is apparent that the re-structuring and expansion of Korean industries
will require a heavy outlay of capital. The Government has embarked on a
major effort to mobilize the funds required by increasing domestic savings.
A National Investment Fund (NIF) was established in December 1973; it is
expected to finance a sizeable proportion of the investment needs of Korea's
major industries by the early 1980's. The Minister of Finance is in charge of
the Fund but in effect delegates its management and operation to the Governor
of the Bank of Korea. The resources of the Fund will be mobilized mainly by
issuance of NIF-Bonds (which are purchased by banks, savings institutions and
certain pension and trust funds) and the remainder by direct subscription by
the Government. The funds will be on-lent through the banking system'for
investments in fixed assets (about two-thirds) and for working capital needs
(one-third) of major industries.
Transportation
51.       The development of the'various transport modes in Korea has been
influenced by the nature of the terrain (about two-thirds of the land is
hilly); the concentration of economic activity and population around the
Seoul-Incheon and Busan areas; the location of domestic natural resources,
e.g. coal, iron ore and limestone, in the north, northeast and center of
the country; a long coastline with increasing industrial activity; and the
economic dependence on exports of manufactured goods and imports of bulk
raw materials.
52.       The development of the transport sector in Korea is seen most
clearly when viewed in the context of the remarkable growth and structural
change experienced by the economy during recent years. Manufacturing output



- 17 -
grew at an annual average rate of 18 percent in the 1960-73 period and the
export of manufactures at an even faster rate. This rapid expansion of
production and exports placed a severe strain on the transport sector,
partly because relatively modest amounts were invested in the enlargement
of its capacity during the First Development Plan period (1962-66).
53.       During the Second Plan period (1967-71), the demand for transport
facilities increased at an even faster pace than many of the other indicators
of economic growth. Domestic passenger traffic (in terms of passenger kilo-
meters) increased at the annual average rate of 11 percent and freight
traffic (in ton-kilometers) at 19 percent; international traffic handled
through the ports rose by 22 percent a year. The Government realized that
the further growth of the dynamic private sector could be seriously impeded
by bottlenecks in transport infrastructure. Accordingly, the allocation
for investment in transport was raised from 17 percent of the Government's
capital expenditure in the First Plan period to 27 percent for the Second
Plan. During this period, over W 240 billion was committed for the improve-
ment of the railways, the construction of new and maintenance of existing
roads, and the expansion of port and airport capacity. The demand for trans-
port services has continued to grow during the first four years of the Third
Plan (1972-76) in the course of which the Government intends to invest about
W 490 billion (approximately $1 billion) in transport infrastructure, or just
over a quarter of total governmental capital expenditure proposed in the
Plan.
54.       The Bank Group's association with the Government's efforts to
modernize and expand the transport sector in Korea dates back to 1962, when
a $14.0 million Credit was made to help finance the First Railway Project.
The railroad system, which had been rehabilitated following the Korean War,
was at that time the only means for the large-scale movement of goods and
passengers, since the country had a very small network of roads and few
motor vehicles. The rapid economic progress of the succeeding years called
for a wider range of transport services. In 1965, the Bank made a technical
assistance grant for a comprehensive survey of land transportation modes,
which was carried out by consultants. Their report, which was completed in
late 1966, concluded that the railways could be expected to handle a large
part of the country's freight traffic, of which a large proportion consisted
of moving bulk commodities over relatively long distances, but that, since
the road-system was inadequate for shorter haul and mixed freight traffic,
the Government should also emphasize highway improvement in its development
programs. It suggested that an organization to coordinate transport policy
was needed. In 1968, the Association extended a $3.5 million technical
assistance Credit (Cr. S-4KO) to help finance feasibility and detailed
engineering studies to improve the highway network and a study on trans-
port coordination. A UNDP-financed port development study was initiated
in 1971 with the Bank acting as the Executing Agency. The UNDP study recom-
mended an investment plan for Korea's 17 first-class ports, which is now
being implemented.



- 18 -
55.       The Bank Group's lending operations have been directed towards
assisting the program of investments which stemmed from a review of the
recommendations of the various studies referred to in the previous para-
graph. The Korean National Railroad (KNR) has continued to receive Bank
Group support to improve and expand its services. To date, KNR has re-
ceived about $220 million in the form of loans and credits to help finance
five projects. In June 1973, the Bank made an $80 million loan to support
the expansion of two ports -- Busan and Mukho. Following the studies fi-
nanced from the proceeds of the technical assistance Credit (S-4K0), a Bank
loan of $54.5 million (769-KO) was made in 1971 to finance the construction
of about 400 kilometers of national highways, feasibility and detailed
engineering studies (covering 900 additional kilometers of priority roads),
a highway maintenance study and the purchase of equipment and spare parts
for a pilot highway maintenance program. The studies and maintenance program
led to the formulation of the Second Highway Project, for which a loan of $47.0
million (956-KO) was approved in early 1974; it is progressing satisfactorily.
Education
56.       Six years of primary education is now required for all children
in the 6-11 age bracket. Some 69 percent of the children in the 12-14
age group receive a three-year middle school education. The high school
enrollment of those in the 15-17 age bracket is 32 percent. More than
90 percent of entrants at each of the primary, junior secondary and senior
secondary levels complete the cycle without delay. More than two-thirds of
the 1973 graduates of technical high schools and junior technical colleges
found immediate employment in the fields in which they were trained. Recur-
rent expenditures per student are low, there are only moderate regional and
rural/urban enrollment differentials at the basic education level, and an in-
creasing number of non-formal vocational training programs have been devel-
oped to supplement the formal education system.
57.       During the 1974-81 period, shortages of skilled workers and certain
categories of technicians are expected. In addition to reform of some curri-
cula, equipment, specialized facilities in technical secondary education and
teacher training are areas which require improvement. There is also consider-
able scope for upgrading the quality of education, expanding vocational
training programs, providing public financial support for the rural schools
at the middle school level and devising special educational programs for the
poorer strata of Korea's rapidly expanding urban society. The Government's
efforts are, thus, directed at improving the quality, relevance and product-
ivity of the system. Priority is being given to expanding and improving
sub-professional training, to improving high school education, and to balanc-
ing university education with the requirements of the economy. Technical and
vocational training at all levels is being given the highest priority. The
Bank's lending strategy is aimed at assisting these efforts, as evidenced by
the three ongoing Bank-supported projects.



- 19 -
PART IV - THE PROGRAM LOAN
58.       Korea's remarkable economic growth is based on sound planning and
effective management. The Korean Government has demonstrated its capacity
to monitor closely domestic and international trends, to adapt policy to
changed circumstances and to implement rapidly decisions taken.    The
long-term prospects for the continued development of the Korean economy are
favorable. Korea is now in its Third Plan period (1972-76) and, despite
the setbacks in 1974 and 1975, it is likely that the major targets of the Plan
will be achieved. The development program is realistic and maintains a
sensible mix of policies designed to increase the growth of employment and
incomes, and to share the benefits of growth among all income groups.
59.       On the basis of our close consultation with the Korean Government
on economic policy matters, we are satisfied with the general thrust of
Korea's development strategy. The substance of the adjustment measures and
the medium-term program outlined in paragraphs 13 to 25 is contained in a
policy statement from the Korean Government (attached as Annex IV); in our
view, it represents an adequate and proper response to the opportunities and
constraints now facing the Korean economy.
60.       I, therefore, recommend that a loan of $75 million be made to Korea
at this time in support of the Government's development program. In assessing
the exceptional circumstances underlying the need for this program loan to
Korea, the following general criteria were given special emphasis:
(a) the country should have an ongoing development
program and should have taken and intend to take
supporting economic and financial policy measures
which provide a satisfactory basis for external
assistanice; and
(b) the needed timely transfer of resources from ex-
ternal lenders in support of the ongoing development
program cannot be achieved effectively and expedi-
tiously solely by the financing of specific investment
projects, including justifiable local currency
expenditures.
I am satisfied that the proposed loan meets these criteria.



- 20 -
Categories of Imported Goods to be Financed
61.       The loan would be disbursed on the basis of the receipt of satis-
factory evidence of purchase of and payment for imported items in the fol-
lowing categories:
1. Finished structural parts and structures.
2. Metal containers for storage and transport.
3. Tools.
4. Boilers.
5. Pumps and Centrifuges.
6. Heating and cooling equipment.
7. Mechanical Handling Machinery.
8.  Mining Machinery.
9. Metal Working Machinery
10. Electrical Machinery and Equipment.
Imported items in these categories are principally capital and intermediate
goods for export industries. This particular list of categories was selected
as representing categories of imports which would be available from a wide
variety of sources and for which purchases are normally paid for in cash. The
same list of categories was used for the First Program Loan and the bulk of
the procurement was from Japanese suppliers. Imports of goods in these
categories in 1976 are expected to exceed $1 billion equivalent, thus ensuring
rapid disbursement of this loan which will cover only a small portion of the
total import requirements.
Korea Exchange Bank
62.       The Korea Exchange Bank (KEB) would be responsible for the coor-
dination and collection of relevant documentation and preparing withdrawal
applications under the loan. The KEB was created in 1966 by the Korea Ex-
change Bank Act. Two-thirds of its capital of W 30 billion was subscribed by
the Bank of Korea and one-third by the Government. The President of KEB is
appointed by the President of the Republic; the Governors are nominated by the
Minister of Finance and approved by the President of the Republic.
63.       The KEB acts as the Government's foreign exchange bank.    It handles
50-60 percent of Korea's total imports; the remainder is serviced through six
commercial banks. The Ministry of Finance would circulate instructions to
the commercial banks explaining the type of documentation to be forwarded
to the KEB to form the basis of withdrawal applications under the loan. A
similar arrangement worked satisfactorily in connection with the First Program
Loan.
Import Regulations and Controls
64.       About half of the import categories covered by the Brussels Trade
Nomenclature are designated as "automatically approved" items in Korea.
KEB and the commercial banks may issue import licenses directly for such
items. For restricted items, a "recommendation" from the relevant Ministry
is required before a bank can issue a license. These are normally given



- 21 -
within one week of application. All importers belong to associations which
provide advice and assistance to them with respect to licensing procedures
and regulations.
Procurement and Disbursement
65.       Goods purchased by private firms from Bank member countries (and
Switzerland) on the basis of normal commercial practices would be eligible
for reimbursement from the loan. Imports for which financing is provided
from other external sources would not be eligible nor would the Bank reim-
burse for repayments made before the loan is signed. Reimbursement would be
made by the Bank on the basis of import documents and evidence of payment.
It is expected that the proceeds of the loan would be fully disbursed
before April 30, 1977.
Use of Counterpart Funds
66.       The Won equivalent of the imports financed under the loan would'
be credited by the KEB to the Special Loan Fund Account held by the Ministry
of Finance, a trust account,into which the proceeds of all foreign loans
are paid and from which principal and interest on foreign loans are met.
Funds from this account are transferred to the Economic Development Special
,Account,which is used to finance capital expenditures on development projects,
including those for which Bank financing is provided.    Adequate provision
has been made in the Economic Development Special Account to meet the local
cost requirements of Bank-financed projects in 1976.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
*of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text,of a resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors separately. The draft agreement follows the general pattern for pro-
gram loans.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
February 17, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3 paeps
0=2N" DATA - KOLKA
9T,77-7  km 2                               (sid-197h)                     ~   ~~    ~~~~~~~719  Per kblof arable LsOW
SOCIL INDICATORS
Korea                    TM2       "~u     onre
GIP-PU CAPrTA US$ (ATIAS BkASI8) /I                               2J.0 /a        310 /b           220 /b        370 /b     2,3;0 
DZD0RAPUC
UN thrate (Per thousad)                                    401.           28              13 /          38 ~dae     19.1
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                 Un               8               10 tz        13 Ie        65
Infant mortalIty rate (per thousand live births)                 6              5               90 d         l..
Life aexoetancy, at birth (years)                               '6.55                                  z      5 
Oross repoductionr rto 2                                        3.14o          2.6 /             :             .             .
Population growth rate i                                        302.2 a1                                     2 
Population growth rate - urban6                                          a       65                          h             2L
kge atructure (percent)
0-31,                                                         43             40/              45            42         21.2 /
1             57      ~        2                       68.
over0.S0 0.
Ecn cdependency m-o1.                                                    1.1              1.1           1l1           07
Urbanpopulation aspercent oftotal                                28a            41L,             13Ag         39  b
Pamil.y planning,  No. of acceptors cunulative (thous.)         ...                              50          481 Z41I        '2 
go. of users (% of married cwoan)             ...10                                        8.2
RW D -rforce (thousands)                                 7,500        12,100 id         16,900       11,500 12.    52,990O /ak.al
Percentage employed in agriculture                             66             52               7            67          19.1
Percentage uremployed                                           9            h.    u~         ..IL/e                     1.3 /ak.al
I   C MOhTION
RW WD  3? n a   ln income received by highest 5%              17     al1     15       ~       .             32 
Percent of oational icesm. received by highest 20%               42             37 ~.60 Zj1V
Percent of national incocm received by lowest 20%                 7    e        10       ~      .               3 l~~
Percent of national income received by loweat 40%                20  gj         21                       I~~..1        v
MISmISCTION 0? LAND OSSI
9oed by top iO1 o    lmr                                      27             28              .             53
% ouced by anallect 10% of ounerc                                                2.                          0.9
EZALTH AND NUTRITION
Population per phychcie                                       3,000 46.w     I1,870 lb        7,250 L       2,13900 L      860 /
Population per 'n'raing person                                  ..           1,360            2,950 If      1,80           30 
Population per hospital bed                                   2,6oD /0.0     1,850              820 If        480f~          30f~
Per capita calorie supply as % of requirements                   85            103              105           110          106
Per capita protein sopply, total (gross per d.yY&                53             6               52            78            76
Of ahich, animal and pulse                                     13 1gc         19 &~g           17 /aa        224
Death rate 1-4 years /7                                        1..             ..                                               If
!W      dk  primary school enrollment ratio                   96            98 /b            83 IL        ll            130
Adjusted    seco:;airy achool enrolleent ratio                   27             41               13     ~     28            90
Teara of i8ooling provided, firat and    econd level             12             12               12           311            12
Vocational enrolleent as % of sac, school enrolljsnt             14             15               12 my.b       114           20
Adult literacy rate %                                           ..92                                          5 .  5 /ad    99   IaL
rvge-q    go. of persons per roos (urban)                       2.8            2.7              .             1.9             a.0
Percent of occupied ungsa without piped vater                    88             80                            (Af
Access to electricity (as % of total population)                 28                           ....l ~
Per-not of tural Population conneted to electricity              12   ail       1                131                s
i"aper 1000 populatiOn                              32           127b               837         107 /         658 /bM
Passenger core per 100 population                               0.1              2                7             5           3   ~
Blactric pour confuznpticn (kid, P.C.)                           71            392              1630               I     3,909 
Newsprint cccsueption p.c. kg per year                          1.8            3.4              11,22                     19.9 EA
Notes, Figures mefer either to the latest periods or to              acnn      fevrcena         eprtr, body weigbte, and
the latest Fears.  Latest periods refer in principle to,              distribution by age arAl max Of national POPulations.
the years 1956-60 or 19,66-70; the latest year  n t  pr~in-      A~ Protein standards, (requirementa) for all countries as eatab-
ciple in 1960 and 1970.                                               lobead by USDA Eoonmci Research Service provide for a sinim-m
/I  The Per Capita GNP esatimate is at caret prices for               allowance of 60 greas of total protein pot day, anM 20 gpane of
ye-ar oth.r than 1960, calculated by the bane ccnveraion           ninal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
technique as thc 1972 World Bank Atlas.                          protein.  Thmea standards are somewhat lIer then those of 75
LZ Average nunber of daughters per coa     of reproductive            grass of total protein and 23 geas of animal protein as an
age.                                                             average for the world, proposed by PAO in the Third World Food
Po~ Ipulation growth rates ore for the decades ending in            Survey.
1960 and 1970.                                               L.Sons studies have suggeted that crude death rates of children
R atio of pepulaticli under 1 and 6 and over to popula-          ages 1 through 4 may be csed as a first approximation, index of
tion of ages 15-6h for age dependency ratio and to labor         malnutrition.
P   foree of asos 15-61 for oemonmic dependeny ratio.            /8  Peoan tags enrolled of correaponding populAtion of school age
-  L FAO reference standards represent physiological ro-               as defined fow each onuntry.
quirecants for unreal activity and health, taking
L. Coptd by applying to the 1970 figure the growth rate of ONP per capita in real toer         from, 1960 to 1970;    &   1972;
ZI1962;t /d 1965-70; 1ge Derived fee sample survey estimates (210,000 persona), excluding 17 eaaters, provinces;
/ Mu971   ,fj 1968;     Z    1965-67;   Li  1960-721    aj  Seoul city and munLicipalities of 5,080    morare inhabItants;
c oiopal ties'     A L dinistrative centers of provices and districts (eVilayets and 51asa5 cecters);           La  For the
definition of urban, see ON Demographic Tearbook 1973, P. 127; ~         1950-55,   1g. 1961-June 1971;     1g.56 percent
being IUDe;    1g  Ten yeas" and over;    4L  15 years end over;     4&Wage and salary Income of houaseholda;      Lt  Householde;
/u   1971;    L,  Dapomabls income;     1!  Number on the regizter not all vombing in the country';      Zg. RAtIo of population
under 1 and 65 and over in labor force of ages 15 end ov,er;     Z    1969;   1g. Imtimatel    /an  1961--66;   1gb  Deta on
vocational education refer to public schools and includes t.hniAAL. education at the Post-efmcodwr level;          4L.  Dei-
nition unknown;    /ad  Peomona six reame old and over who tell tMo cnausu takers that they can read and write; 
1ga. Registered unemployed;          Water piped inside;     aU  Inside or outaide;     1gh  Percentage of dwellinge with electric
lighting     /ai  1961;   1g4   1955-60;    &k  1973;    1g&  letimate based on a labor force sample survey.
aJapan has been selected as an objective country due to the sImilarity, of the present Korean economic structure to that
of Japan in the old-fifties (with the same principle resource bhem, I.e., effciont, industrious, cheap labor and heavy
reliance on inported raw materials). Moreover, agriculture, transport, and other mactore of the econoay have simdiALr
chaLracteristics. Koree alan has, in its lang-Tere Plan (1972-81), a paLttern of industrial development which is not. very
different froat the one Japan pursued with great sfucoese in the sixties.
Nd October 14, 1975



ABNED I
Pags 2 of 3 Page.
(A-ntai .111 nlin. of U.S. Dollars)
Actual                       Prolectad              1972-     1974-     1975-     1980-
1972      1973     1974       1975      1976      1980      1974      1975      1980      1985      1974       1975      1980
1973 Prices anad Rat enA. lt                     Average A    Iua Growh Rates a.fGl
Gros D.aslcProduct                  10,646    12,415    13,474    14,71     1,484      21,018      1.          .         .         .
Gan  reTo.0  of Trade (5116                 -                  1-2S&     -125,2a  -1,254       -                                  -     5.2     -.....    -6.3
Gro.. Desmstic Intone                     10,762    12,415    12.810    13,217    14,230    19,764       9.1       3    ~    8          7       TUE      100.0     100.0
IlPC t (including NDI)                    3,435     4,367     4,634     4,573     4,868      7,342      162       -1.3       9.9       9.0       36.2     34.6      37.2
7R:DoVta   itonort capacityS            2_771     3_961        M      2"           M      Zj           9.2       4.1      15.7      12.0      2flJ      mJ        36._1
Remource Gap                               -664      -406     -1,128   -1,133       -736      -216      41.1     -14.7        -         -       -10.4     -8.6      -1.1
Consumption Rpepnditures                  9,017     9.598    10,780    11,434     12,118    16,540       9.3       6.1       7.6       7.3       84.2     86.5      83.7
GovaeDamat   -(tncl, stook.)              2.212     3,230     4,185     4,113     3,566      6,100      37.8      -1.7       8.3      12.2       32.7     31.1      30.9
Y~tcBvna                          1,629     2,817     2,694     3,037     3,366     4,477       28.8      12.7      12.7      12.5       21.0     23.0      22.7
National Sains                            1,772     2,914     2,721      2,970     3,044     4,261      23.6       9.2      12.3      13.0       21.2     22.5      21.6
MEROLANDISE IRM                           ~~~~~Annual Date at CArrent Price.,                                                        As Percent of Total
le,port.
Capital Gooda                            762     1,157     1,849      1,837     2,059    2.900       57.0      -0.7       9.6      16.1       27.0     25.9      20.7
Inteonedtate Good. (eecl.fuel.)        1.118     2,110     2,943      2,8968    3,391     6,492      63.5       0.9      16.9      18.8       43.0     41.8      46.4
PUel: codRelated Materials               230       312     1,150      1,395     1,700     2,700     150.0      21.3      14.1      15.5       16.8     19.7      19.3
of ,.hio, Petrrolen,                 221       277     1,109     1,340     1,605     2,680     150.0      20.8      14.9      13,3       16.2      19.9     19.2
Cone.ntion Goods                        4_12       66        II(j~      900       950j    j,,-       48.5      -1j       lid1      14.2      ALA       12.7      13.6
Total March. I.ort. (.if               2,522     4.240     6,852      7,100     8,100    13,992      63.0       3.6      14.3      17.1      100.0    100.0     100.0
Reports
Pcinary producte (cxol. fuel.)           269       327       422       501        567     1,341      25.0      18.7      21.8      19,8        9.4      9.9      10.0
Posts and related anter6al.
of ehich: Petrels.oola1                           35       108       115       120       175     160.0       6.5       8.7       7.0        2.4      2.3       1.3
Haso,fact-rd G-ood                      1.389    2.909     3.8        5a!        ,663i   ILUL9      6.JL       U_        ZL(       Lbia      8..      87.8      88.7
Total March. Reports (fob)             1.676     3,271     4.515      5064      6,250    13,407      64.0      12.2      21.2      19,8      100,0    100.0     100.0
Touris, end Border Trade                 -          .         -         .         - 
Mercbandise Trade Indices                               Average 19F     100
Report Price ledee                        79       100       127        its       124       130      27        -7         5         7
loport Price Indse                        75       100       156        164       171       208      44         5         5         7
Taesw of Trade Indue                     106       100        81         72        72        72     .13       -11
Reports Vo1uca Ind"e                      64       100       109        132       138       277      30        21        16        11
VALUE ADD BY SEC!OR                           Annual Data st 1973    PriccA and Rxchsame Rat"c             Average Annu.al Growth Rat"c             A. Percent of Total
Agriculture                            3.201     3.500      3,620     3,837     3,952     4,633       6         6         4         2         29       29        23
Kanuf.ctori.s aod Mi.i.R               2,140     2,883     3,311      3,708    4.152      6,194      24        12        11        13         27       28        30
Other Sectors                          4.368     4.975     5.549     A..21      6,146     9.580      13         3        It         8       A     44           _A'  7
Total                                  9,709    11,358    12,480     13.260    14,250    20,387      1-3                            9        100      100       100
(Central Goverowot)                                                        ,,/          6/ ,pr23 
Current Receipts                       1,701     1,530      1,862         2      ,12331   3,870       5        in        12        10         13       17        19
Gorrant REpenditures                   IjaA      1.193                2,l6  ,        6/  LM           2        21         8        ,j         11       13        13
BudgetsrySavlngs                         342       337       456       45        489      1,567      15        9         so        12                            -7T
Other Public Sector                      -          -         -         -         -         -         -              -         -         -                   -
Public Sector lovastnent                 522       443       593       728       746      1,888       7        23        21        10          5        6        10
CURREPr EPRNDITUERE'L 7/                             ActuaI                1l       6/        AIL 09
(As   Total Curret RExpend)                 A92    1973        ft   i7n     19/6_.      PUBLIC SEcI06      7/        US$ Million At 1973 P and ER
Rducation                                   19.6   19.3     17.8    17.5    -8,O         LOE    MPOG      r1976                                  % of Total 1974-76
Other Social Services                        9.1   10,4      9.6      8.8      5.0       Social BSotore                91~       73     84        10,9
Agriculture                                   2.4    2.4      2.0     1.8      1,9       Agriculture                   121      187    209        24.6
Otber R.conoic Services                      3.6    3.5      2.3      2.1      2,0       Industry and Mieing            41       82     73         9.3
Dafense                                     33.9   35.2     41.2    43.0     47,0       Poner                          55       44     33          6,6
Ad.int.tratioa                               13,9   13,8     12.1    11,5      9.8       Transport and Cnicatim        138      146    172        22.2
Transofer  to local goveranent.             11.1   14.2      142     1.L61_7                                                     9      7         26.4
Other                                        3 4    _W .j4__Lf       _...Z     02       Total eaenOtura"               593      728    746       100.0
Total Curret tependitures                  100.0  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
SELECTrD IBDICATORS                                   1960-     1965-   1970-   1975-         Public Sector Savings       456      495    489        70.3
1965     197               80          Denaiclo        asi          58       38     41         6.8
Average ICCR                                            7.        .                            gsi     ovlg-9                      195    216        22,9
loport Rlacticity                                      0.8       2.6     1,1     1,3          Total Financing             593      728    746       100.0
Marginal Domestic Savinps Rate                         11.3     21.3    16.6    22.0
Marginal National Savings Rate                         17.9    21.7     18.8    30.0
UEOBpo,     AND osrPnp'                                   Tot&l    olafat                     Val"a Ade    a   ok    (93     PricesI   et   ats
PER R0~~~~~~~~E                   In~~~ Millions   _j~                19-72--74   In U.B.Dollr    Peocot of kvrg       119774.
192   f       1972    1974    "vgMBata      jjg irn           fl      JJm      Growth Bate
Agricultur                                    5,3      5.6     50.6    48.2      2.8            604      646     66       40        3.4
Manufacturing and Mining                       1.5      2,1     14,2    17,8    18.3          1,189    1,577    110      147       15.1
Other Sectore                                  3.7      39      35.2  _b_O    2...J 7         1,191    1.42.3    M       in         9.8
Total                                        10.6     11.6     100.0   100.0     4,6            916    1.076    100      100        8,4
1j/ Includes 8g.oser.t, corporete cod Private no-corp-rat s-vig..
V/  Inclodes doseetic saings, net fator. iJcnso fron abroad and transfer     fron abroad.
3/ Bunkering (eanufacturee),
4/Includes trade. baking, ownrship of doellinge, public ainsrio.other services.
]R-vised godagt.
6/ Budget.
7/General Budget and Econooic De-elopeent Special Account.
Pebruary 9, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. BXTDL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Annunl
Actual                                     Pro1ected                               Growth Rate
1971    1972    1973    19        1       1976    1977    1978    1979    1980                 1975-1980
SUMMARY BAtANCE OF PAY)E
Exports (incl. NFS)               1,478   2,078   3,961   5,157     5,641   7,066    8,507  10,286  12,344  14,823                   21.4
Imports (incl. NFS)               2.489   2.576   4.367   7.229     7.500   8.324           11 37   13.190  15.432                   15.5
Resource Balance (X-M)           -1,011    -501    -406  -2,072    -1,859  -1,258   -1,224-i,071      -
Interest (net)                      -91    -106    -123    -141      -265    -407     -528    -613    -691    -755                   23.3
Other Factor Income (net)            29      19      26     -49       -24    -196      -40     150     190     175
Workers Remittance                   54      47       4      -
Current Transfers (net)             171     170     190     222       2iO     154      200     225     250     275                    5.5
Balance on Current Account         -848     37i    -309  -2.040    -1,938  -1,707   -1,592  -1,309  -1,096    -914
Private Direct Investment (net)      41      74     137     104        42     135      203     220     240     260                   44.0
Official Capital Grants                                            -      -           -
Publjtc M6LT Loans i/
Disbursements                     639     784     759   1,085     1,491   1,766    1,942   2,043   2,226   2,379                    9.8
-Repayments                        250     247     k76     360       411     574      711     854     877     902                    17.0
Net Disbursements                   389     537     483     725     1,080   1,192    1,231   1,189   1,349   1,477                    6.4
Other M&LT Loans
Disbursements                      33      49      71     168        82     94       124     152     168     181                    17.1
-Reeavments                         10      10      15      23        ;      a        _39  5'9 75      96     m                      28.8
Net Disbursements                    23      39      53     145        50     55        65      77      72      68                    6.4
Actual
Capital Transactions. n.e.i.        312     -91      84     306                                        1970                            MAua  1973  1974
Change in Net Reserves              -83     188     448    -760       DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE -
GRANT AND LOAN COMITi3ENTS                                              Public Debt Out. & Disbursed    1,786  2,228   2,770   3,314   4,031
Official Grants C Grantlike          -       -       -       -          Interest on Public Debt         64      93     104     140     196
1/                                                     Repayments on Public Debt       211    250     247     276     360
Public M6LT Loansn                                                      Total Public Debt Service      275     342     351     415     556
IBRD                               85      73     150      85         Other Debt Service (net)        11      22      23      31      54
IDA                                 7      26      20      -          Total Debt Service (net)       286     364     374     446     610
ADB                                81      68      46      89
Other Multilateral                 -       -       -       -        Burden on Export and NFS Earnings (2)
Governments                       305     505     381     418
Suppliers                         242      86     236     441         Public Debt Service             22.5    23.1    16.9    10.5    10.8
Financial Institutions              12     80     205     787         Total Debt Service               23.4   24.6    18.0    11.3    11.8
Bonds                              -       -       -       19         TDS+Direct Investment Inc.      24.2    25.6    20.0    12.7    13.7
Public Loans. n.e.i.               -
Total Public MCLT Loans             732     839   1,038   1,I4        Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt'Outatanding on Dec.31.74       Interest as % Prior Year DOCD     4.3     5.2     4.7     5.1     5.9
EXTERNAL DEBT                    Disbursed Only           Percent         Amort. as %,Prior Year DO6D      14.3    14.0   11.1    10.0    10.9
IBRD                                223.8                  5.6
IDA                                  78.3                  1.9       IY2D Debt Out. & Disbursed          9.6    40.2    94.7   139.8   223.8
ADB                                  113.0                 2.8            as x Public Debt OD'           0.6      1.8    3.4     4.2     5.6
Governments                       1,697.3                 42.1            as % Public,Debt Service       0.3     0.7     1.9     3.0     3.5
Suppliers                         1,250.6                 31.0
Financial Institutions              648.5                 16.1        IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed          26.7   39.8    47.1    58.5    78.3
Bonds                                19.0                  0.5          &a 2 Public Debt OWD             1.5     1.8     1.7     1.8     1.9
-          ~~~~as 7. Public Debt Service     0.1     0.1    0.1     0.1     fl.1
Total Public MbLT Debt            4,030.6                100.0
Other MALT Debtg2J'                 396.0
Short-term  Debts                   971.0
1/ SOURCE: IBRD, loans of maturity one year and above, including cemmrcial bank borrowing
2/  SOURCE: Korean authorities
not available separately but included in total
February 9, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A.     Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as at December 31, 1975)
Loan or                                                            US$ Million
Credit                                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Number      Year           Borrower         Purpose         Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Seven loans and credits fully disbursed                     153.8   39.7
600         1969    ADC                Irrigation            45.0              3.0
151         1969    Republic of Korea Education                     14.8       1.5
669         1970    Republic of Korea Railways               40.o              2.4
234         1971    Republic of Korea  Livestock                     7.0       0.3
769         1971    Republic of Korea Highways               54.5              1.3
283         1972    Republic of Korea Irrigation                    15.0       0.3
795         1972    ADC                Irrigation            33.0             27.7
335         1972    Republic of Korea Agricultural Credit           10.5       0.6
863         1972    Republic of Korea Railways               40.0              4.7
905         1973    KDFC               Dev. Fin. Co.         40.0              2.9
906 &       1973    Republic of Korea  Education II          23.0   20.0      42.8
394
917         1973    Republic of Korea Ports                   80.0            70.3
942         1973    Republic of Korea Seeds Production        7.0              6.5
953         1974    Republic of Korea Tourism                25.0             21.8
956         1974    Republic of Korea HIighways II           47.0             11.6
994         1974   .AFDC               Agriculture           13.0             12.8
1070        1975    Republic of Korea Secondary Cities       15.0             1)4.9
1095        1975    KDB                Dev. Fin. Co.         60.0             49.5
1096        1975    Republic of Korea  Third Education       22.5             22.5
1101        1975    Republic of Korea Fifth Railway         100.0            100.0
1145        1975    KDFC              Dev. Fin. Co.          55.0             55.0
1175*       1975    MIB               Dev. Fin. Co.          30.0             30.0
Total                                            883.8  107.0    482.4
of which has been repaid                        19.3    .5
Total now outstanding                            864.5  106.5
Amount sold                2.0
of which has been repaid 1.0                     1.0
Total now held by Bank and                       863.5  106.5
IDA (prior to exchange adjustment)             -----  -----    ------
Total undisbursed                                460.0   22.4    482.4
E         -_ _
* Effective as of January 28, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
B.     Statement of IFC Investments (as of December 31. 1975)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year  (_bligor             Type of Business                Loan     Equity     Total
1968     KDFC              Development financing            -         0.7       0.7
1969     Honam Silk Co.    Textiles                       1.4         0.3       1.7
1970     Atlas Paper Co.   Pulp and paper                 4.5         0.5       5.0 /
1971     Korea Invest-
ment Finance
Corporation     Capital Wiarket development      -         0.7       0.7
1974     KDFC              Development financing            -         0.4       0.1
1974     Korea Invest-
ment Finance
Corporation     Capital market development       -         0.3       0.3
1975     Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.            Electronic products           16.0         1.3      17.3
1975     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.   Capital market development      5.0        0.6       5.6
1975     Tong Yang Nylon
Company Ltd.    Synthetic fibers               6.9         2.1       9.0
1975     Hae Un Dae
Development
Conpany Ltd.    Tourism                        2.7         0.7       3.4
Total gross conmitment                 36.5         7.6      44.1
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                 12.8         h9      13.7
Total commitments now held by IFC      23.7         6.7      30.O
Total undisbursed                        2.8        0.7
j/   Cancelled at the request of the Company



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -/
Loan No. 600        Pyongtaek-Kumgang Irrigation Project; US$45.0 million
Loan of May 23. 1969: Effective Date: May 25. 1970;
Closing Date: December 31. 1976
The Project includes irrigation for about 35,000 ha, improvement
of drainage and roads, consolidation of paddy fields, benching of upland
and tidal land reclamation. Construction was delayed by a reorganization
of the executing agency and a delay in hiring consultants. The major proj-
ect coponents (two sea dikes, the main distribution system and pumping
plants) were largely completed by the end of 1974. Contracts for nearly
all of the remaining work have been awarded. Cost considerations have led
to the exclusion of about 5,000 ha of land from the project. Costs have
risen from US$90 million at appraisal to about US$130 million largely
because of the increased costs of right-of-way, engineering, administra-
tion and land consolidation. Preliminary estimates indicate increases in
the price of rice will partially offset the effects of higher costs and
reduced irrigable area. The economic rate of return is now estimated to
be about 10 percent, compared with the appraisal estimate of 14 percent.
The implementing agency (ADC) has reviewed ways of economizing on the
remaining work which should lead to some marginal cost savings. About
90 percent of the Loan has been disbursed. Construction is progressing
satisfactorily and is scheduled for completion by mid-1976.
Credit No. 151      First Education Project: US$14.8 million Credit
of June 4. 1969; Effective Date: May 25. 1970;
Closing Date: September 30. 1976
This Project comprises: (a) the expansion and equipping of 27
technical, commercial and agricultural high schools, 5 post-secondary
higher schools and 4 university teacher training departments; and (b)
26 man-years of technical assistance and 20 man-years of overseas fel-
lowships to support the development of agricultural and technical educa-
tion. All civil works, furniture, technical assistance and fellowships
included in the Project have been completed. Equipment procurement is
more than 90 percent complete and contracts have been awarded for about one
third of the remaining items. Disbursement has now reached about 93 percent
of the total. The total project cost is estimated to remain about 3 percent
below the appraised estimate. Due to delays in final equipment procurement,
the Closing Date has been extended by nine months.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
Loan No. 669        Third Railway Project: US$40.0 million loan and
Credit No. 183      US$15.0 million Credit of May 14. 1970: Effective
Date: September.11. 1970;_Closing Date:
December'31. -1976
The bulk of the Loan and Credit was earmarked for the purchase of
freight cars, diesel locomotives, and telecommunications and track mainte-
nance equipment. Progress is generally satisfactory except for delays in
the procurement of some microwave equipment which had to be re-tendered,
and delivery is now expected in October 1976. The Closing Date has been
extended by a year to December 31, 1976 to provide adequate time for the
completion of procurement.
Credit No. 234      Integrated Dairy Beef Development Project; US$7.0 million
Credit of February 11. 1971: Effective Date:   August 24.
1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The development of about 700 small and medium-sized dairy farms by
providing long-term loans and the construction and operation of two dairy
products processing plants were the principal components of the Project which
also includes the provision of management and technical services. To date,
about 580 farmers have participated and farm loans of about US$4.5 million
equivalent have been approved. About 4,900 head of cattle have been purchased
and two dairy plants have been constructed and are in operation. The proceeds
of the Credit are almost fully committed.
Loan No. 769        First Highway Project; US$54.5 million Loan of
June 29, 1971: Effective Date: December 7, 1971
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The construction of approximately 370 km of national highways
between Jeonju and Busan was satisfactorily completed in December 1973, at
a final cost about five percent above the appraisal estimate. Feasibility
studies and detailed engineering have been completed for 1,400 km and 1,100
km of national highways, respectively. A study of road maintenance and the
establishment of a pilot maintenance organization formed the basis of the
creation of a country-wide Highway Maintenance Organization which is being
carried out under the Second Highway Project. The Closing Date has been
extended by 13 months to permit completion of procurement of highway main-
tenance equipment.
Loan No. 795        Yong San Gang Irrigation Project; US$33.0 million Loan
Credit No. 283      and US$15.0 million Credit of February 2. 1972; Effective
Date: September 15, 1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977
This Project aims at transforming an area with the highest drought
frequency in Korea into one with reliable irrigation and crop diversifica-
tion. Also, there will be increased production of high value crops such as
fruits and winter vegetables. Design work is proceeding satisfactorily and
the work on four dams, the main canals and land consolidation has started.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
Award of all major contracts have been made, although the delay on several
means that construction will begin roughly a year later than scheduled at
appraisal. The delay was caused mainly by increased costs due largely
to price escalation and design modification. The cost increases will
be partially compensated for by benefits attributable to the enlargement
of the area to be irrigated by about 1,400 ha., and ADC plans to reduce
costs by constructing only canals, roads and drainage systems for contour
furrow irrigation on all lands exceeding 2 percent slope. Also the Bank
has begun monitoring construction costs on each of the ten major civil
works contracts on a monthly basis.
Credit No. 335      Agricultural Credit Project:   US$10.5 million Credit of
September 29, 1972: Effective Date:' May 24. 1973;
Closing Date: September 1. 1976
The Credit supports a three year lending program to small farmers
to develop orchards, sericulture and mushroom production and to encourage
the breeding of poultry and swine. It also finances an organizational and
accounting study of the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
and the strengthening of its training facilities. The Project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and disbursement is proceeding on schedule.
Loan No. 863        Fourth Railway Project: US$40.0 million Loan of
November 22. 1972: Effective Date: February 26, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31. 1976
The main elements of the Project are: electrification of lines
in the Seoul suburban area; purchase of electric railcars and locomotives;
the completion of electrification of 350 km of line running from Seoul to
the northeastern part of Korea; track and bridge renewal; provision of
yard facilities; acquisition of passenger and freight cars; and improve-
ment of facilities for the maintenance and repair of motive power and
rolling stock. No major problems have been encountered; nearly all of
the Loan proceeds have been committed.
Loan No. 905        Fourth KDFC Project; US$40.0 million Loan of June 13,
1973; Effective Date: September 10. 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 906        Second Education Project; US$23.0 million Loan and
Credit No. 394      US$20.0 million Credit of June 13. 1973: Effective
Date: September 10, 1973: Closing Date: December 31,
1977
The Project provides equipment for and extensions to the buildings
of: 18 technical and 14 agricultural high schools; ten higher schools/junior
colleges for industrial, agricultural, fishery and nursing training; colleges



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
of agriculture, engineering and natural sciences in nine universities and a
merchant marine college; and ten junior teacher colleges and 12 colleges of
education. It also includes pre-investment studies on health and manage-
ment education. Implementation is about seven months behind schedule due
to delays in the preparation of equipment lists (civil works, which are
being financed by the Government, are slightly ahead of schedule). The
Project has encountered two problems: delays in equipment procurement
and lack of counterpart funds to cover cost overruns on civil works (about
75%). However, steps have been taken by the Government and the Bank to
overcome these problems and therefore implementation should improve within
the next six months. The Project is expected to be completed on schedule
by the end of 1977. Disbursement has been somewhat slower than expected
at appraisal due to the delay in the preparation of equipment lists but is
expected to improve.
Loan No. 917        Ports ProJect; US$80 million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973: Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The Project includes the provision of container and bulk cargo
facilities and equipment at Busan and coal piers and handling equipment
at Busan and Mukho. Work on the first three civil works contracts, amounting
to about one-third of the estimated project cost, is somewhat behind schedule
but is now proceeding satisfactorily. Bids received for the Mukho coal-
handling equipment and for the Busan grain handling facilities were close
to the revised cost estimates. Preparation and issuance of the remaining
contract documents is on schedule. The estimated project cost has risen by
about a third from the appraisal estimate, but the foreign exchange cost
should not increase by more than 20 percent because most of the civil works are
expected to be carried out by local contractors.   The percentage disburse-
ment of the Loan is being reduced appropriately. The legislatian for the
establishment of the Korean Port Authority has been approved by the National
Assembly and the necessary action is expected to follow shortly.
'Loan No. 942       Seeds Prolecti US$7.0 million Loan of November 16. 1973
Effective Date:  April 24, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The Project consists of: (a) the installation of five field crop
seed processing and storage facilities; (b) farm machinery for seed produc-
tion; (c) procurement of seasonal seed inventories through the operation
of a revolving fund; (d) seed testing laboratories and equipment; (e) crop
research (financed in part by USAID); (f) feasibility studies for irrigation
and area development; and (g) technical assistance. The necessary legisla-
tive and administrative action for revising the Seed Law and establishing
an "Office of Seed Production and Distribution" has been taken. Project
implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Preliminary estimates suggest
that Project costs would be somewhat higher than envisaged at appraisal; the
estimates are being reviewed.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan No. 953        KyongJu Tourism Prolect; US$25.0 million Loan of
January 4. 1974; Effective Date: May 6. 1974;
Closing Date: December 31. 1978
The Project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multi-purpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
of Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or re-
alignment of about 57 kms of roads; infrastructure including storm water
drainage, environmental sanitation, community facilities, are a golf course;
a school for training hotel personnel; and a feasibility study for the
development of tourism on Cheju Island. Final design for almost all
Project components is complete and several contracts have been awarded.
Loan No. 956        Second Highway Project; US$47.0 million Loan of
January 25, 1974; Effective Date: April 4. 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project, which forms part of the Government's 1972-76 road
construction and paving program, consists of the construction (chiefly on
new alignments) of about 130 kms and paving (largely on existing align-
ments) of approximately 635 km of national highways; feasibility studies
by consultants of about 1,000 kms of national and provincial roads, fol-
lowed by detailed engineering where justified; and the procurement of
highway maintenance and workshop equipment for the extension of a new
highway maintenance program from a pilot province to the remainder of
the country. All construction and paving contracts have been awarded,
and are expected to be completed in early 1976. Procurement of equipment
is in progress and expected to be completed by mid-1976. The studies and
engineering are expected to be completed by early 1977.
Loan No. 994        Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
US$13.0 million Loan of June 7. 1974: Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project aims at integrating the on-farm production of com-
mercial crops for export with efficient hygienic processing facilities
using land that is presently idle or underutilized. It comprises (i)
on-farm development of asparagus, oak mushrooms and mushrooms; (ii) con-
struction of and improvements to facilities to process asparagus, oak
mushrooms, mushrooms and fruits; and (iii) technical assistance includ-
ing training of staff, services of consultants, etc.
Loan No. 1070       Secondary Cities Regional Project; US$15.0 million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The principal aims of the Project are the establishment of an or-
ganizational framework for regional investment, planning and development and



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
to improve working and living conditions in the secondary cities of the less
developed Gwangju region. The main elements of the Project are; (i) housing
sites and services in the cities of Yeosu, Mogpo and Gwangju (370,384 m2 ;
(ii) a fishery harbor complex with industrial processing zone (215,385 m=)
in Yeosu; (iii) a city market in Suncheon City (33,160 m2); and (iv) access
roads in Yeosu and Mogpo (6.61 km). It also provides technical assistance
to strengthen regional planning and development, to improve the utilization
of existing water supply systems in the four cities, to assist the manage-
ment and operation of the fishery complex and to carry out feasibility
studies of project proposals identified under the UNDP-financed Phase II
Regional Study.
Loan No. 1095       Korea Development Bank Project; US$60.0 million Loan
of March 31. 1975; Effective Date: June 17. 1975;
Closins Date:  June 30. 1979
The Project provides funds to KDB which will be used to make sub-
loans to finance direct imports for industrial sub-projects during the period
mid-1975 to mid-1977.
Loan No. 1096       Third Education ProJect; US$22.5 million Loan of
March 31, 1975; Effective Date: June 6. 1975;
Closing Date: June 30. 1980
The principal aims of the Project are to assist in supplying needed
skills and to establish a framework for evaluating performance and improving
the educational system. The Project consists of: (a) construction and equip-
ment of a new technical high school; (b) equipment and extension of buildings
for three agricultural junior colleges; (c) equipment and enlargement of build-
ings for a fisheries college, three fisheries high schools, and equipment for
one merchant marine junior college; (d) construction and equipment of seven
new vocational training institutes; and (e) financing of engineering and tech-
nical services required for the preparation of future education projects.
Loan No. 1101       Fifth Railway Proiect; US$100.0 million Loan of
April 10. 1975; Effective Date: July 15. 1975;
Closing Date: December 31. 1978
The Project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by helping in: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and other
equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and its financial
recovery. The main components of the Project are: an increase in station
and line capacity and improvements in signalling; acquisition of rolling
stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts and repair facilities;
track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening; completion of electri-
fication of 71 km of industrial lines; and other miscellaneous items.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
Loan No. 1145       Fifth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
US$55.0 million Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective Date:
September 5. 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Loan will cover about half the KDFC's foreign exchange
requirements through the end of 1977. It will be used to finance direct
imports of machinery and equipment, and the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods and of civil works.
Loan No. 1175       Medium Industry Bank (MIB) Prolect; US$30 million
Loan of November 26. 1975: Effective Date: January 28,
1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1980.
The project provides funds to MIB to make sub-loans to small
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises over the next two years.



ANNEX III
KOREA
PROGRAM LOAN
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:                          The Republic of Korea
Amount:                            US$75 million
Terms:                             20 years, including five years of grace,
at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
Project Description:               To help meet foreign exchange requirements
for the import into the Republic of Korea
by the private sector of essential capital
and intermediate goods.
Estimated Disbursements:           The entire loan amount is expected to De
disbursed by April 30, 1977.
Procurement Arrangements:          Only goods purchased by firms in the
private sector from Bank member countries
(and Switzerland) on the basis of normal
commercial practices through cash trans-
actions would be eligible for reimburse-
ment.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4 pages
GROWTH AND STABILIZATICN POLICY
1.        The goal of Korea's economic policy in 1976 and the following
years is the achievement of optimal growth consistent with the restoration
and maintenance of economic stability, and of a positive basic balance of
payments conducive to that growth.
2.        This overall policy goal will be approached through the coordinated
implementation of its interrelated elements: sound monetary and fiscal policies
aimed at the restraint of aggregate demand, the increase of domestic savings,
and the reduction of extra-budgetary deficits; appropriate balance of payments
measures, including export promotion and import restraint, the inducement of
favorable foreign investments and loans, and the sound management of foreign
debts; and the sustained attairnment of growth targets consistent with and
conducive to these policy objectives.
3.        While the following targets apply most specifically to 1976, the
principles involved will be equally relevant in 1977 and succeeding years.
The measures cited will be modified and refined in accordance with the
success of their ongoing implementation and with evolving domestic and
international conditions.
4.        Monetary policy objectives in 1976 and 1977 will continue to
emphasize restraint. In order to reduce the rate of inflation in wholesale
prices from 20 percent in 1975 to 10 percent in 1976 (assuming a 5 percent
increase in import prices), the expansion of domestic credit will be reduced
from 33 percent to 26 percent, and the rate of increase in money supply from
26 percent to 20 percent.
5.        Control of the money supply has been made easier by the effective-
ness of last year's efforts to curtail aggregate demand, which tapered off
significantly in the second half of the year. Achievement of the price
policy target depends to a considerable extent upon external conditions which
are less within our control, but the current evidence of a general easing of
international inflationary pressures gives us reason to consider this a
feasible immediate target. In 1977 and following years we expect to bring
our rate of inflation down to the one-digit range, and eventually to the level
prevailing among Korea's major trading partners.
6.        In the area of price policy, our task will be essentially one of
continued restraint, since the major structural changes necessitated by the
resources crisis are now complete, as evidenced by half-year price movements
in 1975. In the first half, wholesale and consumer price indices rose by 14.1
and 16.8 percent, while in the second half they increased by only 5.3 and 7.4
percent.
1/ A statement from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, Economic Planning
Board, Republic of Korea.



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4 pages
7.        Early this year the Government enacted a price stabilization and
fair trade law designed to support market competitiveness and to provide ob-
jective criteria for defining and controlling monopolistic and unfair trade
practices. The price movements of 100 key consumer commodities will be mon-
itored and appropriate stabilization measures taken to facilitate the
restraint of the consumer price index to an increase of less than 12 percent
in 1976. Public utilities rates, with their strong psychological as well as
cost-push effect upon other prices, will in general be held at their present
levels during 1976.
8.        Our domestic savings target is a 24 percent increase to W2,030
billion in 1976 with the objective of reversing the recent decline in the
ratio of domestic savings to GNP, which fell from 22.1 percent in 1973 to
18.1 percent in 1975 under the pressure of inflation and a deteriorating
balance of payments position. Our immediate objective is a modest increase
in this ratio to 18.6 percent in 1976, reestablishing a rising trend which we
expect to sustain in succeeding years. Motivation will be fostered through
real rates of return on savings and intermediation will be strengthened through
diversification of the savings channels offered by banks and other financial
institutions. In particular, household savings among those in the lower and
middle income brackets will be encouraged through the early establishment in
1976 of an installment savings program under which participants will be able
to deposit up to 30 percent of their monthly income in three- and five-year
accounts which will pay interest rates of 23 and 25 percent per annum.
9.        One-third of the purchase of rice by the Grain Management Fund in
this crop year (November 1975 to October 1976) is being paid for in the form
of short-term certificates carrying an interest rate of 18 percent per annum.
The total value of such certificates is estimated to be about W60 billion.
Strong regulatory measures are being taken to broaden the ownership of private
corporations which are expected to increase the supply of corporate securities
to public investors by about W200 billion during 1976.
10.       In the Government sector, our target in 1976 is a 24 percent increase
in savings from the level of W337 billion attained last year, to be achieved
by the improved management of extra-budgetary accounts, and other pertinent
measures.
11.       The price at which fertilizers are sold to faruers by the Fertilizer
Fund will fully reflect the prices paid by the Fund for imports and purchases
from domestic producers, thereby eliminating the need for budgetary subsidies
or additional borrowing by the Fund during 1976 and thereafter.
12.       The prices paid for the procurement and sale of grain by the Grain
Management Fund (GMF) will be set at levels which will enable the elimination
of the operating deficit in respect of wheat in 1976 and rice in 1977, leaving
only a small deficit resulting from the subsidy on barley, sales of which are
primarily to the lower income groups. The overall operating deficit of the
GMF will be totally eliminated in 1978 although the deficit on barley sales
may continue. The GMF may, however, continue to incur cash deficits for the
accumulation of grain inventories as needed.



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4 pages
13.       It is the Government's belief that through the reduction in the
rate of inflation and the other measures being taken, particularly in the
financial sector, an adequate improvement will be forthcoming in the mobili-
zation of private savings. Together with the steps being taken to improve
public savings, the Government expects a satisfactory improvement in the
economy's aggregate savings performance. If it becomes clear that a posi-
tive rate of return on financial savings will not be achieved by the end of
1976, the interest rate structure will be reviewed and necessary corrective
measures will be taken in a timely manner.
14.       The management of public enterprises will be further rationalized
through the introduction of specific incentives whereby salary increases
and other benefits will be tied to performance, and through detailed examina-
tion of management by independent appraisal missions empowered to order
specific corrections and improvements.
15.       A broad-based value added tax will be legislated in 1976, which we
hope to implement in 1977, making possible a simplified and more equitable
sharing of the tax burden which national development requires.
16.       The effectiveness with which these interrelated policies are car-
ried out, particularly those dealing with national savings, will naturally
have considerable bearing upon the achievement of the nation's balance of
payments objectives, since it will affect our capability to attain our 1976
target of a 28 percent increase in exports from $5.1 to $6.5 billion, and to
restrain imports to a projected 14 percent increase from $6.5 to $7.4 billion.
With respect to the former target, our markets are diversifying fairly steadily.
Exports, on a customs clearance basis, to countries other than the United
States and Japan have expanded rapidly both in absolute and relative terms,
rising from $1.7 billion or 37 percent of Korea's total exports in 1974 to
$2.4 billion or 45 percent in 1975, of which more than 7 percent were to the
Middle East.
17.       Export promotion measures are being refined to reflect and take
maximum advantage 'of current circumstances and opportunities. Foreign ex-
change loan funds for the expansion of domestic export facilities will be
increased to $205 million, and Korean currency funds to W50 billion, while
available medium and long term export credit will be increased from W270
million to W700 million. The export of technology-intensive durable goods,
such as machinery and electronic products, the further development and ex-
pansion of integrated trading companies, and the fullest possible exploitation
of Korea's material and manpower export opportunities in the Middle East and
elsewhere will also be fostered.
18.       The target for overseas construction contracts in 1976 is a 71 per-
cent increase to $1.2 billion, while that for freight receipts is a 47 percent
increase to $148 million through increased utilization of Korean flag vessels.
Receipts from tourism are targeted to increase by 33 percent to $200 million.



ANNEX IV
Page 4 and 4 pages
19.     With respect to imports, substitution will be strongly encouraged
in areas where Korea has a present or potential comparative advantage. All
categories of imported items will be screened to assess such comparative
advantages.
20.     As noted earlier, the ratio of domestic savings to GNP fell from
22.1 percent in 1973 to 18.1 percent in 1975. During this period, our foreign
savings ratio increased commensurately from 4.0 percent to 11.4 percent,
resulting in a marked decline in the share of domestic savings in gross
investments from 85 percent to 58 percent. In the financing of investment,
every possible effort will be devoted to increasing that share to at least
71 percent in 1976 and by a comparable degree in the following years, while
maintaining a substantially steady ratio of gross investment to GNP.
21.     The trade deficit is expected to fall from $1.4 billion in 1975
to some $900 million in 1976 and the current account deficit from $1.9
billion to about $1.5 billion, as the result of some measure of economic
recovery in Korea's major export markets and a cessation of the three-year
decline in its terms of trade. Assuming growth of 5 to 6 percent in the
United States and Japan, export volume is forecast to rise by 22 percent, or
at about the same rate as in 1975. This forecast assumes an average level of
exports throughout 1976 only 5 percent above the level achieved in the second
half of 1975. The increase in exports, combined with a moderate growth of GNP
in Korea, is expected to result in a 9 percent increase in the volume of imports.
The terms of trade are projected to remain at the 1975 level, with both
export and import prices rising by 5 percent. This is a conservative
assumption, since the terms of trade began to improve in the third quarter
of 1975, following an unbroken run of declines in the preceding 11 quarters.
22.     The fundamental balance of payments objective is the restoration and
maintenance of a positive basic balance. In 1976, we expect that the current
account deficit will be covered by anticipated net disbursements of medium-
and long-term loans and investments. By the end of the decade, we intend
to reduce the deficit to about 1-2 percent of GNP. This strengthening of
the balance of payments will facilitate an improvement in the maturity
structure of external borrowing and reduce reliance on short-term borrowing.
23.     As for economic growth itself, our goals, as mentioned earlier, are
less a matter of meeting a target than of adjusting to an optimal level
compatible with the maintenance of domestic economic stability and the attain-
ment of our balance of payments objectives. In the light of current and
projected conditions, a growth of 7 to 8 percent in 1976 appears consistent
with these criteria, while permitting the maintenance of the necessary level
of employment and the desired degree of economic momentum. Real growth will
of course be a function of our success in achieving the goals of these inter-
related policies, particularly our domestic savings goals, within the
evolving context of domestic and international developments.
January 24, 1976



ANNEX V
KOREA
PROGRAM LOAN
UNDP PLANNING ASSISTANCE PROJECT
The Bank is providing technical assistance under the project either
through its own staff or through the hiring of consultants in the various
fields listed below:
1.   Analysis of Development Strategies
2.   Inter-Industry Model Building
3.   Pricing Policies (Power and Agriculture)
4.   Trade Policies
5.   Fiscal Policy
6.   Domestic Resource Mobilization and Financial Planning
7.   Industrial Planning
8.   Energy Policy
9.   Agriculture
10.   Human Resources (Manpower & Education)
11.   Social Development (Health, Social Security Insurance)
12.   Transportation
13.   Urban and Regional Planning



ANNEX VI
KOREA
STATISTICAL APPENDIX
Table No.                     Title
1.        Expenditure on Gross National Product
2.        Industrial Origin of GNP
3.        Investment and Savings
4.        Composition of Gross Domestic Investment
5.        Balance of Payments
6.        Exports, Major Commodities
7.        Destination of Exports
8.        Imports by End Use
9.        Imports of Petroleum
10.        External Assistance, Disbursements
11.        Official Loans Classified by Terms
12.        Commercial Loans Classified by Terms
13.        National Budget
14.        Monetary Survey
15.        Interest Rates
16.        Industrial Production and Inventories
17.        Export and Import Prices, External Terms of Trade
18.        Domestic Prices



TABLE 1: Expenditure on Gross National Product
(billion won)
Constant 1970 Prices            Est.    Est.
1970    1971    1972    1973    197k    1975    1976
Consumption                 2166    2392    2552    2753    2934    3112    3298
Private                  1884    2080    2226    2416    2547    2682    2803
Government                282     312     326     337     387     430     495
Gross Domestic Capital
Formation                 705     749     668     922    1102    1083     939
Fixed Investment          650     681     659     852     939    1021     920
Increase in stocks         54      68       9      70     163      62      19
Exports of Goods & non-factor
Services                  381     459     643    1034    1011    1162    14671/
Imports of Goods & non-factor
Services                  642     774     801    1087    1124    1119    1308i
Statistical Discrepancy      -32       2     -26     -72     -65     -73     -
Gross Domestic Product      2577    2829    3036    3549    3858    4166    n.a.
(% Change)                 (9)    (10)     (7)    (17)     (9)     (8)
Net Factor Income from Abroad 12      -2     -12     -27     -33     -58    n.a.
Gross National Product      2589    2827    3024    3523    3826    4108    4395
------------------------------------------------------------------------__---__--
(% Change)                 (8)     (9)     (7)    (17)     (9)     (7)     (7)
Current Prices
Consumption                 2166    2693    3282    3839    5476    7416    8914
Private                  1884    2337    2844    3360    4734    6323    7486
Government                282     356     438     479     742    1093    1428
Gross Domestic Capital
Formation.                705     806     805    1292    2126    2460    2843
Fixed Investment          650     730     780    1169    1755    2301    2479
Increase in stocks         54      76      25     123     371     158     364
Exports of Goods & non-factor
Services                  381     514     814    1578    2071    2730    37761
Imports of Goods & non-factor                                                   1/
Services                  642     866    1014    1740    2923    3585    45887-
Statistical Discrepancy      -32       7     -13      -4      95     205     -
Gross Domestic Product      2577    3154    3875    4966    6845    9225    n.a.
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
(% Change)                (25)    (22)    (23)    (28)    (38)    (35)
Net Factor Income from Abroad 12      -2     -15     -37     -66    -174    n.a.
Gross National Product      2589    3152    3860    1422    6779    9052   11945
(% change)                (24)    (22)    (22)    (28)    (38)    (34)    (21)
GNP Deflator (1970=100)      100.0   111.5   127.6   139.9   177.2   220.4   249.1
1/ Ineludes factor services
SOURCE: BOK Economic Statistics Yearbook; information provided to mission by EPB



TABLE 2: Industrial Origin of GNP (billion,won)
Constant Prices                  Est.    Est.
1970    1971    1972     1973    1974    1975    1976-
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__--
Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishery                    725     748     761     803     848     900      936
(% Change)                (-1)      (3)     (2)     (6)     (6)     (6)     (4)
Mining & Manufacturing        591     690     794    1036    1212     1355    1517
(% Change)                 (18)    (17)    (15)    (31)    (17)    (12)     (12)
Social Overhead
Capital                   345      368     389     483     509     564      609
(% Change)                (10)      (7)     (6)    (24)     (5)    (11)      (8)
Other                         916    1023    1092    1227    1289    1289     1334
(% Change)                (lo)    (12)      (7)    (12)     (5)    (O)-      (4)
Gross Domestic Product       2577    2829    3036    3549    3858    n.a.     n.a.
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__--
(% Change)                 (9)     (10)     (7)    (17)     (9)
Net Factor Income from Abroad 12       -2     -12     -27     -33    n.a.     n.a.
Gross National Product       2589    2827    3024    3523    3826    4108     4395
------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__--
(% Change)                 (8)      (9)     (7)    (17)     (9)     (7)      (7)
Current Prices
Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishery                    725     911    1095    1280    1718    2325     2827
(% Change)                (21)    (26)     (,.o)   (17)    (34)    (35)     (22)
Mining & Manufacturing        591     719     941    1338    1963     2639    3261
(% Change)                 (30)    (22)    (31)    (42)    (47)    (35)     (24)
Social Overhead
Capital                   345      400     478     622     769    1048     1235
(% Change)                 (25)    (16)    (20)    (30)    (24)    (36)     (18)
Other                         916    1124    1361    1726    2395    3039     3621
(% Change)                 (26)    (23)    (17)    (27)    (39)    (31)     (19)
Gross Domestic Product       2577    3154    3875    4966    6845     n.a.    n.a.
------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__--
(% Change)                (25)     (22)    (23)    (28)    (38)
Net Factor Income from Abroad 12       -2     -15     -37      -66    n.a.    n.a.
Gross National Product       2589    3152    3860    4929    6779     9052   10945
-----------------------------------------------------------__-_____---------__--
(% Change)                 (24)    (22)    (22)    (28)    (38)     (34)    (21)
------------------------------_-__---------------------------------__--------__--
-OURCE:     BOK Economic Statistics Yearbook, information provided to mission by EPB
SOURCE: BOK Economic Statistics Yearbook, information provided to mission by EPB



Table 3: INVESTMENT AND SAVINGS
(billion won)
Proj.   Bet.
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
Gross Domestic Fixed           650     730     780    1169    1755    2301    2479
Capital Formation
Increase in Stocks              54      76      25     123     371     150     364
Gross Domestic
Capital Formation             705     806     805    1292    2126    2460    2843
National Savings               423     458     577    1090    1303    1636    2031
Private                     243     268     428     865    1100    1299    1613
Government                  180     190     150     225     203     337     418
Foreign Savings                249     354     215     199     918    1029     812
Net transfers from
abroad                       56      59      67      76      go     107      77
Net borrowing from
abroad                      193     295     148     123     827     922     735
Statistical Discrepancy         32      -7      13       4      -95   -205      -
GNP                           2589    3152    3860    4929    6779    9052   10945
SOURCE:  BOK Economic Statistics Yearbook, information provided to mission by EPB



TABLE_a . Composition of Gross Domestic Investment
(billion won)
Preliminary
1970   1971   1972    1973    1974      1975
Current Prices
Fixed Capital Formation             650    730    780    1169    1755       2301
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishery    52     60     85     100     190        280
Mining and Quarrying               3      5      5       8      17         28
Manufacturing                    129    143    156     339     390        499
Construction                       8     10     11      22      17         35
Electricity, Water, Sanitation    74     63     45      53     111        153
Transport, Storage, Communication :68   193    234     300     469        594
Wholesale and Retail Trade        39     46     37      48      83        106
Banking, Insurance, Real Estate    7      5      5       8      13         29
Ownership of Dwellings            88    101    105     158     299        409
Public Administration             13     23     26      24      28         31
Services                          70     79     72     110     139        136
Increase in stocks                   54     76     25     123     371        159
Gross Domestic Investment           705    805    805    1292    2126       2460
Constant 1970 Prices
Fixed Capital Formation             650    681    59     852     939       1021
Agriculture, Forestry,Fishery     52     56     72      76      98        123
Mining and Quarrying               3      5      4       6       8         11
Manufacturing                    129    132    129     238     195        208
Construction                       8      9      9      14&      8         13
Electricity, Water, Sanitation    74     60     40      41      64         71
Transportation,Storage,Communi-  168    178    197     212     250        261
cation
Wholesale and Retail Trade        39     44     31      37      48         50
Banking, Insurance, Real Estate    7      5      4       6       8         14
Ownership of Dwellings            88     96     89     121     171        192
Public Administration             13     21     22      18      16         14
Services                          70     75     62      85      74         65
Increase in stocks                   54     68      9      70     163         62
Gross Domestic Investment           705    749    668     922    1102       1083
SOURCE: BOK Monthly Economic Statistics, information provided to mission by EPB



TABLE 5: Balance of Payments
,(million US$)
EstimatedJ Pro.iected_J
1970   1971   1972   1973   1974    1975     1976
Current Account                 -623   -848   -371   -309  -2040   -1938    -1707
Exports                     882   1132   1676   3271   4515    5064     6350
Imports                   -1804  -2178  -2250  -3837  -6468   -6600    -7500
Trade Balance              -922  -1046   -574   -566  -L292   -1336    -11 0
Invisibles                  119     28     33     67   -309    -612     -711
Transfers                   180    171    170    190    222     210      154
Capital Account                  502    634    502    760    812    1821     1575
Private Investment           66     43     74    137    104      42      135
Commercial MLT Capital      206    168    217    273    498     572      568
Official MLT Capital        108    288    230    267    255     489      622 /
Short-term Capital          122    135    -19     83    -45     718      250
Errors and Omissions             142     46     62     16    133      -        -
Financing                        -21    168   -193   -467   1095.    117      132
IMF                         -13     -      -      _     132     128       75
Bank borrowing over one
year                       -20     85     -5    -19    203      69       57
Change in net reservesi/     12     83   -188   -448    760     -80        0
(+ decrease)
Memo:
Net Reserves (beginning of yearT 515    5O3    420    608   1056     296      376
2/   Mission estimates
g/   Includes proposed program loan
S/   Net reserves equals gross foreign assets minus short-term foreign exchange
liabilities of the banking system.
SOURCE: Economic Planning Board and Mission estimates.



TABLE 6: Exports, Ma.ior Commodities
tmillion $, fob)
Jan.-Sept. Avge. Growth -te
1970   1971   1972  1973   1974    1975     1970-74 (Percent)
Fish & FiJh Preparations
(03)I                     40.8   42.4  70.4 143.5   168.4   159.6      43
Veneer Sheets and Plywoods (63) 91.7  127.4 153.6  270.8  163.4  154.8       16
Textiles (65)                  84.9 137.8   176.6  435.2 492.6   446.8       56
Iron and Steel (67)            13.4   24.4   92.8  188.9  450.3  143.6      240
Electrical Machinery and
Appliances (72)          143.9   68.5 223.3  312.5 474.2    295.8       72
Clothing (84)                 213.6  304.3 442.4 749.9   957.0   764.0      45
Footwear (85)                  17.3   37.4   55.4  106.4  179.5  126.2       76
Miscellaneous Manufactures
(89)                     114.1   91.8  121.8  243.0 294.9   263.1      27
(Percent of Total Exports)    (74.2) (78.1) (82.3) (76.0) (71.3)  (69.9)
Total Exports                 835.2 1067.6 1624.1 3225.0 4460.4 3368.9      52
I/   Numbers in parentheses are SITC Codes
SOURCE: Office of Customs Administration, Monthly Foreign Trade Statistics.



TABLE 7s Destination of Exports
1975
1970     1971    1972    1973     1974     Jan.-Sept.
---------------(million $,fob)------------------------
u.S.                      395      532     759    1021     1492      1035
Japan                     234      262     408    1242     1380      866
Europe                     73       82     153     350      567       547
Canada                     20       29      58     125      167      132
Hong Kong                  28       41      72     118       151      123
Others                     85      122     174     369      703      665
TOTAL                     835     1068    1624    3225     4460      3368
Percent Composition
U.S.                       47       50      47      32        33       31
Japan                      28       25      25      39       31       26
Europe                      9        8       9      11        13       16
Canada                      2        3       4       4        4        4
Hong Kong                   3        4       4       4         3       4
Others                     10       11      11      11       15       20
SOURCE: EPB Monthly Statistics of Korea



TABLE 8: Imports by End Use
(million dollars,cif)
Estimated ProJected
1972   1973   1974                1975     1976
Capital Goods          762   1157   1849                1837      2059
Raw Materials for
Exports                688   1547    1958               2000     2500
Crude Oil              221    277   1109                 1340     1605
Grain                  283    444    613                 724       451
Consumer goods, raw
materials and inter-
mediate goods for
domestic use           569    815   1323                 1199      14b5
TOTAL                 2522   4240   6852                 7100      8100
SOURCE:  Data supplied to mission by EPB and mission estimates.



TABLE 9s    Imports of Petroleum
Estimated Projected
1970  1971  1972  1973  1974       1975     1976
Crude Oil
(million barrels)          69    85    93   103   113        121      134
Value (million $)         119   179   221   277   1109      1340     1605
Unit Price ($/barrel)     1.7   2.1   2.4   2.7   9.8       11.1      12.0
SOURCE: EPB estimates provided to mission



TABLE 10. External Assistance, Disbursements
(million $)
1970       1971      1972      1973    1974
Multilateral Institutions         13         59        71       96     155
ADB                            5         13        10        42     46
IBRD                           7         31       57        48       89
IDA                            1         15        4         6      20
Governments                    1148        313       333       399-    242
Japan                         13        123       75       129     113
USA                          126       170       230       257      82
Other                         9         20        28        13      47
SOURCE: IBRD, External Debt Division



TABLE 11: Official Loans Classified by Terms, 1959-73
(Commitment Basis)
(US$ million)
1959-'66   1967-'71   1972   1973   1974   1959-'74
Interest Rate
0-1%                     78.0        50.0     26.0   20.0     -      173.6
1-3%                    194.0       450.0    262.0   42.0   25.0    972.0
3-5%                     64.0        75.0    165.0  205.0  202.5     711.2
5-7%                      5.0        94.0              -    35.0    134.0
Over 7%                             230.0    138.0  206.3  194.0     767.4
Floating rate             1.0         5.0              -      -        6.2
Total                   3~42.o      903.0    590.0  473.3  456.5    2764.4
Grace Period
0-3 years                21.0       136.0     33.0   87.0    70.0   347.0
3-5 years                16.0        89.0    180.0  113.2   38.0    435.0
5-7 years                45.0       207.0     93.0   14.0  303.5     661.2
7-9 years                 -
Over 9 years            260.0       472.0    283.0  260.1   45.0   1320.9
Total                   342.o       903.0    590.0  473.3  456.5    2764,4
1/
Repayment Period'
3-10 years                6.0         4.0              -      -       10.5
10-15 years              15.0       130.0     58.0   30.2   100.0    333.0
15-20 years              67.0       153.0    175.0   68.2  141.5     604.5
20-30 years               3.0       229.0     73.0 203.1    190.0   698.0
30-40 years             236.0       340.0    258.0  146.8   25.0    1006.5
Over 40 years            14.0        47.0     26.0   25.0     -      111.9
Total                   342.o       903.0    590.0  473.3  456.5   2764.4
l/ Includes grace period
SOURCE: Bureau of Economic Cooperation, EPB



TABLE 12: Commercial Loans Classified by Tenms, 1962-74
(Commitment Basis)
(US$ million)
1962-66    1967-71  1972   1973  1974     1962-74
Interest Rate
0-4%                    20.0        4.0      -     6.o    1.1     31.5
4-5%                    82.0       11.0      4.0   -      -       97.6
5-6%                   158.0      963.0     44.0 155.9   98.3   1418.6
6-7%                    36.0      282.0     47.0  47.1  379.0    791.7
7-8%                     3.0      270.0     10.0  45.0   96.8    426.5
8-9%                     -        101.0     70.0  22.3    6.4    200.9
Over 9%                  -        161.0      -     7.0   15.1    182.9
Floating rate            -        101.0    122.0 304.6 490.1    1017.7
Total                  301.0     1894.0    297.0 587.9 1086.8   4166.3
Grace Period
0-1 year                59.0      491.0     58.0  46.2  138.9    793.5
1-2 years              102.0      50.o     4k9.0  78.9 268.7    1008.1
2-3 years               84.0      410.0    107.0 273.8  315.5   1189.9
3-4 years               44.0      120.0     74.0  30.2  359.2    628.4
4-5 years                -        126.0      9.0  76.0    1.9    212.0
Over 5 years            11.0      238.0      -    82.8    2.6    334.4
Total                  301.0     1894.0    297.0 587.9 1086.8   4166.3
Repayment periodl/
3-5 years                6.o       296.0     5.0   16.1   14.1   373.0
5-10 years             151.0      679.0     93.0 213.2  449.1   1583.5
'Sub-total             157.0       975.0    98.0 229.3   463.2  1956.5
10-11 years             42.0      143.0     39.0 228.0  133.0    585.0
-11-12 years            60.0       101.0    16.0   55.0   3.7    235.0
12-13 years              5.0      210.0     38.0  33.0   43.0    329.0
13-14 years             11.0       24.0      5.0    -   298.7    339.0
- 14-15 years            25.0      186.0     28.0    -   145.0    384.0
15-20 years              -        256.o     37.0  43.6    -      336.7
Sub-total              143.0      920.0    163.0 360.0 623.7    2209.0
Total                  301.0     1894.0    297.0 587.9 1086.8   4166.3
g/   Include grace period
SOURCE: Bureau of Economic Cooperation, EPB



TABLE 13: National Budget
(billion won)
Actuals            Revised
1971      1972    1973    1974   1975      1976
draft    draft
Revenue                      488        511     609     946   1390     1849
Domestic taxes            356        374     439     718    992     1213
Customs                    52        59       82     127    170      204
Monopoly                   45        43       57      69    136      178
Defense sur-tax             -         -       -       -      58      214
Other /                    35        34      30      32      35       40
Expenditures
Current                   369       461      475     714   1077     1496
Defense                  135       174     184     294    463      705
Grants to local govt.    91       100      106     123    180      240
Salaries and pensions    68        89       91     141    202      325
Other                    75         98      94     156    232      226
Capital                   177        190     177     301    480      540
Transfer to non-budgetary
accounts                    7        22       70     176    290      270
Overall Deficit               66       163      113     245    457      457
Financing
Domestic non-market
borrowing                 7         9       11      14     24       30
Counterpart fund           12         4       -       -      -        -
BOK borrowing               3         92      61     191    290      170
Cash balance               -         -32     -31      -      -        -
Foreign borrowing          44         89      71      40    143      157
Grain Bonds                 -         -       -       -      -       100
Memo
Current Account Surplus   119        50      134     232    313      353
(% GNP)                   3.8       1.3     2.7     3.4     3.5      3.2
1/   Includes foreign grants and non-tax revenues
SOURCE: Information provided to mission by EPB



TABLE 14: Monetary Survey
September September
1970   1971   1972   1973   1974      1974     1975
(Billion Won)
Domestic Credit      867   1135   1479   1940   2984       2578    3753
Private Sector    919   1201   1463   1900   2863       2574    3457
Public Sector     -52     -66    16     40     121         4     296
Foreign Assets       196    198    311    476     535       399     672
Other Assets          77    124    170    202     231       218     261
Total Assets/Liabili-
ties             1140   1456   1960   2619   3751       3195    4686
Money (Ml)           308    358    519     730    946       885    1073
Quasi-Money          590    727    932   1243    1490      1461    1875
Foreign Liabilities   86    161    209     177    715       335     972
Other Liabilities Z  156    210    300    4619    600       514     766
Percent Change over previous year
Domestic Credit     26.8   30.9    30.3   31.2   53.8      43.9    45.6
Ml                  22.2   16.2   45.0   40.7    29.6      35.3    21.2
M2 v                27.6   20.8   33.7   36.0    23.5      29.8    25.7
Quasi-money         30.2   23.2   28.2    33.4   19.9      26.5    28.3
2/   Includes time deposits, savings deposits and residents' deposits in
foreign currency
g/   Includes Bonds, Debentures, Guarantees, Capital Account and others
y/   M2 includes money (currency and demand deposits) and quasi-money
SOURCE: BOK Monthly Economic Statistics



Tabla i5s   DSwzr           aim   OF BJR U    95U51r
1965                 19S8              U*m                                         IS1192173        1974        IM7
Prior to
Sept. 30 Sept. 30     April I   Oct. 1      JOI I       J    28    Jm. 17    Aug. 3      Aug. 16    Jan. 24   we. g    Jl1y I
Denosits
Tine Deposits
Over 18 montha           15o0      30.0       27.6      e/            _         21.5        17 4     12.6        12 6        15.      15 0     15 0
Over 12 maonths          15.0      26.4       26 4      T5.2         21.8       20.4        16 .     12.0        12 0        15 0     15.s     15.0
Over 6 months            12.0      24.0       20 4      19.2         16.8       14.4        11 4      8.4         8.4        13 2     15.0     13.8
Over 3 months             9.0      18.0       15.6      14.4         12.0       10.2         8.4      6.0         6.0        12.0     15.0     12.6
Short-Term Savings
Notice                    3 65      5.00       5.80      5.00         5.00       5.00        5.00     3.65        3.65 A      3.65     3.65     6.0
Savings                   3.60      7.20       -         -            -          -                -      _                             _         -
Nev Household Deposits v/   -         -         12.0      12.0          9.6        8.7         6.6      4.8         4.8 b      4.8       4.8       -
Installment Savings
Deposits                 10.0      30.0       28.0      25.0         23.0       21.0        17.0     12.0        12.0 At     13.2     13.2     1?.2
Deposits of National
Savings Association      16.8      30.0       28.0      25.2         22.8       21.0        17.4      12.6       12.6        12.6     12.6     12.6
lAmand Deposits
Paesbook                  1.80      1.80       1.80      1.80         1.80       1.80        1.80     1.80        1.80I /     1.80     1.80     1.8
Teorary                   1.08      1.00       1.00      1.00         1.00       1.00        1.00      1.00       1.0l6/      1.00     1.00     1.0
/   Time deposit rates are actual rates agreed upon by the Korea Bankieg Association. The other rates are nsximus rates decided by the
Monetary Board.
_/ Abolished in November 1967.
c   N Bev Household Deposits - nazi,u  balance per account 5 millieo wel; depositors mst be individu"ls or non-profit organizations, *nd a 30 days'
notice is required for withdrawal.
M May 1. 1973
Source: Bank of Korea, Monthly Economic Statistics.



Table 16. INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION AND INVENTORIES
(1970=100)
Industrial Production   Producers' Inventory
% Change from          % Change from
Index   previous year   Index previous year
1970               100.0       11.5        100.0        n.a.
1971               115.4       15.4        123.1        23.1
1972               132.2       14.6        145.9        18.5
1973               176.4       33.4        145.1        -0.5
1974               225.0       27.6        211.7        45.9
1974 March         222.1       38.0        184.2        32.6
June         241.0       40.6        204.1        50.4
August       218.5       14.6        233.5        64.4
December     245.9       19.4        221.0        46.4
1975 March         254.5       14.6        236.7        28.5
June         262.5        8.9        242.9        10.1
August       278.8       27.6        236.5         1.3
Source: EPB Statistics of Korea; information provided to mission



TABLE 17: Export and Import Prices, External Terms of Trade
Jan.-Sept.  Est.   Proj.
1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975       1975   1976
ExportsY'
Value (mil. $ fob)     835   1068   1624   3225   4460   3368      4995   6264
Unit price index
(197oaloO)       100.0   98.8   99.9  126.5  160.2  143.9     149.1 156.6
Inports 
Value (mil.$ cif)     1984   2394   2522   4240   6852   5327       7100   8100
Unit price index
(1970=100)       100.0   99.6  101.3  135.2  210.3  209.8     220.8  231.8
Terms of Trade           100.0   99.2   98.6   93.6   76.2   68.6      67.5   67.6
(% Change)               -0.8   -0.6   -5.1  -18.6            -1.4     0.2
j/ Customs clearance basis
SOURCE: BOK Monthly Economic Statistics, mission estimates



Table 18.   DOMESTIC PRICES
(1970=100)
Wholesale Prices     Ccnsumer Prices      GNP Deflator
% Change           % Change from         % Change
from pre-          previous              from pre-
Index vious year    Index year           Index  viou ya
1970               100.0      9.2      100.0  16.0         100.0    15.3
1971               108.6      8.6      113.5  13.5         111.5    11.5
1972               123.8     14.0      126.8   11.7        127.6    14.4
1973               132.4      6.9      130.8   3.2         139.9     9.6
1974               188.2     42.1      162.6  24.3         177.2    26.7
1975 '             238.0     26.5     203.7   25.3          220.4    24.4
1974   March       179.8     40.8      157.2  22.6
June        190.7     47.0      159.7   23.5
September   193.9     42.9      170.9   29.1
December    210.0     44.6      174.5   26.4
1975   March       225.5     25.4      189.2  20.4
June        U39.6     25.6      203.9   27.7
September   244.3     26.0      215.4   26.0
December 2/ 252.4     20.2      218.9   25.4
2/     Estimated
Source: BOK Monthly Economic Statistics and mission estimates






IBRD 10375
-= S US.S R 2 / g 127- 12ar 129'                              APRIL 1973
U S.S R.
CHINA           -'-J /  N O R T H  K O R E A
C H 1, N  ea  a  >4
/  Japoongh                                               Es     Sea
KOREA
REPOF
jKOREA~/   IPImfj
A  Ponmuni                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~38* 
Yelo         4@}PANX tN                                                             3
Sea  _ "'          .         GY   NG I *~ >Cbuncheon ANG WEON 
L  ~~j~~PcfC            Ws 5''
Ias t  O                                                    Gaaneung
E05, ~ ~~~ ~ ~~                           20 c e      60    80    lo
2,5na Sea,                                                           Mukho
125'            2'Smho
Any g
37'                 sea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
heongju      ndong~~~~~~~~~Poon
36~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
36.
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
34* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
35'                       unc e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poico budre
Expr.Inernwatisa bundercosrucios
- 6-                               Prmr  od
0  20   40   60   50   100R1l0w1y0  3AO
-34'                                           Ro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IilwOsMnercostrcto
125  t20           I,,.             13e      d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 O e 0 I c0~~Arprt



