Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5242 
Operation Name 
Morocco - Sustainable Access to Finance DPL 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
General finance sector (35%); Banking (25%); Capital markets 
(25%); Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual 
savings (15%) 
Project ID 
P117201 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Bd. Med V. Quartier Administratif 
Rabat Chellah 
Morocco 
Tel: (212-3) 5376-77501 
Fax: (212-3) 5376-7527 
internet@finances.gov.ma 
Date PID Prepared 
November 19, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 30, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
January 26, 2010 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Morocco has made substantial progress in developing its financial sector.  The total assets of 
Moroccan financial institutions have grown significantly and exceed 200 percent of GDP, a ratio 
that is well above the level predicted by Morocco’s per capita income. This progress in financial 
development has been the result of sound macroeconomic policies and important financial sector 
reforms earlier in the decade, which positioned Morocco to take advantage of favorable 
conditions (e.g. abundant liquidity and global economic growth).  These financial reforms were 
supported by the Bank through a Financial Sector Development Policy Loan in 2005, and 
included the restructuring of state-owned financial institutions, the strengthening of the 
regulatory framework and the improvement of financial infrastructure. 
While the financial system has grown significantly, access remains an issue and new risks have 
emerged. The rapid growth of financial institutions in recent years has contributed to Morocco’s 
growth performance and expanded the frontiers of finance.  However, it is also apparent that, 
despite significant improvements, the financial system is not yet providing services to large 
segments of low income households and Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs).  Moreover, this 
rapid growth has also generated new risks in the banking and insurance sectors that need to be 
effectively managed.  In the microcredit sector, an industry generally characterized by very low 
default rates, a rapid growth combined with inadequate risk management and internal controls 
resulted in portfolio problems and a loss of outreach. The global financial crisis added 
importance to further reforms, not only for having produced a credit slowdown that typically 
affects the most vulnerable sectors, but also for having shown the need to strengthen financial 
infrastructure and financial regulation to ensure that any further access gains are sustainable. 
 
Page  2
2. Operation Objectives 
The objective of the proposed operation is to support the Government’s efforts to expand further 
the access of households and small and medium enterprises to finance, while ensuring the 
stability of the financial system.  Expanded access of households and enterprises to finance will 
contribute to a sound growth performance and further reductions in poverty, but sustained 
improvements in access require further strengthening of financial regulation and supervision, and 
effective management of all the risks involved.  Unlike other countries, Morocco has been able 
to preserve financial stability since the start of the international crisis, but needs to ensure that 
further gains in access are well managed and sustainable.   
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed Sustainable Access to Finance Development Policy Loan contributes to Morocco’s 
efforts, both financially and technically.  First, it contributes to a balanced financing package, 
helping the Government meet its larger borrowing requirements resulting from the global crisis, 
while avoiding excessive pressures on the domestic financial market.  Second, it provides 
support to an important reform that will contribute to growth and poverty alleviation.  Third, it 
will allow the World Bank to remain engaged in the design of more challenging reform 
components, contributing to their quality.  Fourth, the Moroccan reform provides important 
lessons for other countries, for recognizing explicitly the need to combine the objectives of 
access and stability. The proposed DPL contributes to critical objectives of the Country 
Partnership Strategy which is currently being finalized. 
 
4. Financing 
 
The proposed Sustainable Access to Finance Development Policy Loan is a Two tranche Loan in 
the amount of 100 million USD. The first tranche will be disbursed following Board approval, 
which will be conditional on the realization of specific reforms and the second tranche upon the 
fulfillment of a detailed set of measures.  
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The responsibility for implementing the program rests with the Ministry of Finance, in 
collaboration with the Central Bank.  The Government will take the lead in monitoring progress 
in implementation and in updating the program policy matrix as appropriate.  The Ministry of 
Finance is coordinating inputs from all the relevant authorities.   
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
The operation aims at achieving sustained improvements in access to finance to households and 
SMEs, while ensuring a resilient and stable financial system.  Capital market development is an 
important objective as well, as it contributes both to access and stability.  The first pillar contains 
measures that promote access to households while the second pillar comprises measures to 
enhance access to small and medium enterprises.  The launch of a credit bureau and revised 
partial credit guarantee mechanisms will allow further progress in access and improved risk 
management. The third pillar strengthens the resiliency of the financial system through further 
improvements in financial regulation and supervision. It will allow an early identification of risks 
Page  3
and will avoid a repeat of the difficulties experienced by the microcredit industry. The fourth 
pillar, capital market development, contributes both to access and stability. It promotes 
competition to banks which will encourage them to go down market, and will make new 
information and instruments available therefore making further gains in long term financing (e.g. 
mortgage loans or investment credits) possible. 
 
In the short term, Morocco is confronted with uncertainties on the timing and speed of the 
recovery from the global crisis. Risks are mitigated through continued strong macroeconomic 
management. A deterioration of the credit portfolios of some institutions (e.g. microcredit 
associations) could jeopardize expected improvements in access. The Government has proved its 
resolve and capacity to handle such situation. The resumption of long-term bond issues, which is 
essential to market development, may imply some increase in the reference rate for existing 
mortgage holders. However, low income mortgage holders would not be affected and the impact 
would remain limited for other households. In the wake of the global crisis, some initiatives may 
be received with more caution. The Government is addressing this risk by proposing only tested 
instruments which bring clear benefits to the country and setting up appropriate prudential 
regulations to reduce risks. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Since this proposed operation is a DPL, it falls under Operation Policy 8.60.  As the DPL is not 
expected to have significant environmental effect, according to OP 8.60, safeguard policies and 
an Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet (ISDS) is not needed as none of the Bank’s safeguard 
policies are triggered by this operation.  The project will not have significant impact on the 
country’s environment, forests and other natural resources.  None of the Bank’s safeguard 
policies are triggered by the proposed project. 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Cédric Mousset 
Title: Sr Financial Sector Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-9234 
Fax: (202) 614-9234 
Email: cmousset@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
Page  4
