Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 17075 HR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF DEM65 MILLION (US DOLLARS 36.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
CROATIAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FORA
MUNICIPAL ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
May 27, 1998
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1998)
Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna (HRK)
HRKI = US$0.162
US$1 = HRK6.15
DEMI = US$0.56
US$1 = DEM1.80
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOD       Biochemical Oxygen Demand
EBRD       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EKO      EKO Kastelanski Zaljev (Agency for Implementation of the Kastela Bay Project)
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
EU      European Union
FRR      Financial Rate of Return
HBOR       Hrvatska Banka Za Obnovu I Razvitak (Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and
Development)
HV      Hrvatske Vode (Croatian Water)
I/s    liters per second
NPV      Net Present Value
PEP      Performance Enhancement Program (for SWSC)
PIA      Project Implementation Agency
SWA       State Water Authority
SWSC       Split Water and Sewerage Company
WWTP        Waste Water Treatrnent Plant
Vice President:    Johannes F. Lirn, ECA
Country Director:    Arntraud Hartmann, ECCO2
Sector Director:    Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader:    Walter Stottmann, ECSIN
Program Team Leader:    Richard MacEwen, ECSIN



Croatia
Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective .....................................................2
1.       Project Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators .....................................................2
B. Strategic Context .....................................................2
1.       Sector-Related CAS Goal Supported by the Project .....................................................2
2.    Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy .....................................................2
3.       Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ...................                                    ..................................3
C. Project Description Summary .....................................................3
1.   Project Components .....................................................3
2.       Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project .....................................................4
3.    Benefits and Target Population .....................................................4
4.       Institutional and Implementation Arrangements .....................................................4
D. Project Rationale ....................................................5
1.  Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection                                                                   .5
2.   Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Development Agencies                                                               .6
3.  Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design                                                                     .6
4.  Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership                                                                         .6
5. Value added of Bank Support in this Project                                                                        .6
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                                              .6
1. Economic .6
2.  Financial.7
3. Technical .9
4. Institutional .9
5.    Social.10
6.   Environmental Assessment.10
7. Participatory Approach .10
F. Sustainability and Risks .........................                                                                                                                 10
I.  Sustainability .........................                                                                                                                          10
2.  Critical Risks .........................                                                                                                                          11
3.  Possible Controversial Aspects .........................                                                                                                         11
G. Main Loan Conditions .........................                                                                                                                     11
1. - Effectiveness Conditions .........................                                                                                                               11
2. Other conditions ..........................11
H. Readiness for Implementation .........................                                                                                                             12
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .........................                                                                                                            12



Annexes   ....................................................................................................................................................................... .13
Annex  1.          Project Design Summary ............................................................................                                                       13
Annex 2.           Detailed Project Description ............................................................................                                                 15
Annex 3.           Estimated Project Costs ............................................................................                                                      17
Annex 4.           Economic  Assessment Sunm ary ............................................................................ 18
Annex 5.1   Financial Summary ............................................................................                                                                   23
Annex 5.2          Financial Summary for Split Water and Sewerage Company (SWSC) ........................                                         ................................ 25
Annex 6.           Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .................................                                  ........................................... 26
Table A-l Procurement Plan .27
Table A-2 Procurement Plan (Notes and Summary) .28
Table B. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .29
Table C. Procurement Arrangements .30
Table D. Allocation of Loan Proceeds .32
Annex 7.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule ...........................                                                                                                33
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File ............................                                                                                                             34
Annex 9.  Statement of Loans and Credits ...........................                                                                                                         35
Annex 10. Country at a Glance ............................                                                                                                                   36
Annex 11. Environmental Assessment Summary ...........................                                                                                                       38
Maps: IBRD 28669
IBRD 28670



Croatia
Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Country Department for Croatia
Date: May 21, 1998                                Program Team Leader: Richard MacEwen
Country Director: Arntraud Hartmann               Sector Director: Ricardo A. Halperin
Sector Leader: Walter Stottmann
Project ID: HR-PE-    Sector: Water Supply &      Program Objective Category: B
43444                 Sanitation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan      Program of Targeted Intervention:  []  Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data               [X] Loan        []Credit     []Guarantee      []Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): DEM 65 million (US$36.3 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                      []    Multicurrency           [] Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 5          [ ]    Standard Variable     [] Fixed        [x]LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: N/A
Financing plan (DEMm):
Source                                Local           Foreign       Total
Government of Croatia                                          75.8                0.0         75.8
Hrvatska Vode                                                  24.5                0.0         24.5
Municipalities and SWSC                                        17.2                0.0         17.2
IBRD                                                            0.0               65.0         65.0
EBRD                                                            0.0               74.6         74.6
EBRD Loan Allocation to HV                                      0.0                3.0          3.0
Austrian Government                                             0.0                0.6         0.6
Danish Government                                               0.0                0.8         0.8
Total Financing       117.5              144.0       261.5
Borrower: Hrvatska Banka za Obnovu i Razvitak (Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development)
Guarantor: Republic of Croatia
Responsible Agency(ies): EKO Kastelanski Zaljev (joint implementing agency established by municipalities of Split,
Solin, Kastela, and Trogir) and Split Water and Sewerage Company (SWSC)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/DEM):  1999   2000   2001   2002    2003   2004   2005    2006
Annual:      3.8    7.7      10.3    18.0  16.8      6.2   1.6      0.6
Cumulative:     3.8     11.5   21.8   39.8  56.6         62.8  64.4    65.0
For Guarantees:                                [] Partial credit   [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:            [        Yes           []   No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 6/1/98-12/31/05 Expected effectiveness date: 8/31/98  Expected closing date: 06/30/06
OSD PAD Form: July 30,1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The development objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) reduce municipal wastewater pollutant discharges into the
environmentally sensitive Kastela and Trogir Bays consistent with Croatian and EU standards; (b) improve the safety, reliability,
and delivery of drinking water in the project area; and (c) improve the operational and financial performance of the water and
wastewater utility, to make it more attractive for private sector participation in the future.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 14088-HR (April 4, 1995) Date of latest CAS discussion: December 1997 (informal
discussions)
The project is consistent with Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy. The proposed project investments fall within the areas of
special Bank emphasis in the CAS and their priority has been reconfirmed during the discussions with the Government in December
1997 in regard to updating the CAS. The existing CAS recognizes that the environment, important throughout Eastern Europe, has a
special dimension in Croatia as it is closely linked to the performance of the tourism sector. In this regard, the CAS provides that the
Bank would be willing to support projects that had already been identified as priorities in addressing the severe environmental
conditions in the coastal areas, and on which preparation had started even before the outbreak of hostilities in 1991. The CAS also
calls for rehabilitation of infrastructure - to redress war damage or years of deferred investment - to complement structural policy
reforms. An important priority in this regard is to "catch up" on overdue investment rehabilitation and upgrading which have been
shortchanged as a result of the constrained fiscal situation in recent years. In financing deferred investment outlays, the Government
would support those that have a strong potential for fostering economic recovery, which includes investment expenditures for
reconstruction and infrastructure modernization. The CAS accepts that the public sector would initially play a predominant role in
financing such activities because of the difficulties of attracting private investment in the current conditions. The CAS also
acknowledges that, while prevailing conditions do not make it feasible for Croatia to attract private capital for investment in
infrastructure, as prospects for private investment improve, the Bank would stand ready to support these, including through use of its
guarantee facility.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Issues: The water supply and wastewater sector in Croatia is generally well organized on both the national and local level
although some transitional weaknesses have occurred as a result of the process of increasing decentralization. Standards of service
in most areas are satisfactory; where service is deficient, the cause has been difficulties in maintaining and upgrading infrastructure
in the face of financial and fiscal constraints, and more recently, by war damage in some areas. Main issues facing the sector are
the following:
Cost Recovery: Tariffs are generally adequate to cover operation and maintenance, and some depreciation, but do not permit
financing of significant investments which have been possible only with funding from the central government - from the Water
Fund and other budgetary sources.
Efficiency of Local Water Organizations: While there is an increasing trend to the formation of joint stock companies for the
utilities, many systems are run by departments of municipal administrations. Many are over-staffed and carry out functions not
linked to providing water and sewerage service.  Operational efficiency needs to be improved through a focus on core
activities and operational management improvements.
Gap in Wastewater Coverage and Treatment: Wastewater collection, treatment and disposal systems lag behind expansion of
water supply systems. The percentage of population served with piped water systems is 75% whereas only 45% of the
population is connected to a waterborne sewerage system. The percentage of wastewater that is treated prior to disposal, is
only 25 percent. These numbers are low compared to other European countries with comparable per capita income.
Protection of the Marine Environment in Tourism Areas: Tourism along the Adriatic Coast is an important segment of the
Croatian economy, and clean water is important to its continued growth. Sections of the coast lack adequate facilities for the
treatment and disposal of wastewater.



Page 3
Rehabilitation of Infrastructure Damaged During the Recent Conflict: Damaged infrastructure, in particular flood control and
drainage facilities in Eastem Slavonia, need to be restored.
Return of Refugees: The Government wants to encourage refugees and displaced persons to return to their homes, especially in
the rural areas. Part of the strategy is to improve infrastructure, including water services, in the target areas.
Government Strategy: The Government's strategy has been to increase the decentralization of the water and wastewater sector by
devolving responsibility for the provision of water and sanitation services to the municipal and local governments. This has been
reinforced under new legislation since 1991 to replace and/or adapt the pre-1990 legislation to meet the needs of an independent
Croatia. The roles of the main central bodies concemed with water and wastewater, the State Water Authority and Hrvatske Vode
(Croatian Water) have been redefined to cover issues of a regional or national significance. The new law also provides for a
mechanism for the funding of water and wastewater investments of national or regional priority through the creation of a Water Fund,
financed by surcharges levied on water and wastewater tariffs. However, as an interim measure, and until the Water Fund is fully
funded, the Government will provide limited support from its budgetary resources to projects of high national priority. In respect of
investments, the Govemment has been giving priority to the reconstruction of war-damaged infrastructure. However, as these
investments increasingly take place, the Government is continuing with its emphasis on infrastructure renewal and upgrading which
has a strong potential for fostering economic recovery, including those that stimulate increased tourism, vital for the Croatian
economy. The Government also recognizes the importance of increased involvement of the private sector in financing and operating
water and wastewater utilities, and has asked the Bank for help in this area. The Government has designated HV to coordinate the
preparation of a policy paper in this regard. The Bank is assisting HV m this process.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project would address at the local level four of six issues facing the Croatian water sector: cost recovery; efficiency; the gap in
wastewater investment; and protection of the marine environment in tourism areas. The impact of the project across the sector would
be limited because of its focused nature. However, because the SWSC is the second largest in Croatia after the Zagreb Water and
Sewerage Company, the project will have an impact on the overall quantity of treated wastewater, and lessons learned will serve as
examples for other water and sewerage systems in Croatia. The project would address the chosen issues in the following manner:
* Cost Recovery. SWSC tariffs will be raised 50% in real terms over the life of the project to generate 20 percent of the investment
cost (including interest and financial charges) and reach full cost recovery by the end of the project. SWSC has already made
significant progress towards reaching this goal by raising tariffs in March 1998 to meet the Bank's condition for negotiations.
* Efficiency. Technical assistance is included in the project for the evaluation of SWSC's operations and the preparation and
implementation of a performance enhancement program. Selection of the consultants and implementation of the program are
loan covenants.
X Gap in Wastewater Investment. The project will increase the percentage of treated wastewater in Croatia from 25% to 35%.
* Protection of the Marine Environment in Tourism Areas. Kastela and Trogir Bays are major tourism areas along the Adriatic
Coast and also a major environmental "hot spot". Eliminating sewage discharges to the Bay and providing for the safe disposal
of wastewater from the region will be a major sector achievement.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                     Category              Cost Incl.          % of Total
Contingencies
(DEM mln.)
Wastewater Component                      physical                142                  67
Water Supply Component                    physical                 62                  30
Institutional Component                     TA                      7                   3
Total                 211                 100



Page 4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports the Government's policy of decentralization of responsibility for provision of water and wastewater services
to local governments, and encouraging the latter to undertake necessary investments in expanding wastewater collection, treatment
and disposal with due regard to environmental standards. The project also supports the institutional strengthening and
transformation of a major water and wastewater utility in Croatia through a monitorable Performance Enhancement Program,
including tariffs based on full-cost recovery, that would eventually make it attractive for private sector participation.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits from Physical Investments: At present, wastewater in the project area is being discharged untreated into the Kastela and
Trogir Bays through multiple short outfalls, leading to serious continued degradation of an environmentally sensitive area with
major tourism potential. Lack of a proper sewerage network, including collection and interception, threatens the safety of drinking
water supplies in an area where the porous geological characteristics make the water supplies even more susceptible to
contamination with consequent health hazards for the population. Imbalances and obsolescence in parts of the water supply
system are leading to unreliable and erratic supply of water for segments of the population, particularly in the summer months,
which is also the tourist season. The wastewater investments under the project would establish collection, treatment, and disposal
systems that would reduce pollution levels in the Kastela and Trogir Bay area to be consistent with applicable Croatian and EU
standards while increasing the safety of drinking water supplies from contamination. The water supply component would address
the present imbalances in the system to increase the reliability and improve delivery to under-served segments. The technical
assistance for environmental monitoring included under the project would enable authorities to track changes in the local
environment, including the impact of the project.
Benefits from Institutional Strengthening: Technical assistance under the project will enable
*  SWSC, the water and wastewater utility serving the four participating municipalities, to operate and maintain its existing
facilities more efficiently, strengthen its commercial and financial management, including bill collection performance, and
improve the quality of its service to customers; and
*  EKO, the Project Implementation Agency, to further develop its capabilities for supervising the design and implementation of
large municipal water and wastewater infrastructural investments.
Beneficiaries: Principal beneficiaries of the project would be the population of about 350,000 in project area (the cities of Split,
Solin, Kastela and Trogir and their surrounding areas) through the direct benefits of safer and more reliable water supply and
sanitation, and the indirect benefits of increased tourism in the area which would stimulate local private enterprise catering to the
tourist industry. Indirect project beneficiaries would be potential Croatian tourists to the project area who would benefit from the
environmental improvements to the Kastela and Trogir Bays.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: July 1998 to December 2005.
Executing Agencies: EKO Kastelanski Zaljev (The Agency for the Realization of the Integral Project for the Protection of the
Kastela Bay) jointly established by the four participating municipalities (Split, Solin, Kastela and Trogir), the County of Split-
Dalmatinska (encompassing the four municipalities); and Hrvatske Vode; and the Split Water and Sewerage Company (SWSC).
Project Coordination and Oversight: The loan proceeds would be made available to HBOR for onlending to SWSC, the water and
wastewater utility serving the four participating municipalities under a Subsidiary Agreement to be jointly signed by SWSC and EKO.
A Local Project Account would be set up with an initial deposit to be made by the local fmancing agencies (SWSC, HV and the
Central Government) adequate to cover the local share of projected expenditures for three months. HBOR would require counter-
guarantees from the four municipalities under a Guarantee and Project Support Agreement. The Bank would enter into a Loan
Agreement with HBOR, a Project Agreement with EKO and SWSC, and a Guarantee Agreement with the Republic of Croatia. As
Project Implementation Agency, EKO will be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the project, including procurement,
approval of invoices for payment to suppliers and contractors, and progress reporting. SWSC will be responsible for implementing
its Performance Enhancement Program. Since HBOR has built up substantial experience and capacity in regard to the Bank's
withdrawal application and disbursement requirements under the Emergency Reconstruction Project (Loan 3760-HR), for this project
as well HBOR will submit withdrawal applications to the Bank, and on behalf of EKO, request withdrawals for the Special Account.



Page 5
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements: EKO and SWSC will maintain financial records and will prepare
separate project accounts satisfactory to the Bank for the project components for which they are respectively responsible. EKO will
be responsible for preparing the consolidated project accounts, including reports for the Bank. HBOR will keep records of loan
proceed receipts and disbursements therefrom, including from the Special Account. HBOR, SWSC and EKO would be required to
have their financial statements audited, according to international standards, by qualified, independent auditors satisfactory to the
Bank. Audits will be made available to the Bank by June 30 each year for the preceding year. The audits will include separate
opinions on the use of the Special Account and of Statements of Expenditures. HBOR's annual financial statements are audited by an
internationally reputed audit firm. Appointment of auditors of the project accounts and financial statements for 1998 for EKO and
SWSC is a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The Subsidiary Agreement between HBOR and EKO and SWSC, and the Guarantee and
Project Support Agreement between HBOR and the four participating municipalities will define clearly their mutual obligations for
the duration of the project. They will include monitorable annual or semi-annual targets for institutional performance, bill collection
performance, and operational efficiency improvements. These performance targets, which are included in the Project Implementation
Plan, will be used to track and evaluate progress made towards these objectives. The Bank's Project Agreement with EKO and SWSC
defines EKO and SWSC's obligations in pursuing their respective responsibilities in project implementation, including engagement of
technical assistance, and timely and satisfactory progress reporting. The Bank's Loan Agreement with HBOR defines the Borrower's
obligations. Annual reviews would be jointly undertaken with the project agencies with the involvement of the State Water Authority
during a supervision mission. A Mid-Term Review will be conducted in the third quarter of the year 2000. An Implementation
Completion Report would be submitted to the Bank promptly after the completion of the project, no later than six months after the
Loan Closing Date.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Physical Configuration:  The project configuration has been based on cost-effectiveness considerations consistent with
environmental and zoning restrictions. Alternative sites were considered for the treatment plants, and the current sites have been
chosen on the basis of both technical suitability and acceptance by the local population. The possibility of having a single treatment
plant instead of two was considered but rejected on grounds of the additional costs that would have been imposed by the required
transmission and pumping facilities. The design of the treatment plants, which provides for mechanical treatment of wastewater in
the first phase, also provides for the subsequent addition of biological primary and secondary treatment processes. The construction
of the two tunnels was compared to alternative over-land configurations, and chosen on feasibility and cost grounds. Alternatives
were also considered for the siting and design of the submarine outfalls, and the current proposals chosen as the most feasible and
economical alternative.
Borrower and Onlending Arrangements: During project preparation, the Government had already confirmed to the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) in 1995 that it would designate HBOR as the Borrower for any international loans to be
taken for the project. The option of making the Bank loan directly to the participating municipalities or their water and wastewater
utility was explored with them, but the municipalities confirmed that they had already accepted HBOR as the on-lender for the EBRD
loan, and given the integral nature of the project, they wished to have the same arrangement in respect of the Bank loan. The
Government, through its Council of Ministers, subsequently confirmed its willingness to provide sovereign guarantees for both the
Bank and the EBRD loans to HBOR for the project. This is reflected in a decision of the Council of Ministers.
Project Implementation Agreements: The alternative of SWSC having primary responsibility for project implementation was
explored during project preparation. The four participating municipalities expressed their strong desire to have a special agency
established to implement the project given the size and importance of the project; SWSC's limited experience in management of
construction of large infrastructure investments; and the possibility afforded by a separate agency to bring together the best available
local technical expertise for project supervision and management, including through the participation of HV in the agency. The
central government is also represented on the agency in view of its substantial share in project financing through grants.



Page 6
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                             Project             Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Improvement of water supply and wastewater      Dubrovnik Water and Sewerage    N/A -- project        N/A
collection/treatment/disposal system            Project (Loan 1066-YU)        completed in 1982
Improvement of water supply and wastewater     Istria Water Supply and Sewerage      S                 S
collection/treatment/disposal system            Project (Loan 3069-YU)
Reconstruction of war-damaged water supply and  Emergency Reconstruction Project     S                 S
wastewater systems                              (Loan 3760-HR)
Components for reconstruction of war-damaged water    Eastem Slavonia Reconstruction    N/A -- Board  N/A
supply and wastewater systems in Eastern Slavonia  Project (Loan -HR)         presentation
planned for FY98
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience in past Bank water and wastewater projects in former Yugoslavia (including components that fell within the territory of
Croatia) generally parallels that of Bank projects in the sector (as analyzed in OED's Report on the subject published in 1992). The
findings were that, while most projects have achieved their construction objectives, they fell short of meeting institutional, financial
and technical efficiency development objectives. An important contributory factor was the fact that the local and republican level
governments, which greatly influenced the water utility's management, operations and financial performance, including structures and
levels of tariffs, were not required to explicitly commit themselves to supporting the project -- the Bank's covenants and agreements
were with the utility as borrower, and the federal govermment, as guarantor. These aspects have been given special attention in project
design in requiring the water utility -- and its parent municipalities (under their Guarantee and Project Support Agreement with
HBOR) -- to commit to the undertaking of specific performance improvements in the utility's operations, which would be supported
by appropriate technical assistance.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The proposed project has been a priority in the sector with the central and local government authorities since 1988 when the Bank
started its preparation. Further preparation was then halted by the war and subsequent events. The four participating municipalities
are committed to the project and have established a joint implementation agency for the purpose. A further indication of their
commitment is their approval of a 30 percent increase in average water and wastewater tariffs, effective from April 1, 1998, that is
required for local financing for the project. The project concept and design have been discussed in local fora, including with NGOs,
and have general endorsement in the area. The central Government's commitment is evidenced by the decision of the Council of
Ministers to provide sovereign guarantees for both the Bank and the EBRD loans, and to provide the Government's share of project
funding through the Water Fund and other budgetary sources.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank involvement in the project goes back to 1988 when the project was first identified as a priority investment and the current
project design and configuration build on preparatory work that had been initiated at the time. The Bank has further guided project
preparation through securing and monitoring the utilization of a Japan PHRD grant to fund the first phase of the work. Bank funding
will also contribute to providing the long-term resources required for the project investments which have a long gestation period. The
Bank has worked closely with EBRD in the preparation and cofinancing of the project.
E: Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$            million; ERR=    %  [X] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[] Other (Specify)



Page 7
Major economic benefits from the project will be:
*  protection of citizens' health, and enhancement of living standards and well-being through (i) improved collection, treatment and
disposal of wastewater; (ii) safer and more reliable supply of drinking water; and (iii) higher quality of services resulting from
improvements in institutional efficiency; and
*  environmental protection of one of Croatia's important natural resource assets with major tourism potential.
Cost Effectiveness
Economic benefits of the wastewater conmponent (67 percent of project cost), although considerable, are not amenable to
quantification as they are principally derived from the positive impact on citizens' health (reduction in health hazards, increase in
well-being) and on the environmental condition of the Kastela and Trogir Bays. The investments under the water supply component
(30 percent of project cost) are largely concerned with the replacement of worn-out and obsolete facilities that are creating major
imbalances and inefficiencies in the system. The project investments have therefore been assessed on cost effectiveness
considerations in comparison with alternatives and selected as least-cost, consistent with technical and environmental feasibility (as
indicated in Annex 4).
Affordability
Cost recovery of the project investments will require an increase in tariffs from the present levels (Section 2 below). Affordability
analyses indicate that the higher tariffs will remain affordable, accounting for around 3.0 percent of average household incomes in the
project area, which are higher than the national average household income. This ranges from about 2.7 percent of average incomes
for the higher income households to about 3.5 percent for the lower income households. The increased tariffs are projected to remain
affordable for the lowest income groups as well, since, typically, per capita consumption increases with income and the lowest income
households would consume less than the average income households.
Fiscal Impact
The project will require significant budgetary support during the construction phase, but will be a net fiscal contributor during the
operations phase. Typically, in view of the significant externalities they provide through health and environmental improvement
benefits, wastewater investments require substantial external financing other than from the direct beneficiaries. In the case of the
project, significant externalities are expected to accrue for the Croatian economy as a whole through the increase in tourism. During
the construction period (1998 to 2005), the project will need a contribution of about DEM76 million (or 29% of project cost) from the
central government's budgetary resources of which, however, about DEM50 million would be returned in the form of duties and
taxes. In addition to the central government budgetary contribution, the project will require an estimated DEM24.5 million (or 9% of
project cost) from the Water Fund administered by HV; however, the bulk of this amount would be raised in the project area itself
through the surcharges on water tariffs collected by HV. The project will be self-financing during the operations phase and will
generate incremental tax revenues, projected at around DEM90 million equivalent (or an average of about DEM3 million per year)
over the life of the project, through increased income and sales tax payments, increased tourist taxes and no dependence on municipal
subsidies.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=DEM 35 million       FRR=15 percent
Project Cost and Financing Plan
Project Cost: Project cost, including taxes and import duties, is estimated at about DEM261.5 million. The wastewater and water
supply components account for 67 percent and 30 percent of total project cost respectively.
Financing Plan: The project financing plan is shown on the cover sheet. The proposed Bank loan of DEM65 million will provide 25
percent of the total estimated financing requirement. EBRD, as cofinancier, will provide DEM77.6 million (or 30 percent), and
bilateral donors (Austria and Denmark) DEMI.4 million. The counterpart funding requirement of DEM1 17.5 million will be
provided from local sources including: the Central Government through its budgetary sources (DEM75.8 million); the Water Fund
administered by HV (DEM24.5 million); and, the participating municipalities and internal funds generation by SWSC, the water and



Page 8
sewerage company (DEM17.2 million). EBRD, under an existing loan to HBOR, has confirmed allocation of the indicated amount
for the project. The Central Government, through a decision of its Council of Ministers, has confirmed its contribution to project
financing.
Onlending: HBOR will onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan to SWSC at the Bank's lending rate plus a margin not exceeding 0.25
percent (25 basis points), to cover its administrative costs arising from the project.
Project Viability
The estimated financial rate of return (FRR) for the project is 15 percent, and the net present value (NPV) is about DEM35 million
(US$20 million at current exchange rates).
Entity Finances
HBOR: For the project, HBOR's financial contribution will be limited to onlending the proceeds of the Bank and EBRD loans.
HBOR has a relatively strong capital base and a low gearing. By statute, its borrowings cannot exceed its paid-in capital. Assets
have grown at an average rate of 30 percent annually since 1994 to reach HRK 2,425 million in 1997. HBOR has introduced prudent
risk classification and provisioning policies, which have impacted on its net income in 1996 and 1997. Profits in 1997, after
provisions, are estimated at about HRK 90 million, representing rates of return on average assets and on average equity of about 4
percent.
Municipalities: Under the proposed financing structure, the participating municipalities will provide full guarantee for SWSC's
financial obligations under its subsidiary agreement with HBOR. In addition, they will undertake to make up any shortfalls in
required project financing from their general funds. The revenue bases of the municipalities are generally strong: the main sources
are shared revenue from central government taxes; local community charges set by the municipalities within ceilings prescribed by
the central government; and rents from municipality owned property. The level of existing indebtedness of the municipalities is
relatively low, providing scope to borrow, if necessary.
SWSC. SWSC's financial situation was affected during the war period since 1991 due to reduced water offtake by industries, and
difficulties in adequate collection of revenues in the face of the economic difficulties of the citizens and consuming industries. The
situation has been improving but further improvements are necessary for which SWSC will need to strengthen its financial and
commercial systems. There is also scope for improvements in cost efficiency through operational improvements. Under the Project
Agreement, SWSC has undertaken to prepare, with the help of qualified consultants, a Perfornance Enhancement Program,
satisfactory to the Bank, by December 1999 and to implement it by December 2001.
Water and Wastewater Tariffs: Until recently, levels of tariffs were adequate to cover cash operating expenses but did not permit full
cost recovery, including depreciation at appropriate rates. To enable provision of the local contribution to project financing, including
debt service in respect of the Bank and EBRD loans by 30 percent, effective April 1, 1998. Financing requirements arising during the
implementation and operation stages of the project will require further phased increases in tariff levels by around 20 percent over
current levels in real terms. Tariff levels in the project area are around the national average while average household incomes are
above the national average. Even after the projected increases, the tariff levels are expected to remain affordable at around 3.0
percent of average household incomes.
Financial Management
A Country Financial Accountability Profile, to be prepared by the Bank in consultation with the Croatian authorities, is planned for
FY99. SWSC's accounts and financial statements have so far been audited by local public auditors in line with prevailing Croatian
requirements. Starting with their 1998 statements, SWSC and EKO will to have the financial audits carried out in line with
internationally accepted standards by independent, extemal auditors acceptable to the Bank. Engagement of the auditors to undertake
the audits for the year 1998 is a condition of effectiveness. The costs of these audits will be met from the Bank loan. Technical
assistance, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, will be provided under the project for strengthening of financial
management in SWSC and EKO.



Page 9
3. Technical:
Technical preparation of the project builds on extensive work carried out by local agencies, including HV and academic/professional
institutions, which has been reviewed, updated and modified as necessary with the help of internationally reputed consultants.
Sensitive areas have been identified for further special attention during the preparation of final design and specifications. The
Croatian technical agencies will be assisted by qualified, experienced international consultants until the commissioning of the project.
4. Institutional:
a. Project Entities:
HBOR (the Borrower): HBOR was set up in 1992 under a Special Law for the primary purpose of channeling funds for emergency
and other reconstruction investments arising from the post-1991 conflict. Among its early activities was to serve as the channel for
the Bank's Emergency Reconstruction Loan (Loan 3760-HR) which provided funds for emergency investments in a number of
sectors, including water and wastewater. In 1995, HBOR's mandate was extended to providing funding for development
activities of regional or national importance in Croatia. With the shift in focus from emergency reconstruction, HBOR is moving
to providing types of funding that are not sufficiently available in Croatia, e.g. medium to long term financing for long-gestation
infrastructure investments, export credit financing and the like.
Municipalities (the Owners): Local government in Croatia comprises about 70 larger, mainly urban areas known as cities, and
around 340 smaller, mainly rural areas, known as municipalities. The municipalities were created as separate autonomous legal
organizations in the local government reorganization of 1992. Before that, they were combined with their core city areas. The
city and municipal governments are generally structured similarly, consisting of an elected council and an appointed executive
headed by a Mayor. Administration of the cities and municipalities is structured in departments; water and sewerage activities fall
within the purview of the Communal Services department. Decision-making is exercised through various committees; for water
and sewerage activities, the main committees of relevance are Finance, City Planning, and Environment and City Operations.
Services are provided directly through departments or through public corporations in the case of some utilities, as in the case of
water and sewerage.
The principal role of the municipalities in the Project would be as:
*  authorities responsible for approving tariff adjustments in their capacity as co-owners of SWSC; and
*  guarantors, under the terms of their Guarantee and Project Support Agreement to be concluded with HBOR of performance
of their obligations by SWSC and EKO.
SWSC (the Operating Company): SWSC is in the process of being converted to a joint stock company in which the owners are the
municipalities participating in the project. An application for registration of SWSC as a joint-stock company is being processed in the
relevant courts. SWSC has experienced management and staff, but the focus in recent years has been on maintenance and operation
of the existing system without any major new investments. Consequently, the company lacks recent experience in the design and
implementation of large investments as under the proposed project. The municipalities, in consultation with Hrvatske Vode and the
State Water Authority (the main central government authorities responsible for water and wastewater management) have therefore
established a Project Implementation Agency (PIA) for the purpose (as discussed below). The municipalities and SWSC's
management concur that there is scope for further improvements in operational and commercial efficiency, and in financial
management. A Performance Enhancement Program for SWSC and its implementation is required under the Bank's Project
Agreement with SWSC and EKO; the municipalities will be required to support SWSC in this regard under their Guarantee and
Project Support Agreement with HBOR.
b. Executing Agencies:
Project Implementation Agency: The agency, EKO Kastelanski Zaljev (Agency for the Integrated Kastela Bay Project), was
established in July 1997 by the four participating municipalities, the County of Split-Dalmatinska (encompassing the four
municipalities), Hrvatske Vode, and the central government. It has a Board of seven members, one each from the four participating
municipalities, the County; Hrvatske Vode; and the central government. The Chairman of the Board is the Minister for Urban
Planning, Construction and Housing. The executive management of the Agency consists of an Executive Director and a Technical
Director. Key staff, required for the early phases of project implementation, have been appointed. The Agency is in the process of
appointing the remaining staff who will be drawn from the more experienced technical and financial staff in SWSC, HV's regional
office in Split, and the relevant department of the municipalities. The Agency will be supported by qualified, experienced foreign



Page 10
consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. This support will include the services of procurement and project
financial management specialists. Appointment of these specialists is a condition of effectiveness.
SWSC will be responsible for carrying out its Performance Enhancement Program with the support of qualified consultants under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
5. Social:
Direct beneficiaries of the project would be the estimated 350,000 inhabitants of the project area through the health and enviromnental
benefits conferred by the project investments. Social assessments carried out by the local authorities indicate that an estimated 15,000
persons in the Kastela and Trogir areas are being affected by inadequate and unreliable supplies of drinking water, particularly during
the summer months. Since this segment is also significantly dependent upon incomes from tourism-related activities, the project will
result in dual benefits for them of improved water supply while encouraging growth of tourism.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category          [x] A   [] B    [ ] C
Croatian regulations require the carrying out of an Environmental Assessment for investments such as those to be undertaken under
the project. An Environmental Assessment was therefore undertaken specifically for the project. The assessment shows numerous
positive impacts ranging from those related to public health to others directly affecting the economy, including the encouragement of
tourism in the project area. The EA has also identified some potential negative impacts associated with the project. These relate
primarily to the construction and operation of the collection, treatment and disposal facilities. A summary of the Environmental
Assessment is provided in Annex 11 along with the indicative Environmental Mitigation Plan to address the potential negative
impacts. EKO will confirm and update this Mitigation Plan by December 31, 1998, taking into account additional information that
would arise in the process of the detailed engineering work to be carried out.
Land Acquisition: Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Croatian authorities would comply with the requirements in
regard to land acquisition and land rights as required under Section 9.09 of the General Conditions.
Resettlement: The Croatian agencies have confirmed that the project is not expected to cause any resettlement due to the construction
of the project facilities. Should any case of involuntary resetflement arise, the Bank will be advised promptly together with a suitable
plan for adequate compensation of the affected parties.
Consultation and Disclosure: Public consultations for the project started in the late 1980s when the project concept was first set out.
It has encompassed several institutions and population groups associated with the project, including NGOs, citizens' groups, and
academic institutions. The current project configuration was discussed in meetings in October 1996 with representatives of NGOs,
interested citizens' groups, academic and professional associations. The meetings endorsed wide support for the project.
7. Participatory approach:
Participatory Approach:                                 Identification/Preparation   Implementation      Operation
Beneficiaries/Community Groups                            CON                      CON               CON
Intermediary NGOs                                         CON                      CON               CON
Academic Institutions
Local Govemment                                         CON/COL                    COL               COL
Other Donors                                            CON/COL                    COL               COL
CON = consultation; COL = collaboration
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is expected to be sustainable as it has general endorsement by principal stakeholder groups in the project area. Except for
the construction period, where the project, by its nature, will need budgetary support from the Central Government towards the
construction cost, the project will be self-financing and not require external financial support during its operation.



Page t t
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column ofAnnex 1):
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk                             Risk Rating                    Risk Minimization Measure
Weakening of commitment of participating municipalities      S           Evidence of comnnitment by a substantial up front increase in
to raise tariffs to adequate levels to fund the project and             tariffs
permit full cost recovery
Main source of pollution is from non-point sources and      M            Environmental monitoring program will quantify pollution
reduction of pollution from point source discharges will                from both point and non-point sources so that additional
have minimal effect on water quality                                    measures can be taken to improve water quality, if needed
Project components to outputs
Risk                             Risk Rating                    Risk Minimization Measure
EKO staff will not be qualified                             M           Appointment of technical assistance
Designs are not adequate                                    M           Only experienced international firms will be on the short list
for engineering services
Geological investigations do not reflect tunneling          M           Investigations have been extensive and reflect best practice
conditions accurately
Bank procedures will not be followed                        M           Bank supervision will be intensive the first year, starting with
a project launch mission which will concentrate on educating
EKO staff in Bank procedures
Contractors are not qualified                               M           Contractors will be prequalified for the largest and most
technically complicated works
Overall project risk rating
Risk                             Risk Rating
Overall risk                                                M
Risk Rating - H (Higb Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Although the project concept has been discussed in the project area since 1988, and has wide endorsement, it is possible that local
interest groups could raise environmental-impact related issues for parochial gains. To m.nimize this possibility, an Environmental
Mitigation Plan has been agreed with the authorities (Annex II). This Plan will be confirmed and updated by EKO by December 31,
1998, taking into account the relevant findings and results of detailed engineering work for the two proposed tunnels and other
facilities.
G: Main Loan Conditions
Effectiveness Conditions:
* Signing of the Subsidiary Agreement between HBOR, and EKO and SWSC.
* Signing of Guarantee and Project Support Agreement between HBOR and the participating cities.
* Engagement of procurement and project financial management consultants by EKO.
* Engagement of auditors by EKO and SWSC to carry out the audits of their 1998 project accounts and financial statements.
Other Conditions:
Management Aspects
* Engagement of technical assistance by SWSC by December 31, 1998 and preparation of a Performance Enhancement Program
and a Corporate Development Plan by December 31, 1999.
Financial Aspects
* Carrying out by SWSC of annual reviews to determine adequacy of revenues to meet projected expenditures, and taking steps as
necessary to ensure such adequacy.
* Limitation on incurrence of new debt by SWSC, subject to adequate debt service coverage.
* Limitation on incurrence of new debt by HBOR, subject to adequate debt service coverage
Environment
*   Updating and confirmation of the Environmental Mitigation Plan by EKO, by December 31, 1998.



Page 12
Monitoring and Reporting
* Monitoring and reporting of project progress, including performance indicators; and
* Monitoring and reporting on environmental impact and implementation of the Mitigation Plan.
Accounting and Audits
* Furnishing of annual audit reports to the Bank on project accounts, Special Accounts, Statements of Expenditure, and entity
financial statements of SWSC.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are being prepared and expected to be ready by loan
effectiveness.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are being prepared and expected to be ready by loan effectiveness.
[X3 The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Program Team Leader: Richard MacEwen
Sector Leader. alte Stottmann
Country Director: Arntraud Hartmann



Page 13
Annex 1
Croatia: Municipal Environmental Infrastructure
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary     Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and Evaluation  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                     (Goal to Bank Mission)
Rebuild and upgrade                                                          War will not break out in
infrastructure (affected by                                                  the Balkans
war damage or long
deferred investment) with
the potential to foster
economic recovery
Protect environmental
resources closely linked to
the performance of the
tourism sector, important
for Croatia's economy                              .
Project Development                                                          (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Reduce municipal         Completion of construction    Semi-annual reporting by    Breakdown of peace in the
wastewater pollutant     contracts and disbursement    EKO                   region, and disruptions
discharges into the      of funds by 12/05                                   due to outbreak of
environmentally sensitive                           Annual reports of the    hostilities
Kastela and Trogir Bays    Reduction of oil and grease    Environmental monitoring
consistent with applicable   pollution to no visible slicks   program        Disruptions due to
Croatian and EU standards  by 12/05                                          sanctions and constraints
imposed on Croatia as a
Improve safety, reliability   Reduction in kilograms of                      result of disagreement over
and delivery of drinking  BOD discharged to Kastela                          compliance with Dayton
water in the project area    and Trogir Bays from 30,000                     and/or other international
to 1,000 by 12/05                                   agreements
Improve the operational
and financial performance   Reduction in average E coli
of the water and         levels at 15 monitoring sites
wastewater utility      in Kastela and Trogir Bays
from 50 E coli/lOOml to 0 E
coli/100 ml by 12/05
24 hour supply of water for
90% of SWSC customers
with no customer with less
than 4 hours supply by 12/05
Increase in ratio of SWSC
revenue collected to revenue
invoiced from 80% to 95%
by 12/05
Improvement in SWSC
operating ratio from 1.00 to
0.75 by 12/04
Unaccounted-for water not to
I exceed 22% by 12/03



Page 14
Outputs:                                                                      (Outputs to Objective)
Component 1:             Construction of the following  Semi-annual reporting by    Commitment of
Reconstruction, expansion   works:                   EKO                      participating municipalities
and upgrading of the     *  2 treatment plants by                             to raise tariffs to adequate
wastewater collection,       12/02                                            levels to fund project and
treatment and disposal   *  2 sea outfalls by 12/02                           permit full cost recovery
system for the Split, Solin,  *  28 sewage pumping                            remains strong
Kastela and Trogir           stations by 12/03
municipalities           *  4,200m of rock tunnel                             Most of the current
Component 2:                 by 12/03                                         pollution is coming from
Reconstruction and       *  20 km of gravity sewer                            point source discharges
upgrading of the water       by 12/05                                         and not non-point sources
treatment and delivery   *  9 km of pressure sewer
systems for the Split, Solin,  by 12/05                                       Technical assistance will
Kastela and Trogir       .  5 water pumping stations                          be effective
municipalities               by 12/03
Component                .  3 distrbuton reservoirs                           Cost estimates are
Technical assistance to the  by 12/03                                         adequate
*10 km of water main by                           aeut
project entities: WSC; and   12/04
EKO                      Completion of the following
Environmental monitoring   TA:
*  Preparation and
implementation of a
performance
enhancement plan for
SWSC by 12/99
.  Preparation and
implementation of a
corporate development
plan for SWSC by 12/99
.  Institutional
strengthening program
completed for EKO by
12/99
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each                            (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2   component)
for project description)
Consultants hired        Component 1: DEM  142       Semi-annual reports of   Qualified staff selected by
EKO                      EKO
Final designs and bidding    Component 2: DEM   62
documents prepared                                  Bank and EBRD loan        Designs adequate
Component 3: DEM    7      disbursements
Contractors selected                                                          Geological investigations
Taxes:      DEM   50                                reflect tunneling conditions
Works completed                                                               accurately
Recur. Costs: DEM    4.5
Facilities certified, tested                                                  Bank procedures followed
and placed in operation  Land parcels acquired: 35
Qualified contractors
selected
Right-of-ways acquired: 80



Page 15
Annex 2
Croatia: Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - Wastewater - DEM142 million (67 percent of total project cost)
The wastewater component consists of two sub-components, one each for the Split-Solin and Kastela-Trogir municipalities.
For each sub-component, principal investments consist of transmission mains, pumping stations, a treatment plant, a
hydrotechnical tunnel, and a submarine outfall.
(a) Split-Solin Sub-Component
Principal investments would be the following:
Pumping stations: Six new pumping stations at Dujmovaca (capacity 1125 Vs), Duje (530 Vs), Vranjic I, II and III (60 I/s
each); and Sine (85 I/s).
Rising mains: Four rising mains (diameters varying between 250 to 300 mm and lengths varying between 830 m to 1440 m).
Gravity sewers: Six gravity sewers (diameters ranging from 250 to 750 mm and lengths varying between 410 m to 1975 m).
Tunnel: An approximately 2400 m long tunnel at Stupe to enable the transport of wastewater from the north basin of Split,
Kastela and Solin to the treatment plant at Stupe; the tunnel would have two pipes of 1300 mm diameter.
Wastewater treatment plant: A new plant would be located at Stupe. Phase 1 of the construction, to be financed under the
project, would consist of mechanical treatment only, with fine screening of the wastewater for grit removal and grease/oil
removal. Principal facilities would include reception and flow distribution chamber; rotating bar interceptors; flow
measurement channels; fine screening; aerated grit and grease/oil removal channels; screenings washing, dewatering,
compaction and discharge; oil and grease dewatering and discharge; incineration of screenings, oil and grease; cess/septage
tanker reception facilities; and odor treatment unit.
Submarine outfall: A new submarine outfall at Stobrec for discharge into the Brac channel. The outfall would have a capacity
of 2 m3/s with a diameter of 1400 mm and a length of about 1600 m with a diffuser section of 400 m.
(b) Kastela-Trogir Sub-Component
Principal investments would be the following:
Pumping stations: Three pumping stations at Kambelovac (2 pumps, capacity 195 V's); Lokvice (3 pumps, capacity 170 I/s);
and Divulje (3 pumps, capacity 540 V/s) together with 17 smaller local pumping stations with capacities ranging from 10 to 100
I/s.
Rising mains: Five rising mains (diameters ranging from 150 to 450 mm, and lengths ranging from 470 to 2000 m).
Gravity sewers: Ten sewers (diameters ranging from 250 to 1100 mm and lengths ranging from 600 to 2500 m).
Tunnel: An approximately 1800 m long tunnel at Ciovo with a cross-section of 10.5 m2, and a pipeline of diameter 1100 mm
and length 1900 m;
Wastewater treatment plant: A new plant would be located at Mavarstica. Phase 1 of the construction, to be financed under the
project, would consist of mechanical treatment only, with fine screening of the wastewater for grit removal and grease/oil
removal. Principal facilities would include reception and flow distribution chamber; rotating bar interceptors; flow
measurement channels; fme screening; aerated grit and grease/oil removal channels; screenings washing, dewatering,
compaction and discharge; oil and grease dewatering and discharge; incineration of screenings, oil and grease; cess/septage
tanker reception facilities; and odor treatment unit.
Submarine outfall: A new submarine outfall would be located at Mavarstica for discharge into the Split Channel. The outfall
would have a capacity to handle a peak flow of 650 V's with a total length of 2500 m (of which 1350 m would be submerged),
with a diameter of 900 mm, a maximum depth of about 54 m, and a diffuser section of length 650 m.
Project Component 2 - Water - DEM62 million (30 percent of total project cost)
The water component, for reconstruction and upgrading of selected parts of the Split-Solin-Kastela-Trogir water supply



Page 16
system, would consist of the following main investments:
Pumping station at Solin with underground structures; two pumps (and a third standby) of capacity 96 l/s; inlet pipelines of
diameter 400 mm; electrical installations; and telemetry equipment.
Sv. Kajo sub-system consisting of underground structures; a pumping station with two pumps of capacity 18 l/s; a reservoir
of capacity 800 m3; and feed and supply pipes with diameters between 150 to 200 mm and lengths between 1000 to 1200 m.
Kastela Sucurac sub-system consisting of facilities to complement the pumping station that is under construction including: a
reservoir of capacity 4400 m3; and feed and supply pipes with diameters between 500 to 600 mm and lengths between 1000 to
1200 m.
Ravne Njive sub-system consisting of a new pumping station with a distribution chamber of capacity 500 m3; circular ground
plan engine room; six new pumps with a total capacity of 2,000 I/s; and a diesel generator set.
Kunceva Greda sub-system consisting of a new pumping station with three pumps of total capacity 812 l/s; two reservoirs of
capacity 1500 and 5000 m3; and pipelines of diameters between 300 to 2000 mm and lengths between 200 to 500m; and a
diesel generator set.
Kastela mains consisting of pipelines (diameters 700 and 800 mm, and lengths 2160 and 9080 m).
Project Component 3- Institutional Strengthening DEM7 million (3 percent of total project cost)
The institutional strengthening component would improve the efficiency and operational capacity of the project
agencies as follows:
a) Technical assistance to SWSC to improve management, operational and financial performance, including preparation
of a Performance Enhancement Program and a Corporate Development Plan.
b) Technical assistance to EKO to enhance capability for implementation of major water and wastewater investrnent
projects, including procurement and project financial management.
c) Laboratory measuring and testing equipment for HV for the environmental monitoring of wastewater discharges into
the Kastela and Trogir Bays, and the Split and Brac Channels.
d) Operational and maintenance equipment for SWSC.
e) Provision of accounting and auditing services to EKO and SWSC for audits of the project accounts and entity
fmancial statements.



Page 17
Annex 3
Croatia: Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Estimated Project Costs
% of Base
Project Component                              Local     Foreign      Total        Cost      Financed By
------------------ DEM million ------------------
A. Split-Solin Wastewater Component
Vranjic-Dujmovaca Subsystem                 1.9         0.6        2.5         1.5        WB/LOC
Collectors                                  8.5        0.9         9.4         5.5        WB/LOC
Tunnel                                     15.0         5.0       20.0        11.8        WB/LOC
Treatment Plant                             6.4        4.3        10.7         6.3        WB/LOC
Outfall                                    10.1        3.4        13.4         7.9        WB/LOC
Pump Stations                               1.0         1.4        2.4         1.4        WB/LOC
Subtotal                                 42.8        15.6        58A         34.4
B. Kastela-Trogir Wastewater Component
Pump Stations & Collectors                 21.8        14.5       36.3        21.4       EBRD/LOC
Tunnel                                      4.7         1.6        6.3         3.7       EBRD/LOC
Treatment Plant                             5.6        3.8         9.4         5.5       EBRD/LOC
Outfall                                     3.2        0.8         4.0         2.4       EBRD/LOC
Subtotal                                 35.3        20.7        56.0        33.0
C. Water Component
Kunceva Greda Pump station                  4.8         7.3       12.1         7.1       EBRD/LOC
Ravne Njive Pump Station                    7.8        11.6       19.4        11.4       EBRD/LOC
Kastela Pipeline                            7.9        4.3        12.2         7.2        WB/LOC
Solin Pump Station                          0.3        0.5         0.8         0.5        WB/LOC
Sv. Kajo Pump Station, Rising Main &        1.3        0.8         2.1         1.2        WB/LOC
Reservoir
Sucurac Rising Main & Reservoir             2.0         1.4        3.4         2.0        WB/LOC
Subtotal                                 24.2        25.9        50.0        29.5
D. Institutional Strengthening Component
HBOR                                        0.1        0.5         0.6         0.4         Austria
SWSC                                        0.2        0.8         2.0         0.6      Denmark/WB
EKO                                         0.1        0.2         0.3         0.2        Demnark
O&M Equipment for SWSC                      0.0        0.4         0.4         0.2          WB
Monitoring Equipment for HV                 0.2         2.9        3.0          1.8        EBRD
Subtotal                                  0.6         4.8         5.3         3.1
Total Baseline Cost (1/1/98 prices)           102.8        66.9       169.7       100.0
Physical Contingencies                     15.4        10.0       25.5        15.0
Price Contingencies                         9.3         6.0       15.3         9.0
Total Project Cost                            127.5        82.9       210.4       124.0
EKO Administration                          4.4         0.0        4.4         2.6          LOC
Customs Duties                              6.7         0.0        6.7         3.9          LOC
Housing Allowance for Veterans              4.1         0.0        4.1         2.4          LOC
VAT                                        35.9        0.0        35.9        21.2          LOC
Total Cost to be Financed                     178.6        82.9       261.5       154.1



Page 18
Annex 4
Croatia Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Economic Assessment Summary
Project Context
The project area, consisting of the cities of Split, Solin, Kastela and Trogir, underwent rapid urban growth and
industrialization since 1950. Population grew almost threefold from around 100,000 in 1950 to about 280,000 (and
to about 350,000 including the cities' environs) at present, leading to major expansions in single-family and
apartment-block housing, while the industrial sector expanded in the region's economic activity, with the
establishment of several medium to large enterprises. To respond to the increasing demand, water supply systems
were expanded incrementally, and the current systems consist of a mix of old and newer facilities. Many of the
older facilities, while still in operation, are now increasingly becoming bottlenecks in the system due to capacity and
operational efficiency constraints, with frequent breakdowns and high repair and maintenance costs. Consequent
strains and imbalances in the system are resulting in sub-optimization with under-utilization/overloads of system
components, water losses, high operating costs, and the opportunity costs of time and water losses through
breakdowns and capacity under-utilization. Resulting unavailability of water in adequate quantities is leading to
rationing in certain parts, particularly during the summer months; overall, there is scope to significantly improve
service delivery and reliability.
Development of wastewater systems has lagged behind those for water supply. While coverage is relatively high in
some parts, e.g. 90 percent in the old city of Split, it is only around 35 to 40 percent in Kastela and Trogir. The
existing sewer networks feed into multiple separate collection subsystems, which each individually discharge
untreated wastewater into the sea through associated outfalls. This has led to increasing pollution in the Split
Harbor, and the Kastela and Trogir Bays, including rising incidence of eutrophication and red tides with fish
mortality, and is adversely affecting their tourism potential.
Within their revenue constraints, the cities have been attempting to address these problems, and have initiated
certain investments. In regard to water supply, these include selective pipe replacement, renovation of pumping
stations, and construction of new reservoirs. In regard to wastewater, the city of Split has almost completed the
construction of an interceptor around the Split harbor which will collect and transport wastewater currently
discharged into the harbor to a new treatment plant that will serve the eastem part of the city.
The proposed investments under the project have been selected as the least-cost altematives to meet the projected
requirements in regard to water and wastewater services, taking into account the ongoing investments.
Cost-Effectiveness
(a) Wastewater Component
At present, wastewater in the project area is being discharged untreated into the Kastela and Trogir Bays, leading to
serious continued degradation of an enviromnentally sensitive area with major tourism potential. Lack of a proper
sewerage network, including collection and interception, threatens the safety of drinking water supplies in an area
where the porous geological characteristics make the water supplies even more susceptible to contamination, with
consequent health hazards for the population.
Altematives considered in regard to the wastewater component were:
*  no-action
*  altematives for the treatment plants
*  alternatives for the mains and sewers
*  altematives to the tunnel for the pipelines
*  altematives for the outfalls
The no-action alternative would lead to the continued increase in pollution at rising rates; increase in the risk of
contamination of groundwater sources and consequent health risks; and continuing loss of economic benefits



Page 19
through tourism earnings foregone, and their direct and indirect impact on stimulating local private enterprise and
increasing employment.
Treatment Plants: Main alternatives considered were in regard to:
*   siting
*  number of plants
*   sizing
*   treatment process
Site selection was initiated in the late 1980s, and a number of sites were identified and evaluated. The current sites
at Stupe and Ciovo were selected as the most suitable on the basis of their location; size; accessibility; capacity to
permit the envisaged future expansion, including the introduction of secondary and tertiary biological treatment
processes; and acceptability with the local population.
The alternative of having a single treatment plant at Stupe with pumping of the collected flows from Kastela and
Trogir was evaluated, but rejected on the grounds of the higher costs it would involve through the additional
transmission and pumping facilities required by the topography of the area.
The alternative of two separate treatment plants at Kastela and Trogir was evaluated, but rejected in favor of the
more cost-effective solution of a single plant at Ciovo.
The alternative of introducing secondary treatment was evaluated. The activated sludge process has been identified
as the most suitable. However, it was assessed as more prudent to start with mechanical treatment, coupled with
deep sea disposal of the wastewater into the Split and Brac Channels. The selected sites, as well as the mechanical
treatment facilities to be installed, would be fully consistent with later introduction of more advanced treatment
processes.
Pumping Stations and Mains/Sewers: The natural topography divides the Split/Solin area into four principal sub-
catchments. Main alternatives considered were in regard to:
layout and alignment
.   sizing
*   materials
Six pumping stations, with capacities ranging from 60 I/s to 1,120 I/s were determined as the least-cost alternative.
A combination of gravity sewers and rising mains were selected based on topography.
Tunnel: The tunnel will house pipelines to transport collected wastewater from the northern basin of Split, Kastela
and Solin to the treatment plant at Stupe. Main alternatives considered were in regard to:
*   layout and siting
*   sizing
Two main alignments were considered: the first required underpassing Split's main waste disposal site at
Karepovac. However, this would have increased the tunnel's costs by requiring special measures such as concrete
inner lining and waterproofing membranes. The second alignment, although some what longer, was selected as
least-cost; this bypasses the disposal site, obviating the need for the additional features mentioned earlier.
Outfalls: Main alternatives considered were in regard to:
*   siting
*   sizing
*  materials
As in the case of the treatment plants, site selection had been initiated since the late 1 980s. The alternatives were
subsequently narrowed down to three and the selected option, involving a landward route to the head of Stobrec
Bay, with a buried section in the bay itself, and the remainder directly resting on the sea-bed, was assessed as the
least-cost alternative. The location of the deep sea outfalls in the Split and Brac Channels was based on an



Page 20
evaluation of the dilution and diffusion properties of the channels, and on the assessment that there would be no
significant impact other than temporary ones around the respective diffuser ends.
In regard to sizing, various combinations of lengths of outfall and diffuser were evaluated on the basis of
mathematical modeling, and the proposed lengths and cross-sections assessed as the most cost-effective for the first
phase of the wastewater disposal involving mechanical treatment only.
The landward pipe would be constructed from asbestos cement. A number of materials were considered for the
submarine section and high density polyethylene chosen as cost-effective.
(b) Water Supply Component
Imbalances and obsolescence in parts of the water supply system are leading to inefficiencies through system
component under-utilization/overloads, increasing breakdowns, rising operations and maintenance costs, and
affecting the quality of service, including inadequate delivery and rationing to some segments, particularly in the
summer months. The no-action alternative would result in a continuing deterioration of system performance with
increasing imbalances, breakdowns, higher operations and maintenance costs, and continued inadequate availability
of water supply to areas which also have a significant tourism potential.
Alternatives evaluated for each of the components proposed to be financed by the Bank are summarized below.
Sv. Kajo Subcomponent: The proposed investments consist of a new pumping station, reservoir, delivery pipe and
supply line. The area of Sv. Kajo is now supplied by water from a reservoir that is situated very high, resulting in
high pressures leading to frequent pipe bursts and losses of water. The no-action altemative would result in the
continued inefficient operations of the existing system with breakdowns, pipe bursts, water losses, high repair and
maintenance costs, and supply interruptions for the population served.
Solin Pumping Station: The proposed investment consists of the construction of a new pumping station at a new
location to replace the existing pumping station serving the high zone of the city of Solin. The existing station is in
poor condition with worn out electrical and mechanical equipment, and poor sanitary and hygienic conditions. The
existing site is cramped and does not permit efficient layout of the facilities. The no-action altemative would result
in inefficient, high cost functioning, with increasing repairs and maintenance.
Sucurac Subcomponent: The proposed investments consist of the building of a pumping station delivery pipe, a
reservoir and a supply pipeline to complement the Sucurac pumping station that is currently under construction.
The sub-system delivers water supply to a large area of the city of Kastela. The no-action altemative would result in
delaying the complementary investments needed to capture the benefits of the new pumping station. The
investments represent the least cost altemative as they would enable the operationalization of an investment that is
already under way.
Kastela Main Water Pipeline: The proposed investment consists of the construction of a new pipeline to supply
drinking water to consumers in Kastela and Trogir. The present Kastela water channel is assessed as inadequate on
technical and sanitary/hygienic considerations. Moreover, the pipeline is not under pressure, which has led to
various unlicensed connections and loss of water, which overload the system. The no-action alternative would
result in continued reliance on the existing channel, with commercial water losses, the risk of contamination, and
capacity constraints affecting adequacy of supply.
Project Benefits
Wastewater Component: The proposed wastewater-related investments under the project would reduce pollution
levels in the Kastela and Trogir Bays to levels consistent with applicable Croatian and EU standards while
increasing the safety of drinking water supplies from contamination. These would be achieved through:
* reduced maintenance costs
*  reduced infiltration and thus lower water treatment cost
* health benefits
* reduction of risk of contamination of groundwater wells
* lower clean water treatment costs downstream
* environmental benefits through improved quality of receiving waters and improved tourism attraction of
cleaner marine environment



Page 21
Water Supply Component: The water supply component would address present imbalances in the system to increase
the reliability and delivery of supplies to under-served segments. Benefits would include:
*  costs avoided for increasing raw water production capacity
*  water conservation
*  time savings from improved access and more reliable supply
*  energy savings
*  lower operating costs and reduced maintenance
*  health benefits
Institutional Strengthening: Technical assistance under the project would enable institutional strengthening in the
key project agencies, including SWSC, the water and sewerage utility, and EKO, the Project Implementation
Agency.
Environmental Monitoring Component: Investments to strengthen and upgrade the environmental monitoring
system would enable enhanced monitoring of environmental conditions in the project area, including the impact of
the project.
Quantification of Economic Benefits
The nature of project investments - in collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater, and in rehabilitation and
operational improvement of existing systems - is not amenable to calculation of an economic rate of return (ERR).
Instead; the Net Present Value (NPV) of the project's financial flows has been used to provide indication of
minimum economic value. The actual economic benefits would be much higher in view of the significant
extemalities not included in the assessment. With conservative assumptions, and utilizing a discount rate of 10
percent, a base case analysis yields an NPV of DEM 35 million (equivalent to US$20 million at current exchange
rates). In a more adverse environment, with capital and 0 & M costs up by 20 percent, NPV would still remain
positive.
Fiscal Impact
Construction Phase: The bulk (67 percent) of the project investments are for wastewater collection, treatment and
disposal. By their nature, such investments, which involve substantial extemalities, require significant external
financial support in the construction phase. For the project, this would involve about DEM 100 million (or 38
percent of the total project cost) to be provided by transfers from the Central Government, through allocations from
the general budget (DEM76 million) and from the Water Fund administered by Hrvatske Vode (DEM24 million).
Operational Phase: The project would be a net fiscal contributor during the operational phase. Its incremental
fiscal contributions (as compared to the no-project case) would come from:
*  increased profit taxes
*  increased sales taxes
*  increased tourism tax receipts
*  elimination of dependence on municipal subsidies
Tariffs and Affordability
Studies prepared for EBRD in the context of project preparation confirm that water and wastewater charges are
likely to remain affordable for even the lowest income groups in the project area. Residential tariffs (including
surcharges and taxes) in the project area are about HRK3.56 per m3 which is about the same as the national average
for Croatia. At these levels, household tariffs are among the lowest among counties on the Istrian-Dalmatian coast,
being about 70 to 75 percent lower than the levels in the coastal cities of Pula and Rijeka. Average household
incomes in the project area, on the other hand, are higher than the national average, and at around the same levels as
in Pula and Rijeka. Despite the required increases in residential tariffs, water and wastewater services are projected
to remain affordable in the project area. The affordability of increased tariffs has been assessed by categorizing
households as either "working" (Category I) or "retired" (Category II). On average, Category I households have
more persons, more workers and fewer pensioners than Category II households. Affordability analyses indicate that
the combined charge for water and wastewater as a percentage of household incomes would be:



Page 22
Current Situation (1997)   Future Situation (2002)
Domestic tariff per m3 (in HRK)                      3.56                   7.72
Billed annual water consumption (in m3)               175                    183
Annual charges per household (in HRK)                 623                   1,413
Average Category I income (in HRK)                 36,536                 53,186
Average Category II income (in HRK)                29,230                 39,890
All water charges as percentage of:
Category I average income                              1.7                    2.7
Category II average income                            2.1                     3.5
In reality, it is likely that the water and wastewater bill's share of household income will be lower than the average
for the lowest income groups and higher for the higher income groups. This follows from the fact that per capita
water consumption increases with income. The lowest income household groups would probably consume less than
the assumed average of 175 to 183 m3 per year while the highest income groups are likely to consume more than
this level. The net result should make the water and wastewater bill more affordable to the lowest income groups.



Page 23
Annex 5.1
Croatia: Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Financial Summary
Project Cost and Financing Plan
Years Ending December 31
(DEM million)
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   Total
Project Cost
Investmnent Cost             15.9   38.3   43.7   53.6   50.1   35.5   15.4    4.6    257.1
Recurrent Cost                0.4    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6          4.4
Total                      16.3   38.8   44.2   54.2   50.7   36.1   16.0    5.2    261.5
Financing Plan
Central Government           10.0   10.0    7.0   14.0   14.0   15.0    5.0    0.8         75.8
Hrvatske Vode (Water Fund)    1.5    2.5    2.0    6.0    5.0    5.0    2.0    0.5    24.5
Municipalities and Water      ---    0.6    1.0    1.7    2.3    3.5    5.5    2.6         17.2
Utility
IBRD                          1.1    5.1    9.6   14.5   17.3   12.6    3.5    1.3         65.0
EBRD                          3.5   20.0   24.0   18.0   12.1    ---                --    77.6
Donors                        0.2    0.6    0.6    ---    ---    ---    ---    ---          1.4
Total                      16.3   38.8   44.2   54.2   50.7   36.1   16.0    5.2    261.5
Project Viability
The project's financial rate of return (FRR) is estimated at about 1S percent and its Net Present Value (NPV) at around DEM
35 million (US$20 million at current exchange rates) at a discount factor of 10 percent.
Entity Finances
(a) Split Water and Sewerage Company (SWSC)
A summary of SWSC's key financial performance indicators for 1996 and 1997 (and projections for 1998 to 2005) are presented in
the Appendix to this Annex, and salient features briefly sunumarized below.
Revenue Performance: Water and sewerage charges account for over 90 percent of SWSC's total revenues. Growth of revenues after
1990 has been constrained by the effects of the war situation in the region which led to reduced water offtake, particularly by
industries, and difficulties in revenue collection. This has led to a large backlog of accumulated receivables, particularly from state-
owned enterprises and public institutions, with a corresponding build up of payables to the state. The collection situation has been
improving on a flow basis (collections against current invoicing) since the peace accord, but further improvements are necessary.
Steps to address this will be pursued under the Performance Enhancement Program (PEP).
Tariffs: By law, tariffs have to cover operational costs and depreciation. Failure of the parent municipalities to approve tariff
proposals on this basis obliges them to compensate SWSC with equivalent subsidies. As current depreciation charges significantly
under-estimate true capital costs, there is a need to increase tariffs. Tariffs for water user charges currently include a surcharge levied
for the Water Fund administered by Hrvatske Vode for financing investments of national or regional importance. The combined
water and sewerage charge for households is about HRK 3.56 per m3, consisting of a base water and sewerage charge of HRK 1.39,
Water Fund and other surcharges of HRK 2.03, and a sales tax of HRK 0.14. For industry and commercial consumers, the
corresponding figures are HRK 4.70 per m3, composed of a base charge of HRK 2.67, and surcharges of HRK 2.03.



Page 24
Operating and Maintenance Costs (O & M): In comparison to best practice European norms, there is significant scope for
improvement in enterprise productivity in terms of input-to-output and output-revenue ratios. Unaccounted-for-water has averaged
about 26 percent in recent years and could be understated. Energy and material costs also provide room for efficiency improvements..
The number of non-management staff is about 50 percent higher than in comparable European water utilities. It is estimated that
costs could be reduced by about 15 to 20 percent under a well-structured PEP.
Financial Management: SWSC prepares detailed annual plans but has not initiated medium term planning. Proper financial control is
constrained by the lack of an appropriate cost allocation system. This limits the information available for meaningful financial
planning, programming and budgeting. These deficiencies will be addressed under the PEP.
SWSC prepares financial accounts and reports according to the applicable Croatian regulations in force for municipal and public
enterprises. Its accounts and annual financial statements are audited by local public auditors under the applicable regulations. Under
the PEP, SWSC would be required to improve its financial and cost accounting systems with the help of qualified technical assistance
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. SWSC would also be required to have its annual accounts audited in accordance
with internationally accepted standards by qualified, independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Financial Projections
Key underlying assumptions are briefly summarized below.
Water Consumption: Based on conservative assumptions, water consumption is projected to decline initially reflecting the impact of
increased prices, but increase gradually thereafter as per capita consumption approaches European levels and industrial consumption
revives, including consumption by new industries.
Tariffs: To provide the local govermment 's share of financing for the project, the four cities have approved an increase in the
average water and wastewater tariff (base plus surcharges) by 30 percent effective April 1, 1998. Further, real increases of about 15
percent would be required by the year 2000, followed by smaller increases, of the order of 1.5 to 2 percent, in the years 2002 and
2003 as SWSC starts to service the debt on the project. At these cumulated levels, the tariffs are estimated to remain affordable in
terms of shares of household incomes (Annex 4).
Operating Efficiency: As a combined result of the higher tariffs, and improved operating and revenue collection performance,
enabled by the PEP, SWSC is projected to significantly improve its operating and financial performance, leading to an improvement
in its working and operating ratios to 0.61 and 0.75 respectively by the year 2004, and to at least maintain them thereafter.
Contrbution to Investment Financing: With the above improvements, SWSC is expected to generate funds internally adequate to
provide, on average, about 10 percent of the required financing (including interest and financial charges) for the project.



Page 25
Annex 5.2
Croatia: Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Financial Summary for Split Water and Sewerage Company (SWSC)
Key Years Ending December: 1996 through 2005
(In Millions of Current HRK)
1996       1997        1998       2000        2002        2004        2005
Actual    Estimated
-----------------------------------Forecast-----------------------------------
Income Statement Items
Revenues                          64.7       77.5       124.0       149.5      173.9       199.5        209.2
Operating Income                 -18.1       -6.0         2.0        17.6       20.9        34.0         36.7
Net Income                       -18.2       -6.3         1.7        12.9        5.0         9.8         14.5
Funds Statement Items
Intemal Sources                    0.0        4.8        25.9        49.9       68.5        86.5         90.5
Borrowings                         0.0        0.0         9.8        75.0      134.3        29.6         12.8
Equity Investrnents               10.0        3.0        56.3        75.0       38.6        18.8          0.0
Total Sources                  10.0         7.8       92.0       199.9       241.4      134.9        103.3
Capital Expenditures               1.3        8.0        68.3       163.1      187.9        61.9         22.5
Taxes (VAT, Import Duties)        0.4         0.5        12.1       37.3        41.4        23.8         4.6
Working Capital Increase           8.0         1.0       11.6        -5.2       -3.8        -0.8          1.8
(Decrease)
Debt Service                       0.3        0.3         0.3         4.7       15.9        50.0         74.4
Total Applications             10.0         7.8       92.0       199.9       241.4      134.9        103.3
Balance Sheet Items
CurrentAssets                     86.8       39.3        51.6       46.8        39.3        36.1         37.8
Less Current Liabilities       80.0        31.6       32.2        31.0        29.6       29.5         29.5
Net Fixed Assets                 195.3      188.3       248.3       580.4      984.5.     1133.6       1107.4
Total Assets                  202.1       196.0      267.7       596.2       994.2     1140.2       1115.7
Debt                               0.1        0.3        14.0       130.5      388.1       468.0        429.0
Equity                           202.0      195.7       253.7      465.7       606.1       672.2        686.7
Total Liabilities and Equity  202.1       196.0      267.7       596.2       994.2     1140.2       1115.7
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a
% of Revenue                     -28%         -8%         2%         12%        12%         17%          17%
Net Income as a
% ofRevenue                      -28%         -8%         1.5%        9%         3%          5%           7%
Return on Average Invested          -6.5%       -3.2%        0.7%       3.0%        0.6%        0.9%         1.3%
Capital
Debt Service Coverage                0.0         8.6         8.0        7.8         3.4         1.5          1.1
Percent of Total Capital              0.0       50.0%        3.2%       8.0%        8.0%       21.8%-      43.1%
Expenditures financed by Internal
Sources
Current Ratio                         1.1        1.2         1.6        1.5         3.4         2.8          2.4
Debt as %of Total Capitalization      1:99       1:99        5:95      22:78       39:61       41:59        38:62



Page 26
Annex 6
Croatia: Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement of goods and works for the Bank financed components would be carried out in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised January 1996,
August 1996 and September 1997). For consultants' services, the procurement would follows the Bank's guidelines
"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," (January 1997, revised September 1997).
The Project components not financed by the Bank would be procured in accordance with the guidelines of the
EBRD, the project's cofmancier.
A project procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement actions is
presented in Table A. The project cost by procurement arrangement is in Table B. All other procurement
information, including the capability of the implementing agency, estimated date of publication of the General
Procurement Notice and the Banks review process, is presented in Table C. The total value of Bank financed
procurement is estimated at US$47.9 million. Of this amount, US$41.1 million would be for goods and works
awarded using ICB. Consultants for engineering services valued at US$3.3 million would be selected competitively
using the QCBS Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. Consultants for technical assistance valued at
US$400,000 would be selected competitively using the Quality Based Selection method. Ninety-nine percent of all
procurement would be subject to prior review.
To the extent practical, items to be procured have been grouped into major packages to encourage competitive
bidding and to ensure standardization. The major procurement items--treatment plant, outfall, pumping stations,
water mains and sewers--will be contracted using the Supply & Install (S&I) bidding procedure.
The responsible agency for procurement would be EKO which will engage the services of a procurement advisor
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. Progress on procurement would be reported to the Bank in semi-
annual project implementation reports.
Disbursement
The Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of about seven years. The closing date would be June 30, 2006. It
is expected that this period would be sufficient to implement the project and to complete disbursements, given the
nature and size of the Project and the Bank's experience with infrastructure projects in Croatia.
Allocation of Loan Proceeds. Table D shows the allocation of loan proceeds by category and the disbursement
percentages in each category.
Documentation. Disbursements from the loan for the following types of contracts would be made by the Bank on
receipt of full documentation: (i) civil works contracts and supply and install contracts valued at US$2,000,000
equivalent or more; (ii) goods contracts valued at US$300,000 equivalent or more; (iii) consulting contracts with
firms valued at US$100,000 or more; and (iv) consulting contracts with individuals valued at US$50,000 or more.
Disbursements for contracts in amounts below the respective thresholds indicated above would be made against
SOEs for which full supporting documentation would be retained by HBOR and EKO. This documentation would
be made available to the Bank on request.
Special Account. The Borrower would establish a Special Account for the Bank loan at a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank and on terms and condition satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would make an authorized
allocation of DEM1,000,000 for the Special Account. Initially, the allocation would be limited to DEM400,000
until disbursements have reached DEM6 million, then the full authorized allocation could be disbursed.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when 20 percent of the initial
deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. Each replenishment application would need to be supported by
the necessary documentation, a bank statement of the Special Account and a reconciliation statement of the Special
Account against Bank records.



Croatia: Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Table A- 1: Procurement Plan
Description                          _A E o
SPLIT-SOLIN WASTEWATER SUB-COMPONENT
Dujmovaca-Vranjic Subsystem (CW for 3 PS & Sewers)       W          1.5       1.0   NCB       n.a.      Oct-99    Nov-99 Mar-00   Mar-02
Solin Subsystem (CW for 2 PS & Sewers)                   W          5.2       4.2  ICB        n.a.      Oct-99    Nov-99 Mar-00   Mar-02
Stupe Sewage Tunnel                                      W         13.0       8.7  ICB       Jun-98    Mar-99      Apr-99 Aug-99   Apr-01
Pumps & Motors                                            G          1.7      1.7  ICB        n.a.     Apr-99    May-99  Jul-99   Dec-99
Stupe Water Treatment Plant                            TK-S&I       5.0       4.0  ICB       Jun-98    Jan-99      Feb-99  Jun-99   Jun-01
Stobrec Submarine Outfall                              TK-S&I       8.4       5.7  ICB       Jun-98    Feb-99      Mar-99  Jul-99    Jul-00
SPLIT-SOLIN WATER SUPPLY SUB-COMPONENT 
Sucurac Rising Main & Reservoir                          W          1.2       0.8   NCB       n.a.     Mar-00      Apr-00 Aug-00   Aug-02
Solin PS & Sv Kajo PS, Rising Main & Reservoir           S&I         1.6      1.3  ICB        Jun-98    Mar-00     Apr-00 Aug-00   Aug-02
Solin-Kastela Trunk Main                                 S&I        6.2       5.0  ICB        Jun-98    Apr-00    May-00  Sep-00   Sep-02
OTHER
O&M Equipment                                             G         0.3       0.3  IS/NS      n.a.      Jun-00      Jul-00  Sep-00   Mar-02
Design (Water and Split-Solin Sewerage)                  CS          1.6      1.6   QBCS   May-98   May-98         Jun-98  Sep-98   Sep-00
Supervision (Water & Split-Solin Sewerage)               CS          1.7      1.7   QBCS    Feb-99    Feb-99       Mar-99  Jun-99   Jun-05
EKO Technical Assistance                                 CS         0.1       0.1   SS        n.a.                Not Scheduled
EKO Technical Assistance                                 CS       <0.1      <0.1    IND       n.a.                Not Scheduled
SWSC Technical Assistance                                CS         0.4       0.4   QBS      Sep-98    Oct-98      Oct-98 Dec-98   Mar-00
SUBTOTAL (WB Financed Components)                                 47.9     36.3
EBRD & OTHER FINANCED PROCUREMENT                        NBF         59.1
Customs Duties and Taxes                                NBF        26.1
Land                                                    NBF         10.5
Administration (EKO)                                     NBF         2.5
TOTAL                                                               146.0     36.3
N,s, :.. :' '' '6            T' K,:i' _:''',Wo,    : '       *sltn  .,'::'.   . '' 
(1)  =Spply and Instlatin TTuK Key W-' os   GodC Cosutg Srvc,:
('} C sts~are not oftaxes.
(3) ICB - Baeraaio, N  =,Dfipetive Bidding; NB =s.National Cbe'          nal oppig;  CS       ity and Cost bSed   o (coultts);
' QBS: , -               twtIityBnT (co   t s)-SS Single SourceSlel ions ( ut);N dividual (conss  nts); N13F  Not Bank financ,,i



Page 2s
Annex 6
Croatia: Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Table A-2: Procurement Plan Summary
Procurement Method      Estimated Cost  World Bank
Procuremet Method(US$ m)            (US$ m)
ICB Supply & Install           21.2            15.9
ICB Works                      18.2            12.9
NCB Works                       2.7             1.8
ICB Goods                       1.7             1.7
IS Goods                        0.3            0.3
CS QBCS                         3.3             3.3
CS QBS                          0.4             0.4
SS/IND                          0.1            0.1
Land                           10.5
Administration                  2.5
Taxes                          26.1
NBF Procurement                59.1
Total                       146.0            36.3



Page 29
Annex 6
Croatia: Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Table B: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Category                                 Procurement Method(')                    Total
ICB         NCB          Other(2)      NBF          Cost(3)
1. Works                     18.2         2.7           --           18.1         39.0
(10.9)        (1.8         (-(~)(14.7)
2. Goods and S&I             22.9          --           0.3          35.3         58.5
(17.5)        (-)(0-3)                   (~)(17.8)
3. Technical Services
4. Consultancies              --           --           3.8          5.6           9.4
( )   (--)        ~~~~(3.8)      (-)(3.8)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 Land                   --           --           --           10.5          10.5
5.2 Duties and Taxes       --           --           --           26.1         26.1
5.3 Recurrent Costs        --           --           --            2.5          2.5
Total                        41.1          2.7          4.1          98.1         146.0
(30.4)       (1.8)        (4.1)          (-)         (36.3)
Notes:
(1)   ICB= International Bidding; NCB = National Competitive Bidding; NBF = Not Bank Financed.
(2)   Comprises Consultants' Services; International Shopping and National Shopping.
(3)   Includes contingencies.



Annex 6
Croatia: Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Table C: Procurement Arrangements
(Sections 1 and 2)
^=5=;0 ^ 000 g. ~Secton   l  . ,emetR.v  W                                    .                        -vg| ... .
GOODS & WoRKs           ICB S&I          ICB GOODS          ICB WORKS            NCB                 IS                NS
Procurement Method     $1,000,000        $300,000           $2,000,000        Below $2,000,000   Below $300,000    Below $50,000
Thresholds                                                                                                         I
Procurement Method     $21,200,000        $1,700,000        $18,200,000        $2,700,000                     $300,000
Agregates
Prior Review Thresholds  All             All                All                $2,000,000 & First  None             None
Contract
Prior Review Agregates   $21,200,000      $1,700,000        $18,200,000        $2,700,000
CONSULTANTS       QBCS               QBS               LCS                Qualifications    Single Source      Individuals
Selection Method       $100,000          $100,000           N.A.              N.A.               Below $100,000    Below $50,000
Thresholds                                                                                                         ImCD
Selection Method       $3,300,000        $400,000                                                             $100,000                      o
Agregates
Prior Review Thresholds  All             All                N.A.               N.A.              All                All
Prior Review Agregates   $3,300,000       $400,000                                                                 L --
EXPOSTREVIEW       Signed contracts will be sent to the Bank. Documentation will retained by EKO and reviewed by Bank staff during supervision
mission.
Sc toi 2 Capadty f t             i   g y i ..ocurement an'd4Teciic  Aitn  Requireet
EKO will have primary responsibility for procurement. They will be assisted by Hrvatska Vode which has a good record for carrying out Bank
procurement under the Emergency Reconstruction Project (Ln3760). In addition, Bank procurement procedures will be explained in detail during the
project launch mission, and technical assistance to EKO for procurement is included in the project and the timing covenanted.
Country Procurement Assessment Report: To be prepared in FY99       Are bidding documents for procurement actions of the first year ready by
negotiations: RFP ready for selection of consultants who will prepare
bidding documents.



Annex 6
Croatia: Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Table C: Procurement Arrangements
(Sections 3 and 4)
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procuremeint            _
Estimated date of Project   General Procurement Notice:    Contracts subject to a     Domestic preference for    Domestic Preference for
Launch: September 1998      November 1997                 mandatory SPN in             Goods: Yes; Works: No     Consultant Services: No
Development Business:
All ICB contracts.
All QBCS & QBS
Consultant's Services
-contracts
Retroactive Financing: No                                          I Advance Procurement: No
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitor System: The ECSIN procurement monitoring system will be used to ensure that the ECA service standards are
meet for all procurement. All incoming procurement is logged and then sent to the responsible person for action. If the responsible person is on mission, the
Program Team Assistant is responsible for ensuring that the responsible person is notified in the field and that an altemate takes the necessary action.
Co-financing: The Project is being co-financed by EBRD. The project has been divided into two parts and all contracts will be parallel financed so that
there will be no conflict between procurement guidelines.
Section 4: Procurement Stafring
The Procurement Staff as part of the team is: Richard MacEwen (ECSIN)
A local engineer in the Croatia Resident Mission is being recruited to assist with the supervision of projects, including the processing of procurement.
However, the earliest this person would be in a position to take on significant procurement responsibilities is September 1998. Until then, all procurement
monitoring and review will take place at headquarters.



Page 32
Annex 6
Croatia: Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                   Amount in DEM        Financing Percentage
million
(1)     Works                                           35.0                 75%
(2)     Goods                                           20.0                 100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% ex-factory
cost, or 85%
of local
expenditures for
items procured
Locally
(3)     Consultants' Services                           5.0                  100%
(4)     Unallocated                                     5.0
Total        65.0



Page 33
Annex 7
Croatia: Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                             Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)       US$340,000
B. Project Schedule                                     Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                16                      26
First Bank mission (identification)                   10/16/1995              10/16/1995
Appraisal mission departure                           06/28/1996              12/07/1997
Negotiations                                          10/15/1996              05/11/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                         03/31/1997              08/31/1998
Prepared by: Hrvatska Banka Za Obnovu I Razvitak, Hrvatske Vode, EKO, SWSC and municipalities of
Split, Solin, Kastela and Trogir
Preparation assistance: Japan PHRD, EBRD
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Walter Stottmann (Sector Leader, Water and Wastewater)
Richard MacEwen (Program Team Leader, Procurement Specialist)
Kishore Nadkami (Task Team Leader, Financial Analyst)
Arumukham Saravanapavan (Sanitary Engineer)
Lea Braslavsky (Sanitary Engineer, Procurement Accredited Staff)
Kavita Sethi (Economist)
Piotr Krzyzanowski (Environmental Specialist)
Gennady Pilch (Lawyer)
Joseph Formoso (Disbursement Officer)
Christine Kessides (Economist, Peer Reviewer)
Frederick Golladay (Economist, Peer Reviewer)
David Howarth (Engineer, Peer Reviewer)
Aleathea Thomas Diallo (Croatia Team Assistant)



Page 34
Annex 8
Croatia: Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Project Expenditures Schedule
* Implementation Schedule
* Disbursement Schedule
* Implementation Arrangements
* Procurement Plan
* Performance Indicators
* Monitoring and Reporting
* Project Financial Management Report
* Terms of Reference
*  Consultants for Final Designs
+  Procurement Consultant for EKO
*  Project Financial Management Consultant for EKO
?  Consultants for SWSC Performance Enhancement Program
a  Auditors for Project and SWSC Financial Accounts
B. Feasibility Studies Prepared by Local and Foreign Consultants.
C. Environmental Assessment (prepared by Institute of Civil Engineering, Split and
Institute of Oceanographic Research, Split)
$ Including electronic files.



SiOlails oif la511   (IGr9IIul Opclali.lls ilk (.au44oli.
11lli) l.oinis auail I)DA  0'eifils in lhC Op erationIs I'arifuliob
O.iqs-i. IsouK    . IjsS  i   lulso.                     aI... aCIl- i                 Last AllPP
I.-.n  ut    I  -u...                                                                                                                                    Oib,,0at,                Sp..jvVtIsI.n 11.11u,tn  bl
P1o1ect 10       C, .c,t       Tcua                 b-t d...uriOsu
II...                                                                                    I hit.         I PA     cwi-lUti I ita t i o .  Ut,d  .t4t -    Odiq  Fr ie. ik.l   Duv    Ob)         tIp eo-q
t1uabvt  of Closedj Loar,s/c,e.iit.; I
Aci!!e t,Odtts
liR-PE-39002    Ihiihi 3u690   IVd9   IS'l'lAII WiW    K 19MA WW               :ISTRIA uiS                     Zd.O0          Oh.O                0.00           15.'97       IS.9e         0.00         S               S             c
hill - PC; - II I.!tl    11110 i 11110   I 15.i I  t0,IIltl    Ok 0  CHUAIAiI l  k1wio:l;CI1C  fQCC..OuMLK:  *211. hil       0. hil              0.00            C. 54        6. 56        1.00         I i
ll1s-hk:-0J..)I    111l:   JUL90   1995   ILtill-.IC 111' CIOAIIA           RliQIllOAV StCT1uR               bO.OO          0.00                0.00           21 .28       -5.53         0.00         S               Si
It0-lE-39450    1UP11  3U430   1995   kEUl'bIl.IC: Ot CiOAlIA                hIAITHI ltOJECT                    40.00         0.00                0.00            6.72         6./2         0.00        IISU IIS
llk-l6-4042    IlillO  39990   1996   1lhiEVLMI.C (iI CIIIIAT IA              CA1'6TAl. 01ARNC1Y  hiV.           9. 50        0.00                0.00             4.-417      2. 13        0.00         5 
HRt-PLE-i0d3(0   1bhO.  39d90   1996   RPU1ihl.I(2 01 ChOATIA                TlCUIlihCAi. ASSISTPuICE           5.00         0.00                0,00             1.99        1.99         0.00         S               S
Il1-PE-0335    1l1Uh   3900O   1996  liEIv1lm.IC Or CIIOAtIA                  FARMI:Il t SUtPIT SthVI           11.00         0.00                0.00)          15.31         3.13         0.00         S               S             0
lllthPE-32?      IhiuD 4 1590   1997  I1.1'Li.C 00, clioAtIA                 EVUAI.                            95.00          0.00               0.00           43. 92         1.-59       0.00         S               S
RKI(Ih>11-334    1 11111 41190  1O9t   UOVr. 1.1' CROAT IA                   COASTAL. FOREST 115COH            42.00          0.00               0.00           42.00        12.70         0.00         S               S             g.    i-t j
lIH-l1'-44451    W1011  4104d3   1991  llE0lilil.lC' IOf ChOATIA              F1H31. ThIlSeh/lltiE  Cl..      102.00           0.00               0.00            14.0'       26.89         0.00         S               S             __                    te
1111-11-411139    Uhpl 42190   1991   WllMISlRY Ot' ilhiAilWE                'I&V&5llIT 1LCOVLRIV                3.00          0.00               0.00             2.86        6.503        0.00         S               S
Ilh-I'-40139    WWI1 42-d4O   199d   MISh1163lY Otf i'il,:t                   IlIVESTHEIT hRECOVE1R             10.00          0.00               0.00             9.50        6.S0         0.00         S               S
lOh-1:-40139    IlUhD  42410   193'1d  HiIllhSI Ot Ot  IIA114:O               1I1VESMEN3 T hECCGVtOl             9.00          0.00               0.00             6.57        6.S0         0.00         S               S                                    (
OR111:- 40119 IS   IDhD 42460   1 ia       ISttLSr3Y 1'IIlA 1A IC             IIUV1'S33llllOr hgCGVEhY           0.00          0.00               0.00             3.63        6.50         0.00         S               S
T.ala                                                                                                          516.50          0.00               0.00          262.02       100. 30        0.00
coI
Active l.oat,s          Clooe.lth1atch              931to
Tolal Olsbvtsed llbaD an4 IDA);                        286.35                    2.91                 2di.66
of w,ich has been repaid:                         9.19                    2.99                  12.70
Total tU"o  lO.c4   t.y 111110 .rII I1A.:              566.11                    0.00         t        66.71
Alou..t 1ol4                         :                    0.00                   0.00                   0.00
o        'rI.icl, rtpl4:                              0.00                   0.00                    0.00
Tor.t. Ulitli ..:.io,l. --4.2.112                                               0.00                 242.UZ
a.  ,tItt.do,1 Ojot.   vt,   to  .l.t  tt,..  at...1    .,1.:t.tst  t.. data a.. pt do:t:r).4 .t ..l.
b. tolh-ei"u4 cC   12Y94 Alm.al   Evvw  l    ol,         ..      t,-,o.4kclc    (Ar- l.P11l.,    t.L.a0  U...4 4yutOe. Odt istt... .i { IS -   h,lS hlt.LY  S Ltksi.ct4.y, S - Oa4t.L.I-twry  U    ..taiocttiy
lU - biqnIly  -.satiofactoryl: se. ptoronS.)4prcovea.-tS    Pin          ct...c  an4 tiorz.1tuo   ftt.t,.uc   0.trlua t.lotloi.10lo4y1  lS0CIl94-9011, Aeg.st 23, 1994.
isani.seI.ent a1ta  Is u       taO   t thb  end uf tI,.  first  Paeck of tIht uontt     .



Page 36
Annex 10
Croatia Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Country at a Glance
914197
Europe &   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central  middle-
Croatia      Asia  Income        De velopm rnt dtamond-
Populabon mid-1 998 (nerilons)                           4.8       479      479
GNP per capita 1998 (USS)                             3.830      2.180    4.540                 ULifeexpectancy
GNP 1993 (billions USS)                                 18.3     1043    2.173
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Populalion (96)                                          0.0        0.3      1.5
Labor force (%)                                          0.1       0.5       1.8      GNP    - 
Most recent estimate (latest year available sinces 1989)                              capIta                      .   it
Poverty: headcount index (% ofpopulallon)                 ..         -.
Urban populafion (% of total popUlaton)                  64         85        73               - 
Ufe expectancy at birth (years)                          74         88        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 18         26        35    [          Accessto salewater
Child malnutrition i% of chldren uncter t                            ..        .   I-
Access to safewater (%otpopulabon)                       96                   86
illiteracy (% ofpopulaton age 15.)                                            t3j
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschoo-age population)      86         97       107     'pptCnc            nta    -i om;   j  'r
Male                                                   87         97        ..
Female                                                 86         97
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985       1995     1898
GDP (billions USS)                              ..         ..     18.1      19.0      Ecnomic rattos
Gross domestfi investment/GOP                                      16.0     186.8
Exports of goods anId semvces/GOP                .                40.3      42.0              Openntessfeorm
Gross domestic savings/GOP                                         3.4       5.3    ;
Gross national savings/GDP                       .                  6 .5     9.1
Current account balance/GOP                                        -9.5     -7.6        I;vesi 'e1
Interest paymentstGOP                                               1.4      1.3      Savings
Total debVGDP                                                     20.2      25.4
Total debt servicelexports                                          9.6      8 6   !l.
Present value ofdebtUGDP                                   ,       18.0
Present value of debt/exports                                     41.3                           ilndebtedness
1975S5  1986.96      1995       1998  1997-05
(average annuasgrwlth)                                                                .  .
GOP                                     .        ..      2.8       4.2       5.5
GNP per capita                                           3.8        4.5      5.6         -U                                 ,.1
Exports ol goods and services                            4.1                 88 8.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985       1995     1996
(15 Of GOP)                                                                            rwhtd0aiuidl.sr,t.1)-,
Agnculture124                                                                22
Industry                                                           25.4     24.9
Manufacturing                                                    199       197
Services                                                          62.2      62.6      1  .S            7 /
Private consumpton                                                6337 643                - ,-                , P
General government consumption                                    32 9      3329 34
Imports of goods and services                                     52.9      53.5
19754-5  1986-96       1995     1996
(average annual grwth)                                                                Growth rates of exports and Imports (% I-
Agncuiture                                                          0.2      2.0      so
Industry                                                            0.0      3.1      vS
Manufactuing                                                      0.3       3.1    30_
Services                                                  .         3.9      4.3                         _______  .    ____
Private consumption                                                13.4     113               91          9     4    95
General govemment consumptlon                                      22.8      1.3     -,
Gross domestic investment                                          12.9     12.8          ' *             -   ---: 2
Impotts of goods and services                                     32.2         .     i     -
Gross national product                                              3.8      4.5    I          ....
Note: 1998 date are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the county (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 37
Annex 10
Croatia Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Country at a Glance
Croatia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE________________
Domestic prices                                                                         ifatn
(%change)                                                                           I 205
Consumer prices                                   .         ..       3.7       3.4    j.5                                   ......
Implicit GDP deflato                              .         .        7.1       5.1
(% of GOP)                                                                                    . 
Current revenue                                   .         ..      45.8      48.9                  ;9
Current budget balance                            .         ..       2.1       4.3              .-o      sa       cr
Overall surplus/dellcit                            .        ..      -0.9      .0.5
TRADE
1978     1985       1995      1996
(-MoJinS UJSS                                                                           Export and Intport levels (tit. JS$
Total exports (fob)463                                                      451
Capital goods                                                                                                             7
Chemricalsa.0
Manufactures..                                            .
Total imports (cM                                                   ,507)8
FoodI
Fuel and energy                                                                         o
Capital goods                                                                            i                  2
Export price index (1987s100)                                                                      S,0:           9.St-
fmport price index (195T.i10) 
Terms of trade (1987-1 00)                                                                                     smot.
BALANCE ofPAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995      1996 
(nn1iflhons USS)Curnaconbaa    tGOrai ( ,
Exporla of goods and services                     .         ..     7,202    fl9        Cirai ccutblac  o  O  ele%8 
Imports of goods and services                                      947 1.9
Resource balance                                                  I225..16M '
Net income                                                            9       -4
Net current transfersM                                                        79
Current account balance.                                                                               2 5    I          I
before official capital transfes                                ..1        142
Financing items (net).22                                                      1.7
Changes in net reserves                                             40        41
Memo:__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                          _ _
Reserves including gold (nmil UJSS)               .         ..     1,895    2,313
Conversion rate (IoceL4US$)                       .         ..       5.2       5.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE PLOWS                                                       ________________
1975     1988       19965    1996
(mifllons UJS$)                                                                        ComposItIon of total ebi. 1196 inlIL USI)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              .         ..     3.661    4.847
IBRD                                            .         *       117       1950                         A
IDA                                                      ..          0        0                    -s       
4     1   208 0
Total debt service                                .         .       452       588667
lBRD                                            *         .        28        28
IDA                                             .         ..         0        01
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                   11
Official grants                                 .         ..        0
Otricial creditors                              .         ..       77        84
Private creditors                               .         ..      327       43325
Foreign direct invesbtient                     ..        .          1       349             20
Portfolio equity                                .                   0         0
World Bank program
Comnmitments                                    .         .        120      134      A- AIBR ".Bglr'~
Oisbursements                                                      so.. 5   105       8.~       D-Otnremaea    -P*I
Principal repayments                            .         ..       20        16       CIP0Betmr
Net fows                                        .        ..        29        8       ________________
Interest payments                               .        ..         7        1
Net transfers                                   .         ..        22       78
Development Econonace14



Page 38
Annex 11
Croatia Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
Environmental Assessment Summary
The project has been classified in the environmental category A. An Environmental Assessment (EA) was jointly
prepared by the Institute of Civil Engineering, Split and the Institute of Oceanographic Research, Split, in 1996.
The EA was reviewed in the Bank, found to be acceptable, and made available for public information. Public
hearings in regard to the findings and recommendations of the EA were held as required under the Croatian
regulations. The EA confirms that the main positive impact of the planned wastewater collection, treatment and
disposal system, including the planned two deep-sea submarine outfalls, would be the elimination of pollution by
urban wastewater from the Kastela and Trogir Bays. The first phase of the planned wastewater disposal system,
which involves pretreatment of urban wastewater, will transfer into the Brac and Split Channels practically all the
waste being discharged into Kastela and Trogir Bays. Based on detailed analyses, supported by mathematical
modeling, the EA confirms that the two proposed wastewater outfalls would not have any significant detrimental
impact on the marine ecosystems in the Brac and Split Channels, or on the present or planned use of the coastal sea
and land strip in the areas neighboring the outfalls. Transitional issues that may arise are addressable by suitable
mitigating measures as indicated in the table below. Nevertheless, the environmental impact in region of the
outfalls will be closely monitored and remedial actions initiated should any adverse tendencies be detected. It has
also been confirmed that no international waterways notification issues arise from the proposed outfalls.
The EA has also identified potential impacts during the construction and operation phases, and has suggested
measures to mitigate them. These are summarized in the table below.
Summary of Potential Adverse Impacts and Proposed Mitigation Measures
Item                 Potential Impact                       Mitigation Measures
Collection System
water supply          contamination                 sections crossing water mains to be made separately and at
sufficient distance from water mains to avoid any contact of
sewage effluent with the water supply mains
cultural and historic  disruption or destruction of site   stop construction and report findings to the proper
sites                 or antiquities                authorities
tourism               construction would discourage    organize construction in tourist areas in the off-season
odor                  due to leakage                proper ventilators and air cleaning filters
noise                 due to pumping stations       bury structures underground at sufficient distances from
residential areas
overflow water        add to pollution load         install screens at the overflows; oil and grease separators if
necessary
Treatment Plants
air                   pollution by ventilation      ventilated air to be released following appropriate treatment
sludge processing units to be covered and provided with
ventilation/odor control
vibration             due to blowers and power plant   mounting on vibration dampers



Page 39
bacterial aerosol sprays  possible emission during  tree screens, raised sides to airing tanks, equipment that
operation                    mininiizes spray
noise                 due to equipment operation    underground structures where possible
solids disposal       accumulation                  screenings to be washed, dewatered and disposed at sealed
outfill or incinerated on-site
aesthetic             visual impact                 tree plantings
surface runoff        pollution of fresh and sea water   channels and settling basins to protect against storm water
runoff
Submarine Outfalls
premature discharge   damage to outfalls from fishing   prohibit such activity in the area of the outfall
boats
fishing               sale of contaminated fish     prohibit fishing in the area around the diffuser location
safety                danger to sailing             proper marking of the outfall on land and in the sea;
marking on nautical maps
irregular functioning  premature or inadequate      adopt system of regular control and maintenance
discharge
water quality         additional treatment may be   install computerized monitoring system
needed in future
Environmental Mitigation Plan: The Environmental Mitigation Plan will be updated and confirmed, taking into
account the findings of ongoing and planned detailed engineering work, by December 31, 1998. EKO will be
responsible for coordinating with the Croatian agencies concerned and synthesizing the Mitigation Plan.
Environmental Impact Monitoring: EKO will be responsible for coordinating with the Croatian agencies concerned
and submitting regular reports to the Bank under the Mitigation Plan. HV will be responsible for regular reporting
of the environmental impact monitoring in regard to the operation of the two submarine outfalls in the Brac and
Split channels. Additional measuring and testing equipment required to enable HV to carry out such monitoring
will be provided under the complementary EBRD loan for the project.



Page 40
ATDiallo
P:\CROATIA\INFRA\MUNENINF\2LENA\IMPVOL\PAD5.DOC
05/21/98 3:04 PM



MAP SECTION



IRDS 28669
N j \ \   LABIN                                                              MALACKA
N   DUJLOVICI B
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~>LC                                                                                                                                                                 ~^-.-  lOE/GLO
S GTOMASI                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (ZN
SEGET   GORNJI                           / R
MUSTRE      \                                            N.7>                                                                                                                      SUCURAC RES                                                        1) ~ R
/        PAVKOVICI                                 S  ~. .-.                           16                   KNV                                                               V  --A.4.400                        /                                  2-| 9      KLIS        j
a  4  A  S t  E 7  - sv  KAJ RES lX t /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,IAI) E
D.TOMASI
K.STARI   K.LUKSICK
K.KAMBELOAC.                                                               S<AO,TS 'Ill               SOU
x TOMEDt V                                                                                                                                           K.NOVICK  STARI  K U K KAM B ELOVACOMILICA  ESUCURAC K  VA  -I   _) 96
ZULINI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S)KUCNNE
VUKMANI                                                         <                                                                                                                                      VRANJICK
I                                                                                                                                                                                                          \ LUNCIVA G _ _5. '-  M      INC t
)   /  T R O G I R    /   j                                                                                      \         - rt =t                     ft  X                         KORESNICA  ?7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KOESIC
TROGIR                                                                                                                    ,TT /                                                                                                                     '
ARBANIJA                                                                                                                                                                       KA
SEGET                                                                   I---.                                                                        ARJAN
DONJI
VPANJICA                                       _                                          0                                                                                                                   SP
--  ..                                           o~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~. 610VO  SLATINE                                                                                             SPLIT
CROATIA
MUNICIPAL ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
KRAUEVAC    SVFUMIJA                                                                                                                                             SPLIT-SOLIN-KASTELA-TROGIR
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
PLANNED MAIN TRANSMISSION PIPELINE IN PHASE I                            MAIN ROADS
______-___ PLANNED PIPELINE IN PHASE I                                                SECONDARY ROADS
ILux-10P OL .N                   URI E                                                                                                                              PLANNED RESERVOIR IN PHASE I                                              RAILROADS
u   j   1 CRZEP.H  <, POLAND /   UKRAINE                                                                                                               5)       PLANNED PUMP STATION IN PHASE I
GERMANY \,            0,4So > RE 
L  -'     <q..OtK.~~~~~~~..        > A                                                                                                                              EXISTING MAIN TRANSMISSION CHANNEL OR PIPELINE
SWITz                   ,..AK. `A                 I   A)                                                                                                                           EXISTING PIPELINE
r.                      HUOAY    , '                                                                                                                                             PLANNED MAIN TRANSMISSION PIPELINE IN FINAL PHASE
> ; ..J(.k ANC,'-T~   ROMANIA                                                                    ,                                                                PLANNED PIPELINE IN FINAL PHASE
N  EULOABIA                                                                                                       FT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EISTING RESERVOIR                  This nap sosPnod-cd by the
, . '    ITALY    WBULCiARIA              3''                                                                                                                          EXISTING PUMP STATION                                                    MtGp Design Unit of ThI. WoMd Rank
S>CEOOt.O    ~                                             S         I         2                                                                  PLANNED RESERVOIR IN PINAL PHASE                     =ntf RESERV                   infnhon shownaOn
0                                                                                     P k   -t   )  t  |   E   T  5  LANNED PUMP STATION IN FINAL PHASE        The Worl BonE Dnoop. any jgetent
.Ap',    If               ALEANLA,40O-                                                                         KILOMETERS                                                        WATER INTAKE                                                             anylegl ota to of any -it.eno  an
/                      30T                                                                                                                                                                                                any edreeta netne
'GREECE  ''"'                                                                                                                                                                                                              eahboandanes
TURKEY
MAY 1998



IBRD 28670
LABIN                                                         MALACKA
+   DUMLOVICI                                                         L   K
BLACA
GREO
G TOMASI                                                                                                                                                                                                                 * -
SEGET  GORNJI                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I      IN       /
-,             ~~~~RUDINE                                                                                                                      I        '     
MUSTRE
v - - - o' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t2}                                                          KLIS 
PAVKOVICI                                                                                                                                                                                                        A- .                  KLI
D TOMASI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   - -IN,
MEDIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /
ZULITNI                                                                          eN                                                                                                                     I
-                                                                                                                             V ANLK.STA FILIC   I    S O L IN   A,           K   LU CIN E '
VUKMANI                                                                     RDA PS                                                                                                        VRANJIC 5       SSAND Z.      _ 
MRAVINCI
S VUUtFANTANA PS                                                                                                              P 5 DIE                                  RESNICAA
T~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                    ~         ~~~~~~~ R            DUJMOYADA'  ,5 1------->
PSPl    ST
TROI                   CEPS                                                                                                                                                     DUMOVAtA /PS
1 ARBANILA                                                                                                                           -    - -. - -PLANTEC
e   _  ri__ARBANIJA  S  P  L I T   >_  -l\            KAMEI STOBREr
DONJIGETzill                                                                                                                              MARJAN                                                                      16                  .,
VRANIICA                                               Ti          {/ 2ASTEWATtB Z                                                                                                                                                                               /N4
0:0C  \ > I TREATMENLT        v         L
ORANJIDA                                                      ZEDNO                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FLN                                                                    SPLIT
OKRU1OK;  |                                    . CIOVO           SLATINE       -.SPI/ 
DONJISE
OKRUG   {  <   t                                                                                                                                                            SEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
OUTFALL
CROATIA
SEA                                                                                     MUNICIPAL ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
KRALJEVAC      SVFUMIJA                                                                                                                                                       SPLIT-SOLIN-KASTELA-TROGIR
WASTEWATER COMPONENT
m       PROPOSED WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT                                 MAIN ROADS
5)    PROPOSED PUMP STATION                                                SECONDARY ROADS
I&U3                        52 1                 T CZECH__   PROPOSED GRAVITY SEWER LINE                                                                                                                                                    RAILROADS
4 CZECH ' < POLAD A      UKRAINE'
OGERMANY                                                                           \ RE  p2. REP.                                                                  PROPOSED RISING MAIN
L          A       f.Ko<>    N -'L$ OA                                                                                                                              PROPOSED TUNNEL
'SWIT~  =AUITRIA> HUNGARY /                  j p                                                                                                                     PROPOSED SEA OUTFALL
j   b.JcRoATi <  <    ROMANIA                                                                       I -                 EXISTING PUMPING STATIONS
iT .LCRGMiU <  "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ROMANIA  -C-                                                 N ~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING SEA OUTFALL
-     PROPOSED STORM OVERFLOWS                                             Tb s  p  so   d edBy h
ITALY S                                                                                                                                 A                   SBULGARIA ---DSUB CATDHMENT BOUNDARY                                MU- B DARYp  UD    U ,IbT  WHA R3sE
ITALY          I LI~BULGARIA                                                                                                       IIThe b-,~,ndaH  col-, d-uu,-,-e,s
-A d.t --e S, - AseP,,s
-40 AUAANI/\          TW                                    U        I0        KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                     T -I wI, ,y 
GREECE               30                                                                                                                                                                                     onb Lnde-,eo
TURKEY
_   '                ~~~~~~~~~20-
MAY I199



