Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4352-0-HR
Guarantee Agreement
(Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 25, 1998  
LOAN NUMBER 4352-0 HR 
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 25, 1998, between Republic of Croatia (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in Deutsche Marks 
equivalent to sixty-five million Deutsche Marks (65,000,000 DEM), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, and by the Project Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Bank and the EKO Kastelanski Zaljev (the EKO) and Split Water and 
Sewerage Company (the SWSC), the EKO and the SWSC have agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, but only on condition that the 
Guarantor agrees to: (a) guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such 
loan as provided in this Agreement; and (b) provide grant funds for the Project as 
provided herein; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower and to provide grant funds for the Project as provided herein;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not 
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and 
other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, 
and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set 
forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the 
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet 
such expenditures.
Section 2.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 and Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes to 
provide to the SWSC and the EKO grant funds for the financing of the Project in the 
amount of not less than DEM 100,300,000 equivalent, such funds to be provided from the 
Guarantor’s central government budget and the Hrvatske Vode’s funds.
ARTICLE III 
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 3.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 3.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
Katanciceva 5
10000 Zagreb
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
Telex:
862-21215862-21833
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Page  3
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
     INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI),
     Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI),
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
By /s/ Miomir Zuzul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Arntraud Hartmann 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
