Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4352 HR
Project Agreement
(Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EKO KASTELANSKI ZALJEV
and
SPLIT WATER AND SEWERAGE COMPANY
Dated  September 25, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4352-0 HR 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 25, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), EKO KASTELANSKI ZALJEV (the EKO) and SPLIT 
WATER AND SEWERAGE COMPANY (the SWSC). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Croatian 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
sixty-five million Deutsche Marks (DEM 65,000,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the EKO and SWSC agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into among the Borrower and the 
EKO and the SWSC (the Subsidiary Agreement), the proceeds of the loan provided for 
under the Loan Agreement will be made available to the SWSC on the terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS the EKO and the SWSC, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined therein) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) The EKO and the SWSC declare their commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and 
technical practices, as well as in conformity with the provisions of the Environmental 
Mitigation Plan, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the EKO and the SWSC shall otherwise agree, the EKO and the 
SWSC shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The EKO and the SWSC shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
Section 2.04. The EKO and the SWSC shall duly perform all their obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the EKO and 
the SWSC shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) The EKO and the SWSC shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of their obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
The EKO and the SWSC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of Subloan, or the performance by the EKO and the SWSC 
of their obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of the EKO and the SWSC
Section 3.01. The EKO and the SWSC shall carry on their operations and conduct 
their affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, and environmental 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. The SWSC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and environmental practices. 
Page  3
Section 3.03. The EKO and the SWSC shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04.  Not later than December 31, 1999, the SWSC shall: (i) prepare and 
furnish to the Borrower and the Bank the Performance Enhancement Program, based on 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; and (ii) implement said 
program taking into account the recommendations of the Borrower and the Bank according 
to a time schedule to be specified in said program. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The EKO and the SWSC shall each establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect their operations and financial condition, 
and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures for and in 
connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The EKO and the SWSC shall: 
(i)
have their records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements and a report of such audit, by 
said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the EKO and the SWSC 
shall: 
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The SWSC shall ensure that: 
Page  4
(a) 
the SWSC projected operating revenues are sufficient to meet its 
projected expenses for that fiscal year;
(b)
by or before March 31 of each of the SWSC’s fiscal years during Project 
implementation, the SWSC and Beneficiary Municipalities shall review, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by the SWSC and satisfactory to the Bank, whether the SWSC would be 
able to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of such year 
and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Borrower and the Bank a 
copy of such review upon its completion;
(c)
if any such review shows that the SWSC would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) for the SWSC’s fiscal years covered by such review, the 
SWSC shall promptly take, and ensure that the Beneficiary Municipalities take, all 
necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or 
level of its rates) in order to meet such requirements; and
(d) 
for the purposes of this paragraph (a): 
(i)
the term “projected operating revenues” means the sum of collected 
revenues 
from all sources related to operations, consumer deposits, 
operating subsidies 
received by the SWSC, and consumer 
contributions in aid of construction;
(ii)
the term “projected operating expenses” means all expenses related 
to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance 
and taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes (excluding provision 
for depreciation and other 
non-cash operating charges), 
interest payable on all debt related to the 
SWSC's operations, 
and the larger of the depreciation allocation or loan 
amortization, all cash dividends and other cash distributions of surplus, and 
other cash outflows other than capital expenditures;
(iii)
the term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve (12) months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, and dividends;
(iv)
the term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures incurred on 
account of 
fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to 
operations; and
(v)
whenever for the purposes of this paragraph it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03.  (a)  The SWSC shall not incur any new debt unless a reasonable 
forecast of the SWSC’s revenues and expenditures shows that the estimated net revenues 
of the SWSC for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be 
at least 1.5 times the estimated debt 
service requirements of the SWSC in such year 
on all debt of the SWSC, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(i)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms 
more than one (1) year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
Page  5
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges 
and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(iv)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
(vi)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by the 
SWSC not 
earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in 
question, which the Bank, the Borrower 
and SWSC accept as reasonable and as to 
which the Bank has 
notified the Borrower of its acceptability, provided that 
no event has 
occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of the SWSC.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this paragraph it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the EKO and 
the SWSC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the EKO and 
the SWSC thereof. 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
Page  6
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the EKO:
EKO KASTELANSKI ZALJEV
Drazanac 70
21000 Split
Republic of Croatia
For the SWSC:
SPLIT WATER AND SEWERAGE COMPANY
JKP Vodovod I Kanalizacija
Biokovska 3
21000 Split
Republic of Croatia
Section 6.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the EKO, or by 
the EKO on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed 
by the Executive Director or such other person or persons as the Executive Director 
shall designate in writing, and the Executive Director shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. (b)
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the SWSC, may 
be taken or executed by the Director or such other person or persons as the Director 
shall designate in writing, and the Director shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Arntraud Hartmann 
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
Page  7
EKO KASTELANSKI ZALJEV
By /s/ Nikola Grabic 
Authorized Representative
SPLIT WATER AND SEWERAGE COMPANY
By /s/ Andrino Petkovic 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996, and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for pipeline installation and construction 
of pumping stations shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $5,000,000 
equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
Page  8
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract procured under the International Competitive 
Bidding procedures and the first two contracts procured under the National Competitive 
Bidding procedures, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997, and 
revised in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services under Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project and other services which are 
estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent per contract, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project and other services which are 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  9
3.
Individual Consultants
Services under Parts C.1 and  C.2 of the Project which are estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to all contracts for employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
Part A:
Joint Obligations of the EKO and the SWSC
1.
The EKO and the SWSC shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;  
(b)
not later than March 31 and September 30 of each fiscal year during the 
Project, prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, based on the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of this Schedule, a report (Semi-annual Report) of such 
scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, describing the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the preceding six (6) months, and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the following six (6) 
months;  
(c)
review with the Bank, by April 30 and October 31 of each fiscal year 
during the Project, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the Semi-annual 
Reports, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Borrower and the Bank, on or about September 30, 2000, a report integrating the 
Page  10
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(e)
review with the Borrower and the Bank, by October 31, 2000, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
2.
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the EKO and the SWSC shall: (a) prepare, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
among the Bank and the EKO and the SWSC, a plan for the future operation of the 
Project; and (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
EKO and the SWSC on said plan.
Part B: 
Obligations of the EKO 
1.
The EKO shall be responsible for the implementation of Parts A, B, C.2 and C.4 
of the Project, including engagement of consultants, procurement, preparation of 
withdrawal applications for payment by the Bank, or from the Special Account, 
monitoring and reporting in respect to physical progress and financial management 
related to Parts A, B, C.2 and C.4, and preparation of consolidated Project reports on 
physical progress and financial management. 
2.
Not later than December 31, 1998, the EKO shall prepare and furnish to the 
Borrower and the Bank an updated Environmental Mitigation Plan, incorporating therein 
the findings and results of detailed engineering work in regard to the two proposed 
tunnels.
Part C: 
Obligations of the SWSC 
1.
The SWSC shall be responsible for the implementation of Parts C.1 and C.3 of the 
Project, including engagement of consultants, procurement, monitoring and reporting, 
in respect of the physical progress, financial management, and implementation of the 
Performance Enhancement Program and the SWSC Corporate Development Plan, and the 
timely and complete submission of information in relation to Parts C.1 and C.3 to the 
EKO to enable the EKO to prepare the consolidated Project progress reports. 
2.
Not later than December 31, 1998, the SWSC shall employ consultants, with 
qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the 
SWSC in preparing a Performance Enhancement Program, to be submitted to the Borrower 
and the Bank, by December 31, 1999. 
3.
Not later than December 31, 1999, the SWSC shall prepare and furnish to the 
Borrower and the Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, the SWSC 
Corporate Development Plan, and implement said plan taking into account the 
recommendations of the Borrower and Bank, according to a time schedule to be specified 
in said plan.
