Report No. PID5052
Project Name                     Croatia - Municipal Environmental
Infrastructure Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Water and Wastewater
Project ID No                    HRPA43444
Borrower                         Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (HBOR)
Implementation Agency            EKO Kastelanski Zaljev (Agency for the
Implementation of the Integrated Kastela
Bay Project)
Date Initial PID Prepared        March 29, 1996
Date of Current PID Update       May 7, 1998
Appraisal Date                   December 7, 1997
Projected Board Date             June 18, 1998
Country/Sector Background
1.      Croatia, since independence in 1991, has been affected by unique
circumstances compared to other transition economies: the war and regional
conflict in the former Yugoslavia have inflicted severe destruction on parts
of the country, led to a large increase in defense and defense-related
expenditures, and created a sizeable population of refugees and displaced
persons. But Croatia also shares with other transition countries the problem
of having to adjust its institutions to the new market-economy environment.
Croatia has carried out one of the most successful stabilization programs in
Central and Eastern Europe. It brought about four years of low inflation and
stable exchange rates. Recent performance of the economy has been
satisfactory, with real GDP growth above 4 percent in 1996 and above 6 percent
in 1997. However, Croatia will face major challenges in the coming years.
The post-war priority is to design and implement socially acceptable economic
reforms in order to speed up the transition towards a competitive market
economy based on private ownership, thus creating a more attractive
environment for investment, including foreign direct investment in Croatia.
To accomplish this, in addition to undertaking public expenditure reforms, and
the restructuring and privatization of enterprises and banks, Croatia would
need to invest heavily to modernize the economy, in particular in
infrastructure and the development of tourism, while continuing in parallel
the reconstruction of war-damaged areas.
2.      Responsibility for provision of water and wastewater services in Croatia
has been decentralized to the respective local governments for the areas they
serve. The services are provided through municipal enterprises whose
ownership is vested in the municipalities concerned. In common with other
infrastructure sectors, the water, and particularly the wastewater, subsectors
have been affected by a lack of investment essential for adequate upkeep and
modernization. Shortage of medium to long term funds continues to be a major



constraint, leading to reliance on government grants, themseleves subject to
uncertainty in the face of competing claims amidst budgetary resource
pressures.
3.      The environment, important throughout Europe, has a special dimension in
Croatia as it is closely linked to the performance of the tourism sector.
Water supply and environmental conditions, particularly wastewater disposal,
are specially important for supporting the revival of tourism in coastal areas
with high tourism potential. At present, deficiencies in the existing
wastewater collection, treatment and disposal facilities caused by a fund-
constrained lack of investment are leading to a continual environmental
degradation of what are among Croatia's most attractive tourism assets.
Objectives
4.      The development objectives of the project are to:
- reduce municipal wastewater pollution discharges into the environmentally
sensitive Kastela and Trogir Bays consistent with Croatian and EU standards;
- improve safety, reliability and delivery of drinking water in the project
area; and
- improve the operational and financial performance of the water and
wastewater utility, to make it more attractive for private sector investment
in the future.
Description
5.      The project comprises of the following components:
a wastewater component, including collectors; pumping stations; two treatment
plants; and two submarine outfalls;
a water supply component, consisting of rehabilitation and replacement of
mains, pumping stations, and construction of a new main pipeline; and
a technical assistance component, consisting of the provision of expert
consultant services to EKO (the Project Implementation Agency) for
strengthening its capabilities for project implementation; this will include
the services of consultants to undertake the preparation of detailed designs
and bid documents, as well as specialists in procurement and project financial
management; the Split Water and Sewerage Company (SWSC) for helping it prepare
a Performance Enhancement Program to improve its operational, commercial and
financial performance; and laboratory testing and measuring equipment to
Hrvatske Vode (Croatian Water), the principal Central Government agency in
charge of water resource management, for undertaking environmental monitoring
in the project area.
Financing
6.      The total project cost is estimated at DM260 million (US$145 million at
current exchange rates). The proposed IBRD loan would provide DM65 million
(US$36 million equivalent) or 25 percent of the total project cost. The
European Bank for Reconstruction
-2-



and Development (EBRD) has already made a loan of DM74 million (US$41 million
equivalent) for the project. Local financing of about DM121 million (US$67
million equivalent) for the project will be provided by the four participating
municipalities (Split, Solin, Kastela and Trogir) and SWSC -- about DM21
million -- and by the Central Government through grants -- about DM100
million.
7.      The Borrower of the EBRD loan, and the proposed IBRD loan, is the
Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development (HBOR) which has been
designated by the Government to be the channel for financing of foreign loans
for the project. HBOR will onlend the proceeds of these loans to SWSC under a
subsidiary financing agreement. HBOR will also enter into a guarantee and
project support agreement with the four municipalities.
8.      The IBRD loan will finance procurement of works, goods and services.
Under the wastewater component, it will finance part of the cost of the Split
and Solin wastewater subsystem (collectors; pumping stations, a treatment
plant; a tunnel; and a submarine outfall). Under the water supply component,
it will finance part of the cost of investments of the following
subcomponents: Sv. Kajo; Sucurac; Solin; and Kastela main pipeline. Under
technical assistance, the IBRD loan will finance consultants' services for EKO
and SWSC, and auditors' services for carrying out the audits of the project
accounts and financial statements of SWSC and EKO.
9.      The EBRD loan will finance the other project components under parallel
financing.
10.     Procurement of the works, goods and services for the IBRD-funded part
will be governed by the guidelines and requirements of the IBRD, and that for
the EBRD-funded part, by those of the EBRD.
Implementation
11.     The project would be implemented by EKO, the Project Implementation
Agency, which has been jointly established by the four participating
municipalities. EKO will be responsible for supervision of construction,
procurement and disbursement in regard to the wastewater and water supply
components of the project. EKO will be assisted by qualified technical
experts. This will include in particular assistance for: (i) preparation of
detailed designs; bid documents; and contractor selection; (ii) procurement;
and (iii) project financial management. .
12.     SWSC will be responsible for the selection of consultants to help it
prepare the Performance Enhancement Program, and to implement it thereafter.
13.     HV will be responsible for procurement and deployment of the testing and
measuring equipment required for environmental monitoring of sea-water quality
in the vicinity of the two submarine outfalls.
14.     EKO and SWSC have contracted with Danish technical agencies, financed
from Danish bilateral official grants, to provide technical assistance in the
areas indicated above. Additional technical assistance to be contracted would
be limited to areas not covered under these existing technical assistance
contracts.
-3-



Sustainability
15.     EKO and SWSC have experienced management and staff.    They will be
assisted by the technical expertise of HV, the principal Croatian agency in
charge of water resource management. In addition, EKO and SWSC will engage
technical assistance as appropriate for EKO to reinforce its capability to
implement the project, and for SWSC to prepare and carry out an
instititutional performance improvement program. The participating
municipalities will undertake to support the project and the project agencies
under their guarantee and project support agreement with HBOR.
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
16.     Experience in past Bank water and wasewater projects in former Yugoslavia
(including components that fell within the territory of Croatia) was that,
while most projects achieved their construction objectives, they fell short of
meeting institutional, financial and technical efficiency development
objectives. An important contributory factor in this regard was that the
local and republican level governments, which greatly influenced the water
utility's management, operations and financial performance, including
structures and levels of tariffs, were not adequately involved in supporting
the project. These aspects have been given special attention in project
design in requiring SWSC -- and its parent municipalities -- to commit to the
undertaking of specific performance improvments in SWSC, with the help of
appropriate technical assistance.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
17.     World Bank involvement in the project goes back to the late 1980s when
the project was first identified as a priority and the Bank initiated its
preparation in consultation with the authorities at that time. With the
outbreak of hostilities in the region in 1991, project preparation was halted.
The project is fully consistent with the current Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Croatia and falls within the areas of special emphasis in the CAS,
including environmental protection. Without the external financing from the
IBRD and the EBRD under the project, the municipalities would be forced to
depend upon the limited central government grants, resulting in slow and
intermittent construction; continuing environmental deterioration of one of
Croatia's most attractive tourism assets; and adverse impact on living
standards of the population in the project area. Bank involvement in the
project is also consistent with the Bank's stated objective of increased
collaboration with other multilateral lending agencies (EBRD under this
project).
Environmental Aspects
18.     The project is expected to have significant, positive environmental
impacts through improved collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater, and
public health benefits through improved water supply and reduction in risks of
contamination. The project was classified in category A as it entailed
proposed submarine outfalls that would discharge treated wastewater into the
Split and Brac Channels. A detailed Environmental Assessment (EA) was
prepared in October 1996 jointly by the Institute of Civil Engineering, Split
and the Institute for Oceanographic Research, Split. The findings of the EA
were discussed in public fora in the project area as required under Croatian
- 4 -



regulations. A copy of the full EA is available from the Bank's Public
Information Center. The EA confirms the overall projected significant
environmental impact of the project investments. It has confirmed that the
two outfalls would not have a detrimental impact on sea-water quality in the
Channels. Nevertheless, arrangements will be made under the project for close
and regular monitoring of sea-water quality in the vicinity of the outfalls.
The EA has also identified some other potential negative impacts during
project construction and operation. A Mitigation Plan has been agreed with
the Croatian authorities. This Plan will be updated by December 1998 based on
the findings and recommendations of detailed engineering work that will be
carried out.
Program Objective Categories
19.     The project does not specifically target the poverty group, but will have
a positive impact on living standards, and will benefit the poor who often
experience greater difficulties than affluent persons in coping with deficient
public services. Affordability analyses carried out under the project
indicate that the services will remain affordable even for the lower income
groups in the project area.
Project Benefits
20.     The project will contribute importantly to environmental improvement in
an area with major tourism potential, and assist in the revival of tourism
with significant benefits to the economy; confer direct health benefits from
the reduction in environmental pollution and reduced risks of contamination;
improve the reliability and delivery of water supply in the project area; and
assist SWSC, the water and wastewater utility to improve its operational and
financial performance.
Contact Point:           Kishore Nadkarni
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
Telephone: 202 473 2698
Fax: 202 522 3641
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 8, 1998.
- 5 -



