                                      Document of
                                 The World Bank

                             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                       Report No: ICR0000724




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    (IBRD-43520)




                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 33.2 MILLION
                        (US$36.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

       CROATIAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                                        FOR A

         MUNICIPAL ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT




                                 September 23, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
Central Europe and the Baltic Countries Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective September 11, 2008)

                   Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna (HRK)
                            HRK 1.00 = US$ 0.20
                            US$ 1.00 = HRK 5.03

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 ­ December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

Bank    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
BOD     Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
EKO     EKO Kastelanski Zaljev (Implementing Agency)
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
EU      European Union
FMS     Financial Management System
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
FMR     Financial Management Report
HBOR    Hrvatska banka za obnovu i razvitak (Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and
        Development ­ the Borrower
HV      Hrvatske vode (Croatian Waters)
OFI     Oceanography and Fisheries Institute (Split)
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MEIP    Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
NPV     Net Present Value
PHI     Public Health Institute
PIT     Project Implementation Team
PTL     Program Team Leader
SWSC    Split Water and Sewage Company
TTL     Task Team Leader
WWTP    Waste Water Treatment Plant

                                     REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
                  Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
                                                  CONTENTS


Data Sheet


 A. Basic Information........................................................................................................i
 B. Key Dates ....................................................................................................................i
 C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................i
 D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ii
 E. Bank Staff ...................................................................................................................ii
 F. Results Framework Analysis .....................................................................................iii
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs.....................................................................v
 H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................vi
 I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................vi
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design..............................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes..............................................3
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ...........................................................................................9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................12
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.....................................................13
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................15
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...........16
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................17
 Annex 2. Detailed Cost Data by Component................................................................19
 Annex 3. Project Indicators...........................................................................................21
 Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................26
 Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............28
 Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................30
 Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................36
 Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................43
 Annex 9. Maps (28669 and 28670)...............................................................................44

                             REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
                   Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project


A. Basic Information

                                                                  Municipal
Country:              Croatia              Project Name:          Environmental
                                                                  Infrastructure Project

Project ID:           P043444              L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-43520

ICR Date:             09/23/2008           ICR Type:              Core ICR

                                                                  CROATIAN BANK
Lending Instrument:   SIL                  Borrower:              FOR RECONST. &
                                                                  DEVELOP.

Original Total
                      USD 36.3M            Disbursed Amount:      USD 38.4M
Commitment:

Environmental Category: A

Implementing Agencies:
EKO Kastelanski Zaljev
Split Water and Sewerage Company (SWSC)

Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates
                                                                        Revised / Actual
     Process            Date           Process        Original Date
                                                                             Date(s)

Concept Review:      03/29/1996   Effectiveness:       06/28/1999          06/28/1999

Appraisal:           12/07/1997   Restructuring(s):

Approval:            06/18/1998   Mid-term Review:     10/01/2001          10/01/2001

                                  Closing:             06/30/2006          12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR

Outcomes:                                  Moderately Satisfactory

Risk to Development Outcome:               Moderate

Bank Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory

Borrower Performance:                      Moderately Satisfactory




                                           i

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:            Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                   Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower
                                                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
                                Indicators                                    Rating
      Performance                                     (if any)

Potential Problem Project                       Quality at Entry
                          No                                         Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):

Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):

DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original           Actual

Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)

Sewerage                                                         70                 70

Water supply                                                     30                 30


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)

Pollution management and environmental health                   Primary           Primary

Rural services and infrastructure                               Primary           Primary

Water resource management                                       Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval

Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                      Johannes F. Linn

Country Director:         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos            Arntraud Hartmann

Sector Manager:           Wael Zakout                       Walter A. Stottmann

Project Team Leader:      Stjepan Gabric                    Richard A. MacEwen

ICR Team Leader:          Stjepan Gabric

ICR Primary Author:       Maha J. Armaly

                          Vladimir Skendrovic




                                              ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Reduce municipal wastewater pollutant discharges into the environmentally sensitive
Kastela and Trogir Bays consistent with applicable Croatian and EU standards.
Improve the safety, reliability and delivery of drinking water in the project area.

Improve the operational and financial performance of the SWSC.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)


(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                            Original Target    Formally          Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                                approval         Target          Completion or
                                              documents)         Values          Target Years
                SWSC unaccounted for water
Indicator 1 :

Value
quantitative or                            22%                                53.6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                              12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Confirmed baseline value for 1998: 38.3%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Visible oil and grease slicks
Value
quantitative or Visible                    No visible                         No visible
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   12/31/2007                         12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Kilograms of BOD discharged to Kastela and Trogir Bays
Value
quantitative or 30,000                     1,000                              900
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   12/31/2005                         12/31/2006
Comments
                Confirmed baseline data for 1998: 1800 t/year
(incl. %
                Confirmed baseline data for 2002: 3100 t/year
achievement)
                Average E coli levels (E. coli/100 ml) at 15 monitoring sites in Kastela and
Indicator 4 :
                Trogir Bays
Value
quantitative or 50 E-coli/100ml            0 E-coli/100ml
Qualitative)



                                                iii

                                            Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                              Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target       Completion or
                                              documents)         Values       Target Years
Date achieved 12/07/1997                   12/31/2005
Comments
                2006 results were below maximum allowed concentration for 94% of samples
(incl. %
                investigated (according to Croatian water quality standards)
achievement)
                Percentage of SWSC customers receiving 24 hours water supply (no customer
Indicator 5 :
                with less than 4 hours daily supply)
Value
quantitative or 70%                        90%                              100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   12/31/2007                       12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :   Ratio of SWSC revenue collected to revenue invoiced
Value
quantitative or 80%                        95%                              75%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Confirmed baseline value for 1998: 60%
achievement)
Indicator 7 :   SWSC operating ratio
Value
quantitative or 1.00                       0.75                             1.04
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   12/31/2007                       12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Confirmed baseline value for 1998: 1.23
achievement)




                                                iv

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                          Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value                              Revised
                                            approval                        Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                           documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Completion of construction contracts and disbursement of funds
Value
(quantitative  0                        100%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2001                12/31/2007                        12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


                                                                              Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                          DO                          IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1     06/29/1998     Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                0.00
  2     12/29/1998     Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory                0.00
  3     06/25/1999        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   0.00
  4     12/07/1999        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   1.06
  5     03/07/2000        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   1.52
  6     12/06/2000       Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                  3.97
  7     02/06/2001       Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                  4.48
  8     06/27/2001       Unsatisfactory               Satisfactory                   6.32
  9     08/30/2001        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   6.72
  10    11/07/2001        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   7.13
  11    04/19/2002        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   8.23
  12    11/12/2002        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  10.02
  13    06/23/2003        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  11.64
  14    12/22/2003        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  14.48
  15    01/29/2004        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  14.48
  16    06/25/2004        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  16.27
  17    12/09/2004        Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                 17.72
  18    05/22/2005        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  18.46
  19    10/16/2005        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  20.15
  20    11/01/2005        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  20.15
  21    03/09/2006        Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  21.47
  22    01/14/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                25.07
  23    06/26/2007   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                34.42
  24    11/13/2007   Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  38.40




                                             v

H. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                             vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The project was designed in line with the priorities outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) at
the time of appraisal. The CAS emphasized the importance of the environment and the link to the tourism
sector. The CAS also called for rehabilitation of infrastructure to redress war damage or years of deferred
investments. The Government emphasized support to areas that have a strong potential for fostering
economic recovery stressing reconstruction and infrastructure modernization. The Kastela Bay area was
proclaimed an environmental hot spot by the Croatian Parliament as early as 1994, and the Government
declared waste water management in the Split ­ Dalmatia County a state priority to promote
environmental protection and tourism development. The region was characterized by a large influx of
migrants including refugees, intense construction for housing and industrial purposes, which was not
followed by the needed infrastructure development. Difficulties were faced in maintaining and upgrading
infrastructure due to financial constraints and the effect of the war. Issues that were important to the
sector identified at the time included: (a) cost recovery; (b) efficiency of local water and sanitation
utilities, (c) gap in wastewater coverage and treatment; and (d) protection of marine environment. The
project addressed the priorities outlined in the CAS and government strategy.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

Development Objectives: The development objectives of the proposed project are to:

          (i)     reduce municipal wastewater pollutant discharges into the environmentally sensitive
                  Kastela and Trogir Bays consistent with Croatian and EU standards;
          (ii)    improve the safety, reliability, and delivery of drinking water in the project area; and
          (iii)   improve the operational and financial performance of the water and wastewater utility, to
                  make it more attractive for private sector participation in the future.

Key Indicators: The project included eight types of performance measurements to be reached by the end
of the Project, as follows:

          (a)     Completion of construction contracts and disbursement of funds;
          (b)     Reduction of oil and grease pollution to no visible slicks;
          (c)     Reduction in kg of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) discharged to Kastela and Trogir
                  Bays;
          (d)     Reduction in average E-coli levels at 15 monitoring sites in Kastela and Trogir Bays;
          (e)     Twenty four hours supply of water for 90% of the Split Water and Sanitation Company
                  (SWSC) customers with less than 4 hours supply;
          (f)     Increase in ratio of SWSC revenue collected to revenue invoiced from 80% to 95%;
          (g)     Improvement in SWSC operating ratio from 1.00 to 0.75; and
          (h)     Unaccounted-for water (UFW) not to exceed 22%.




                                                       1

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority)

The project development objectives were not revised.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The population of about 350,000 in the project area (the cities of Split, Solin, Kastela and Trogir and their
surrounding areas) were identified and remain the principal beneficiaries of the project through the direct
benefits of safer and more reliable water supply and sanitation, and the indirect benefits of increased
tourism in the area, which would stimulate local private enterprise catering to the tourist industry.


1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component A - Wastewater

A1 Split-Solin System (IBRD financing): consisting of: 6 new pumping stations, 4 rising mains, six
gravity sewers, a new mechanical treatment WWTP, about 2400 m long tunnel to transport wastewater to
the new WWTP, and a submarine outfall

A2 Kastela-Trogir System (EBRD financing) consisting of: 3 pumping stations, 5 rising mains, ten
gravity sewers, approximately 1800 m long tunnel and pipeline, new mechanical treatment WWTP, and a
new submarine outfall.

Component B - Water Supply

B1 Water supply system Split-Solin-Kastela-Trogir (IBRD financing): consisting of the reconstruction and
upgrading of selected parts of the Split-Solin-Kastela-Trogir water supply system including (i) pumping
station at Solin with underground structures; two pumps (and a third standby), inlet pipelines, electrical
installations, and telemetric equipment; (ii) Sv. Kajo sub-system consisting of underground structures; a
pumping station with two pumps, a reservoir, and feed and supply pipes; (iii) Kastela Sucurac sub-system
consisting of facilities to complement the pumping station that was under construction at the time of
appraisal, including: a reservoir and feed and supply pipes, and Kastela mains.

B2 Water supply systems Ravne Njive and Kunceva Greda (EBRD financing) including: (i) Ravne Njive
sub-system consisting of a new pumping station with a distribution chamber, an engine room, six new
pumps, and a diesel generator set; (ii) Kunceva Greda sub-system consisting of a new pumping station
with three pumps, two reservoirs, pipelines, and a diesel generator set.

Component C - Institutional Strengthening

The institutional strengthening component includes:        (i) technical assistance to SWSC to improve
management, operational and financial performance, including preparation of a Performance
Enhancement Program and a Corporate Development Plan. (IBBRD/Denmark financing); (ii) technical
assistance to EKO to enhance capability for implementation of major water and wastewater investment
projects, including procurement and project financial management. (Denmark); (iii) laboratory measuring
and testing equipment for HV for the environmental monitoring of wastewater discharges into the Kastela
and Trogir Bays, and the Split and Brac Channels. (EBRD financing); (iv) operational and maintenance
equipment for SWSC. (IBRD financing); (v) accounting and auditing services to EKO and SWSC for
audits of the project accounts and entity financial statements.




                                                      2

1.6 Revised Components

The components of the project were not revised.


1.7 Other significant changes

The Project components remained the same, but the scope and financing of the project changed. An
amendment to the loan agreement in December 2001 allowed the IBRD to finance Component A2 ­
Kastela ­ Trogir Wastewater, which was originally to be financed by a loan from the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). IBRD financing thus focused on sanitation, while the EBRD
focused on the water supply component. The Government, realizing the improved economic potential of
the project area, committed significant new resources (about 70 million Euros) to the project to improve
the efficiency of investments, optimize the service levels, and increase coverage. The changes are
discussed below and summarized in Annex 1, Table 2 and 3 (Project Cost and Financing Plan), and
Annex 3, Table 5 (Output Indicators).


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project was originally identified in 1988, but was halted during 1992-1995 due to the war. It was
officially re-identified in October 1995 and appraised about 2 years after. Negotiations and effectiveness
followed soon thereafter, and implementation started in August 1998. The original closing date of June
30, 2006, was extended to December 2007. The project was designed to be co-financed with the EBRD
with each institution financing separate components.

The agreement of the four participating municipalities on project implementation arrangement was
essential for project start up. They agreed to have the special agency (EKO) established to implement the
project. EKO was designed to bring together the best available local technical expertise to focus on
project supervision and management, yet remain independent from the utility and the municipality. EKO
acted as the PIU and reported to the board of the SWSC, and handled all the daily project implementation
issues such as procurement and disbursement. The borrower of the Bank funds was Hrvatska banka za
obnovu i razvitak (Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development) known as HBOR, which retained
a supervisory role of project progress. A Subsidiary Agreement between HBOR, EKO and SWSC, and a
Guarantee and Project Support Agreement between HBOR and the four participating municipalities
defined their mutual obligations for the duration of the project. They included monitorable targets for
institutional performance, bill collection performance, and operational efficiency improvements. These
performance targets would be used to track and evaluate progress made towards these objectives.

Experience in past Bank-financed water and wastewater projects in the former Yugoslavia (including
components that were implemented within the territory of Croatia) was assessed during project
preparation. Most projects achieved their physical objectives, but frequently fell short of meeting their
institutional, financial and technical efficiency development objectives. The project included as an
objective the improvements of the operational and financial performance of the SWSC and technical
assistance to support the objective. The financial statements of SWSC were analyzed and projected for
the period of implementation. Baseline indicators and associated targets were also identified. A positive
feature of design at entry was that tariffs were raised in March 1998 by 30% in order to ensure SWSC's
financial participation in the project.    Other increases were envisaged and built into the financial
projections: in real terms, 15% in 2003 and 1.5 and 2% respectively in 2002 and 2003. Along with some




                                                     3

efficiency improvements, working and operating ratios were to reach 0.61 and 0.75 respectively by the
end of the project from about 1.02 and 1.08 in 1997.

At the time of preparation, risk assessment was not streamlined explicitly into the appraisal process.
However, risks were identified either explicitly or implicitly and addressed. The sector risks were
recognized from studies and previous Bank experience, and revolved around cost recovery, deterioration
of service, and increased pollution. The project addresses the sector risks in the project area. Risks to
implementation included lack of experience in SWSC in implementing Bank projects and the difficulties
involved in coordinating actions among several municipalities. For this purpose, the EKO unit was
conceived as an independent entity where skills in project management were focused to implement the
project and coordinate with the Bank. Sustainability was positively assessed given the support of the
principal stakeholders.

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) undertook an assessment of the project quality at entry in February
1999 and gave a satisfactory score in 7 out of the nine criteria assessed. Social analysis and involuntary
resettlement/land acquisition scored low as did the financial analysis and agreements on monitoring and
evaluation.

The quality at entry of the project, based on the above, is mixed. The implementation arrangements and
government commitment were in place and facilitated physical implementation. The variety of donors,
types and scopes of investments justified a dedicated implementing agency to focus skills and attention on
project implementation. Risks of delays in implementation due to permits, land acquisition, and/or
redesign were not foreseen. Financial analysis was optimistic and did not include sensitivity analysis.
Nevertheless appropriate technical assistance was included for the third component to improve
operational efficiency of SWSC..


2.2 Implementation

Physical Components: The fully completed Split-Solin Wastewater component was completed in a
timely manner and before the original closing date of the project. The component actual costs (without
the additional government financed facilities not envisaged at appraisal) were about 16% above appraisal
costs. The plant is now operational and is constantly maintained by SWSC, whose staff was trained
during implementation.      The Water Component which was financed by the EBRD is also at the
operational stage, and SWSC is operating both components satisfactorily. Actual costs were at about
95% of appraisal estimate for the water component. The main delays in implementation occurred in
Component A2: Kastela-Trogir WasteWater component which the Bank assumed from the EBRD in
December 2001. The main reasons for the delays were problems with the planned land acquisition and
rights of way. The inhabitants of the Okrug settlement protested against the construction of the WWTP
and submarine outfall in their neighborhood. A new design and layout had to be prepared and a new
process of obtaining the relevant permits for the new design and new locations of the WWTP and tunnels
initiated. The process included revising the original environmental impact assessment study, obtaining
new location and construction permits, and implementing changes in the zoning and spatial development
plans, which had to be adopted by the cities of Kastela and Trogir. The process took about 3.5 years to
complete, before the bidding procedure and actual construction could start. The construction is now
ongoing and all planned structures will be completed and operational during the first half of 2009. The
actual cost of this component was about 72% above the original estimate. For the total project costs,
actual costs were 26% above appraisal estimates without the additional facilities financed by the
Government. This is not unreasonable given the longer than estimated implementation period, and the
change in the economic situation in Croatia, particularly in relation to the boom and associated increased
costs in the construction industry.



                                                    4

In addition, the Government's decision to expand the scope of the project required additional time to
complete. The scope of the planned works changed in terms of length of mains, number and capacity of
pumping stations, and locations of tunnels and the Kastela-Trogir WWTP. Additional facilities and
subsystems were included to connect new clients, and to ensure better functioning and efficiency of the
newly constructed systems. To this end, the areas of Dugopolje (to the north of Split) and the south belt in
Vranjic were included in the project, and the sewer network was expanded in the area of the cities of
Kastela and Trogir. The investment program was adjusted to meet the changing and expanding needs of
the area residents. All additional facilities and subsystems were financed from local sources. Additional
government contribution to that effect amounted to 70 million Euros, with more than 60 million Euros to
the two sanitation components. To accommodate these changes, the Borrower requested, and the Bank
agreed to extend the closing date of the loan to December 31, 2007. The IBRD loan is now fully utilized,
and the remaining work, financed by the Government, is expected to be completed by December
2008/early 2009.

Project Implementation Arrangements. HBOR focused on the institutional and financial aspects of
SWSCs and encouraged the utility to take corrective actions, including undertaking the Financial and
Corporate Restructuring Plan. EKO cooperated closely with SWSC to implement the project focused on
daily project implementation, and built skills in procurement, disbursement and financial management of
the project accounts. This generally worked well for the project. EKO continues to exist to complete
project implementation of the remaining Government-financed components.

Operational and Institutional Issues: The project aimed to address the lingering issue of financial
sustainability and cost recovery in the water and sanitation sector in Croatia, and at the SWSC in
particular. SWSC was to implement a Performance Enhancement Plan and a Corporate Development and
Action Plan to improve its operations and maintenance. During implementation, the operational and
financial improvements of the SWSC was a main concern for both the Bank and HBOR for the following
reasons: (i) UFW continued to deteriorate; (ii) investments were expanding, and depreciation costs were
increasing considerably raising questions as to SWSC's ability to afford maintenance costs; and (iii)
tariffs were not increased since 2004.

SWSC took several actions to improve its operational efficiency. It financed the purchase of vehicle for
leak detection, replaced pipes, initiated public information campaign, and solicited community
participation to report on illegal connection (but got little response). SWSC also initiated a Performance
Improvement Plan that focused on UFW reduction. These actions did not deliver the desired results.
Tariffs were increased in 2004 by almost two thirds for the household and non-household customers.
Planned tariff increases for 2008 have not yet materialized. Municipalities were reluctant to increase
tariffs every year. Instead, and as has been traditional in Croatia, municipalities continue to support their
utilities with capital and operational subsidies.

A mid-term review took place in December 2003 and took stock of project progress, updated the
procurement plan, reviewed financial management arrangements, and requested a social assessment for
the Kastela-Trogir system after citizen protests. The mid-term also looked into the details of SWSC
finances. While the mission was generally satisfied with SWSC financial performance, it highlighted the
need for improvements given the increased depreciation costs and the need for higher operations and
management capacities of the new investments.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design and Implementation

Monitoring and evaluation arrangements were designed to measure the outcome of each of the
components. They were further defined in the Subsidiary Agreement between HBOR and EKO/SWSC,
and in the Guarantee and Project Support Agreement between HBOR and the four participating


                                                      5

municipalities. Reporting was planned on a semi-annual basis with a mid term review in 2000 (later
revised to 2003). The details of available data and source institutions were not clear at appraisal, and were
clarified during implementation when deficiencies were detected in (i) baseline figures; (ii) adequacy and
availability of the indicators; and (iii) identification of responsible agencies. In early 2007, the Bank team
agreed with the environmental monitoring institutions and project stakeholders on adequate and more
readily available and routinely measured indicators. With these clarifications, EKO took the lead in
coordinating the information from the responsible Croatian institutes: HV, the Oceanographic and
Fisheries Institute (OFI) as well as consulting with the Institute of Public Health (IPH). From the Bank's
side, monitoring and reporting on the project's indicators intensified with more responsibilities at the
resident mission. Detailed discussion of the monitoring and evaluation of project objectives and the
reasons for their revision discussed under the "Achievement of Project Objectives" section 3.2 and
summarized below:


                                 Table 1: Original and Revised Indicators
          Original              Original Indicator        Revised Indicator             Observed
   Objective/Indicator
Objective: Reduce wastewater Pollutants Discharged into the Kastela and Trogir Bays
a. Reduction of oil and         No visible slicks       No visible slick         No visible slicks
grease pollution to no
visible slick
b. Reductions in BOD            From 30,000 to          From 1794 tons in        2002: peaked at 3078
discharge                       1000 Kilograms in       1998. Target not         tons.
                                Kastela and Trogir      changed.                 2004: Before
                                Bays                                             commissioning of
                                                                                 Split Solin WWTP:
                                                                                 3025 tons
                                                                                 2005: after
                                                                                 commissioning of
                                                                                 WWTP: 1143 tons.
                                                                                 2006: 889 tons.
c. Reductions in average        From 50 E coli/100      Public Health Institute  Compliance in 94% of
E coli levels at 15             ml to 0 E coli/100      (PHI) Bactereological    the samples tested.
monitoring sites                ml at 15                monitoring require-
                                monitoring sites in     ments: 80% of
                                Kastela and Trogir      samples with not more
                                Bays                    than 500 for total, 100
                                                        for fecal, and 100 for
                                                        streptococcus.
Objective: Improve the safety, reliability and delivery of drinking water in the project area
Safety and Reliability of       24 hour supply to       24 hour supply to
Service                         90% of the              90% of the population    100% of SWSC
                                population                                       customers now receive
                                No Customer with        No Customer with         24 hour water supply
                                less than 4 hours       less than 4 hours
                                supply                  supply
Objective: Improve the operational and financial performance of the SWSC
a. Increase Revenue             From 80-95%             From 60% baseline in     75% in 2006
Collected to Revenue                                    1998. Target not         85% in 2007



                                                         6

         Original             Original Indicator      Revised Indicator              Observed
   Objective/Indicator
Invoiced                                            changed
b. Improve SWSC               From 1.0 to 0.75      From 1.23 baseline in     1.00 in 2006
Operating Ratio                                     1998. Target not          1.04 in 2007
                                                    changed
c. Unaccounted for water      Not to exceed 22%     From 38.3% baseline       53.6% in 2007
(UFW)                                               in 1998. Target not
                                                    changed.

Monitoring of the project's physical implementation was detailed, and updates of work schedules,
implementation and procurement plans were routinely reported. The Bank's monitoring of the physical
progress was also detailed and well documented. EKO/SWSC had the necessary technical staff to
supervise the works, had good oversight of the progress of work and liaised closely with the contractors
and the Bank. It took the lead to solve issues of land acquisition and rights of way. The indicators related
to the progress of work (completion of construction contracts) are on track, except for the additions that
were undertaken by the Government.

The institutes responsible for data gathering and evaluation of the environmental data (HV, IPH, OFI) are
part of the Croatian governmental framework for environmental monitoring. These are strong institutions
with mandate to monitor and ensure the quality of Croatian waters in accordance with national standards
and in preparation for EU accession. The government, with Bank support in other projects, continues to
improve the functioning and coordination among these institutions and their role in improving the
environmental monitoring of the Adriatic waters ­ thus strengthening sustainability of the environmental
monitoring effort. The sustainability of monitoring and evaluating the operational and financial indicators
of SWSC is less clear, and lies mainly with the participating municipalities and to a lesser extent with
HBOR. The issues have been raised and actions introduced to continue to improve the situation, but a
more sustained coordinated effort is needed.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment: The project was classified as category A. An environmental assessment was prepared for
the Split-Solin component, public hearings were held as required under Croatian regulations and in
accordance with Bank procedures. The EIA for the wastewater collection system for Kastela-Trogir was
prepared in 1999 but had to be revised and approved in 2002 due to the required change of location of the
WWTP (see land acquisition below). Transitional issues were addressed by suitable mitigating measures
as elaborated in the Environmental Mitigation Plans EMP). The EMPs identified potential impacts and
mitigation measures separately for collection systems, WWTPs and submarine outfalls. The EMPs were
updated and confirmed, taking into account the findings of the detailed engineering work.

Land Acquisition: The Split Solin wastewater component proceeded satisfactorily without major land
acquisition and rights of way difficulties. The Kastela-Trogir wastewater component encountered delays
when the residents of the Okrug settlement protested against the construction of the wastewater treatment
plan and submarine outfall in their neighborhood. A new design and layout had to be prepared and new
permits obtained. The process included revising the original environmental impact assessment study,
issuance of new location and construction permits, and changes in the zoning and spatial development
plans, which had to be adopted by the cities of Kastela and Trogir. Unresolved and unclear ownership
status of some parcels caused implementation delays. The land acquisition process included about 3000
cases of land expropriation or right-of-way contracts. Cultural Heritage/chance finds led to the redesign




                                                     7

of sub-projects to avoid land acquisitions or building in culturally sensitive areas. While these were
difficult issues, they were dealt with appropriately and in accordance with Croatian legislation.

Consultations: Broad public consultations started in the late 1980s when the project concept was set out.
The final project configuration was discussed in meetings in October 1996 with representatives of NGOs,
interested citizens' groups, academic and professional associations. The meetings showed wide support
for the project. EKO continued to conduct consultations with the public throughout project
implementation. To date, EKO organized more than 70 press conferences to ensure that the local
population is properly informed about the project progress.

The experience provided valuable lessons both for the Bank and the Croatian government on the need to
resolve safeguard issues as early as possible, and to inform the public and gain its confidence at an early
stage. National regulations now require the resolution of land and environmental issues prior to obtaining
permits and starting construction. Regulations advise investors to minimize land acquisition, to plan
construction in the off tourism season, and to provide for public consultation in the process.

Financial management: Financial management arrangements for the Project accounts at HBOR and
EKO were satisfactory.        Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) were prepared using appropriate
accounting software, quarterly FMRs were submitted in a timely manner, and internal controls in place
were found to be adequate. All audits were performed by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Annual audits of project accounts received unqualified opinion. The audits of the financial statements of
EKO and HBOR were unqualified or with minor qualifications that were addressed. The 2007 audit for
both were not qualified. The project FM arrangements, audit reports and Bank supervision missions
indicated no misuse of project funds. The annual audits of SWSC were undertaken by independent
auditors. For 2004-2006, audit opinions for SWSC were qualified-adverse mainly due to changes in
accounting procedures the effect of which were not evaluated, non-presence of auditor during
inventorying, and charging as income financial gains due to interest earned or currency exchange gains on
project accounts. The 2007 SWSC annual audit, submitted in August 2008, improved to qualified-
exception.


Procurement: Procurement proceeded satisfactorily.            Reporting on progress and updating the
procurement plan were done consistently and to high standards. Some delays occurred due to problems
such as lack of staffing and appropriate skills at different stages of the project, large workload, and
repetition of some bidding due to high prices received, but no major deviations or problems were
reported. The EKO Agency received training and assistance from the Bank procurement specialists.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The new facilities and networks built under the project were transferred to the ownership of SWSC.
SWSC operates and maintains the completed systems in the Split-Solin wastewater and water
components, using its own capacities, and the same is expected after the completion and commissioning
of the Kastela-Trogir component. The utility received training for the operations and maintenance of the
new WWTPs and other facilities and is already undertaking this function. Financial reviews of the utility
raised concerns about the financial capacity of the SWSC to operate and maintain the system. The cities
and municipalities around the Kastela Bay (as owners of the SWSC) support SWSC's functions to
provide drinking water and adequate sanitation services to their citizens. This is done through annual
review of SWSC's financial operations and consistent financial support from the municipalities to the
utility. At the time of project closing, SWSC is in the process of raising water tariffs to ensure
availability of funds for the proper operations and maintenance of the systems under the SWSC's control.
The SWSC has prepared and is now implementing a Performance Improvement Plan, as well as an Action



                                                      8

Plan for Reduction of Water Losses, both adopted by the SWSC management in December 2007. The
company's Performance Improvement Plan anticipates increased operation and maintenance costs and
envisages tariff increase to cover the increased costs. The Plan will be monitored by HBOR. The national
and local governments are continuing to support the project to complete the expanded program, and to be
supervised by HBOR with EKO support. The expansion is financed by local sources, including the
customers'contributions through investment surcharge.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objective remains relevant more than 10 years after the project's conception. The project is
an important part of the Government's strategy to sustain and improve the environment around the
Adriatic coast, while improving the services to citizens and the economic potential in the region. The
project area recovered its position as a prime tourism destination and is attracting high end tourism by
emphasizing clean waters and beaches and high quality sanitary conditions. In addition, the project is
now relevant to a higher level objective in Croatia, and that is meeting EU accession requirements. The
project was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for the period FY 1995-1998 (CAS), and its
objectives have remained relevant to the ongoing Country Partnership Strategy with its emphasis on
environmental protection and EU accession.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The achievement of the development objectives at the end of the implementation period is rated
moderately satisfactory based on the satisfactory achievement of the first two development objectives
while acknowledging the delays in the implementation of the Kastela-Trogir component, and the
moderately unsatisfactory outcome of the third component. The achievement of project development
objectives are measured against the agreed indicators as outlined below.

Achievement of objective (i) to reduce municipal wastewater pollutant discharges into the
environmentally sensitive Kastela and Trogir Bays consistent with Croatian and EU standards is rated
satisfactory.

The project met this objective, when measured by the revised and corrected indicators, through the
completion of the Split-Solin component and the soon to be completed Kastela-Trogir WWTP. The Bank
team entered into focused discussions to revise the environmental indicators with Croatian institutes to
correctly reflect the impact of the project as measured by responsible agencies in Croatia (HV, IPH, and
OFI). Occurrences of phytoplankton blooms, fish kills or similar events are no longer observed. Studies
carried out by OFI conclude that the level of treatment provided by the newly constructed system is
sufficient for the attainment of the applicable Croatian and EU environmental and quality standards.
Because the Trogir-Kastela wastewater treatment plant is not yet completed, its impact cannot be assessed
satisfactory at this stage.   However, advanced construction, continued supervision and government
support will contribute to meeting this indicator. The quality of the sea water was measured in terms of
three indicators: (a) reduction of oil and grease; (b) reduction in Biological Oxygen Demand (BOD); and
(c) reduction in E coli.

        (a)      Reduction of oil and grease. The sea water monitoring conducted by the Institute of
                 Oceanography and Fisheries indicate that there are no visible oil and grease slicks on the
                 sea water surface.




                                                      9

         (b)     Reduction of BOD load. (Reduction in Kilograms of BOD discharge to the Kastela and
                 Trogir Bays from 30,000 to 1,000): Table 7 in Annex 3 presents municipal and industrial
                 BOD load from 1998 to 2006 for Kastela Bay as obtained from HV. Based on the
                 historical data, the PAD baseline was revised to 1794 tons/year in 1998 ­ and the target
                 should have been revised to reflect realistic potential. The data indicates that current
                 BOD data is 889 tons per year declining from a peak of 3078 tons in 2002 and a level of
                 3025 tons in 2004 prior to the completion of the Split-Solin wastewater treatment system.
                 The commissioning and operation of the Kastela-Trogir wastewater treatment plant will
                 further contribute to the elimination of BOD ­ with 85% of wastewater treatment, the
                 indicator could reach 150 tons.

         (c)     Ecoli levels. (Reduction in average E coli levels at 15 monitoring sites in the Bays from
                 50 E coli/100 ml to 0 E coli/100 ml). The E coli baseline indicator selected at appraisal
                 was revised for two reasons (i) it is stricter than EU requirements for bathing water; and
                 (ii) is measured differently (coliforms) in Croatian standards by the Split Public Health
                 Institute. The Croatian ordinance measures total coliforms, fecal coliforms, and fecal
                 streptococci per 100 ml. The ordinance requires at least 80% of the samples to have the
                 highest standards. Based on the discussions, the Croatian ordinance was adopted as the
                 target (Annex 3, Table 8). PHI monitors this standard regularly and implements the sea
                 water quality monitoring program in 14 different locations within Brac channel to assess
                 the impact of the construction of the Split Solin wastewater system on coastal sea quality
                 in the southern Split shores. Samples in 14 sites during 2002-2006 show significant
                 improvements in the water quality after the sewage system became operational.           The
                 PHI has been providing bacteriological monitoring results of bathing water (coliforms)
                 on 11 Kastela beaches during 1999-2006. In this period, compliance ranged from 89 to
                 99%, but without full compliance with the Croatian Ordinance on the Quality of Bathing
                 Water on Beaches since the Kastela ­Trogir system is still under construction.

Achievement of the objective (ii) to improve the safety, reliability, and delivery of drinking water in the
project area is rated satisfactory.

The water supply improvements component was financed by the EBRD. The technical quality of service
that the SWSC is providing to its customers has improved through the project and is satisfactory. The
existing water supply network was improved and expanded and the new one was built, so that the safety
and reliability of the water-supply system in the area have been upgraded. With sufficient availability of
spring water, simple and low cost treatment was required (only chlorination), and limited need for
pumping, the operations and maintenance costs of the system are minimized. All of SWSC's customers
are now receiving 24 hours of standard quality water supply, even in the dry summer season.

Achievement of objective (iii) to improve the operational and financial performance of the water and
wastewater utility, to make it more attractive for private sector participation in the future is rated
moderately unsatisfactory.

At appraisal, three monitoring indicators were established to measure the performance of SWSC: (i)
operating ratio; (ii) collection ratio; and (iii) unaccounted-for-water.      The baseline indicators were
revised to reflect historic data provided by SWSC. The target indicators were not revised, were not
achieved, and remained below the desirable levels of an efficient company. The end-of-project financial
indicators below were derived from the audited financial statements which provide the most consistent
data available. The qualifications of the auditor should not impact the collection ratio or the operating
ratio, since these ratios do not include the disputed financial revenues. See Annex 4 for details. SWSC



                                                     10

continues to receive capital and operational subsidies from its owners which allow the company to
operate with a positive cash flow.

SWSC's operating ratio. The baseline operating ratio was revised from 1.0 to 1.23. The target to be
reached, 0.75 strong by industry standards, was not reached. The utility showed improvements during
project implementation reaching 1.04 in 2007, but remained above the target or desired minimum level of
less than 1.0.

The bill collection ratio. The baseline ratio was 80% and the original target 95%. The baseline ratio was
adjusted to 60% during implementation based on the company's historic data. SWSC showed some
improvements and the ratio reached 75% in 2006 and 85% in 2007, yet falling short of the 95% target,
and below standards of well performing utilities.

Unaccounted-for-water. This indicator deteriorated throughout implementation. The water supply
component, financed by EBRD did not include measures to reduce UFW. SWSC prepared and submitted
to the Bank an "Action Plan for Reduction of Water Losses" which aims to reduce the percentage of
water losses from 54% in 2006 to 35% in 2013. UFW remained unsatisfactory at over 50% for the last 3
years.


3.3 Efficiency Net present value/economic rate of return, cost effectiveness (e.g. unit rate norms, least
cost, and comparisons and financial rate of return)

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) recognized that sewerage and wastewater treatment projects have
significant external economic benefits which could not be easily quantified. The project's financial net
present value (FNPV) and rate of return (FRR) were taken as a proxy for the lower bound of the
economic benefits. On this basis, the FNPV was estimated at DEM 35 million (HRK 143 million
equivalent at the exchange rates then prevailing), and the FRR was expected to be at 15% based on a 10%
discount rate. Assumptions included increases in tariffs and improvements in collection efficiencies and
UFW.

The project's financial rate of return fell short of the expectations at appraisal. The re-estimated FRR is
7%, which is sufficient to cover the weighted average capital cost (WACC), estimated at about 3.5%.
These figures remain ballpark estimates given lack of detailed financial data and the changes in project
scope and associated benefits. The lower FRR is mainly due to the fact that tariffs were not increased to
the extent envisaged at appraisal. From the perspective of cost efficiency, the project cost (without
additional facilities) was 26% over the appraisal amount, with the main cost increase in the second
component, which took the longest time to implement.

The project, through its substantial externalities, has major economic benefits which are not adequately
captured in the financial performance estimates. Such benefits to the economy are generally recognized,
but are difficult to measure without extensive surveys and analysis. They include (i) protection and
augmentation of revenues from tourism, a significant contributor to the local economy; (ii) public health
and welfare benefits from improved water supply, and reduction of water-borne diseases and
improvements in living standards from improved sewerage collection and disposal; and (iii) progressive
increase in land and property values in localities benefiting from the sewerage services under the project.
Sanitation projects in particular are not expected to earn high financial rates of return due to their high
costs and large external benefits. Without the project investments, there is a significant risk of
deterioration in environmental conditions and loss or stagnation of local incomes from tourism revenues
which are sizeable in the project area.




                                                      11

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of PDOs and
efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project continues to be highly relevant to the Government's long term strategy of improving the
Adriatic waters, enabling the development of high end tourism on the Adriatic coast, and moving towards
EU accession. While the Kastela-Trogir component has not been completed to assess its impact, its
progress and government support give comfort to its future.           The Split-Solin WWTP has started
operations and showing the desired impact on surrounding environment. The project achieved its
technical objectives given the high commitment and contributions of the government to expand the
project. The project's achievement of the institutional and operational objectives, however, hinders the
full satisfactory performance of this project and places it at the moderately satisfactory level.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The poverty and gender impacts were not foreseen specifically at the time of preparation or appraisal. At
the time, the project area was in economic turmoil following the war and was a recipient of a considerable
number of refugees. Tourism had practically collapsed. The project contributed to the revival of the area
by providing local employment at a critical time and giving a sense of return to normalcy through
emphasizing return to improved water and wastewater services. Cleaner coastal water and improved
seawater conditions in Split-Dalmatia county are evident to the naked eye, and contribute to the pleasant
environment and to the touristic attraction of the area.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The impact/outcome of the project in this area is limited at best.             Direct intended institutional
strengthening is yet to happen depending on the outcome of the latest improvement plan of the SWSC.
Focused attention was given by the national authorities to the water and wastewater issues in the project
area, but with limited impact.        Municipal involvement in policy direction was limited during
implementation. Their lack of action to improve the institutional performance through tariff increases or
other actions did not support the desired outcome of this component. However, municipalities continue to
contribute capital and operational subsidies to support the operation of the utility reflecting the
importance and support they attach to the sector.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome



Rating: Moderate

The development outcome as defined by the project objectives are to: (i) reduce municipal waste; (ii)
improve safety and reliability of drinking water supply; and (iii) improve the operational and financial
performance of the SWSC. The project aimed to improve the safety and reliability of the water and
sanitation system. SWSC staff was trained by contractors and others in the operations and maintenance
of the facilities. Environmental monitoring was strengthened, and operation of the facilities is ongoing
satisfactorily. While the SWSC is taking action regarding reduction of the UFW, the lack of progress on
this and on the financial performance front over the long implementation period increases the risk to a



                                                     12

desirable development outcome of improved operational and institutional performance. These risks
continue to be mitigated, as in the past, by the traditional strong support of municipalities and the national
government to the water and wastewater sector. This is further strengthened by Croatia's aim to adhere to
EU standards for environmental management and the importance it gives to tourism sector in the Adriatic
region.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank established good relations, collaborating closely with all government counterparts and
supported the framework for implementing the project to ensure adherence to the Bank's fiduciary
requirements. The Bank worked with the existing implementation arrangements as developed by the
EBRD and the Government. EKO, the implementing agency, included the necessary staff for that
purpose, but the long term institutional impact on SWSC, the final project owner was limited.
Technically, the design is sound, but it did not anticipate the need for expansion. Baseline indicators and
reporting framework proved to be unrealistic.

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) undertook a review of the project quality at entry in February 1999.
Overall, the project scored a 2 or Satisfactory on seven of the nine criteria. The project scored a 3 or
Marginally satisfactory on the social and stakeholder analysis and on readiness for implementation. QAG
found that, while the project documents noted that social assessments and consultations were undertaken
by the authorities, no further analysis on their scope, findings or recommendations were elaborated. The
project also scored low on compliance with OD 4.30 on involuntary resettlement given the relative large
requirement for land due to project investments. Financial analysis and agreements on M&E
arrangements were also found to be marginal.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank showed sufficient flexibility and accepted to take on the more difficult wastewater component
in Kastela-Trogir, which needed additional studies and preparation time. This flexibility maintained the
integrity of the project at the expense of time and quality of preparation and implementation. The team's
focus on technical and fiduciary requirements was satisfactory. The team identified the safeguards issues
and insisted they be solved appropriately. Focus on project outcome and indicators by the end of 2006
from the field office helped to get the attention of the counterparts. The team clearly involved the
appropriate stakeholders who have the authority and responsibility to monitor the environmental impact
of wastewater disposal and the quality of the Adriatic Sea. SWSC was encouraged to prepare action plans
to remedy its financial situation, but the involvement of the SWSC owners is not clear in the
documentation. The team's effort is well documented in the supervision reports, but was not reflected in
the Bank's systems. The consistent and detailed reporting on the technical and fiduciary aspects of the
project and the team's corrective actions with regard to the indicators render the Bank's supervision effort
as satisfactory




                                                      13

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank's overall performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. Project design did not take into
account important aspects of water supply projects (reduction of UFW). Baseline indicators proved to be
not fully adequate for the project and could have better considered the appropriate institutions. On the
positive side, the Bank showed flexibility in accepting to finance components to ensure project
completion, yet did not anticipate well the demands of the whole project. This is expected given the long
period of implementation and the fundamental changes that occurred in Croatia due to the transition from
post-war to economic revival. Institutional and financial deficiencies of SWSC were identified, and
technical assistance provided, with increased Bank assistance to these issues in the latter years. The
discussion and revision of the indicators contributed to the Bank's supervision effort substantially, and to
the borrower's commitment to the long term outcome.


5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the national government is satisfactory, given its adherence to its role of providing
the necessary financial support of the project. Counterpart funding came on time and no delays were
reported.   The national government sets the policy directions in the sectors; implementation and
management is the responsibility of local level governments. The role of the local governments was
moderately satisfactory given a combined good performance of financial support to the capital
investments, while postponing crucial decisions to improve the institutional and operational performance
of the SWSC.

(b) HBOR Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

During the implementation of the Project, HBOR provided full assistance and support to the EKO
Agency in resolving problems that were encountered. HBOR cooperated with project participants and was
instrumental in resolving institutional and organizational problems. HBOR was the borrower and was
responsible for the flow of funds to the municipality/SWSC. For that part, the financial management of
the project as undertaken by HBOR was satisfactory and the audit findings unqualified. Reporting was
satisfactory.

(c) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

EKO Agency Rating: Satisfactory


The EKO Agency was responsible for project implementation particularly on procurement, financial
management, and technical quality of the project. EKO was adequately staffed and its management
succeeded in creating a unit with sufficient knowledge and dedication to the project. The Agency was
provided sufficient resources by the government. At times procurement faced delays due to large
workload and limited staffing. Changes in the design, land acquisition and other issues contributed to the
workload, but EKO continued to work in accordance with Bank and Croatian requirements. Reporting




                                                    14

and updating procurement plans was done satisfactorily. Financial management of the project accounts
was satisfactory with positive audit findings. Reporting was timely and sufficiently detailed.


SWSC Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

SWSC was mainly responsible for achieving improvements in its financial and operational performance.
EKO had the main responsibility for project implementation in terms of procurement, financial
management, and supervision, in cooperation with SWSC.            SWSC was active in the discussions on
improving performance, yet it could only recommend tariff increases to the municipalities who have the
final say in this matter. Nevertheless, some items ­ such as collection ratio or UFW- are within the
responsibility of SWSC and remain to need much improvement. SWSC did not always undertake the
recommendations for improvement outlined by the auditor and had considerable difference of opinion.
SWSC and its municipal owners were satisfied with state auditor reports.


(d) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The multiplicity of actors on the borrower's side and at times the lack of clarity of their responsibility
renders a moderately satisfactory performance. Absent from the discussion during preparation and
implementation is the role of the municipalities in determining tariffs and influencing costs of the SWSCs
during or outside the project.


6. Lessons Learned
y       Environmental Screening and Land Acquisition. Readiness for implementation is one of the
        key factors of project success.        Large infrastructure projects should commence after land
        acquisition issues are cleared, the final designs and necessary permits (location permit,
        construction permit) are ready. Public consultation is also an important element to explain the
        project to the affected beneficiaries.
y       Dedicated agency as a tool for implementation of complex project including multiple
        stakeholders. Establishment of a dedicated agency makes it easier to build the needed capacity to
        ensure quality project management. To maximize project results, the implementing agency needs
        sufficient expertise and adequate autonomy to make decisions. The knowledge and capacity
        acquired would need to be integrated into the owner of the project to ensure longer term gains.

y       Selection of Monitoring Indicators: The selection of monitoring indicators and baselines need to
        be carefully done taking into account existing capacities and applicable standards, and involving
        institutions that are in place to monitor results. Showing a clear link between wastewater
        infrastructure investments and their environmental impact has positive demonstrative effects on
        building acceptance and ownership of the project in the region and the country.

        Improving financial and operational performance is an important objective that needs
        Consistent effort from all sides to be achieved. Objectives need to be realistic, and dialogue with
        the owners of the utilities, the local governments, is an essential element to ensure the success.

        Financial and Economic performances: The Bank should consider what levels of financial rates
        of return are suitable for urban wastewater projects, given the high costs of such projects, their
        large externalities, and affordability. High NPVs or FIRRs at affordable tariffs- may not be
        attainable in the medium term and within the life of the project particularly with a weak starting



                                                     15

        point of a utility. Gradual cost recovery and break-even cost benefit results with capital subsidies
        from the national and local governments are acceptable alternatives. An alignment of
        requirements on financial performance between the PAD indicators agreed during negotiations
        and those covenanted in the legal agreement would minimize confusion.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The HBOR sent the Borrower's completion report in time. The report was endorsed by the Ministry of
Finance. The HBOR was pleased with the implementation of the project and its outcome. It plans to
continue to monitor performance focusing on the financial and operational performance of SWSC and the
ongoing action plan. See Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers

The EBRD prepared a completion report of its portion of the project. EBRD was generally satisfied with
project implementation and outcome. See Annex 9.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
No comments.




                                                    16

                                                   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing



                                                                                                                                Latest as Latest as

                                 Original Estimate                  Revised (date)                   By end of Project          % of      % of

                          EBRD   IBRD     Local    Total   EBRD    IBRD     Local  Total   EBRD     IBRD     Local      Total   Revised   Original


Waste Water Split-Solin       -  24,365      5,494 29,859    9,259 13,277    5,494  28,030  9,794   17,489      7,239    34,522   123%      116%

Waste Water Kastela-
Trogir                    23,479     -       5,154 28,633          18,922    5,154  24,076     -    15,395     33,814    49,209   204%      172%


Water Supply Split-Solin-
Kastela-Trogir             7,199     -       7,921 15,120   11,756           7,921  19,677 10,775       -       1,632    12,407    63%       82%

Water Supply Ravne
Njive I Kunceva Greda         -   7,834      2,612 10,446    9,663           2,612  12,275 10,065       -       1,918    11,983    98%      115%


Institutional
Strengthening                 -   1,035      1,675  2,710           1,035    1,675   2,710     44      350       771      1,165    43%       43%


Optimization


Total                     30,678 33,234    22,856  86,768   30,678 33,234   22,856  86,768 30,678   33,234     45,374   109,286   126%      126%




                                      Table 2: Project cost and Financing Plan by components (in euro 000)

                                     (without Additional/Expanded Facilities Financed by the Government)




                                  Original Estimate                 Amended December 2001                     By end of Project           End/      End/




                                                                       17

                           EBRD      IBRD      Local    Total    EBRD     IBRD      Local    Total     EBRD     IBRD      Local       Total     Revised  Original


 Waste Water Split-Solin              24,365     5,494  29,859     9,259   13,277     5,494   28,030    9,794    17,489     23,081      50,364      180%    169%

 Waste Water Kastela-
 Trogir                    23,479                5,154  28,633             18,922     5,154   24,076             15,395     48,371      63,766      265%    223%


 Water Supply Split-Solin-
 Kastela-Trogir             7,199                7,921  15,120    11,756              7,921   19,677   10,775        -      15,843      26,618      135%    176%

 Water Supply Ravne
 Njive I Kunceva Greda                 7,834     2,612  10,446     9,663              2,612   12,275   10,065                1,918      11,983       98%    115%


 Institutional
 Strengthening                         1,035     1,675   2,710              1,035     1,675    2,710      44        350      3,698       4,092      151%    151%


 Optimization                                               -                                     -                                        -    NA


 Total                     30,678     33,234    22,856  86,768    30,678   33,234   22,856    86,768   30,678    33,234     92,911    156,823       181%    181%

                                                69,389                                                     -

                                         Table 3: Project cost and Financing Plan by components (in euro 000)

                                          (with Additional or Expanded Facilities Financed by the Government)


Note: The government financed the construction of new facilities and networks to enable connecting as many of the new clients as possible and ensure the
increased quality of the constructed systems. The scope of the planned works changed in terms of length of mains, number and capacity of pumping
stations, and locations of tunnels and a more advanced Kastela-Trogir WWTP than originally designed. Additional facilities and subsystems were
included to connect new clients, and to ensure better functioning and efficiency of the newly constructed systems. To this end, the areas of
Dugopolje (to the north of Split) and the south belt in Vranjic were included in the project, and the sewer network was expanded in the area of the
cities of Kastela and Trogir. The investment program was adjusted to meet the changing and expanding needs of the area residents.




                                                                          18

                                                  Annex 2. Detailed Cost Data by Component

The project consists of two physical, infrastructure components A and B containing construction of two waste water collection and disposal
systems and one water supply system, as well as one institutional component C.

The infrastructure components each have two subcomponents as follows: Component A ­ Wastewater: A1 Split-Solin System; A2 Kastela-Trogir
System. Component B ­ Water: B1 Water supply system Split-Solin-Kastela-Trogir; B2 Water supply systems Ravne Njive and Kunceva Greda

                                               Original                 As of December 2007           Estimated for end of Project   End/

                                    EBRD   IBRD     Local  Total  EBRD   IBRD     Local    Total  EBRD    IBRD      Local     Total  Original


 A1   Split-Solin Wastewater               24,365   5,494  29,859 9,794 17,489    18,300  45,583  9,794   17,489    23,081   50,364  1.687
      Design and Bidding Documents         1,601           1,601        1,647     24      1,671           1,647     22       1,669   1.042
      Sewage Vranjic                                                     1,056    352     1,408           1,056     352      1,408   0.052

      Network of Dujmovaca-
      Solin Catchment                                             4,198           1,218   5,416   4,198             1,219    5,417
      Tunnel Stupe                                                      7,257     2,418   9,675           7,257     2,419    9,676
                                           21,807    5,451 27,258
      Treatment Plant Stupe                                             5,955     1,971   7,926           5,955     1,973    7,928
      Submarine outfall Stobrec                                   5,596           1,063   6,659   5,596             1,063    6,659

      Hydrotechnical equipment
      for pumping stations                                              347               347             347       62       409

      Supervision and Quality Control      957             957          1,227     114     1,341           1,227     129      1,356   1.417
      Additional facilities                         43     43                     11,140  11,140                    15,842   15,842  368.419


      Kastela-Trogir Waste
 A2   Water                         23,479          5,154  28,633       15,395    17,585  32,980          15,395    48,371   63,766  2.227
      Design and Bidding
      Documents                     1,461                  1,461        1,843             1,843           1,843     49       1,892   1.295
      Sub-system Kastela                                                2,858     1,048   3,906           2,858     9,889    12,747  0.579
                                    22,018                 22,018
      Sub-System Trogir                                                 1,339     507     1,846           1,339     5,961    7,300
      Sub-system Ciovo                                                            439     439                       2,200    2,200
      Treatment plant                                                   2,144     482     2,626           2,144     6,606    8,750
      Submarine crossing and
      outfall                                                           1,941     1,535   3,476           1,941     3,711    5,652




                                                                       19

                                          Original                 As of December 2007           Estimated for end of Project   End/

                               EBRD   IBRD     Local  Total  EBRD   IBRD     Local    Total  EBRD    IBRD      Local     Total  Original

   Tunnel Ciovo                                                     5,056    3,302   8,358           5,056     4,544    9,600

   Hydrotechnical equipment
   for pumping stations                                             214              214             214       854      1,068
   Additional Facilities                       5,154  5,154                  10,272  10,272                    14,557   14,557  2.824


B1 Water Supply S-S-K-T        7,199           7,921  15,120 10,775          15,762  26,537  10,775            15,843   26,618  1.760
   Design and Bidding
   Documents                   863                    863    1,218                   1,218   1,218                      1,218   1.411
   Sub-system Kastela Sucurac                                1,187                   1,187   1,187                      1,187   0.216
   Main pipeline through
   Kastela                                                   5,639           837     6,476   5,639             836      6,475

   Pumping station Solin and                           5,493
                                5,493
   sub-system Sviti Kajo                                     1,454           671     2,125   1,454             696      2,150

   Hydrotechnical equipment
   for pumping stations                                      392                     392     392                        392
   Supervision and Quality
                               843
   Control                                            843    885             100     985     885               100      985     1.168

   Additional Facilities                       7,921  7,921                  14,154  14,154                    14,211   14,211  1.794


B2 Water Supply RN I KG               7,834    2,612  10,446 10,065          1,727   11,792  10,065            1,918    11,983  1.147

   Group of facillities at KG                                5,425           1,381    6,806  5,425             1,573    6,998   0.670
                                       7,834    2,612 10,446
   Group of facillities at RBN                               4,640           346     4,986   4,640             345      4,985


   Institutional
C  Strengthening                      1,035    1,675  2,710  44     350      2,326   2,720   44      350       3,698    4,092   1.510

   Technical Assistance               751             751           109      354     463             109       700      809     1.077
   Equipent for O&M                   284      43     327           241      43      284             241       43       284     0.869
   Supervision                                               44                      44      44                28       72

   Additional Facilities                       1,632  1,632                  1,929   1,929                     2,927    2,927   1.794


   TOTAL PROJECT
   COSTS                       30,678 33,234   22,856 86,768 30,678 33,234   55,700  119,612 30,678  33,234    92,911   156,823 1.807




                                                                   20

                                Annex 3. Project Indicators

    1. Key performance indicators


          Original          Original Indicator        Revised Indicator              Observed
   Objective/Indicator
Objective: Reduce wastewater Pollutants Discharged into the Kastela and Trogir Bays
a. Project Progress         Completion         of Completion            of Loan fully disbursed
                            contracts         and contracts            and
                            disbursement       of disbursement of funds
                            funds
b.  Reduction of oil and No visible slicks          No visible slick          No visible slicks
grease pollution to no
visible slick
c.   Reductions in BOD From          30,000    to From 1794 tons in 2002: Peaked at 3078
discharge                   1000 Kilograms          1998.      Target not tons.
                                                    changed.                  2004:            before
                                                                              Split/Solin    WWTP
                                                                              operation: 3025 tons.
                                                                              2005: 1143 tons after
                                                                              WWTP operation.
                                                                              2006: 889 tons.


d. Reductions in average Reduction             in PHI      Bactereological Compliance in 94%.
E   coli    levels at  15 average           E-coli monitoring
monitoring sites            levels       at    14 requirement: 80% of
                            monitoring sites in samples with not more
                            Kastela and Trogir than 500 for total, 100
                            Bays from 50 E- for fecal, and 100 for
                            coli/100 ml to 0 E- streptococcus.
                            coli/100 ml


Objective: Improve the safety, reliability and delivery of drinking water in the project area
Safety and Reliability of 24 hour supply to 24 hour supply to 100%                       of   SWSC
Service                     90%        of     the 90% of the population       customers now receive
                            population                                        24 hour water supply
                            No Customer with No           Customer    with
                            less than 4 hours less         than  4   hours
                            supply                  supply




                                                 21

Objective: Improve the operational and financial performance of the SWSC
a.     Increase Revenue From 80-95%               From 60% baseline in 75% in 2006
Collected   to  Revenue                           1998.   Target     not 85% in 2007
Invoiced                                          changed.
b.      Improve   SWSC From 1.0 to 0.75           From 1.23 baseline in 1.00 in 2006
Operating Ratio                                   1998.   Target     not 1.04 in 2007
                                                  changed.
c. Unaccounted for water   Not to exceed 22%      From 38.3% baseline 53.6% in 2007
                                                  in 1998. Target not
                                                  changed.



                               Table 5: Outcome Indicators
2. Output indicators


 Component               Projected in PAD                     Actual/Latest estimate
 Components A and B      Construction of the following
                         works:
                         2 treatment plants by 12/02          o WWTP Split-Solin 8/04
                                                              o WWTP Kastela-Trogir 12/08
                         2 submarine outfalls by 12/02        o submarine outfall Split-Solin
                                                                 07/04
                                                              o submarine outfall Kastela-
                                                                 Trogir 07/08
                         28 sewage pumping stations by        o 8 sewage pumping stations
                         12/03                                   Split-Solin 8/04
                                                              o 23 sewage pumping stations
                                                                 Kastela-Trogir 12/08
                         4,200 of rock tunnel by 12/03        o 2520 m tunnel for the system
                                                                 Split-Solin 09/03,
                                                              o 2800 m tunnel for the system
                                                                 Kastela-Trogir 12/07
                         20 km of gravity sewer by 12/05      o 55 km gravity and pressure
                         9 km if pressure sewer by 12/03         sewers Kastela-Trogir 12/08
                                                              o 42 km gravity and pressure
                                                                 sewers Split-Solin 07/04

                         5 water pumping stations by          o 6 water pumping stations
                         12/03                                   02/04
                         3 distribution reservoirs by 12/03   o 4 distribution reservoirs
                                                                 08/03
                         10 km of water mains by 12/04        o 30 km of water mains 8/03




                                               22

Component         Projected in PAD                   Actual/Latest estimate
Component C       Preparation and implementation     o Performance enhancement
                  of a performance enhancement         plan for SWSC 04/00, but
                  plan for SWSC by 12/99               not fully implemented. New
                                                       plan approved in 12/07 and
                                                       now being implemented.

                  Preparation and implementation     o Corporate development plan
                  of a corporate development plan      for SWSC 07/05 but not
                  for SWSC by 12/99                    fully implemented. New plan
                                                       approved 12/07 and now
                                                       being implemented.

                  Institutional strengthening        o Implementation Completion
                  program completed for EKO by         Report by COWI 10/04
                  12/99

                           Table 6: Output indicators




     Map 1: OIC water quality measuring points within Brac channel (1b-13b)




                                        23

    Table 7: BOD load in Kastela Bay


      BOD        Industrial
                               Total
Year  load       BOD
                               (t/year)
      (t/year)   (t/year)
1998  1567       227           1794
1999  1719       80            1799
2000  1800       31            1831
2001  2249       156           2405
2002  2909       169           3078
2003  1727       174           1900
2004  2830       195           3025
2005  1004       139           1143
2006  814        75            889




                  24

Table 8: Results of IOF's monitoring program1 on 14 locations within Brac Channel (shaded area
                  represents concentration of bacteria above maximum allowed level)



                               2002/2003                      2005              2006
                            TC      FC        FS      TC      FC   FS       TC  FC     FS
                     1b
                     2b
                     3b
                     4b
                     4c
                     5b
                     6b
                     7b
                     8b
                     9b
                     10b
                     11b
                     12b
                     13b


Source: Institute of Oceanographic Institute of Croatia, Split
Legend: TC= Total coliform, FC= Fecal coliform; FS= Fecal streptococcus
                  Maximum allowed concentration: TC 500, FC 100, FS 100 in 80% of samples (Ministry of
                  Environmental Protection, Physical Planning and Construction)




                                                      25

                          Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis

For appraisal, the financial position of SWSC was examined, and the impact of the project on its
future position forecasted. A financial net present value and financial rate of return analysis of the
investment was undertaken. Separate economic analysis was not undertaken and the financial net
present value was considered as a proxy for the lower bound of the net value of economic benefits,
while recognizing the several external benefits that are difficult to quantify. The PAD recognized
that economic benefits of the wastewater component, although considerable, are not amenable to
quantification. They principally derived from the positive impact on the environment, tourism,
citizens'health, and potentially improved real estate values. These economic benefits are difficult
to quantify or attribute parts of them to the project impact without considerable advanced work and
data that is not currently available. The investments under the water supply component are largely
concerned with the provision of reliable and uninterrupted water supply and replacement of worn-
out and obsolete facilities that are creating major imbalances and inefficiencies in the system. The
project investments were designed using cost effectiveness considerations, comparing several
alternatives, and selecting the least cost option that is consistent with technical and environmental
feasibility. The FNPV was estimated at UD 20 million (or HRK 143 million), and the financial rate
of return (FRR) was estimated at about 15% using a 10% discount.

The audited financial statements for the SWSC were assessed for the years 2004-2006. These
provide the most consistent and reliable data. The qualifications do not affect the two financial
indicators in the results framework ­ which remain below the desired levels.              The material
qualification relates to financial (not operational) income that is under dispute with HBOR/EKO;
i.e. interest and exchange rate gains due to the loan. The balance sheet ratios are impacted but
results from trends remain valid. SWSC revenues increased 12% between 2003-2006 and declined
in 2007. Operating expenses continued to increase at 42% over the same period. It is noted, that
with the proposed corrections due to the qualifications by the auditor, the SWSC becomes loss
making. The main increase in expenses is in depreciation, which doubled between 2005 and 2006
and now constitutes 42% of its total expenditures, followed by staff costs at 29%. Depreciation is
not a cash expenditure, however, and the large charge may be due to the new investments. SWSC
has consistently kept sufficient current assets to cover its current liability above 1.15. SWSC does
not have large debt, with total liabilities just above a third of its total assets. The explanation for
this rather comfortable, financial position of SWSC is the consistent financial support by local as
well as the national government.

With regard to the project's financial situation, significant changes have taken place in project
scope and costs. A re-estimation has been carried out based on the total project cost at the time of
completion. The incremental revenues from the project included the incremental tariff due to the
project which were limited to the level required to (i) cover the additional depreciation from the
project investments, and (ii) include the annual surcharge (HRK 2/m3) on account of the project.
The re-estimated financial rate of return (FRR) for the project is 7%, which is lower than the 15%
projected at appraisal. Nevertheless, the re-estimated FRR more than covers the actual weighted
average cost of capital (WACC) estimated at 3.5%, based on loan and grant financing of 50% each
in total project financing. The much lower than projected financial performance was the result of
tariff increases that were lower than those envisaged at appraisal. The economic benefits of the
project as appraised remain valid, and its impact on the community and the environment is evident.




                                                   26

                                Split Water and Sanitation Company (SWSC)
                                             Income Statements


                                            2003           2004          2005        2006        2007


Operating Revenues                 174,505,186     159,947,469   165,877,195  195,553,973 184,471,000


Operating Expenses                 137,655,523     147,296,103   169,531,852  194,881,261 191,880,000
 Material Costs                      48,253,723                   19,979,984   18,201,210  18,398,000
 Staff Costs                         39,626,282                   51,298,387   57,720,917  58,428,000
 Depreciation (and amortization)     15,569,861                   40,737,141   81,972,665  80,784,000
 Other External Charges                                           28,309,143   21,663,262  23,238,000
 Value Adjustment                    21,437,608                   23,068,989   12,359,034   5,812,000
 Other Expenses                      12,768,049                     6,138,208   2,964,173   5,220,000


Financial Revenues                   12,241,039       5,734,704   21,062,426   10,135,136   8,697,000
Financial Expenses                   16,384,221      11,152,351   10,840,680   10,238,832    462,000


Total Revenues                     186,746,225     165,682,173   186,939,621  205,689,109 193,168,000
Total Expenses                     154,039,744     158,448,454   180,372,532  205,120,093 192,342,000


Profit (loss) before Taxes           32,706,481       7,233,719     6,567,089    569,016     826,000


Operating Ratio                           0.79             0.92         1.02        1.00        1.04
Collection Ratio                             58%           45%           62%         74%         85%




                                              27

    Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                  Responsibility/
            Names                        Title             Unit
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Walter Stottmann           Sector Leader                  ECSIN

Richard MacEwen            Program Team Leader            ECSIN Sanitary Engineer
Kishore Nadkami            Task Team Leader               ECSIN Financial Analyst
Arumukham Saravanapavan                                   ECSIN Sanitary Engineer
                                                                Procurement
Lea Braslavsky
                                                                specialist
Kavita Sethi                                                    Economist
                                                                Environmental
Piotr Krzyzanowski
                                                                Specialist
Gennady Pilch                                                   Lawyer
Joseph Formoso             Disbursement Officer                 Disbursement
Aleathea Thomas Diallo     Team Assistant                 ECSIN

Supervision/ICR
                                                                Procurement
Salim Benouniche           Senior Procurement Specialist  ECSPS
                                                                specialist
                                                                Infrastructure
Xavier Chauvot De Beauchene                               GPOBA
                                                                Specialist
                                                                Infrastructure
Stjepan Gabric             Task Team Leader               ECSSD
                                                                Specialist
                                                                Infrastructure
Manuel Marino              Task Team Leader               ECSSD
                                                                Specialist
                                                                Financial
Michael Gascoyne           Sr Resource Management Officer CSRRM
                                                                management
Hana Huzjak                Operations Analyst             ECSSD Finance
Henry Laino                Consultant                     LCSUW
                                                                Financial
Mirela Mart                FM Specialist                  ECSPS
                                                                management
                           Social Development
Norval Stanley Peabody                                    ECSSD Social assessment
                           Specialist/Consultant
David N. Sislen            Sector Leader                  LCSSD Financial analyst
                                                                Environmental
Natasa Vetma               Operations Officer             ECSSD
                                                                Specialist
                                                                Financial
Iwona Warzecha             Sr Resource Management Officer ECSPS
                                                                management




                                         28

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands (including
                                 No. of staff weeks
                                                       travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY96                                                           151.45
  FY97                                                             91.61
  FY98                                                           130.51
  FY99                                                              0.00
  FY00                                                             -0.10
  FY01                                                              0.00
  FY02                                                             -0.04
  FY03                                                              0.00
  FY04                                                              0.00
  FY05                                                              0.00
  FY06                                                              0.00
  FY07                                                              0.00
  FY08                                                              0.00

                         Total:                                  373.43
Supervision/ICR
  FY96                                                              0.00
  FY97                                                              0.00
  FY98                                                              1.34
  FY99                                                             60.97
  FY00                                    9                        38.82
  FY01                                  18                         65.22
  FY02                                    9                        53.08
  FY03                                  13                         61.60
  FY04                                    7                        56.25
  FY05                                    9                        60.49
  FY06                                  18                         84.65
  FY07                                  17                         69.98
  FY08                                    2                        16.76

                         Total:       102                        569.16




                                     29

         Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Note:    This report was prepared by the Borrower: Hrvatska banka za obnovu i razvitak ­ HBOR
         (Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development)

Borrower's Evaluation Report Summary

1. Assessment of the Project Objective, Design, Implementation and Operation experience

1.1.Relevance of Project Objectives

The EKO Project is one of the largest investments in environmental protection launched in
Republic of Croatia so far. The importance of the Project is paramount for the effort of moving the
environmental protection standards in Croatia closer to fulfillment of the European Union (EU)
standards.

The development objectives of the Project were to:
     -   reduce municipal wastewater pollutant discharges into the environmentally sensitive
         Kastela and Trogir Bays consistent with Croatian and EU standards;
     -   improve the safety, reliability, and delivery of drinking water in the project area through
         construction of new and upgrading the existing water supply capacities and
     -   improve the operational and financial performance of the water and wastewater utility
         "Vodovod i kanalizacija" Split (SWSC).

Key indicators for measuring the project successfulness were: a) progress in commitments of
construction contracts and disbursements of funds, b) continuous water supply in the project area,
c) reduction in sea pollution level as measured by relevant institutions, d) financial indicators of
Vodovod i kanalizacija Split.

The EKO Project has included the broader area of the cities of Split, Solin, Kastela and Trogir. The
particular feature of the region is a large influx of inhabitants, intense construction for housing and
industrial purposes, which was not proportionally followed by infrastructure development.

Lack of adequate infrastructure caused the most intense concentration of pollution. The Croatian
parliament proclaimed in 1994 that the areas of the Kastela Bay and the Bay of Bakar represent the
black spots of pollution on the Croatian Adriatic coast.
The government of the Republic of Croatia has established that the financing of waste water
management project in Split ­ Dalmatia County is the priority of the state because of the
environmental protection and development of tourism.

Further to the above mentioned objectives, HBOR evaluated them as highly relevant and
realistically set, and they have also supported and complemented the government efforts.
Through the relevant indicators, it can be seen that through the project implementation, further
critical pollution of the environment was stopped and the quality of communal services for private
consumers increased.




                                                   30

1.2.     Suitability of Project Design
The Project has been divided into several components in order to facilitate the execution and
monitoring,:

     ·   Water-supply system Split ­ Solin ­ Kastela ­ Trogir,
     ·   Sewerage system Split ­ Solin,
     ·   Sewerage system Kastela ­ Trogir.

The project investor is the utility company Vodovod i kanalizacija d.o.o. Split, which is the final
borrower of the EBRD and the IBRD loans.

Within the scope of the project, in 1995, the co-operation of HBOR with IBRD and EBRD was
started with the backing of the government of the Republic of Croatia. HBOR, being the borrower
of the loan funds for the project implementation, was also appointed as the project coordinator of
all activities during the project implementation.

Due to the complexity and more efficient managing of the entire project, and pursuant to the
Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia dated June 28, 1996, the Agency EKO
Kastela Bay was established. The role of the Agency as the technically implementing body is the
preparation and implementation of the financial and dynamic plans of the EKO Project realization,
reporting, obtaining of all necessary permits for the Project implementation, the implementation of
the procurement procedure, contracting and monitoring the implementation of all concluded
contracts, as well as commissioning of the constructed facilities to the Investor. The Agency
Management board consists of representatives of all institutions included in the Project. They
contribute to the quality solution of all problems that emerged during the implementation.


It can be concluded that the project design both in organizational and technical sense with all
further alterations and amendments during the project implementation, is adequate and sustainable.
It is also adjusted to the needs and actual state on the site and as such contributed to the realization
of planned goals of the project.

1.3.     Assessment of the outcome of the Project against the agreed objectives
All works on the construction of the water-supply system Split ­ Solin ­ Kastela ­ Trogir were
completed before the summer of 2004. The Project improved the quality and reliability of the
water-supply system and enabled a constant supply of water. Therefore, the result of this part of the
project is in line with the set goal.

All capital facilities of the Split - Solin sewerage system were completed in 2004 and they have
been in continuous operation ever since. In 2005, the commissioning of the facility was carried out
and SWSC has taken care of its operation and maintenance. The construction of the additional
network was completed in 2006, and the sewerage system in the area of Dugopolje and Klis
remains to be completed.

By the construction of the facilities, local inhabitants have obtained better communal services,
which resulted in cleaner environment in the eastern part of the Kastela Bay. Pursuant to the studies
carried out by the Oceanographic Institute of Croatia, it was confirmed that the eastern part of the
Kastela Bay has recovered and that the constructed sewerage system is sufficient for the
maintenance of the environmental protection in the area as well as for the attainment of Croatian
and European Union environmental and quality standards.




                                                  31

The construction of the Kastela-Trogir sewerage system is behind the original schedule, primarily
because the originally envisaged sub-system construction concept was given up             due to the
opposition of part of the population with respect to the location of the treatment plant and hydro-
technical tunnel. After the Environmental Impact Study was prepared and after all necessary
location and building permits were issued, the construction of the main facilities of this subsystem
started in 2006 and 2007. The construction of this system is proceeding in accordance with
Investment Program of 2006, and all works on the sewerage system Kastela ­ Trogir are expected
to be completed at the beginning of 2009.

After the completion of this part of the sewerage system, the complete halting of pollutant
discharges in the area of EKO Kastela Bay is expected.

However, the third objective of the Project (operational and financial strengthening of the investor)
has not been achieved in accordance with the plan. During the implementation of the project, the
operations of the SWSC were regularly audited by an independent auditor acceptable for the IBRD.
The opinions of the auditors were either qualified or negative, and the objections related to the
implementation of the International Accounting Standards and the International Financial Reporting
Standards.

Despite poor achievements of the SWSC in terms of the strengthening of its own operations, some
improvements can be recognized. Towards the end of 2007, the SWSC prepared two strategic
documents that were accepted by the SWSC Management: "SWSC Performance Improvement
Plan" and "Action Plan for the Reduction of Water Loss" that cover improvements in the period to
come.
Further to the above, it can be concluded that in this part of the project, only a partial result was
attained as compared to the initially set goal.

1.4.    Assessment of the Project Implementation and Operation Experience
The implementation of the Project has been assessed as satisfactory, but we would like to mention
that it was necessary to make a number of changes to the investment program due to the adjustment
to the actual situation on site.

The Project value was planned in the total amount of EUR 133.301 million by the investment
program in 1998. Due to extensive deviations in the volume and schedule of execution of works, as
well as due to rising costs of individual parts of investment and expansion of the investment, the
investment program was altered in 2001, 2004 and finally in 2006 in order to adjust it as much as
possible to the actual financial and material status of the project.

The table below shows the increase in investment program value by years.

                                                                                  inEUR million
 Investment      programs
 by years                        1998              2001               2004                2006

 Investment        project
 value                          133.301           143.162            176.981            218.950


As it can be seen from the table above, in the period from 1998 to 2006, the investment program
value significantly increased. The last investment program in 2006 raised the value of the Project to
the estimated EUR 218.950 million.




                                                  32

The increased value of the Project was for the most part the result of construction of new facilities
and additional networks in order to enable connecting as many of the new clients as possible and
ensure the increased quality of functioning and feasibility of the constructed systems. Other reasons
for increasing the project value relate to the expansion of project to new settlements and
municipalities and increased project costs due to rising costs of land in the region (when resolving
ownership and legal matters), rising costs of building materials, salaries of employees, permanent
or temporary relocation of the existing water-supply, electricity, telephone and other fittings due to
overlaps with the routes of new collectors etc.

During the implementation of the Project, a number of problems and obstacles were encountered
and slowed down the planned dynamics, among which the following should be focused upon:

    -   Problems during the process of adopting the concept for the construction of the Kastela-
        Trogir sewerage system at the local level, relating to the issue of the construction site. The
        attitude of the local population with regard to treatment plant locations is usually negative.
        After individual project solutions are rejected, a long period of time is necessary to select
        and analyse the most favourable alternative solutions and adopt changes to the general
        spatial plan at the county level. Furthermore, an environmental impact study has to be
        prepared before. All of the above led to considerable delays in the implementation of the
        Project.

    -   Ownership and legal issues are reflected in the duration of the process of adopting spatial
        plans, problems relating to land registry and cadastre records, which generally results in a
        slowed-down procedure for obtaining construction permits. To conclude, for major
        construction activities within the framework of the EKO Project it was necessary to
        regulate land acquisition issues through complete and incomplete expropriation, all
        pursuant to the Expropriation Act (Official Gazette of Republic of Croatia No 9/94).
        Taking into account the outdated status of cadastre records and land registry, the
        expropriation proved to be an extensive and time consuming procedure.

    -   In accordance with the Construction Act (Official Gazette of Republic of Croatia No
        52/99), which is no longer in force, the issuing of construction permits was possible only
        after all ownership and legal issues have been resolved. In the case of pipelines, which are
        constructed on several hundreds of plots, unresolved land registry records considerably
        delayed the start of the construction activities. This problem was observed in the case of
        other major projects of state importance, and therefore amendments to the Construction Act
        were (Official Gazette of Republic of Croatia No 117/01) adopted at the end of 2001,
        which, in the case of the construction of the facilities of state importance, provided for the
        possibility of obtaining construction permits and starting the construction works on those
        land plots for which legal and ownership issues have been resolved, while the process of
        solving legal and ownership issues for other land plots may continue simultaneously with
        the construction activities.

    -   The carrying out of works in the coastal area and in the populated regions is prohibited
        during the tourist season, i.e. from the middle of June to the middle of September, which
        also contributes to the prolonged period of construction.

    -   The issues relating to archaeological sites discovered during the implementation of the
        project also contribute to the delays and increased project costs because, in such situations,
        it is necessary to find an acceptable solution for the continuation of works without
        devastating valuable cultural heritage.




                                                 33

During the Project implementation, all attempts were made to solve the above problems in the best
possible way. It has to be pointed out that the projects like this one led to the amendments to the
Construction Act, which will have a long-term favourable impact on all future infrastructure
investments in the Republic of Croatia. In order to avoid considerable delays in major projects like
this one, it is necessary to pay considerable attention to the planning of needed works before
starting the implementation of the project itself. This includes detailed consideration of the legal
framework for the implementation of the project and predicting of possible obstacles that may
considerably affect the project. The optimal solution is to provide the loan funds at the moment
when the project is in the advanced stage of readiness when most of the necessary permits have
been obtained. In addition, we would like to point out that, in the case of large and complex
projects, it is inevitable for certain unforeseen circumstances to occur, and the project must be
viewed as a dynamic process changing over time and requiring continuous adjustments.


2.      Evaluation of the Borrower's own performance during the evaluation and
        implementation of the Project (lessons learned)

The performance of the Borrower has been highly satisfactory and outstanding, starting from the
preparation phase, during which the Borrower showed a high degree of commitment and
cooperation with the Bank.

HBOR has made a considerable contribution to and has put in considerable efforts to the providing
of the necessary funds for the Project. Also, as a co-ordinator, it has actively participated in the
solving of all the problems encountered during the implementation of the Project. Being in
continuous contact with the state and regional institutions, it contributed significantly to the
successful resolving of such issues.
HBOR co-operated successfully with all participants in the Project, receiving their maximum and
prompt support.
Therefore, we consider such an engagement to be far beyond the role of HBOR as a borrower under
the Project, and this makes it one of the key participants in the Project.

3.      Evaluation of the performance by the Bank, any co-financiers, or other partners
        during the evolution and implementation of the Project (relationships)

During the preparation and implementation of the Project, we received the full support,
understanding and co-operation of the Bank and other co-financiers of this project: EBRD,
Government of the Republic of Croatia and Hrvatske vode.

All problems that were encountered during the implementation of the Project were resolved jointly,
and the support of the Bank was always prompt and extremely kind.

The Bank's team was changed when the Project was already in the advanced stage of completion.
However, this change did not affect the continuity of the Project implementation, but contributed to
an even better understanding of the situation in which the Project was.

Another factor that contributed to the success of the Project was also the fact that the operations of
the Bank are decentralised, because the team in Zagreb has implemented the Project extremely
successfully.




                                                  34

The Bank's team has established a very good co-operation with HBOR, the EKO agency and
SWSC, and the missions were always a good chance for additional advice and professional support.
During the procurement process, withdrawal and disbursement of the loan, all enquiries and
demands were met by the Bank in time.
HBOR has also achieved a very good co-operation with the EBRD that contributed significantly to
the successful implementation of the Project through its advice and technical assistance.
Beside the co-operation with the banks and other co-financiers of the project, we have also had a
successful co-operation with the representatives of the EKO Agency and SWSC Split. We can say
that the EKO Agency has successfully applied the acquired knowledge and has adjusted its
operational procedures in order to include lessons gained through experience, which resulted in a
faster and better solving of problems. During the last few years, the EKO Agency together with
SWSC Split frequently held press conferences in order to enable correct providing of information to
the public, maintaining of dialogues and the possibility of dissemination of information on the EKO
Project, all for the purpose of preventing public criticism and suspicions.




                                                  35

         Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Note: The Project was cofinanced by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(EBRD). These comments were compiled from the EBRD's final report received by the Bank.

1. Basic Information
A loan for the extension and improvement of sewerage and water services in 5 municipalities
(Split, Pula, Kastela, Solin and Trogir) was made to HBOR (Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and
Development) and guaranteed by the Republic of Croatia. HBOR on lends to the Pula and Split
Water Companies (Pula Herculanea and SWSC Split). The 5 municipalities guarantee the loan
amounts to HBOR. IBRD also contributes EUR 32.5 mln to the investment programme and the
Republic of Croatia co-finances a further EUR 39.5 million.

The investment programme was expected to clean up and protect the quality of the sea in these
municipalities which are tourist destinations on the Adriatic. The project would bring substantial
environmental benefits, enhance living conditions for the local population and support the
development of tourism. It would also contribute to the establishment of a viable system of
municipal infrastructure financing in Croatia by strengthening the capacity of HBOR in appraising
and managing municipal credit and establishing a model for the improvement of the operational and
financial performance of water utilities.

2. Project Cost Control


                                                          Initial Amount       Latest Estimate of
                                                       (from Board report)       Outturn Cost
                         Item
 Split-Solin Wastewater Collection and Treatment             92,200,000.00           44,052,908.48
 Kastela-Trogir Sewerage System                              92,000,000.00           47,038,853.07
 Split Solin Water Supply                                    49,400,000.00           22,680,907.85
 Kastela Trogir Water Supply Extension                       28,400,000.00           14,520,689.43
 Rijeka Wastewater Extension                                 11,800,000.00
 Pula Wastewater Extension                                   40,300,000.00           15,083,545.09
 Monitoring Equipment                                          4,700,000.00           1,349,810.57
 Total Cost:                                               318,800,000.00          144,726,714.49
 Total Costs in EUR equivalent:                                     144.00         144,726,714.49
Initial Amounts above are in DEM, whereas Latest Estimates are in EUR, therefore figures are not
comparable.




                                                36

3. Project Performance

3.1 Project Implementation

Kastela Bay (Tranche A): The procurement phase for Split-Solin Sewerage system was completed
in the first half of 2001 and construction started in September 2001 after the tourist season. The
Split-Solin Sewerage system comprises a treatment plant and a submarine outfall and was jointly
financed by the IBRD and local funds.

Construction was delayed due to problems gaining access, but works are now completed.

The Kastela-Trogir sewerage system was financed by IBRD.

For the improvement of the water supply in Split, Solin, Kastela and Trogir, works for the Kastel-
Sucurac subsystem were completed. The main pipeline, pumping station and associated subsystem,
along with two sets of buildings were completed in 2003.

3.2 Project Management and Reporting

HBOR is managing the reporting and administration of the loan. EBRD, HBOR (the client) and
SWSC Split (the beneficiary) have co-operated closely on implementation and operational issues.

Kastela Bay (Tranche A): The project management team, Eko-Kastela, was performing well and
met all of the agreed targets. Monitoring of management performance was measured against the
approved implementation plan and physical progress of the project. The Implementation Unit has
all the necessary technical expertise.

HBOR provided the EBRD with a satisfactory environmental report in the EBRD's standardised
reporting format provided by the Environmental Department.

3.3 Policy Undertaking and Institutional Reform

Municipal credit consultants (Kommunalkredit), funded by the Bank's TC funds, finalized
assistance to HBOR with institutional development. The assistance focused on organizational and
future business strategy for HBOR.

3.4 Financial Performance

Financial performance of HBOR was good, as did the performance of SWSC Split. The financial
performance of the beneficiaries (Pula Herculanea and ViK Split) continues to be in line with
expectations, and no problems in this regard are envisaged. The major continuing problem remains
accounts receivable, especially for ViK Split. Both companies are regularly discussing with their
biggest debtors (state owned industries) the settlement of outstanding debt.

3.5 Overall Project Performance Rating: good

Justification: The Kastela Bay (Tranche A) component of the project was progressing well,
although project execution and implementation was delayed compared to original plan and all
construction under the project has not been completed. For the Kastela Bay components (Split-
Solin Sewerage, Kastela-Trogir Sewerage and Split-Solin-Kastela-Trogir Water), all EBRD



                                                  37

contracts have been awarded and construction was completed for both Split-Solin Sewerage system
and the improvement of water supply in Split, Solin, Kastela and Trogir (Kastela-Trogir Sewerage
is IBRD funded)

4. Achievement of Operation Objectives (as established at Project approval)


       Objective        Rating         Measurement Targets                  Actual Performance
 Lay the groundwork    1        No specific targets set             It is too early to comment on this.
 for possible private                                               This option is possible and will be
 sector involvement                                                 influenced by the implementation
 in municipal services                                              of the Corporate Development
                                                                    Programme for the Split Water
                                                                    and Sewerage Company,
                                                                    Herculanea Pula, and the macro
                                                                    economic conditions in Croatia.
 Improve the quality   2        This objective concerned            Construction of the water supply
 of water supply in             rehabilitation and improvement      system and related infrastructure
 Split, Solin, Kastela          of the Split-Solin and Kastela-     was completed. Extension and
 and Trogir                     Trogir Water Supply Systems.        reconstruction work on the supply
                                In Split and Solin the objective    network and the last of the
                                was to improve operational          subsections was delayed due to
                                efficiency, reduce operating        continued delays obtaining
                                costs, and enhance service          building permits and was
                                quality. In Kastela and Trogir      completed in 2003.
                                this involved construction of a
                                new water supply system,
                                including treatment plant,
                                distribution network and
                                pumping stations, as water
                                supplies were of poor quality and
                                fall short of demand, particularly
                                in the summer season, causing
                                service interruptions and
                                shortages.
 Reduce pollution of   2        Reduction of untreated municipal    Kastela Bay (Tranche A) includes
 Kastela Bay, Rijeka            waste water discharged into the     3 components:
 Bay and the sea off            sea.
 Pula                           The project targeted on             - Split-Solin Sewerage System:
                                municipalities which are located    Completion was delayed due to
                                in the main foreign tourist areas   some protests about the location
                                along the Adriatic coast, and a     of the submarine outfall.
                                primary aim of the project was      Completion dates for each of the
                                environmental restoration and       components (sewer networks,
                                reduction of pollution of the       hydrotechnical tunnel, WWTP,
                                beaches and sea from discharge      submarine outfall) has been
                                of municipal waste water. Waste     extended from 30/04/03 to
                                water was discharged form a         31/12/03, with the additional
                                number of outlets without           network (non EBRD-funded) and
                                treatment, the sewer systems of     was completed in 2005.
                                Split, Solin, Kastela and Trogir



                                               38

     Objective      Rating      Measurement Targets                 Actual Performance
                          were inadequate with less than    - Kastela-Trogir Sewerage
                          half the population connected to  System financed by IBRD. Slight
                          the main system, and the          delays were incurred after the
                          environmental situation of        original delay of 2 years due to
                          Kastela Bay - affecting the       local disputes on the location of
                          tourism centers of Trogir and     the WWTP. All works will be
                          Ciovo Island - was particularly   completed in the first half of
                          pressing. The investment          2009.
                          programme includes the
                          elimination of untreated waste    - Split-Solin-Kastela-Trogir
                          water discharges in these areas,  Water Supply Improvement - see
                          construction of connector and     above objective.
                          collector mains, extension of the
                          sewerage networks, and
                          construction of two new
                          WWTPs.

Set a model for    1      No specific targets set.          A technical co-operation, as a
financing of                                                twinning arrangement with
municipal                                                   Kommunalkredit, was undertaken
infrastructure by                                           to strengthen the capability of
developing HBOR                                             HBOR to identify, prioritize and
as a municipal                                              appraise investment projects on
lending bank                                                the basis of sound banking and
                                                            economic principles. The
                                                            assistance covered procedures and
                                                            organization arrangements and
                                                            staff training for management and
                                                            monitoring of MEIP, and focused
                                                            on the development of HBOR's
                                                            municipal lending capacity,
                                                            covering the preparation of an
                                                            overall strategy in the municipal
                                                            sector; identification of priority
                                                            areas and potential funding
                                                            sources; strengthening of project
                                                            appraisal and loan administration
                                                            capacity; and establishment of
                                                            municipal creditworthiness
                                                            assessment and monitoring
                                                            capacity. The twinning
                                                            arrangement is now completed.
Enhance the        1                                        To ensure the long-term financial
operational and                                             viability of the provision and
financial                                                   financing of water services in the
performance of the                                          municipalities included in MEIP,
water utilities                                             the Bank required that the utilities
                                                            improve their financial and
                                                            operational performance. Besides



                                        39

    Objective         Rating    Measurement Targets              Actual Performance
                                                          increased service quality, the
                                                          programme's main thrust is a
                                                          gradual move towards cost
                                                          recovery by improving cost
                                                          efficiency, establishing
                                                          accounting systems that recognize
                                                          true operating costs, and adopting
                                                          water tariffs and revenue
                                                          collection practices that allow
                                                          adequate income generation.
                                                          FOPIP work with COWI
                                                          consultants is now completed.
                                                          The companies are also working
                                                          on their own "Technical -
                                                          Economic Optimization" studies.
Overall Fulfillment of      Good       Ratings Spread : Excellent, Good, Satisfactory,
Objectives:                            Marginal, Unsatisfactory, Negative.




                                     40

5. Transition Impact


      Type of Impact        Short Term            Longer Term           Comments/Justification
                            Verified      Impact       Risk to
                            Impact        Potential    Transition
Step 1: Project Affected Change At Corporate Level
Know How                    Good          Good         Low              The TC twinning
                                                                        arrangement with
                                                                        Kommunalkredit was
                                                                        undertaken to strengthen
                                                                        the capability of HBOR
                                                                        to identify, prioritize and
                                                                        appraise investment
                                                                        projects on the basis of
                                                                        sound banking and
                                                                        economic principles. The
                                                                        twinning arrangement
                                                                        resulted in a transfer of
                                                                        know-how to HBOR
                                                                        which is not only relevant
                                                                        to MEIP, but to other
                                                                        investments.
New Standards for           Good          Good         Low              New standards of HBOR
Business Conduct at                                                     in project appraisal and
enterprise level                                                        loan administration
                                                                        capacity were included in
                                                                        the twinning arrangement
                                                                        with Kommunalkredit.
                                                                        In addition, a further TC
                                                                        with Cowi has assisted
                                                                        the sub-borrowers to
                                                                        enhance their financial
                                                                        and operational
                                                                        performance, aiming for
                                                                        cost recovery and cost
                                                                        efficiency, establishing
                                                                        new accounting systems
                                                                        that recognize true
                                                                        operating costs, and
                                                                        adopting water tariff and
                                                                        revenue collection
                                                                        practices that allow
                                                                        adequate income
                                                                        generation.
Step 2: Transition Impact At Industry Level and in the Economy as a whole
Enhanced Competition                                                    N/A - each of the utility
                                                                        sub-borrowers is holds a
                                                                        monopoly position within
                                                                        its region.



                                           41

      Type of Impact          Short Term        Longer Term             Comments/Justification
Market Expansion via                                                    N/A - Market expansion
competitive interaction in the                                          is limited
sector and industry
Frameworks for Markets,       Marginal  Marginal     Low                N/A
institutions, laws and
policies that promote market
function and efficiency
Skills Transfer and                                                     N/A
dispersion to the industry
and economy as a whole
Demonstration Effects;                                                  N/A
transfer of new behavior and
patterns
Setting of new Domestic                                                 N/A
Standards for corporate
governance and business
conduct
Overall Rating:               Good      Ratings Spread : Excellent, Good, Satisfactory, Marginal,
                                        Unsatisfactory, Negative.




                                         42

                           Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document for a Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project, May 27,
   1998;
2. Aide Memoire, Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports;
3. Project Progress Reports;
4. Project Evaluation Impact Assessment Studies;
5. Borrower's ICR dated February 17, 2008;
6. EBRD Evaluation Report;
7. Financial Operational Performance Improvement of Municipal Utilities prepared by consultant
   COWI in 2005;
8. Corporate Development Plan for SWCS prepared by consultant COWI in 2005; and
9. Performance Improvement Plan for SWSC prepared by SWSC in 2007.




                                             43

Annex 9. Maps (28669 and 28670)




              44

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 28670R

                                                                            LABIN                                                                              MALACKA

                                                                    DUJLOVICI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BLACA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KLIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GRLO
                                 G.TOMASI

            SEGET    GORNJI

                                                                                                                                                             RUDINE
      MUSTRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2             KLIS
                         PAVKOVICI                                                                                                                                        K A S T E L A

         D.TOMASI                                                                                                                            16                             STARI LUKSIC 2                                                                                                                      SOLIN
                                                                                                                                                                             P.S.   P.S.  LUKSIC 1
                                                                                                                                                                                            P.S.  KAMBELOVAC
                                                                                                                                                                     NOVI                            P.S.    GOMILICA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               P.S.
                             MEDICI                                                                                                                          NEHAJ    P.S.                                                  SUCURAC 2
                                                                                                                                     t                       P.S.                                                             P.S.    SUCURAC 1                             STARINE
ZULINI                                                                                                           Airpor                                                                                                                  P.S.                                  P.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOLIN                                          KUCINE
                                                                                                                                                RESNIK P.S.
                                                                                                                                               K.STAFILIC
                    VUKMANI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VRANJIC  VRANJIC II P.S.              SOLIN P.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VRANJIC
                                                                                                                                     WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT                                                                                               VRANJIC I            III P.S.
                                                                                                                                        SLANAC P.S.                                                                                                              P.S.                                COLLECTOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHAMBER                      MRAVINCI
                                                                                                                                     DIVULJE-UREDAJ P.S.                                                                                                                                                                                KORESNICA
                                                                 TROGIR                                                                                                                                                                                       DUJE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               P.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DUJMOVACA                                                                TTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TUNNEL
                                                                                         BRIGI P.S.                                                                        K a s t e l a        B a y                                                                            P.S.
                                                                 SOLINE P.S.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WASTEWATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DUJMOVACA                                                  TREATMENT
                                                                                                    ARBANIJA                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PLANT
                                                                                                    Sv. KRIZ P.S.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  STOBREC         
                                                                            CIOVO P.S.                                                     ARBANIJA P.S.                                                                                          SPLIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KAMEN                 SINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                        MISEVAC P.S.             HYDR                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P.S.
                                      SEGET                                                                                                                                                                            MARJAN
                                      DONJI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16                                       STROZANAC
                                                                      SALDUN P.S.                                    OTEC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STOBREC P.S.
VRANJICA                                                Z a l i v                                                                    ZEDNO
                                                                                                                         HNIC
                                                      S l a d u n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STOBREC 1 P.S.
                                                                                                                             AL

                                                                                       OKRUG                                   TUNNEL               SLATINE                                                                                               SPLIT
                                                                                       GORNJI
                                    OKRUG                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUBMARINE
                                      DONJI                                                                                                                                                                                                          OUTFALL
                                                                                                                                           O . C I O V O                                                                                                                                                                             SUBMARINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OUTFALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CROATIA

                        KRALJEVAC                                                                                                                                                                                MUNICIPAL ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
                                                  SV.FUMIJA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SPLIT-SOLIN-KASTELA-TROGIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WASTEWATER COMPONENT
                                                                                                              SUBMARINE
                                                                                                                OUTFALL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONSTRUCTED WASTEWATER NETWORK:                   EXISTING WASTEWATER NETWORK PRIOR TO THE PROJECT:

       LUX.    10°                              20°                         30°  50°

                          CZECH              POLAND                                                                                                                                                                                     WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS                               GRAVITY SEWER LINES
                                                                     UKRAINE
           GERMANY          REP.                                                                                                                                                                                                        PUMPING STATIONS

FRANCE                                     SLOVAKREP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GRAVITY SEWER LINES
                                                                        MOLDOVA
      SWITZ.          AUSTRIA           HUNGARY                                                                                                                                                                                         RISING MAINS

                       SLOVENIA                                                                                                        A D R I A T I C                            S E A                                                                                                        SUB-CATCHMENT BOUNDARIES
                                                        ROMANIA                                                                                                                                                                         TUNNEL
                                CROATIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SUBMARINE OUTFALLS                                     MAIN ROADS

                                      BOSNIA AND
                         Adr          HERZEGOVINA                              Black                                                                                                                                                    STORM OVERFLOWS                                        SECONDARY ROADS
                            iaticSplit           SERBIA                        Sea
                  ITALY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RAILROADS
                                                            BULGARIA
                                    MONTENEGRO                                                                                                                                                                               TO BE CONSTRUCTED WASTEWATER NETWORK:
                                       Sea           FYR
                                                  MACEDONIA                                                                             0           1         2           3       4         5

                                            ALBANIA                                                                                                                                                                                     PUMPING STATIONS                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
40°                                                                              40°                                                                           KILOMETERS                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown on this
             Tyrrhenian                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GRAVITY SEWER LINES                            map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any judgment on the
                Sea                                 GREECE     Aegean             30°
                                                                 Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                   legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or acceptance of such
                                                                            TURKEY                                                                                                                                                      RISING MAINS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       boundaries.
         10°                                     20°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OCTOBER 2008

