Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22416
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26210)
ON A
CREDIT
lN THE AMOUNT OF US$30 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
PETROLEUM REHABILITATION PROJECT
June 28, 2001
Energy Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 27, 2001)
Currency Unit = ZMK
ZMK 1 = US$ 0.0003
US$ 1 = ZMK 3730
Government
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 3 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          African Development Bank
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
EIB           European Investment Bank
ERB           Energy Regulation Board
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
MEWD          Ministry of Energy and Water Development
OMC           Oil Marketing Companies
OMMC          Consortium of Oil Marketing Companies
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
TAZAMA        Tazama Pipelines Limited
ZCCM          Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
Z7MCO         Zambia Industry and Mining Corporation
ZIMOIL        Petroleum Procurement and Supply Division
ZNOC          Zambia National Oil Corporation Limited
ZOC           Zambia Oil Company
ZR            Zambia Railways Limited
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager/Director:    Ananda M. Covindassamy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Paivi Koljonen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA PETROLEUM REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   11
6. Sustainability                                                                       13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      19
9. Partner Comments                                                                     21
10. Additional Information                                                              27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003252                                       Project Name: PETROLEUM REHAB
Team Leader: Paivi Koljonen                               TL Unit: AFTEG
ICR Type: Core ICR.                                       Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PETROLEUM REHAB                                L/C/TFNumber: IDA-26210
CountryIDepartment: ZAMBIA                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: GP - Oil & Gas Transportation
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/15/92                                 Effective:  12/30/94          06/27/96
Appraisal:  06/21/93                                  MTR: 06/30/96
Approval:  05/31/94                                Closing: 06/30/2000           04/11/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Government of the Republic of Zambia/Tazama Pipelines Ltd.; Zambia National
Oil Corporation; Ministry of Energy and Water Development
Other Partners:  EIB
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         E.V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Yaw Ansu                                   Stephen Denning
Sector Manager.      M. Ananda Covindassamy                     David Cook
Team Leader at ICR:   Paivi Koljonen                            Thuvara S. Nayar
ICR Primary Author:   Matthew Mitchell; Paivi
Koljonen
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unfikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1  Original Objectives. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) states the project's objectives as follows:
* restructure the petroleum industry to become more competitive and cost effective;
* develop policy through encouraging the establishment of a satisfactory regulatory framework and
effective competition in petroleum importation and marketing;
* rehabilitate the Tazama pipeline as a least-cost reliable means of transporting oil to Zambia;
* strengthen Tazama's operational and financial management to ensure that the pipeline stays in
satisfactory operational condition;
* improve infrastructure facilities to reduce the cost of petroleum product transport and distribution;
and
* provide a basis for the private sector companies to facilitate exports by using surplus pipeline
capacity.
3.1.2   The statement of objectives in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) differs somewhat from
that of the SAR. It stated the objectives as follows: (a) rehabilitate the pipeline system owned and
operated by Tazama in order to make it a least-cost and reliable means of transporting oil into the territory
of the Borrower and to strengthen Tazama's institutional setup in order to ensure, through adequate
maintenance of the pipeline, that it remains in satisfactory operating condition; (b) improve infrastructure
facilities in order to reduce the cost of petroleum; (c) strengthen the technical and financial management of
Tazama; and strengthen the Ministry of Energy and Water Development (MEWD). The main difference is
that the DCA places the physical rehabilitation and the strengthening of Tazama first instead of sector
restructuring. However, sector restructuring is clearly a part of the Government's Letter of Development
Policy and the project contained covenants designed to meet restructuring objectives and support the
MEWD in this context.
3.1.3  The project's primary objective was to complete the rehabilitation of the Tazama pipeline, which
delivered feedstock imported from Tanzania to the refinery in Zambia. Corrosion had posed a major threat
to safety and had led to leakage and environmental pollution. Previous rehabilitation work had been
successful in returning part of the pipeline to acceptable operation but new leaks had occurred. A detailed
survey using mechanical sensors, know as "intelligent pigs," to measure defects, had accurately measured
the extent and cost of repairs and replacement in late 1980s (IDA Cr. 1627-ZA). The institutional
strengthening of Tazama was important to provide the operational and financial capability to keep the
pipeline in efficient, safe, running order. The pipeline's deterioration had resulted from inadequate
maintenance and for two years before the project, the company's financial performance had been
unsatisfactory.
3.1.4  The expansion and improvements to infrastructure facilities were necessary to help reduce the cost
of product distribution within Zambia. The Staff Appraisal Report had calculated that Zambia could save
US$1.4 million in transport costs annually by using the railway, instead of road, to transport bulk
petroleum products from Ndola to Lusaka. The main constraint was inadequate train loading facilities at
the ZNOC's product terminal in Ndola and concems about the railway's reliability.
3.1.5  In addition to physical investments and institutional strengthening of Tazama, the Bank and the
Borrower agreed that a fundamental reform of the relationships among the various public and private
- 2 -



entities was necessary. A reform program to improve the efficiency of public enterprises had begun in
Zambia and the government was opening operations to the private sector. The Bank, in its lending
operations, was giving a high priority to sector reforms for increased competition and private sector
participation in order to improve the condition of infrastructure and the delivery of services.
3.1.6 Zambia Industry and Mining Corporation (ZIMCO), an investment holding company for the
energy sector, was in the initial stages of reorganization and privatization. The Government of Zambia had
converted ZIMCO to an investment holding company in 1993 as part of a reorganization and privatization
program'. Tazama, the Indeni Refinery, and ZIMOIL were the three petroleurn sector parastatal companies
operating under ZIMCO. Tazama was under joint ownership of the governments of Tanzania and Zambia.
The Indeni Refinery, which was processing the feedstock received from the Tazama pipeline, was not
operating efficiently, as it was designed in the early 1970s, before the era of high oil prices. ZIMOIL had a
monopoly on the procurement, ownership and bulk storage of petroleum products. It contracted with
Tazama for the transport of imported feedstock and with the Indeni Refinery for processing. However, five
private companies handled the marketing of petroleum products in Zambia --AGIP Zambia Ltd., Caltex
Zambia, Ltd., Mobil Zambia, Ltd., and Total Zambia, Ltd.
3.1.7 The Government had not scheduled Tazama, Indeni, and ZIMOIL for privatization in the
irnmediate future. However, the Government and the Bank agreed to increase competition and efficiency
by abolishing ZIMOIL and dividing its functions between a new company, the Zambian Oil Company
(ZOC) and a Consortium of Oil Marketing Companies (OMCC). ZOC was to continue procurement of
feedstock for the country but sell it to the OMCC at the Dar es Salaam terminal. This consortium in turn
would contract with Tazama for transport to Zambia and with Indeni for refining. Also, it was planned
that OMCC would take over management of the storage facilities in Ndola. To reduce distribution costs
within Zambia, the OMCC would negotiate a contract with the Zambia Railway for the transport of
petroleum products from the storage facilities at Ndola to Lusaka, the capital city. The project was to
strengthen the Ministry of Energy and Water Development (MEWD) to handle the policy and institutional
framework necessary to support these sector changes.
3.1.8  The Bank had originally prepared and negotiated a pipeline rehabilitation project in 1987.
However, disbursements to Zambia were suspended from late 1987 to early 1991 and again from
September 1991 to January 1992, and all IDA financed assistance to the country was halted during these
periods. African Development Bank (AfDB) and European Investment Bank (EIB) carried out some of the
most urgent rehabilitation work. The proposed project, approved in May 1994, intended to complete the
remaining work.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1  Revised Objectives The project did not revise its objectives during implementation. There was
some discussion of restructuring the project within the Bank but formal restructuring never took place. In
1997 the Bank retrofitted the project with a matrix of indicators to improve its structure and clarify the
details of meeting objectives, including a risk assessment.
-3-



3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1  The project's physical components were:
A. TAZAMA pipeline rehabilitation:
(i) Pipeline Rehabilitation:
- the repair and replacement of about 1,500 km of the pipeline;
- corrosion protection;
- refurbishment of 14 pumps and their drives;
- replacement of nine generators in the pump stations;
- improvements to telecommunications;
- provision of vehicles, spare parts and other equipment;
- introduction of environmental practices; and
- provision of consultants and project management's assistance.
(ii) Improving crude oil tank farms at each end of the pipeline through:
- rehabilitation of the crude oil tank farm in Dar es Salaam; and
- construction of a new crude oil tank in Ndola;
B. Expansion of rail loading facilities at the Ndola petroleum product terminal. This consisted of
expanding rail loading facilities, with simultaneous loading of 12 wagons, and replacing loading pumps and
product measuring instruments.
3.3.2  The project also included institutional strengthening components to improve the operations of
Tazama, MEWD, and the Ndola storage terminal. For Tazama, the strengthening was to consist of filling
line management positions (finance, operations, and maintenance) with expert consultants for a period of
two years, including training of Tazama staff. At the end of this period (April 1995 to April 1997) Tazama
was to have contracted with an experienced company to manage pipeline operations according to a
performance-based contract. For MEWD, the focus of institutional strengthening was on the creation of a
Technical Cell to frame the necessary regulatory measures and establish policies, and monitor petroleum
operations. Studies on pricing and leasing arrangements for the Ndola terminal were in progress at the time
of appraisal and the MEWD was to complete a study on petroleum product export potential before the
completion of the pipeline's rehabilitation. Also, to improve the management of the Ndola terminal the
project included the conclusion of a leasing arrangement with the private sector.
3.3.2 The components for improved operation of the pipeline and storage facilities were well-defined and
supported project objectives. The Bank had been involved in the technical aspects of the sector since the
mid 1980s and had a clear idea of what was necessary. However, there was much less certainty about the
institutional and private sector development aspects. For example, the project's objective for greater
railway use depended on private investments by the OMCC in loading/unloading facilities at the Lusaka
terminal to complement project investments at the Ndola terminal. Yet the private sector had no obligation
to do this under the project.
3.3.3  A key condition of project effectiveness -- the establishment of a consortium of private oil
marketing companies to break the government monopoly on sector operations -- was a major change and
depended not only on the actions of the Government but also on the actions of private sector companies that
- 4 -



were not parties to the project. Ultimately, the formation of the consortium proved not to be feasible. Also,
given the magnitude of the expected changes, it seemed important to have a clear regulatory framework in
place. While the National Energy Policy had a provision for the establishment of an Energy Regulatory
Board (ERB), the Government had not confirmed when that Board would assume regulatory responsibility.
The project's covenants were adequate to support the project's objectives except that there was no financial
performance covenant for Tazama. The absence of such a covenant seems a major omission given that the
company's operational and financial performance was unsatisfactory at the time of project appraisal.
3.3.4 The project was not particularly complex. The technical components involved proven technologies
and the proposed sector reforms were appropriate and necessary. However, the project was overloaded
with conditions of effectiveness, some of which required a significant magnitude of change'. The project
had three implementing agencies: Tazama, for the pipeline rehabilitation and its institutional strengthening
components; ZOC for the Ndola storage expansion and management components; and MEWD for the
studies and technical assistance to strengthen its capability. The project provided sufficient institutional
strengthening for Tazama and MEWD to execute their components; the institutional capability of ZOC was
not clear at the time of appraisal and hence Tazama agreed to assist it. The Government had shown a
reasonable commitment to the project's objectives, which its Letter of Development Policy reflected. There
were signs of commitment to restructuring for cost reduction. For example, prior to the project's appraisal,
Tazama had reduced its staff from 586 to 471 at a net savings of 97 million kwacha or
US$160,000 per year'. The project contained a number of dated covenants, which were reasonable for
supporting project's ambitious objectives for sector restructuring and policy development
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 Revised Components. Project components were not revised during implementation. There were,
however, several revisions to the project's design after Board Approval. Because the oil marketing
companies were reluctant to take over the management of storage facilities, the Bank modified the
effectiveness condition to allow the management of the facilities by a qualified contractor. The change in
this condition also involved deleting project covenants that were designed to improve the performance of
the Indeni Refinery'. This change in the role of the OMCC, essentially returned the bulk of responsibility
for petroleum supply to the Government via the newly formed Zambian National Oil Company (ZNOC).
This new company was to: procure the feedstock; contract with Tazama to transport it; contract with the
refinery to process it into products; sell it to the oil marketing companies; and enter into a management
contract with a qualified external company to manage the storage facilities leased to the OMCs.
Furthermore, the one and a half year delay in effectiveness of the project's Development Credit required
changes in compliance dates for certain covenants; a new technical evaluation (intelligent pigging) of the
extent of pipeline deterioration; and an updated environmental assessment.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.51   Quality at Entry. There was no rating, by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group, of the project's
quality at entry. The ICR has rated quality at entry as unsatisfactory for several reasons. First, although
the Govemment agreed with the Bank on the general direction of reform, and although this direction was
correct, there were indications during project implementation that the Government did not fully agree with
the Bank on the details of reform. Second, the project's Staff Appraisal Report did not indicate a
comprehensive evaluation of lessons leamed or an adequate assessment of the risks of not achieving sector
restructuring and policy objectives. Third, the Bank left key institutional reform and policy changes as
conditions of effectiveness, which, in the event, the Government did not fulfill, and which the Bank then had
- 5 -



to waive after 18 months. This approach ignored experience in the Bank, which indicates that there is
greater leverage and less likelihood of project delay by making sure an adequate sector structure is in place
prior to Board Approval.
3.52     The third reason above is particularly important because the President's Report for the project
describes the project's principal feature to be the redefinition and enlargement of the private sector to
reduce the presence of Government agencies in the petroleum sub-sector. The Report emphasizes
restructuring the petroleum industry to put all key operational responsibilities into the hands of experienced
private sector companies as the key to project sustainability. Given this importance of sector restructuring
and private sector participation for the project, the Bank should not have approved the project before the
Government had confirned agreement with the private oil marketing companies and secured from them a
binding commitment to the establishment of the consortium. The Bank's subsequent decision to declare the
project effective even though the Government and the private oil marketing companies could not come to
agreement on forming a consortium to take over the storage facilities, undermined the project's design and
its objectives.
3.53     An additional issue was that, although the project addressed critical policy and fiscal sustainability
issues that the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy supported, the Bank's macroeconomic dialogue did not
focus on the petroleum sector. Instead, the privatization of the Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
(ZCCM) - the linchpin of the Zambian economy - emerged during the project's implementation period as
the primary driver of the Bank's country program in Zambia.
Endnotes to Section 3
The ZIMCO companies scheduled for privatization employed about 67,000 staff, about 45 percent of the company's total staff (150,000).
2This consisted of: Govemment execution of subsidiary loan agreements with Tazama; Govemment execution of an agreement with EIB, including
fulfillment of EIB's conditions of effectiveness; Govemment implementation of the first stage of pricing reforms; appointment, by Tazama, of a Project
Manager and engineering consultants for project engineering and supervision; the transfer of the management and operation of the Ndola terminal to
the OMCC, either by ZIMCO or the newly-formed ZOC.
At the exchange rate of I US$ = 600 kwacha.
According to the original design, by December 1994, six months after Board Approval, the Govenmment was to complete sector restructuring by
establishing the Zambia Oil Company and the Consortium of Oil Marketing Companies. Then by the end of April 1995, Tazama was to have entered
into a transport contract with the Consortium and established transport tariffs to reflect costs. After the new institutional relationships were in place,
the Govemment was to have removed all retail pricing controls on petroleum projects by the end of 1996. Toward the end of the project, by
December 1999, just before the completion of pipeline rehabilitation, the Government was to have completed a petroleum export marketing study to
assess the profitability of converting the Tazama pipeline for the transport of products.
The management by the OMCs included project covenants for the OMCC to enter into a feedstock processing contract with the refinery, subject to
progressively tighter performance standards on operating efficiency and physical losses.
The legal agreements also noted the change of the new Government Company from the Zambian Oil Company (ZOC) Zambian National Oil
Company (ZNOC).
-6 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall Outcome/Achievement of Objectives. The project outcome was unsatisfactory. The Bank
canceled the project due to more than four years of unsatisfactory progress in project implementation and in
meeting development objectives (IDA disbursed about US$5 million of the total credit of US$30 million).
The co-financier, EIB, also canceled the balance of its loan (EIB disbursed about EUR 15.7 million of its
total loan of EUR 18 million). The following sections review the main objectives and outputs which the
Bank and the Borrower agreed to during project implementation.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 TAZAMA Pipeline Rehabilitation.
Pipeline Rehabilitation. This output was not achieved. About 90 percent of the project's cost
was to meet the project's primary objective -- rehabilitation of the Tazama oil pipeline. In support
of the objective, the only outputs produced were the engagement of consultants for the detailed
design, the procurement of vehicles and spare parts, refurbishment of 14 pumps, and the
development of operational practices to reduce environmental damage. The technical assessment
of the 1,700 km long pipeline (intelligent pigging) was completed after a long delay. As a result,
the project did not achieve the planned rehabilitation of the pipeline's operation. These outputs
were to have had two main impacts on the system. The first was to have been the operation of the
pipeline at its maximum capacity of not less than 125 cubic meters per hour, for a minimum of 345
days per year. The second was to have been a reduction in operating losses from I percent in 1996
to 0.3 percent in 1999 and maintenance at that level in the future.
Improving Tank Farms. This output was partially achieved. EIB financed the rehabilitation of
the Dar es Salaarn tank farm and the construction of a new 40,000 m3 tank in Ndola. However,
because EIB canceled the balance of its loan, the Dar es Salaam crude oil tanks were only partially
rehabilitated. In Ndola, the new tank was 80 percent complete at the time of project closure. This
output did not lead to the expected development impact.
4.2.2 Improving and expanding Ndola terminal. This output was marginally achieved. The
management of the facility was contracted to an experienced company. This output led to the expected
development impacts. The management reduced the staff from 76 in 1994 to 36 in 1998. They also
determined and adhered to a set of performance indicators developed during the project, including the
reduction of operating losses and an increase in the volume of oil transported by railroad. The physical
components, which consisted of: installing flow and tank meters to track petroleum supplies; establishing
computerized loading facilities; extending rail loading facilities; and replacing some loading pumps and
related facilities, were not completed. The reason was that by the time bidding documents for these
components were ready the project had entered a suspension stage.
4.2.3  Sector Policies. In strengthening the Ministry of Energy, the main focus was on establishing a
capacity for supervising and monitoring the gradual deregulation of the sector. The project produced only
one of the four expected outputs that were to help meet this objective. It completed the study for the
creation of the Technical Cell but did not complete: the study on petroleum export potential; staff training;
-7 -



or the institutional reform review. The only expected impact that resulted was the development of a
transparent formula for regulated prices and tariffs, for refinery feedstock, transport and refining
operations. The other planned impacts, which did not take place, were: the establishment of an adequate
regulatory framework; the set-up of a qualified Technical Cell addressing pricing and reform issues as well
as monitoring sector operations; and the abolition of retail price controls in the industry. Subsequently, the
ERB has taken over the price monitoring role.
4.2.4  Institutional Strengthening. The main focus was on giving Tazama the financial, operational and
managerial capability to implement and maintain the investment in the pipeline and related infrastructure.
The project produced only one of thefour planned outputs supporting this objective: the recruitment of
three line managers, covering operations, maintenance, and finance. It did not make significant progress in
producing the other outputs, which were: the detailed design of the pipeline rehabilitation component; the
conclusion of a performance-based contract with an experienced company for managing Tazama; and the
training of Tazama staff in the areas which the expatriate line managers were supervising. As a result, the
project did not have the planned impact of: determining and adhering to key indicators for improving
overall performance; making a significant reduction in excess staff; lowering operations and management
costs; establishing transport tariffs that reflect the costs of efficiently-managed operations; and providing
for a reasonable return on investment as well as sufficient funds for maintenance. After the cancellation of
the project Government has simplified Tazama's management structure. It is, however, difficult to assess
the impact of this action, because Tazama has not been in operation for about two years, following the fire
at Indeni.
- 8-



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 Net Present Value and Economic Rate of Return. At the time of project appraisal, the economic
analysis of the pipeline rehabilitation, the main investment component, compared investment costs of using
the pipeline for imports with the next least cost alternative, the use of the Tazara Railway, which runs
parallel to the pipeline originating in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The Staff Appraisal Report estimated the
economic rate of return at over 100 percent'. Since the investment did not take place, a re-estimate of the
economic rate of return is not applicable.
4.3.2  For the extension and improvement of product loading/unloading facilities at Ndola (near the
refinery) and Lusaka (the capital), the Bank at appraisal calculated that the major benefits would be
reduced transport costs from a shift from road haulage to irnproved railway transportation. The result was
a 15 percent economic rate of return on the investment in these new facilities to enhance the switch to
transport by the Zambia Railway. The ICR did not re-estimate the economic rate of return on this
component because the investment was not made; the Bank canceled the project before completion.
4.3.3  The Bank also evaluated the economics of the Indeni refinery. Though it was not explicitly part of
the project, it was nevertheless a key element in determining the economics of petroleum supply and the
rehabilitation and maintenance of the Tazama pipeline, which originally was designed to carry petroleum
products and not crude oil for the refinery. The Bank considered two cases. The first was making energy
efficiency improvements to the existing refinery. The second was closing the refinery's processing facilities
but using the remaining facilities as a terminal for receiving bulk petroleum products. The second option
was to involve the conversion of the Tazama pipeline to multi-product transport. The Bank analyzed both
options based on three assumptions for demand: domestic demand only; domestic demand plus 75,000 tons
of product exports; and domestic demand with the maximum exports using full pipeline capacity.
4.3.4  The analysis found that the least-cost option to satisfy both domestic and export demand would be
closing the refinery and importing products through the Tazama Pipeline (Annex 3). However, the Bank
noted that closure could be postponed until a major refinery expenditure becomes necessary. At the end of
the project, the Bank took another look at the economics of petroleum supply options. In June, 1999, the
Bank's economic analysis estimated that the closing of the refinery and the conversion of the Tazama
pipeline for the transport of finished petroleum products would save the country US$4-6 million per year
compared to importing the feedstock and producing products in the refinery. The analysis also estimated a
potential additional revenue of US$17 million per year from the export of finished products to other
landlocked countries in the region.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1 Financial Rate of Return. The Bank did not calculate a financial rate of return in the SAR on the
project. In addition, most of the investment planned under the project did not take place, so the
re-estimation of a financial rate of return is not applicable to this project.
4.4.2 Financial Condition of Tazama. The Staff Appraisal Report did not contain any covenants
specifying improvements in Tazama's financial perfornance, which was precarious throughout the project.
However, the project's DCA (Section 3.01) called for the Borrower to cause Tazama to implement the
pipeline rehabilitation and institutional strengthening components with due diligence and efficiency in
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practice and to provide the necessary funds,
-9-



services or other obligations to ensure this. To ensure adherence to this covenant, the Bank, during
supervision, specified an action plan for financial improvement, which had two key elements. The first was
clearing about US$6 million in arrears that ZNOC owed to Tazama and preparing an action program to
improve the company's financial situation. The second was the establishment of a robust payment
mechanism that would ensure Tazama's full and timely remuneration for its services. This called for a
Government decision to allow open and equal access to the pipeline by all private oil companies and not to
require Tazama to provide service to non-paying entities. Although Tazama, towards the end of the
project, finally did receive ZNOC's long overdue payments, the Government did not firmly establish a
sustainable payment mechanism.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1 The project's institutional development impact was negligible.
Endnotes to Section 4:
The Staff Appraisal does not provide background data in this analysis, including the net present value of the investments.
- 10 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 Factors Outside the Control of the Government and the Implementing Agency. The main
factor, which was unforeseen, was a serious fire at the Indeni Refinery in May 1999, which made the
refinery inoperable. The damage to the refinery, Tazama's only customer, caused the shutdown of the
pipeline, exacerbating the deterioration of the company's financial situation . Over the past two years
since the fire, the company has operated only one month. The resulting high-cost alternative -- road
transport from Tanzania to Zambia-- increased the urgency for moving forward with the conversion of the
pipeline to the transport of finished petroleum products, which the Bank already had demonstrated to be the
most economic option. Compared to pipeline transport at US$23 per ton, road transport was costing
US$165 per ton. The Bank also estimated that the net annual savings of converting the pipeline from crude
oil to transporting products would be around US$4-6 million per year. In addition, Zambia could earn
additional revenue of around US$17 million annually through exports of finished products to different
land-locked countries in the region. However, the Government decided to repair the refinery instead.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. The Government had control over its main
role in the project, which was to make sure that the implementing agencies had the institutional support and
financial means to implement the project as agreed with the Bank. Because the Government did not cause
ZNOC to pay Tazama promptly for its services, Tazama was constantly short of funds and at one point
during the project was unable to make timely payments on its outstanding loans to EIB. This led EIB to
suspend its funding for the work to evaluate the condition of the pipeline (intelligent pigging). This
evaluation was critical to defining the repair and replacement work for the pipeline and therefore
contributed to delaying the pipeline's rehabilitation. Also, without assurances from the Government in
terms of a viable payment mechanism, it was not certain that Tazama would be able to sustain the
investment in the pipeline through maintenance and spare parts.
5.2.2 The Government also was responsible for causing the MEWD to produce the studies necessary for
creating a pricing structure and regulatory framework to support the Government's commitment to
"encourage efficient procurement, transportation, processing, distribution, and consumption of petroleum
and/or petroleum products in the country" and to "permit the private sector to undertake all commercial
roles in the sub-sector". Furthermore the Government had agreed that it would "not make any pricing
decisions but shall make full use of the regulatory mechanism to ensure that prices in the sector recover all
costs, allow a reasonable profit, and are equitable to all stakeholders in the sector9. However, by the end of
the project, neither the regulatory framework nor the pricing policy was functioning in a way that would
support these objectives. The Government's commitment to the agreed reforms varied with the changes in
the management of the line ministry.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1  Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control. Tazama had control over the
timely rehabilitation of the pipeline and the establishment of sound technical, financial, and managerial
capacity to sustain the viability of the investment. However, the company only had partial control over the
finances necessary to complete the rehabilitation. During project implementation, Tazama failed to service
- II -



its previous loans to the EIB in a timely manner. However, ZNOC was in arrears on its payments to
Tazama. These arrears eroded Tazama's financial condition and the extent to which the company could
meet its operating expenses and other financial obligations. However, Tazama was not timely in meeting
its obligations when it had full control either. For example, after EIB resumed disbursements and Tazama
completed the evaluation work, the company was not consistent in its management of the consultant
responsible for processing the bidding documents. This resulted in a long delay in finalizing the bidding
documents for the pipeline components following the completion of the technical investigation. Tazama
also had to redo the bidding documents for the Ndola crude oil storage tank as the initial design did not
adhere to the specifications agreed during appraisal. Some procurement delays were caused by factors
outside Tazama's control, such as the need to repackage some contracts because of co-financing
considerations. Furthermore, Tazama delayed filling key line manager positions. Two managers left the
project reportedly because they did not have the autonomy to do their job effectively.
5.3.2 For the MEWD, the factors under its control were the timely completion of key studies and the
development of a technical capacity to develop the detailed policy and institutional framework to support
the Government's sector development policy. The only study completed concerned detailed
recommendations for setting up the Technical Cell. However, the Ministry had not created this unit by the
end of the project. The weak project implementation arrangements at the Ministry contributed to the lack
of progress. The Energy Regulatory Board, though established, was not functioning as intended -- it was
supposed to be an ex-post review board for prices set by the individual oil marketing companies. Instead,
the Government continued its ex ante involvement in price determination, which was contrary to the
concept of liberalization, as intended in the project agreements.
5.3.3  ZNOC had control over procurement, refining and transport and storage of petroleum products. It
procured the feedstock through Tanzania and contracted with: Tazama, to transport the feedstock to
Zambia and with the Indeni Refinery for processing. It also sold the products to the private OMCs, which
were in charge of marketing and distribution. However, the company did not make timely payments to
Tazama for the use of the pipeline and thus eroded Tazama's financial situation. ZNOC's failure due to its
financial problems to ensure stable availability of crude oil in the pipeline delayed the "intelligent pigging"
operation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1  Costs and Financing. At appraisal, the total estimated project cost was US$48 million. Due to
the cancellation of the project's major components, the actual cost was about US$19 million, or 40 percent
of the total estimated at appraisal (Annex 2). The project's co-financier, the European Investment Bank,
financed most of the cost (US$ 13.9 million) which mainly supported the intelligent pigging operation and
the Ndola and Dar es Salaam terminals at each end of the pipeline. Compared to appraisal estimates, EIB
financed about 93 percent of the amount anticipated at appraisal. The Bank financed about US$5 million
out of an estimated US$30 million at appraisal. Most of Bank funds supported technical assistance for the
institutional strengthening of Tazama and the MEWD.
Endnotes to Section 5:
In fact, Tazama's only customer is ZNOC, which transports the imported crude oil for processing at the Indeni Refinery.
Quotations from the Government's Letter of Energy Development Policy, 1994.
- 12 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  Rationale for Sustainability Rating. The project's achievements were minimal with respect to
objectives and most of the project's components were canceled. Thus, the sustainability of the objectives,
within the context of the project, is unlikely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1  Transition to Regular Operation. Because the Bank canceled the project due to the lack of
sufficient commitment from the Borrower and non-compliance with key covenants, there are no transition
arrangements within the context of this project. However, the Fiscal Sustainability Credit (Cr. 3392-ZA),
which was approved in June 2000, will continue to address the major policy issues in the petroleum sector.
6.2.2  In May 2000, the Government agreed to offer for sale the majority controlling interest in the Indeni
refinery, the Tazama pipeline, and the Ndola product terminal as a package. The partner taking the
controlling interest would determine whether or not the pipeline would operate with crude oil or refined
products. The Government also agreed to take steps to liberalize petroleum product prices and approve
open access to the pipeline and other common facilities in the sector to all licensed marketers. The Bank
agreed to an increase in the amount of the Fiscal Sustainability Credit to fund the remaining rehabilitation
of the Tazama pipeline if the above conditions were met.
6.2.3  Although imports and pricing have not yet been formally liberalized, after the fire at Indeni in
mid-1999, the Government allowed the private oil marketing companies to import petroleum products. It
also did not enforce price ceilings during the period when the refinery was being repaired. As a result,
ZNOC's market share has declined from 100% to around 10%. Currently, at least one company imports
crude oil through the Tazama pipeline, which has only recently resumed operations.
6.2.4 In early 2001, the Government further defined its action plan for sector reform under the Fiscal
Sustainability credit:
* Government will notify the private sector oil marketing companies that they are free to import
crude oil as well as petroleum products. Licenses to do so will be given by ERB, provided a set of
transparent criteria are met.
* Government will abolish ex-ante price setting by ERB. ERB will agree on a transparent pricing
formula with the oil marketing companies and will monitor prices on an ex-post basis using this
formula.
*   Representatives of OMCs and ERB will establish a committee to manage importation of crude oil
through the TAZAMA pipeline.
*   ZNOC will cease its involvement in importation, marketing, and distribution of crude and of
petroleum products.
* Government will reduce its shareholding in Indeni to no less than 50%, and a private company will
- 13-



continue to manage the refinery.
*   Government will offer the TAZAMA pipeline for sale and/or give it out in long-term concession to
private sector operators through a transparent and competitive bidding process.
* Government will offer the Ndola storage tank for sale and/or give it out in long-term concession to
private sector operators through a transparent and competitive bidding process.
*   The TAZAMA and NDOLA tank concessions could be packaged as one and given to a single
operator.
*  ZNOC will maintain strategic stock, which role it could perform by contracting with a private
operator.
6.25 Most recently, the Govermment, through the Zambia Privatization Agency, advertised for
expressions of interest from consulting firms to review the sector structure, propose suitable privatization
options, and to carry out the privatization transactions. However, the process of engaging these consultants
seems to have slowed down recently. ERB has completed a study on the oil marketing companies' cost
structure, which it intends to use as a basis for price monitoring (Cr. 2406 - PIRTA financed this study).
- 14 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending:
7.1.1  Lending. The Banks identification of the project overall was satisfactory. The focus of sector
reform and the physical objectives on infrastructure rehabilitation was consistent with the Government's
investment policy and the Bank's country assistance strategy, which was giving a high priority to
investments for improving infrastructure and the envirornment, as well as private sector development.
7.1.2  The Bank's assistance to the Government in preparing the project's physical components was
satisfactory. They were clearly defined and based on a thorough analysis of the pipeline's rehabilitation
needs. The SAR also documented the project's environmental aspects and indicators to monitor
performance. The preparation of institutional development and restructuring components appears
unsatisfactory for several reasons:
7.1.3  First, the omission of the refinery from project scope was a weakness in project design. During
project preparation, the Bank brought the uneconomic operation of the refinery to the Government's
attention and believed that the closing of the refinery and the return of the pipeline to its original use -- the
transport of petroleum products instead of crude oil -- to be key features of improved efficiency in the
petroleum sector. Furthermore, interviews with the project's engineer during ICR preparation indicated that
the transport of crude oil instead of petroleum products had been a factor in the deterioration of the
pipeline. However, the Government did not want the refinery issue to be part of the project. The Bank
seems to have agreed to this reluctantly. Early in the project's implementation, Bank staff brought up the
issue again and used calculations that indicated the refinery was uneconomic. The mention of the refinery
issue at one point caused some strain in relations with the Government. Since the economics of the refinery
were questionable and there were indications that its operation was likely a factor in the deterioration of the
main infrastructure the project addressed, with hindsight, it appears that the omission of any component
related to the refinery was a deficiency in project design.
7.1.4  Second, the SAR contained no explicit account of lessons the Bank had learned from projects in
Zambia and from similar petroleum sector rehabilitation projects in other countries. The report does
mention a problem in financing an earlier Credit the Bank had negotiated with the Borrower for meeting the
same physical objectives as the project under review. This previous project never received Board approval
because the Bank suspended all IDA assistance to Zambia in 1987. However, it does not elaborate on the
reasons for suspension and it draws no lessons from this experience and does not mention, in the section on
project risks, the prospect that a similar situation might recur. This was an omission since a fundamental
problem in the Government's operations and its relationships with cofinanciers remained unresolved. And a
similar situation did in fact recur. The EIB withheld disbursements for a key component of the project due
to arrears in Government payments on loans and the Bank stopped disbursements due to unsatisfactory
project performance.
7.1.5  Third, interviews with staff involved in the project's appraisal suggested that the desire for taking
the project to the Board by the end of fiscal year 1994, combined with the urgent need for pipeline repairs
greatly affected the extent to which the necessary institutional framework for the project -- which required
Government making fundamental changes in the structure of the petroleum industry -- could be in place
prior to Board Approval. With hindsight, the project's design was too optimistic about the pace of the
- 15 -



Government's reform program and left too much of policy/institutional framework to be done after Board
Approval -- prior to effectiveness and during the project. The project's original design essentially made the
private oil marketing companies the key agents of change in the sector. The preparation and appraisal of
the project included discussions with these companies. However, as noted earlier, these companies were
not parties to any project agreements and the SAR did not provide enough information to suggest their
willingness to enter into a number of new contractual arrangements with public sector companies. The
project was thus not ready for implementation at the time of approval. Appraisal staff seem to have
acknowledged this in a section of the appraisal report entitled "Systematic Client Consultation". This
section of the report states that "....... The project will make a serious effort to listen to the beneficiaries of the
credit and to adjust project components based on feedback received .......". While this mechanism was
important to the relationship with the beneficiaries, it could not make up for fundamental problems in
project design.
7.1.6 The project's appraisal showed reasonable evidence of Government commitment and provided a
reasonable economic analysis of investment components. However, with hindsight the Bank and the
Borrower did not have a consensus on priorities in terms of detailed actions for meeting sector objectives.
Furthermore, the Staff Appraisal Report provided no assessment of institutional and restructuring risks.
Considering all of the above factors, the ICR has rated appraisal overall as unsatisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  Supervision. The Bank's performance in supervision was mixed and it could not overcome the
design problems nor the Government's wavering commitment to the project's objectives. Generally, the
Bank, adhered to the supervision plan of fielding at least two missions per year9 and gave sound technical,
economic, and financial advice according to internationally accepted economic criteria. Although the
project was supervised by five task managers from appraisal to closure, the continued participation of the
petroleum engineer involved in appraisal gave the project a significant continuity. The staff of the Resident
Mission handled financial management issues and procurement review. The Bank adequately reported on
implementation progress and promptly brought problems to the Government's attention. Also, the project
record shows that the Bank tried to improve on the deficiencies in project design by retroactively
developing performance indicators and modifying components to the evolving needs of the Borrower.
While the Bank was flexible in amending conditionalities and extending deadlines to accommodate the
Govermment's needs, it remained firm about adhering to the project's objectives. In particular, the Bank
would not compromise on the need for a viable institutional framework to sustain project investments to
which the Bank was making a sizable contribution (US$30 million).
7.2.2  Recognizing the importance of the project to Zambia, the Bank had an intensive dialogue with the
Borrower on implementation issues. It also offered finance additional assistance to addressing policy
issues, such as the petroleum sector regulatory framework and reviewing the merits of different oil supply
options. After Board approval, the Bank assisted the Government in preparing the arrangements for the
establishment of the consortium of Oil Marketing Companies (OMCC) and the contract for the storage
facility - it appeared at that time that the Government and the oil marketing companies were making serious
efforts to come to an agreement. During the intermediate years, while the technical evaluation of the
pipeline was ongoing, both the Government's and the Bank's efforts seem to have focused more on the
privatization of the Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM) and the preparation of the Power
Rehabilitation project, the first power sector operation in Zambia in 20 years (approved in February 1998).
7.2.3  The Bank first discussed the possibility of a cancellation or restructuring in late 1997. However,
in early 1998, the project's performance appeared to be improving. Government took actions that
- 16 -



suggested progress on two key policy issues. First, the Government notified the Bank of its intention to
liberalize the retail prices of petroleum products by April 1998. It sent the Bank a copy of a letter
addressed to the oil marketing companies informing them of the forthcoming liberalization. Second, in May
1998, the Govermment confirmed its acceptance of the management contract for Tazama and the draft
terms of reference the previous supervision mission had prepared. The impression of improvement was
reinforced with the completion of the technical evaluation of the pipeline in July 1998. However, in
November 1998 the Government instructed the oil companies not to deviate from the prices the Government
had set. Subsequently, the March 1999 deadline for the conclusion of the management arrangement passed
without any action from Government's side. As a result of these set-backs the Banks management, in
December 1998, decided to temporarily postpone no-objections to the issuance of bidding documents until
the next mission, which was scheduled for January, had clarified how the Government intended to continue
implementing the project, including how it planned to address policy issues. This action was necessary
because of the major uncertainties about the project's way forward. Following this manager-level mission
in January 1999 to discuss the implementation problems, the Bank, in February 1999, notified the
Borrower of its noncompliance with credit covenants and proposed a mutual cancellation of the project. A
second management-level mission visited Zambia in June 1999 with the objective of seeking agreement with
the Government on a course of action. During this mission, the Government indicated its lack of agreement
with key actions required for satisfactory implementation. In July 1999, the Bank warned the Borrower of
disbursement suspension for noncompliance with key agreements and in October 1999, the suspension went
into effect. The Bank canceled the project in April 2000.
7.2.4 The main weaknesses in Bank performance during supervision were: declaring the credit effective
even though the Borrower had not met a key condition; being too accommodating of Government's requests
and thus allowing the unsatisfactory status to continue for too long without proposing restructuring or
cancellation; and failing to adequately back-up the project with a strong dialogue at the macroeconomic
level. However, the Government also made things difficult by insisting going back on its commitments as it
requested the removal of major policy covenants that were the foundation of the project. Furthermore, it
was not until after four years of project implementation and the warning of suspension that the Government
indicated its lack of agreement with key actions required for satisfactory implementation. Given the
impasse in discussions toward the end of the project and the lack of institutional progress, there was no
adequate mechanism in place to ensure the viability of investments in the Tazama pipeline. Therefore, the
Bank's decision to cancel the project was appropriate.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.3.1  Overall Performance. The Bank's overall performance was unsatisfactory because: (i) the Bank,
in preparing and appraising the project, did not take sufficient precautions to ensure the project would be
ready for implementation; and (ii) it declared the credit effective without the Borrower's meeting an agreed
condition-- the creation of a consortium of private oil companies that would play a major role in meeting
the project's institutional objectives. At the time of effectiveness, the Bank had a chance to modify the
condition, instead of abandoning it altogether; for example, it could have created a dated covenant. Instead,
the Bank agreed to the Government's proposal of a management contract arrangement for the storage
facility. However, this arrangement resulted in only a marginal degree of reform and did not significantly
increase private sector involvement in the sub-sector. These initial decisions hampered subsequent
supervision of the project, but the Bank also allowed the unsatisfactory status to continue for too long. The
Bank's performance improved towards the end of the project and the decision to cancel it turned out to be a
catalyst for dialogue with the Government for the development of a new project addressing similar
objectives that the canceled project could not achieve.
- 17 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1   Preparation. The preparation of the technical components was satisfactory. However, it seems
that the institutional and restructuring components did not have sufficient preparation. While the
Government, in its Letter of Development Policy, showed a commitment to efficiency in the supply of
petroleum products, it supported the inefficient operations of the refinery - a key link in the supply chain
for petroleum products. Also, the Government committed itself to institutional changes, such as the
contract management of Tazama, which it ultimately was not prepared to support. Therefore, the ICR has
rated the Borrower's preparation as unsatisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation perfornmance:
7.5.1  Implementation. The implementation performance of the Government overall was unsatisfactory
because it never fully "took ownership" of the project; that is the Government did not take the lead in
keeping the project on track as an important vehicle for advancing the goals stated in its Letter of Sector
Development Policy. In particular, it also did not convey a sense of urgency to complete the rehabilitation
of the pipeline to avert safety and environmental problems as well as provide a greater income for Tazama.
During the entire implementation period of nearly four years, the project's implementation consistently
received an unsatisfactory rating.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1   TAZAMA. Tazama's performance during preparation was satisfactory. During implementation
its procurement performance was generally satisfactory. The overall performance of Tazama is rated
unsatisfactory, however, because it did not make best use of institutional strengthening assistance provided
under the project.
7.6.2   ZNOC. The ICR has rated its performance overall as unsatisfactory because of its long delay in
the payment of funds to Tazama; this delay undermnined the timely rehabilitation of the pipeline and
Tazama's financial position.
7.6.3 MEWD. The performance of the Ministry of Energy and Water Development was unsatisfactory
because: it did not put in place adequate project implementation arrangements; it delayed implementing
technical assistance components; and the fact that by the end of the project a fully functioning regulatory
system and pricing policy, as agreed with the Bank, was not in place.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1   Overall borrower performance was unsatisfactory for the above reasons.
Endnotes to Section 7
Except in 1998, at which time it seemed the project performance was improving, despite the unsatisfactory rating.
- 18-



8. Lessons Learned
Project Preparation and Appraisal
*   The project has shown that leaving a critical part of the petroleum supply chain, the Indeni Refinery,
outside the scope of the project, contributed to the delays in the technical evaluation of the pipeline and
to Tazama's financial problems. Because Indeni experienced frequent shutdowns, the pipeline could
not maintain the steady crude flow that was required for moving the mechanical pigs. Because the
OMCC did not materialize, the project also left ZNOC outside its scope. ZNOC's financial difficulties
during implementation seriously affected Tazama's financial situation and contributed to delays in the
technical evaluation of the pipeline.
* If a project's implementation progress depends on key actions of private sector companies that are not
parties to the project, it is important that these actions take place before Board Approval. In this
project, the private oil marketing companies were ultimately not prepared to enter into the envisioned
contracts with the public sector entities. This significantly affected the achievement of objectives. A
similar project in Tanzania indicated that including the private oil marketing companies as project
beneficiaries can improve implementation and the achievement of development objectives.
*   If a petroleum sector project requires major institutional changes, it is important to have a
comprehensive risk assessment with possible mitigation measures and contingency plans. Borrower
commitment to institutional changes in particular must be carefully assessed at appraisal. As
evidenced by this project, without full ownership, the Borrower is a weak and ineffectual partner in
implementing such changes.
Project Supervision
e   The long delay in effectiveness led to the need for another technical evaluation of the pipeline. This
delay was unfortunate, as it postponed implementation of the investment components and diminished
the implementing agencies' and the Bank's enthusiasm for the project. This shows the importance of
designing projects to minimize effectiveness delays.
*   The Bank needs to encourage the Borrower to express its views more and the Bank should make a
special effort to incorporate these views formally into the reporting system. This may help the
Borrower take greater ownership of the project. It is important for the Government to assume full
responsibility for the project and take actions based on its belief that the project is a priority and will do
some good for the country, not to merely fulfill conditions.
*   A solid policy dialogue as part of the Bank's overall macroeconomic framework should support a
petroleum sector investment project with ambitious institutional reform objectives. A comparison of
this project with a similar project in Tanzania, which achieved its main development objectives,
illustrates this issue. In Tanzania, the Bank's policy dialogue put petroleum sector reforms high on its
agenda and designed railway and ports modernization projects to support these reforms. However,
even with this approach, sector reforms were slow. In Zambia, this policy dialogue is now being
strengthened under the Fiscal Sustainability Credit.
- 19-



* An objective criteria for restructuring a project or cancelling a project, defined at the outset, could have
helped clarify the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower, facilitating supervision.
*   Project cancellation was a beneficial action for both the Bank and the Borrower, serving as a catalyst
to new dialogue and the development of a more effective vehicle for meeting sector objectives.
- 20 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A. Comments from the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development:
Kindly refer to the draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) that you submitted to the Government
for comments and suggestions before the document is finalized. Let me take this opportunity to commend
your staff for their efforts in preparing this important report. The lessons from the failure of this project
should help us all to focus on our shortcomings in the design and implementation of future interventions in
this important sector in particular, and the country portfolio in general. On the issues raised in the report,
let me highlight some of my concerns with the report.
1.    Institutional Reform
The institutional and private sector development was not well thought out in the project. The objectives for
greater railway use in transporting oil products depended on the investment by the private Oil Marketing
Companies Consortium (OMCC) in loading/off-loading facilities at the Lusaka terminal to complement
investments at Ndola terminal, which were to be undertaken by the project. The belief that the OMCC
would be established, and make such investments required at the Lusaka terminal was a serious
misplacement of trust in third parties which the Government had advised against. It was safer if these
investments had been included in the project.
We have consistently argued that the OMCs have not been willing to bear any further costs, including such
risk of importation of the crude oil apart from lifting the finished petroleum products from the terminal in
Ndola to their pumps. This can also been seen from the fact that the OMC have not taken advantage of the
equal access to the pipeline as advised by IDA to import their own feedstock despite being allowed to do so.
2.    TAZAMA Pipeline Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation was the cornerstone of this project. Despite the efforts made by European Investment Bank
(EIB) to complete the identification of areas of the pipeline that needed rehabilitation by intelligent pigging,
the project was unfortunately canceled. It will require further investments in this identification exercise
again due to the time elapsed, as the pipeline is likely to have deteriorated further in order to effectively
utilize the US$20 rnillion under the Fiscal Sustainability Credit.
Further bottlenecks that affected implementation of the various components of the project surfaced mainly
from the World Bank's rigidity on the sequencing of implementation of these components. There were
contracts that could not be initiated. The reason the Bank gave was the core purpose of the project i.e.
pipeline rehabilitation had not been completed despite their not being in the critical path of the rehabilitation
exercise. These included all phase four contracts: (i) Supply of Equipment & Motor Vehicles; (ii) Supply
& Delivery of 12 Seater Marine Tug Boat; (iii) Supply of 20 Ton Jib Crane; (iv) Supply & Delivery of I
No. 10 Ton general purpose truck; (v) Supply & Delivery of I No. excavator tractor; and (vi) I No. Low
Loader Horse and Trailer. (IDA 's Response: The IDA credit financed the above contracts and Tazama
received the equipment early in the project's implementation.)
- 21 -



3.    Factors Outside the Control of Government and the Implementing Agency
Under this heading the report refers to Indeni Oil Refinery Limited as the only customer for TAZAMA
Pipeline Limited. The only customer for TAZAMA Pipeline Limited is actually ZNOC, which transports
the imported crude through the pipeline for processing by Indeni Oil Refmery Limited. ZNOC therefore
has separate contracts with TAZAMA Pipeline Limited for transporting and with Indeni Oil Refinery
Limited for processing the crude oil (the ICR has incorporated this comment).
The repair of Indeni Oil Refinery Limited after the fire had commenced when the World Bank came to
suggest that we convert the pipeline to product mode. It would have been unfortunate to abandon
rehabilitation with financing from insurance that had already commenced. Furthermore, the Government
has always maintained that adequate studies had been undertaken before the pipeline initially designed to
transport finished products was converted from transporting finished products to crude oil. The basis of
conversion remains valid today as it was then. The Bank's continued to argue otherwise is most
unfortunate. It is important here to mention that petroleum products for Zambia as a landlocked country
are looked at as a strategic resource, and the Government has consistently maintained the importance of
maintaining a presence in the sector (IDA 's response: the fire at Indeni was in May 1999 and the Bank
mission visited Zambia and the refinery in June 1999. Rehabilitation of Indeni had not started at the
time of the Bank's mission).
4.    Financial Condition of TAZAMA Pipeline Limited
To improve the financial condition of TAZAMA Pipeline Limited, the Bank's supervision mission specified
an action plan for financial improvement, which included clearing all arrears that ZNOC owed to
TAZAMA Pipeline Limited and preparing an action plan to improve the company's financial position, and
establishing a robust payment mechanism that would ensure TAZAMA Pipeline Limited's full and timely
remuneration for its services. The repayment of outstanding arrears was achieved, and further efforts to
improve the financial position of the company included the rationalization of centering on reducing staff
both at senior management level as well as excess operational staff.
However, the establishment of a robust repayment mechanism was not achieved as the project closed before
Indeni Oil Refinery Limited became operational. The Government had in preparation for this, allowed equal
access to TAZAMA Pipeline Limited by all OMCs to import crude, and a payment mechanism to be used
when Indeni Oil Refinery Limited became operational was developed with the aim of ensuring full timely
remuneration for services. However, this mechanism was not tried as the project was canceled before
Indeni Oil Refinery Limited became operational again.
5.    Government Implementation Performance
Government implementation performance has been rated as unsatisfactory as it did not fully take a lead in
the implementation. It may be important to mention here a number of concerns in the project that the
Government repeatedly raised. In particular, the Government Coordination had no logistical support such
as transport, requisites and other operational expenses. No resources were devoted to the basic requirement
by the project to ensure that the Government could put in place a team to spearhead the activities of the
project. This resulted in the coordination function being relegated to a part-time function, over and above
the incumbents line duties which resulted in the general lack of proactivity in executing the required duties.
This definitely had a negative effect on the project in terms of the leadership of the activities of the project (
- 22 -



IDA 's response: the ICR agrees that the coordination function was inadequate. However, the agreed
financing plan for the project included $300,000 co-financingfrom Government to develop capacity at
the MEWD, but it appears that these funds were not made available to MEWD).
The lack of urgency in the rehabilitation cannot be attributed to the Government as this fell under the
management of the implementation agency, TAZAMA Pipeline Limited (The ICR argues that the
Government had control over many of the factors that delayed the technical assessment of the pipeline -
for instance it could have ensured that ZNOC has the financial means to maintain an adequate level of
feedstock in the pipeline during the assessment's period. The Government could also have prevented
Tazama from accruing arrears to EIB and thus prevented EIB's suspension of its credit).
6.    MEWD Implementation Performance
The MEWD had difficulties in implementing the technical assistance (TA) as a result of lack of an
implementation unit, which should have a full-time basis spread headed this component. The Bank was
unwilling to see things the Government's way.
An act of law, and the establishment of the operational Energy Regulatory Board (ERB) set up the
regulatory system. However, the failure to implement the TA by MEWD, which included training for ERB
as well as lack of logistical support from the project, also affected this. A lot of ground has been achieved
by ERB with support from CR. 2406 - PIRTA. This included training of staff members as well as
logistical support. 'They have already finalized the study of the cost structure of petroleum product to
facilitate ex-post review of liberalized petroleum prices.
Generally, the structuring of the petroleum sector still remains an important challenge in the development of
Zambia since not much was achieved by the project. While we hope that the critical policy evolution for the
sector will be enhanced by conditions of disbursement under the Fiscal Sustainability Credit, the general
management for rehabilitation will not be undertaken, as it would have happened in a project environment
with the technical supervision that the Bank provides. I still hope that these outstanding requirements will
be dealt with.
Finally it is essential to understand that the failure of the project was equally to IDA's insensitivity to
Zambia's strategic interests inadequate technical data to convince Government of the rationale for some of
the reasons behind these reforms and third party assumptions. The design of the project was far from
satisfactory. (The ICR maintains that the Government had agreed to the reforms described in the
Development Credit Agreement and which were pursued under the project. No reforms were added to
the project's scope during implementation. The review of the Indeni Refinery was in line with the SAR.)
B. Comments from TAZAMA Ltd.
TAZAMA Pipeline Rehabilitation:
1.    Pipeline Rehabilitation - "125 cubic meters per year ........... to read "125 cubic meters per
hour...." (the ICR has incorporated this comment).
2.    Improving Tanks Farms. The cancellation of financing by European Investment Bank (EIB) left
the project component in the following unfinished status (the ICR has incorporated this comment):
- 23 -



Dar es Salaam  -    Tank 2 bottom plate and floating roof demolished and left unusable
-     One tank at 90 percent completion but unusable
-     One tank untouched
Ndola Tank   -      At 80 percent completion but unusable
In all, not a single tank covered by the components has been completed and put to use.
3.    Item 5.1.1. Factors Outside the Control of the Government and the Implementing Agency:
The sentence reading, "Furthermore, the Bank envisaged that it would take only 2-3 months to prepare the
pipeline for product transport compared to 7-8 months-for the repair of the Refinery" is misrepresentative
of facts. While it may be correct to assume that the pipeline can be prepared for product transport while
the Refinery is in operation, the situation became more complicated once the refinery went down.
Conversion of the pipeline while the refinery is on stream assumes an immediate pump down of products
while the refinery continues to process the dead stock crude oil, including the interface until the pipeline is
fully cleaned for products transportation. With the refinery down, the only viable solution was to pump the
dead stock crude oil back to Dar es Salaam. TAZAMA did an analysis for the Bank, which highlighted
problems inherent with this approach (document available in Project Files).
Given all this, it was and still is TAZAMA's view that conversion of the pipeline to transportation of
products is easy and most viable if done while the refinery is on stream. While it can also be done under
refinery shutdown condition, the exercise becomes costly and will take not less than one year to complete -
not 2 to 3 months as envisaged by the Bank (the ICR has incorporated this comment but it notes that the
refinery was in-operationalfor more than one and a half years after the
fire).
4.    Item 5.3.1 - Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
4.1    Processing of bidding documents
The Project consultants had the bid documents for the pipeline ready long before the intelligent pigging
exercise was completed. However, they needed the pigging results before they could finalize them. When
the results were finally sent to them, it was during the traditional vacation period of Israel and Europe
resulting in a delay of 2 months in completion of the final bid document. Anyhow, this cannot be the
reason for not completing all the IDA funded components, let alone, the pipeline component. It is obvious
that the Bank had already taken a decision not to progress any of the components, unless and until
Government had made movement on the sectoral institutional reforms. A lot of clearances to enable the
various components' progress were withheld by the Bank for over a year before the credit was finally
suspended and later canceled. (The Bank responds to this comment as follows: The Bank warned the
Borrower of non-compliance with credit covenants and proposed the cancellation of the project in
February 1999; it suspended project disbursements in October 1999; and canceled the project in April
2000. It was not possible to process procurement matters during this period when the project's way
forward was uncertain. The ICR has incorporated this response in section 7.2.3).
4.2   Line Managers
On the issue of line managers, the problems started at the early stage of defining their job descriptions and
- 24 -



reporting relationships, which was done by TAZAMA Pipelines Limited and the Bank before recruitment.
After TAZAMA managed to get at least three candidates for each of the jobs, two of them, one for
operations and one for maintenance told the interviewing panel they would not be taking up the positions if
selected for reasons of reporting relationships. Even after the selections and commencement of duties,
there was a lot of resistance to the reporting relationship which in TAZAMA's view was the main cause
leading to two of them leaving the project. The autonomy talked about refers to this problem. Even their
replacements had a similar problem though their major one according to TAZAMA related to their
inability to produce results. TAZAMA considers the exercise of having line managers a waste of
resources and opportunities as approximately US$ 1.1 million of project funds was spent on them, without
achieving the desired result as required by their respective job descriptions.
The job descriptions called on them to evaluate and update operating and maintenance systems thus:
a.    Operations manual
b.    Maintenance manual
c.    New organizational charts with job specifications for each position
d.    Guidelines for stores and materials management
e.    Environmental guidelines
f.    Training programme in line with new organization chart
g.    Financing and accounting manual
h.    Procurement guidelines
i.    Delegation of authority
j.     On the job training of subordinate staff
Up to the time of conclusion of the contracts, only a feeble effort was made by the Operations Manager on
the operations manual. While milestones were set for completing the assignments and the Bank
supervisory team was infonned of the lack of achievement by line managers, the Bank's task team leader
of that time, rather than resolve the matter resorted to holding separate closed door meetings whereupon he
was told by the line managers of the lack of autonomy. From then on, the managers became
unmanageable by TAZAMA until they left as they believed and behaved like they were only answerable to
the Bank. It is TAZAMA's view therefore that the non-achievement of the line management function
should be apportioned equally to TAZAMA and the Bank (the ICR argues that Tazama should have
utilized the line managers better and in accordance with the project agreements).
(b) Cofinanciers:
Comments from the European Investment Bank (EIB):
Detailed comments:
Ad 4.2.1 (second paragraph on "tank farms"): It is questionable whether this output can be considered
substantially achieved. Although most of the works on the tanks have been physically completed, it remains
that the tanks cannot be used unless the works are finalized. It would be more appropriate to state that
although the physical works are substantially achieved, the output/objective is not. We would agree with
TAZAMA's comments on this point.
Ad 5.2.1 (Factors Generally Subject to Government Control): The way the paragraph is worded, the reader
could get the false impression that Em's suspension of disbursement was the major cause delaying the
pipeline's rehabilitation. In fact EIB only suspended disbursements (due to non-servicing by the
- 25 -



Government/TAZAMA of a previous loan to TAZAMA) for a couple of months end-1998. Other factors
probably had a much larger impact on the overall delay of the project. One is the non-compliance of the
Government with the conditions on sector reform. This has in tum delayed the tender procedure for the
IDA-funded pipeline rehabilitation (Contract 4(a)), even though the intelligent pigging results were
available in December 1998.
Ad 5.3.1 (Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control): Again, too much weight is given to
the couple of months interim suspension of disbursements by the Bank. The same arguments as for 5.2.1
hold.
General comments:
1.    Subject to the few remarks made above, the report gives a fair picture of this very complex project.
2.    It is probably fair to say that the two major causes for the project's failure have been
over-ambitious sector policy conditions and a lack of commitment and ownership from the promoter's side.
With a less ambitious project, Zambia would most likely have been better off than at present.
3.     To achieve its ambitious targets, the project had numerous conditions for loan effectiveness on the
side of the World Bank, and consequently on EIB's side, due to loan cross-conditionality. Some conditions
required significant structural changes in the sector, which in the end did not materialize. As a result, the
project became very complex. In the end, none of the major project components has been fully
implemented or is operational today. The project failed its main purposes, i.e. to restore the technical
viability of the pipeline and to improve the crude storage logistics.
4.     Although the decision to suspend EIB disbursement was justified on cross-conditionality grounds
and to increase the WB's leverage in encouraging the Government to implement its sector reform
programme, it would probably have been preferable to finish the construction works on the tanks. As it
stands today, the promoter has substantial new debt resulting from the project without being able to operate
the items financed. Additionally, the unfinished installations and the material available to finish the works
suffer in the meantime from significant corrosion.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 26 -



10. Additional Information
Summary of Petroleum Sector Structure before and after the Project
Before the        Expected Based on the   Based on the Design        Actual Situation at
Project           Appraisal Report's      Modified during the        the end of the project
Design                 Project
Oil Procurement     ZIMOIL, the        ZOC to sell the refinery    ZOC renamed ZNOC, to   ZNOC and oil
and Ownership       petroleum         feedstock, to a          retain ownership of the    marketing companies
procurement and    Consortium of private    feedstock.
supply division of   Oil Marketing
ZIMCO             Companies, at the Dar
es Salaam terminal.
Ownership and       ZIMOIL             Oil Marketing Company   ZNOC through a             ZVOC ownership and
Operation of                           Consortium to take over   management contract with a   operation by the
Storage Facilities                     the ownership of storage   qualified firm. Oil     Indeni Refinery.
facilities prior to Credit   Marketing Companies to
effectiveness.         lease the facilities from
ZNOC.
Refining            Indeni Refinery    Oil Marketing          Indeni Refinery, in contract   Indeni Refinery in
processed the     Companies according to   with ZNOC                  contract with ZNOC
feedstock         a contract with Indeni                             and oil marketing
procured by       which includes                                     companies.
ZIMOIL.           improved refinery
performance.
Transport from      Tazama pipeline    Tazama in contract with   Tazama, in contract with  Same as in the
Dar es Salaam to    transported the   the private Oil          ZNOC                       modified design.
Zambia              refinery feedstock    Marketing Companies,
from Tanzania to    with improved
the Indeni        performance standards.
Refinery.
Marketing and       Oil Marketing      Oil Marketing           Same except improved       The Tazama pipeline
Bulk Transport      Companies, using    Companies in contract    performance standards not    was not operating
within Zambia       mainly road        with the Zambia        included.                   because Indeni was
transport, at a   Railway, with improved                              being repaired after a
higher cost than  performance standards.                             fire. ZNOC and the
rail transport.                                                       oil marketing
companies were
procuring petroleum
products and
transporting them by
road at higher cost
than before the
project.
- 27 -



Pricing              ZIMOIL fixed       Progressive              The date for removal of     Prices controlled by
wholesale prices.    deregulation, leading to   retail pricing controls  Energy Regulatory
Marketing          removal of all retail    postponed.                  Board (ERB).
margins revised    pricing controls by the
from time to time    end of 1996.
through
negotiation.
Regulation           ZIMCO was          The establishment of an    Same as in the original   Energy Regulatory
regulating the     autonomous Energy       project design.              Board has been
sector pending the   Regulatory Board,                                  established but it is
establishment of    responsible for ex-post                             conducting an ex-ante
an autonomous      review of prices.                                   review of prices.
Energy Regulatory
Board.
-28 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lndkatorlMatrlx                    ProJected In last PSR                 Actuaillatest Estimate
Implementing Agency - MEWD
i) Adequate regulatory and monitoring    Not achieved.                    Not achieved by project closing
framework
ii) Establishment of a qualified Technical Cell Not achieved.               Not achieved
at the MEWD addressing sector policy,
reform and pricing issues and monitoring
petroleum operations by 1999
iii) Abolition of all controls on retail petroleum Not achieved.            The Government did not fully liberalize retail
prices June 1998                                                            prices during the projec s implementation
and this was one of the key reasons for
Bank's cancellation of the project
iv) Petroleum Sector Institutional Review  Not achieved.                    Because of long effectiveness delays, the
carried out by project midterm review and                                   planned mid-term review did not take place in
action plans implemented by 2000                                            1996. At project closing the Govemment
had not taken adequate measures to meet its
commitment to sector reform
Implementing Agency - TAZAMA
Not achieved
i) The length of poor cathodic protection  Not achieved.                    Pipeline rehabilitation did not take place
reduced from 470 km to 0 km by 1999                                         under the project
ii) Operating losses reduced to 0.3% of  Not achieved.                     Not achieved
volume handled by 1999
iii) Pipeline will be able to operate at its  Not achieved.                 Not achieved
maximum capacity (not less than 110 cum
per hour) for not less than 345 days per year
iv) TAZAMA's financial and operational  Not achieved.                      Not achieved
performance in line with performance
indicators in Management Contract (specific
targets to be defined when Contract is
negotiated)
Implementing Agency - ZNOC
Achieved.
i) Operating product losses reduced to    Achieved.
less than 0.6 % of product handled at Ndola
terminal by 1999
ii) Volume handled by rail substanUally  Data not available.                Data not available.
increased from 1996 level by 1999
iii) Number of staff reduced from 76 in 1994  Achieved.                     Achieved.
to 44 (including management) by 1997 and
to 36 by 1998
-29 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator*M;atrx                   0Proectedin l*t PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
MEWD:
Consultants engaged to design Technical   Achieved.                         Achieved.
cell.
Study on petroleum exports completed.  Not achieved.                        Not achieved.
Staff trained.                        Marginally achieved.                  Marginally achieved.
TAZAMA.:
Pipeline rehabilitated.               Not achieved.                         Not achieved.
Ndola crude oil tank constructed.     80% achieved                          80% achieved.
Dar es Salaam crude oil terminal refurbished. 90% achieved.                 90 % achieved.
Management strengthened.              Marginagly achieved.                  Marginally achieved.
ZNOC:
Oil product depot expanded.           Not achieved.                         Not achieved.
Terminal management contracted out.   Achieved.                             Achieved.
End of project
- 30 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million    US$ million
TAZAMA - Pipeline Rehabilitation                   31.50          15.83            52
TAZAMA - Project Management                         0.70           1.43           143
TAZAMA - Institutional Strengthening                2.70           1.02            74
ZOC/ZNOC                                            2.00           0.50            25
MEWD                                                2.50           0.09             6
Total Baseline Cost                                39.40          18.87
Physical Contingencies                             8.60
Total Project Costs            48.00          18.87
Total Financing Required            48.00           18.87
Of the US$48 million, US$45 million was foreign currency cost.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICS          HCB          Othr2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    21.50         0.00         0.00         0.00        21.50
(6.50)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (6.50)
2. Goods                    13.60         0.00         3.00         0.00        16.60
(13.60)      (0.00)       (3.00)       (0.00)       (16.60)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00         6.20         0.00         6.20
Consultancies               (0.00)       (0.00)       (6.20)       (0.00)       (6.20)
5. Training                 0.00          0.00         0.70         0.00         0.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.70        (0.00)       (0.70)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    35.10         0.00         9.90          0.00        45.00
(20.10)      (0.00)       (9.90)       (0.00)       (30.00)
- 31 -



Project Costs by Procuremen Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ r'nillion equivale
1. Works                       0.00           0.00          0.00          11.46         11.46
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)    _      (           0.00
2. Goods                        1.93          0.00          0.00          0.55          2.48
(1.93)        (0.00)        (0.00)    _                 (1.93)
3. Services                    2.45           0.00          0.09           1.89         4.43
Consultancies                  (2.45)        (0.00)         (0.09)          0           (2.54)
5. Training                    0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.001        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00           0.50         0.50
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        0.00
Total                        4.38          0.00          0.09          14.40         18.87
(4.38)        (0.00)        (0.09)         (0.00)       (4.47)
IDA disbursements (excl. SA replenishments of about $1 million) were about $4.5 million. This may,
however, change depending on how IDA recovers the two outstanding Special Accounts. If Tazama and
MEWD refund their respective SAs, the disbursed amnount will remain at the above level, but if they
provide documentation of eligible expenditures, the amount may increase. The amounts in the above table
are based on disbursement data that was available at the time of the ICR preparation.
l' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component
(in US$ million equivalent}
TAZAMA                  25.10      2.20     15.00     4.38       0.00     13.90    17.5   0.0   92.7
ZOC/ZNOC                 2.10      0.50               0.00       0.50     0.00     0.0   100.0
MEWD                     2.80      0.30               0.09       0.00     0.00     3.2    0.0
Total                   30.00      3.00     15.00     4.47       0.50     13.90    14.9   16.7  92.7
Cofinancing came from the European Investment Bank (EIB) and a Canadian Trust Fund for an
environmental survey.
- 32 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
.        W PresenetVa     .f Flows
components  -                    Rc      c  jnalsis                       al Analysis
Appraisal         Latest       Appraisal          Latest
___                     .;  _   v  Esimate$-                  _  -.siae
Rehabilitation of Loading and           15.7 percent
Unloadine Facilities (IRR)
Refinery Investment for efficiency
improvement and exports of 75,000
tpy
NPV of Costs in US$ 000                 1. 081. 360
Refinery and Efficiency
Improvements with no Exports
NPV of Costs in US$ 000                 1,091,134
Closing of Refinery and Conversion of Crude Oil
pipeline for Exports
NPV of cost in US$ thousand
Full Export from beginning of
operation                                945,898
Full Export from Year 3 of Operation     947, 735
The SAR for the project did not give a financial rate of return on the major investment components.
iThe ICR did not do a re-estimate of the economic analysis because the project was canceled before the major investments were made.
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
[Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty              Performnce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count             Specialty                        Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
June 1986                     3   2EC, IFA
September 1992                3   2EC, I CE
February 1993                 3    lEC, I CE, IFA
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 1993                     4    ICE, IEIS, IEC, IFA
Supervision
June 1994                     2   lEIS, IEC
October 1994                   4   IEC, IES, IPE, IEMS
February 1995                  5   IEC, IES, ICE, 2C
June 1995                      2   2EC
March 1996                         Update of PSR.                       U               S
August1996                    4   IPE, ICE, IPA, IEC                    S              S
March 1997                     4   IPE, ICE, IEC, IPA                   U              U
August 1997                    4   IPE, ICE, IEC, IPA                   U              U
March 1998                     4   IPE, ICE, IEC, IPA                   U              U
January 1999                   1   1 SM
March 1999                     2   1 PE, ICE,                           U              U
June 1999                      3   ISM, IEC, ICE                        U              HU
ICR
SM=Sector Manager, PE=Power Engineer, FA= Financial Analyst, CE=Chemical Engineer, PA= Procurement Specialist
EC=Economist, DA=Disbursement Specialist, EIS=Energy/Industrial Specialist, EMS=Engineer/Management Specialist,
C=Consultant, ES=Energy Specialist.
The Financial Management Specialist at the Resident Mission provided support on financial matters during implementation.
Between 1996-1998, the project was supervised together with the Power Rehabilitation project.
(b) Staff:
|-Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 78.0                         220.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                      42.9                         148.9
Supervision                               142.7                         669.8
ICR                                         6.0                          25.0
Total                                     269.6                        1,063.3
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
I Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                         OH  OSUOM  *N  O NA
F Physical                                O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Z Financial                               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
? Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OEnvironmental                            O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Social
OI Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Oi Gender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
Oi Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
? Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
M Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
 Lending                                            OHS OS *U OHU
 Supervision                                        OHS OS  GU  OHU
M Overall                                            OHS Os * U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                        O HS O S  * U   O HU
N Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS *U O HU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report No. 12607-ZAM. May 6, 1994
Memorandum of the President. May 6, 1994
Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement
Aide Memoires of Supervision Missions
Letters between the Bank and the Borrower
Project Progress Reports
- 37 -






IUGANDA     At     - t  m_o.h.                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 20145R
|URGW A N D A                                                                                $. N                                                                                  UGAP.DA 
.4 NKARAGWE    ~        khLt       o,
B ~~~U   RE                                                                                         U-                                                                               NND 
>< g > G- ' e 1 9^ a SA 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KEY 
MULEBA T   -  '                t KER. .Dt  CONOA  f                ;W.EBAthE)
r KGOr007 tr ~~~~~S.norn                               d           A                        AR3I   E, M                                            S      Ndl>  '1       A tih;*
R                           /W                              CNA AANRNAG T-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  ni                                                                                                          TANZANIA/ZtAMBXiA
rON                                  AlA N G A                                                                                                 PETOLEM S                   FACIUTES
i _ ,,,~~~ON.,, 3                            2-IA                                                                                                                                          D. *>, / /34     A-O'.,MAC19
m                       L'U"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  nigono Yids lBo
KWIM ~ ~          ~            ~           ~           ~           I
-OOA  Ru ro                      h    WARA   h-dHooato   anAm
KIG                          s I N  I r) A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~anti    d  o
-  ,~~~,y--  -,   M   ZAMBIQUENZNW7MBI
TAZAMA PhA      ARCH 



