CREDIT NUMBER 2621 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     9ea3d          23, 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2621 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         d4a--AA 6t 23             ,  1994,
between the REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)    the Association has received from the Borrower a letter
dated May 5, 1.994 describing a series of actions designed to achieve
certain policy objectives in the Borrower's petroleum sector (the
Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of
the Program;
(C)    the  Borrower  intends   to  contract  from   European
Investment Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in an amount equivalent
to approximately $15,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EIB; and
(D)    Parts B and C of the Project will be carried out by
Tazama Pipelines Limited (Tazama) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
Tazama part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and Tazama;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "MEWD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Energy and
Water Development;
(b)   "Tazama" means Tazama Pipelines Limited, a company
incorporated under the Borrower's Companies Act, as such Act may be
amended from time to time;
(c)   "Convention" means the Convention between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Borrower dated January 18, 1967 which
provides for the establishment of Tazama and the construction and
operation of a pipeline from the City of Dar-es-Salaam in the
territory of the United Republic of Tanzania to the City of Ndola in
the territory of the Borrower;
(d)   "ZIMCO" means Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
Limited, a holding company established and operating under the laws
of the Borrower;
(e)   "ZIMOIL" means the division of ZIMCO responsible for oil
procurement, storage and export and for arranging transport and
refining petroleum products;
(f)   "ZOC" means Zambia Oil Company, a company established
and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(g)   "OMCs" means the following oil marketing companies: BP
Zambia Limited, AGIP Zambia Limited, Caltex Zambia Limited, Mobil
Zambia Limited, Total Zambia Limited, and any new oil marketing
company, all established or to be established and operating under
the laws of the Borrower;
(h)   "0MCC" means Consortium of Oil Marketing Companies, a
company to be established under the laws of the Borrower by the OMCs
to take over the ownership of oil feed stock and refined products in
Zambia;
(i)   "Indeni" means the Indeni Petroleum Refinery Company
Limited, a company owned jointly by the Borrower and AGIP and
operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;


﻿-3-
(j)   "Tazama Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Tazama Pipelines Limited (Tazama), of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Tazama Project Agreement;
(k)   "Tazama Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and Tazama pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Tazama
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(1)   "ZOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and ZOC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes any schedules to the ZOC Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(M)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means collectively the
Tazama Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the ZOC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
(n)   "Special Account" means each of the accounts referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-one million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 21,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars three
special deposit accounts, a MEWD Special Account for Part A of the
Project, a Tazama Special Account for Parts B and C of the Project


﻿and a ZOC Special Account for Part D of the Project, each in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (112 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this AgTaement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
oervice charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
November 1, 2004 and ending May 1, 2034. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on May 1, 2014 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. Tazama is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions in respect of Parts B and C
of the Project.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall:
(i)   carry out Parts A and D of the Project through
MEWD with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate practices and shall
provide,   promptly   as  needed,   the   funds,
facilities, services and other resources required
for Parts A and D of the Project; and
(ii)   cause Tazama to carry out Parts B and C of the
Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity   with  appropriate   administrative,
financial, engineering, oil transportation and
environmental  practices   and  to  perform   in
accordance with the provisions of the Tazama
Project Agreement all the obligations of Tazama
therein set forth; shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Tazama to
perform such obligations; and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The  Borrower    shall  relend   the   equivalent   of
SDR 18,000,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit to Tazama and the
equivalent of SDR 1,600,000 out of the proceeds of the Credit to ZOC
under two subsidiary loan agreements (the Tazama Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and the ZOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and Tazama and ZOC, respectively, both of which
shall have been approved by the Association and shall include the
following terms and conditions:
(i)   that the interest rate to be charged to Tazama
and ZOC shall be 8% per annum, the principal
amount of the Credit onlent to Tazama and ZOC
being repaid to the Borrower in equal annual
installments beginning five (5) years after the


﻿-7-
date of the respective Subsidiary Agreement and
ending twenty (20) years after the date of such
Agreement;
(ii)   that the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by
Tazama and ZOC; and
(iii)   environmental safeguards and measures acceptable
to the Association.
(c)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts
B and C of the Project shall be carried out by Tazama pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the Tazama Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1994:
(a)    take all measures necessary for the establishment and
incorporation of OMCC; and
(b)    take all measures necessary for the establishment and
incorporation of ZOC.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1995, take all measures necessary to ensure that OMCC has made
arrangements, acceptable to the Association, for the financing of
oil feedstock and refined products for the purposes of acquiring
ownership of such products from the Borrower.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1995
cause OMCC to: (a) enter into a feedstock processing contract with
Indeni which shall: (i) have progressively tighter performance
standards on operating efficiency and physical losses; and (ii) make
allowances for exchange rate adjustments in the tariff structure;
and (b) take all the necessary actions, in addition to the actions
referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, in order to
transfer from ZOC to OMCC ownership of oil feedstock and refined
products.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, with the
participation of Tazama and ZOC, not later than June 30, 1996, a
midterm institutional reform review under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)    Based on such review, the Borrower shall prepare, and
shall cause Tazama and ZOC to prepare, an action plan, acceptable to
the Association, for further institutional reform and shall
thereafter implement, and cause Tazama and ZOC to implement, such
action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1999 complete a petroleum export marketing study under terms of
reference acceptable to the Association. The findings of the study
shall be furnished to the Association soon thereafter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Accounts, for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿-9-
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that   all records   (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii)   enable  the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records.
(d)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably


﻿- 10 -
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views with
regard to the Borrower's petroleum product pricing policies and its
plans in respect of the overall development of the petroleum
industry.
(b)    The Borrower shall, as long as it exercises control over
the setting of prices of petroleum, review or cause the appropriate
agency to review petroleum product prices at least once in each
month and establish, or cause to be established, prices which would:
(i)  reflect all foreign and local currency costs, including the
effects of any devaluations of the Kwacha; and (ii) permit ZOC under
conditions of efficient operation at reasonable levels of capacity
utilization, to recover, by December 31, 1994, the losses incurred
by ZIMOIL prior to June 1, 1993 due to the Borrower's past pricing
policies.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1996 remove
all retail price controls on petroleum products.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, until completion of the
Project, consult with the Association prior to undertaking any new
public capital investment in its petroleum sector in excess of
$5,000,000 not included in the Project.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)    A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
(b)   Tazama shall have failed to perform      any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)   ZOC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the ZOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that Tazama or ZOC will be able to
perform their obligations under the Project Agreement or the ZOC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, respectively.
(e)    The Convention shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of Tazama to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(f)    The Memorandum or Articles of Association of Tazama or
of ZOC shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
Tazama or ZOC to perform any of their obligations under the Project
Agreement or the ZOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, respectively.
(g)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms thereof, or


﻿- 12 -
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension,    cancellation,   termination    or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
(h)    The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of Tazama or ZOC or for the suspension of their operations.
(i)    The ZOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of ZOC to perform any of its
obligations under the ZOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)    the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower;
(b)    any event specified in paragraphs (d), (e) or (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)    the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso in
paragraph (g) (ii).


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and Tazama;
(b)   the EIB Loan Agreement has been duly executed and all
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EIB Loan Agreement
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness
of this Agreement;
(c)    the Borrower has implemented preliminary measures
acceptable to the Association to reform its mechanisms for setting
and revising petroleum product prices;
(d)    Tazama has hired engineering consultants to assist it
and the Borrower in the preparation of Parts B, C and D of the
Project and has appointed a Project Manager having qualifications
and terms and conditions of employment and terms of reference
acceptable to the Association; and
(e)    the Borrower has entered into a contract acceptable to
the Association with OMCC providing for OMCC to manage the refined
product terminal at Ndola.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)    that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Tazama and is legally binding upon Tazama in accordance
with its terms; and
(b)    that the Tazama Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Tazama and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and Tazama, in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 14 -
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 and 4.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on the date 20 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFIN                    42221
Lusaka
Telefax:
222440


﻿- 15 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By /41 fi.1W4l)Lkt#wo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional   ce resident
Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category            SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Equipment and                              100% of foreign
Materials:                                expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(a) under Parts B      8,130,000
and C of the
Project
(b) under Part D of     870,000
the Project
(2) Civil works:                               100% of foreign
expenditures and
(a) under Part B       3,460,000          90% of local
of the Project                        expenditures
(b) under Part D        360,000
of the Project
(3) Engineering and          430,000          100% of foreign
Project management                        expenditures


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4) Consultants' services                       100%
and training:
(a) under Part A           1,660,000
of the Project
including training
(b) under Part C           2,020,000
of the Project
(5) Unallocated                4,670,000
TOTAL                    21,600,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b)   payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b)
and (2) (b) until:
(i)   Zambia Railways Limited has confirmed to the
Borrower through a letter, satisfactory to the
Association, that Zambia Railways will, inter
alia, undertake to supply tank wagons as


﻿- 18 -
requested by 0MC and to transport petroleum
products efficiently by reducing idle time of
railway tank wagons and ensuring, whenever
practicable, to move tank wagons in block trains.
Zambia Railways will also agree to observe strict
performance standards and to undertake to
safeguard petroleum products against theft,
pilferage and other unlawful acts and to accept
responsibility for losses in excess of levels
accepted internationally for oil transport by
rail;
(ii)   the Borrower has established and incorporated ZOC
with functions, management and staffing satis-
factory to the Association;
(iii)   the Borrower and ZOC have entered into the ZOC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(iv)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association an
opinion satisfactory to the Association of
counsel, acceptable to the Association, that the
ZOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ZOC
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ZOC,
in accordance with its terms.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods and works not exceeding
$150,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) rehabilitate the
pipeline system owned and operated by Tazama in order to make it a
least cost and reliable means of transporting oil into the territory
of the Borrower and to strengthen Tazama's institutional setup in
order to ensure, through adequate maintenance of the pipeline, that
it remains in satisfactory operational condition; (b) strengthen the
technical and financial management of Tazama; (c) improve infra-
structure facilities in order to reduce the cost of petroleum
produzt distribution within the territory of the Borrower; and (d)
strengthen MEWD.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Capacity Strengthening of MEWD
Strengthening the petroleum policy formulation and monitoring
capacity of MEWD.
Part B:     Rehabilitation of Tazama Pipeline
1.    Pipeline: Carrying out of sleeve repairs and pipe replacement
and strengthening of pipeline support at river crossings.
2.    Corrosion Protection: Construction of six AC and ten solar
cathodic protection stations to protect the pipeline from external
corrosion.
3.    Mechanical: Overhaul of fourteen pumps and engines at pump
stations.
4.    Electrical and Instrumentation: Replacement of nine station
generators and provision of instrumentation for pumping units.
5.    Telecommunications: Acquisition of eight high frequency radio
units to include telemetry, high frequency and very high frequency
support and patching up of telephone system.


﻿- 20 -
6.    Tank Farm: Rehabilitation of Tazama's storage facilities in
the City of Dar-es-Salaam in the territory of the United Republic of
Tanzania including replacement of bottom plates for, and repairs to
the roofs of, existing tanks, and construction of one new tank in
Ndola.
7.    Vehicles, Spare Parts and Project Equipment: Acquisition of a
motorboat and of the vehicle equipment including tractors, cranes,
excavators and bulldozers; spare parts; and office equipment
including computer hardware and software required for the
implementation of the Project.
8.    Environmental: Introduction   of new    operating  practices
including new methods of waste disposal to minimize environmental
damage.
Part C:     Institutional Strengthening of Tazama
Strengthening Tazama's capacity to operate ar.I maintain its
pipeline and to manage it finances, including traininE, of staff of
Tazama.
Part D:     Improving Efficiency of Product Distribution
Expansion of the rail loading terminal in Ndola depot to enable
unit train loading, and supply of equipment and measuring
instruments.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)    For  fixed-price  contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)    In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Association, with such modifications thereto
as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Association, the Borrower shall
use bidding documents based on other international recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more.
3.    For the purposes of the pre-shipment inspection of goods
imported under the Project, no price verification shall be conducted
in respect of those goods to which Part A of this Section applies.
Part B:    Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Zambia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,


﻿- 22 -
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:    Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less per contract, in respect of Part B of the Project
and estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per
contract, in respect of Part D of the Project, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,000,000 may be procured: (i) under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least
three suppliers from at least three different countries, eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association; or (ii) from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services
Office of the United Nations Development Programme in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.    Proprietary spare parts and other components for existing
equipment and machines, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,000,000, may be procured directly from the manufacturers of such
parts and components.
3.    Specialized equipment, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from at least three qualified suppliers
under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in
Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9,
2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part E:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)    With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in


﻿- 23 -
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower and Tazama in carrying out
their respective parts of the Project, the Borrower and Tazama shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the
Association.


﻿- 24 -
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms, estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent
each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception
to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of firms;
(c) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Association; (d) amendments of contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $75,000 equivalent or
above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means:
(i)   Category (4) (a) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in
respect of the MEWD Special Account;
(ii)   Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) and (4) (b) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule I
to this Agreement in respect of the Tazama
Special Account; and
(iii)   Categories (1) (b) and (2) (b) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement in respect of the ZOC Special Account;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $150,000 for the MEWD Special Account, an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 for the Tazama Special Account and an
amount equivalent to $100,000 for the ZOC Special Account to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for


﻿- 26 -
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions    of paragraph   3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Arti-
cle V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or


﻿- 27 -
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn     amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A and B of the
Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to Parts A and B of the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories for Parts A and B of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.


﻿- 28 -
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FORS CAETARY


