CIRCULAT[NG COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
FILE        uCOr                         CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DES'
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1665-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
December 1, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY UNIT
Kenya Shilling (KSh)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(up to October 27, 1975)
US$ 1 = KSh 7.14
KSh 1 = US$ 0.14
(starting October 27, 1975)
SDR 1 = KSh 9.66
KSh 1 = SDR 0.10
The US$/KSh exchange rate is therefore subject to change.
DEVALUATION IMPACT ON
PROJECT COSTS
Calculations in this report are at pre-October 1975
exchange rates. The devaluation reduces the total cost of
the proposed project from US$ 18 million (of which US$ 0.6
million represents taxes) to US$ 17.2 million (of which
US$ 0.5 million represents taxes), at a conversion rate of
US$ 1 = KSh 8.05, which is close to the short-term average
exchange rate. The foreign exchange component would be
unchanged at US$ 10.3 million equivalent. The proposed Bank Loan
would now correspond to 60% of the total project cost net of
taxes and duties as compared with 57% before devaluation.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$10 million to
help finance a third education project. The proposed loan is for a term
of 25 years including ten years grace with interest at 8-1/2% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Second Decade:    Basic Economic Report on
Kenya" (Report No. 201-KE, dated January 15, 1974) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 20, 1974. It was followed by an agricul-
tural sector survey on Kenya (Report No. 254a-KE, dated December 20, 1973)
distributed on March 13, 1974. A special mission visited Kenya in February
1974 to review the economy's prospects and aid requirements in the light of
the changes in international prices. The mission reported to the Consultative
Group meeting held in Paris in April, 1974. The dialogue on economic and
social development strategy has been further intensified since. The accel-
erated world inflation, including the increase in oil prices, had a serious
impact on the Kenyan economy. In response, the Government formulated an
action program to restructure the economy. We have had extensive discussions
with the Government about this action program in the context of our program
loan negotiations and in coordination with the IMF staff. Country Data
Sheets are attached in Annex I.
3.        Kenya's remarkable economic performance during the first decade of
independence was fully acknowledged in the Bank's 1974 Basic Economic
Report. Between 1964 and 1972, GDP grew by about 7 percent in real terms,
which allowed significant gains in per capita income despite a 3.5 percent
population growth rate. Less satisfactory aspects of development in this
period were lack of progress in distributing the benefits of development
more equitably and, in particular, growing unemployment and persistent
poverty at the lower end of the income scale. The dualistic nature of the
economy at independence in 1963, with its concentration of wealth in the
hands of a few and serious poverty in the rural areas where 90 percent of
the population lived, was at the root of this unequal development,. since it
proved difficult to change rapidly.



-2-
4.        In looking aheadl into the second decade of Independence, the Basic
Economic Report concluded that Kenya did not really have the option to con-
tinue the past pattern of growth and that in order to maintain the momentum
of growth an essential restructuring of the growth process would be necessary.
The past growth rate has been supported by a high and growing investment
rate both in the public and private sectors (with fixed capital formation
reaching as much as 25 percent of monetary GDP in the early 70s). Kenya's
domestic savings rate, about 20 percent, is also one of the highest in the
developing world. There were some signs, however, that savings were level-
ling off, which raised doubts whether resource mobilization would be able
to keep up with the pace of investment. Moreover, there were some indications
of a falling efficiency of resource use (in terms of rising capital output
ratios as well as the disappointing growth of employment).
5.        The most critical constraint, however, is the external resource
gap. Although Kenya's export performance, includling the growth of tourism,
has been very satisfactory, the pattern of past development has made the
economy heavily dependent on imported raw materials and capital goods. With
increasing production and investments,imports have grown rapidly. Rising
import prices exacerbated the problem and a resource gap emerged which could
not be filled by available capital inflows from abroad.
6.        Thus even before the upsurge in world inflation experienced during
1974, it had become clear that the Kenya economy would eventually run into
an unmanageable balance of payments problem, unless growth were to be based
on greater use of domestic factors of production, and more efficient use of
available resources. The Basic Economic Report advocated first a restructured
pattern of growth in favor of the directly productive sectors, most immediately
to agriculture but also to resource-based industry. Second, it recommended
factor price adjustments to move market prices closer to real scarcity values
and thus increase the efficiency of resource use throughout the economy.
This would hopefully permit rapid growth to continue in the long run, a first
prerequisite for an effect:ive attack on unemployemnt and rural poverty. At
the same time, it would directly promote growth of income in the rural areas.
7.        The Third Development Plan, 1974-78, published in early 1974, con-
tains a development strategy which is broadly consistent with the Bank
recommendations; the Plan also reflects the findings of the major UNDP/ILO
mission which visited Kenya at the Government's request in 1972 and published
an innovative report on ernployment, incomes and equality. By restructuring
the economic growth pattern, the Government hoped to achieve a 7.4 percent
growth rate, which would exceed previous performance; employment, rural develop-
ment and more equitable distribution of income were to receive more attention
than in previous years. Employment would grow by 3.2 percent per year.
However, in 1974 the Kenyan economy was hit by unprecedented upsurge in world
inflation and a sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, which precipitated
a balance of payments crisis.



--3-
8.        The terms of trade deteriorated by about 9 percent in 1974
(preliminary figures) as a result of soaring import prices which were only
partly offset by higher export prices especially during the earlier months
of the year. The volume of imports rose owing to stock buildup while volume
of agricultural exports was depressed by drought. An extraordinary current
account deficit of about $325 million (1972: $68 million) resulted.
9.        Although Kenya was one of the most seriously affected countries,
it managed to absorb the balance of payments effects of world price changes
without too much disruption during 1974. This was in part due to the facts
that initial foreign exchange reserves were at a comfortable level and
there was no shortage of the major staple food, maize. Net capital inflows
increased considerably and, moreover, the country got a favorable response
co its application for special financial assistance, especially from the
IMF, which provided $38 million under its oil facility. The drawdown of
reserves could thus be limited to $84 million. However, the world inflation
stronglv affected the domestic price level through the upsurge of prices
of imported products. Serious domestic inflation had occurred for the first
time in 1973 when the cost of living went up by 13 percent after a long
period of average annual increases of just over 2 percent. In 1974, the
imported inflation reinforced the internal pressure on the price level
which resulted from reductions in Kenya's crop and livestock production
following prolonged drought; the overall price increase may well reach
15 percent in 1975. GDP growth in real terms slowed down to about 5 percent.
The country's external position is expected to worsen considerably during
1975, owing to a steeper decline in the terms of trade than in 1974, which
would result from a levelling off or a fall of export prices and a continued
increase of import prices. Under these assumptions, the current account
deficit in 1975 will exceed that of 1974 ($325 million), probably by about $40 million.
10.       The basic objective of the Government's action program is to
restructure the economy as fast as possible, so as to achieve maximum econo-
mic development in the future under much more stringent balance of payments
conaditions. The aim is to restrain imports in a way that has a minimum
impact on production in the next few years and to direct more production
intc exports. It will therefore be necessary to compress public and private
consumption and to channel investments into the most productive and quick
yielding uses, in particular into appropriate import substitution and export
promotion. In both activities the agricultural sector will have a major
role to play; by further improvements to its already good performance in
previous years it will also have to absorb more labor and maintain incomes
in a period of possible slowdown of urban employment. Manufacturing, which
will possibly become the most dynamic sector in the long run, faces a
difficult adjustment process in the next few years. It will have to improve
its resource utilization and reduce its heavy import dependence in favor of
a more domestic resource based production.



11.       A crucial component of the Government's strategy is the attempt
to hold down the domestic rate of inflation to well below world inflation
so as to help bring about import substitution and export promotion by price
differentials.   This decision implies that real incomes have to fall; tnis
hardship will be distributed between income groups in such a way that the
lowest income groups receive full compensation for cost of living increases,
while better-off members of society are made to bear a proportionately larger
share of the burden by partial compensation or no compensation at all.
12.       In addition to the income policy, .he action program relies mainly
on global monetary and fiscal policies reinforced by agricultural pricing
policies and some specific administrative measures. Not only is the over-
all money supply limited by increases in interest rates and direct restrictions
on credit expansion, but the Government is also directing credit into
agriculture, manufacturing, export business and tourism. On the fiscal
policy side, Kenya's already good tax performance as well as the measures
introduced in 1973 and 1974 to make the system more progressive do not
leave much room for substantial tax increases. The Government nevertheless
intends to raise some taxes on non-essential domestic and imported products
and to further improve tax administration and revenue collection. Some
other envisaged tax measures (capital gains tax, improved inheritance tax
and increased urban property tax) seek to promote equity as well as revenue
increases. The discussion continues with the other Partner States in the
East African Community about a modification of the common external tariff
towards more uniform rates for consumer goods and capital goods.
13.       A revised three-year budget for FY76-FY78 has been adopted,
which aims at reducing the growth of government consumption, promoting
exports, increasing production of agricultural commodities for import
substitution and use of more labor-intensive techniques. Recurrent expendi-
ture growth in real terms has been reduced to 6 percent from 11 percent
projected in the 1974-1978 Development Plan, and expenditure growth included
in the Development Budget is set at 7.8 percent (as against 12 percent).
This required the politically difficult decision to bring the rapidly
accelerating recurrent expenditure for education under control; the Gov,rn-
ment has now decided to allow only a 7 percent annual increase, freezing
education's share of recurrent expenditure at 29 percent.    In the Develop-
ment Budget, the share of agricultural and water development was increased
from 22 to 35 percent while that of road and building construction was
brought down from 22 percent to 18 percent; moreover, a significant shift
away from trunk roads to secondary and rural access roads was incorporated
witnin the road construction program.
14.       In addition to these domestic measures, the Government is seeking
to accelerate disbursements under existing foreign financing commitments
and to obtain additional commitments, including quickly disbursing assistance,
in order to maintain some momentum of growth while the restructuring policy
is taking effect. Thanks to generally positive reactions from donors, the



-5-
external financing plan for FY75 is anticipating that the largest part
of the overall deficit can be covered through higher inflows of conventional
financing plus additional special inflows from several bilateral sources
as well as the IBRD; Kenya will also use substantial drawings on various
IMF facilities. A similar effort would have to be made for 1976 and follow-
ing years to close the residual balance of payments gap.
15.       In the past the Kenya Government has followed a conservative policy
with regard to external borrowing. Since Independence, Kenya has been increasing
new commitments at a rate of about 8.5 percent per year, or somewhat less
than the rate of growth of the economy as a whole in current prices. As
a result, Kenya's debt service burden is still comparatively light (4 percent
of exports in 1974, excluding Kenya's share of East African Community debt)
and the country could if necessary resort to moderate borrowing on commercial
terms during the next few difficult years without impairing long-term credit-
worthiness. At the end of 1974 total debt outstanding amounted to $888 million,
of which $574 million had been disbursed. About 18 percent of total external
debt is now held by IBRD (Bank Group: 31%), but because Bank Group lending
has only recently become a significant proportion of Kenya's debt, debt service
to IBRD in 1974 was still only about 17 percent of all debt service payments
(Bank Group: 19%). In addition to its own external public debt, Kenya
is also jointly responsible together with the other two Partner States for
debts incurred by the East African Community and its institutions, which
amounted to some $230 million (including undisbursed) at the end of 1974.
Allowing for a nominal one third of service payments on these debts, Kenya's
total debt service ratio is about 6 percent.
16.       In spite of the much greater need for external capital now facing
the country, Kenya is still following a cautious policy in her external debt
management, although the Government is making greater use of suppliers' or
export credits on favorable terms to finance some of the larger projects
now ready for implementation. Under the assumptions made by the Bank staff
about balance of payments developments, Kenya's external debt will have to
increase considerably over the next decade if the expected balance of pay-
ments gap is to be filled. While Kenya's economic performance certainly
justifies substantial amounts of concessionary financing, including IDA
credits, these are available in limited amounts only. It can therefore be
expected that the terms of borrowing would be on the average less favorable
than Kenya has enjoyed in the past. However, since export earnings will
increase during the period as well, barring major unforeseen developments
in Kenya's terms of trade, the debt service ratio would probably not exceed
16 percent by the end of the 1970s. By that time it is estimated that IBRD
might hold about 22 percent (Bank Group: 28%) of total disbursed debt and
receive 15 percent (Bank Group: 16%) of debt service payments. Beyond
1980, creditworthiness will depend on Government ability to take action in
the near future to increase the productivity of investments, to reduce the
import propensity and to increase exports. The revised public investment



-6-
of Kenya for the next few years represents a major step in this direction.
Temporary higher debt service payments in the early 1980's may be followed
by a fall in debt service ratio in the latter part of the decade if the
Government's action program is successful.    However, in spite of the
considerable efforts of the Government to improve domestic resource
mobilization, limitations on domestic resources are such that it is justi-
fied to finance from external sources a substantial part of the costs of
the program, including limited amounts of local costs in the case of projects
with a low foreign exchange component.
PART II - BANK GROUP LENDING TO KENYA
17.       Kenya has to date received eighteen   Bank loans and eighteen IDA
credits amounting to $322.9 million and $145.7 million, respectively. In
addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of nine loans totalling
$229.8 million which have been extended for the development of common
services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for industry)
operated regionally for t:he three Partner States of the East African Community -
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank
loans and IDA credits to Kenya and the East African Community Corporations,
a summary of IFC investments in Kenya, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
18.       Ongoing projects in Kenya are on the whole progressing satisfactorily,
but manpower constraints in engineering and other technical fields continue
to present problems and have slowed down progress on some projects. Because
of the difficulties in attracting qualified expertise, no immediate remedy
can be expected. However, the gradual increase in suitably trained Kenyans
to fill such positions should eventually alleviate these problems.
19.       While our past lending to Kenya has been dominated by support
for infrastructure, our lending in recent years marks a departure. Last year
Kenya was the first country in sub-Saharan Africa to obtain Bank Group
support for a population project. Recently, as a first step in providing
low-income dwellers in Nairobi with suitable housing, a site and service
project was presented to the Executive Directors. In support of the action
program adopted by the Government to restructure the economy and maintain
the momentum of growth in a period of serious balance of payments constraints,
a Program Loan was recently presented to the Executive Directors. Our
agricultural lending has been stepped up mainly as a result of an expanded
program of technical assistance both through our Regional Mission in Eastern
Africa and direct technical assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture. The
Government has now launched with assistance from the Association, Canada,
United Kingdom and United States, a five year beef development program utiliz-
ing the grasslands in the Northeast of Kenya. This project is expected to
benefit some 170,000 people many of whom are nomads. A tea factories pro-
ject to ensure adequate processing facilities for Kenya's high quality tea is
under construction and a project aimed at rehabilitation of some 130 group-
owned farms is under implementation. A broadly conceived integrated agricultural



-7-
development project designed to benefit a large number of small farmers, is
now being assessed; an irrigation project in the Lower Tana River Basin
is now being appraised and finally, preparation is under way for expansion
of sugar production.
20.       Concurrently with efforts to support agricultural production, we
foresee a need for complementary development of rural infrastructure and hope
to assist rural access roads and rural water supply schemes in the near fut-
ure. We have also recently appraised a wildlife and tourism project which
will help provide infrastructure for new tourist circuits and help spread
benefits to rural communities.
21.       While the major emphasis will continue to be on agriculture and
the development of the rural economy, there is also a need for continued
support to infrastructure and services necessary to continued growth of the
economy. To this end, loans in support of hydroelectric development, water
supply and transport of oil products were recently approved by the Executive
Directors. And in an effort to strengthen Kenya's industrial development,
particularly in resource-based manufacturing with emphasis on intermediate
technology, we expect to continue supporting the Industrial Development Bank.
22.       Kenya is one of the three Partner States belonging to the East
African Community. The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation is one of
the most far reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation agreements in
existence among sovereign states in the developing world. However, in
practice the degree of economic integration and cooperation among the
Partner States is much less than what was envisaged in the Treaty. Politi-
cal developments in the Partner States have created tension within the
Community and impaired the growth of interstate trade. These difficulties
have been compounded by the balance of payments crisis which currently faces
all three Partner States.
23.       The above difficulties have affected the Bank's lending program
for the Community. The East African Railways Corporation (EARC) has been
the most severely affected. As a result of long delays by the Partner
States in approving increases in tariffs and restrictions on the interstate
transfer of corporate funds, EARC was unable to order essential spare parts
and supplies with the result that its operational capacity has deteriorated
considerably. In July 1974 the Partner States agreed, with Bank assistance,
on a package of financial measures to rehabilitate the EARC including inter-
state transfer of funds and injection of additional capital. However, this
agreement was never fully implemented and as a result disbursements under
Loan No. 674-EA (East African Railways III) were suspended in February 1975.
24.       A Bank mission which visited East Africa in July 1975 was able,
after meeting the Heads of State and other important officials in the
three countries, to bring about an understanding on both the short-and long-
term problems of the East African Community. On the general question of
the future of the EAC, a decision was made to review various aspects of
regional cooperation as now incorporated in the 1967 Treaty. It is anti-
cipated that this review would begin before the end of the year and take



-8-
18 - 24 months to complete and would be undertaken by a commission consisting
of nominated representatives from each member country. To address the immediate
financial and managerial problems that will remain pending the agreement on
a long-range reform of the Treaty, the Partner States reached three major
accords. To deal with the transfer problem, an agreement was reached on the
mechanism for the transfer of funds from the regions to the Corporation head-
quarters. To ensure a workable plan for railway decentralization, a draft
Consultancy Services Agreement on studying decentralization was adopted and
will be financed under Loan No. 674EA, the suspension of which has been
lifted.   Finally, the Partner States approved the appointment of financial
consultants who will undertake a study of the assets, liabilities, debts
and financial condition of each of the three Corporations on a regional basis.
This is viewed as a necessary step in providing the basis for the decentrali-
zation of the Corporations and is expected to be financed by the UK.
25.       It is expected that this broad agreement between the Partner
States will provide a basis on which the Community can efficiently operate.
Past due loan payments have been received and all the actions reviewed
above have been initiated. While further problems can be anticipated, it
is expected that they can be solved through the joint efforts of the Bank
and the Partner States. A general but genuine commitment to the Community
has been noted in the discussions with the Partner States. The Bank's role
as an "honest broker" has been fully accepted and endorsed by the Partner
States and this role could be used effectively to help in the smooth transition
of the Community's structure.
26.       IFC has committed a total of $35.0 million for four companies in
Kenya (Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles Ltd.). As of
October 31, 1975, IFC held for its own account [$25.9] million comprising
[$18.4] million of loans and [$7.5] million of equity. IFC is currently
discussing with three commercial banks in Kenya a possible joint financing
scheme to aid small to medium scale industries.
PART III - THE HUMAN RESOURCES
The Structure and Growth of the Sector
27.       Since Independence, few development goals have rated a higher
priority, within the Government or among the people of Kenya as a whole,
than the expansion and improvement of education and training. From the
Government's point of view, the sector had two vital roles to play in the
development of the nation. First, it was to provide the knowledge and skills
required to meet the expanding needs of a relatively sophisticated economy,
and relieve Kenya's dependence on expatriate manpower as quickly as possible.
Second, the Government saw basic education as an important end in itself
and as a powerful force for effecting social change, promoting national unity,
and enriching the quality of life of the people. The Kenyan people have,



-9-
by and large, shared these national goals; they have also seen education as
the key to individual achievement and in particular as the major qualification
for a well paid job.
28.       This powerful social and political support for education and train-
ing has persuaded the Government to allocate a large and growing proportion
of the resources available to it from both domestic and foreign sources to
the sector, and has stimulated the extraordinary level of community commit-
ment reflected in the "Harambee" self-help movement. As a result, the develop-
ment of education in Kenya has been remarkable. In the first decade of Independence
(1964 - 73), primary school enrollment doubled, and since the abolition of
fees in the lower grades at the end of 1973, primary enrollments doubled again
by 1975, taking the country very close to universal primary education. Enroll-
ments in secondary schools have increased fivefold since 1964 - largely as
a result of the growth of Harambee schools - and today some 175,000 or 12 per-
cent of the gge group is receiving secondary education.
29.       The education system in Kenya has a 7-4-2 structure.    The seven
years of primary education (standards 1 to 7) lead to the Certificate of
Primary Education (CPE). The four years of lower secondary school (Forms I
to IV) lead to the EA Certificate of Education (School Certificate) and the
two years of upper secondary school (Forms V and VI) to the EA Advanced
Certificate of Education which is required for entrance to the University of
Nairobi. Administrative responsibilities for education are divided among
various ministries, quasi-government bodies and voluntary agencies. The
Ministry of Education is responsible for most of the formal education system.
But there are still private schools and a large number of local schools.
Kenya's success with locally supported "Harambee" secondary schools that
received no Government aid is unmatched by any other African country. The
number of unaided schools including the "Harambee" schools totaled 32 in
1963; by 1970 they grew tenfold. Unaided schools must register with the
Ministry of Education before they open. Recently, because of the high cost
of operating these schools, the local community can no longer afford to run
them, and the Government has taken over some of these schools.
30.       Kenya has nine secondary technical schools for boys which are run coop-
eratively by the Ministry of Education and Labor. At the post-secondary level, the
Government has two Polytechnics, one in Mombasa and one in Nairobi, for business
studies, building and civil engineering, engineering, printing, accounting,
etc. Because of the great demand for such education and the limited places
available at all levels of technical and trades level, several technical
institutes are now being constructed with "Harambee" efforts. (See para 35.)
31.       There are 21 primary teachers' colleges with an enrollment of
about 8,200. These colleges are being consolidated into 17 larger and more
efficient units. In addition to the candidates receiving a teacher's diploma,
some 1,000 unqualified teachers are being upgraded in these schools through
five-week courses. General secondary teachers are trained at the University
of Nairobi, Kenyatta University College and the Kenya Science Teachers College.
Annual output of secondary teachers is about 600. Total enrollment of Kenyans
at university level is about 6,000. Employment for most categories of
university graduates is reasonably good at the moment, but future prospects
depend on the rate of expansion of the economy and the Kenvanization of posts
now occupied by expatriates.



Emerging Problems and the Need for Reform
32,       Despite the real progress made in Kenya towards providing education
for the people, there has been growing concern about the speed and direction
in which the sector has been developing. The most obvious problem is the
rising financial burden of the formal education system on the Government
budget. Over the last seven years alone, recurrent expenditure on education
rose from KJ14.8 million to KL59 million a year, or from 21 to 32 percent of
total recurrent expenditure. At the same rate of expansion, it was estimated
that expenditure on education would reach Kh96 million by FY79, or over 40
percent of the total recurrent budget. It was therefore clear, even before
the advent of the present economic difficulties which now face Kenya, that the
economy could not afford this rate of expansion. The worsening of the economic
position has, however, heightened the Government's awareness of the need for
major changes (para. 36).
33.       Amidst this heavy expansion of the education system, Kenya is facing
a dichotomy. Kenya, as many other developing countries, is experiencing a
serious shortage of skilled and professional people, while the output from
schools, particularly primary and secondary schools, far exceeds the growth of
jobs for which school leavers are qualified. Rather than improving the
situation, the heavy expenditures in the education sector is only aggravating
the unemployment problem.   Some of the reasons for this have been known for a
long time. The curriculum inherited from the colonial era was overly academic
and scholarly, and concentrated almost entirely on producing academically
qualified students for secondary schools and the secondary schools for the
university. But not only (lid the system fail to provide the skills required by
the developing economy, it prejudiced young people against manual skills and
agricultural occupations. Yet academic excellence has been widely used as a
means of selecting young people for employment in the modern sector, and as the
availability of secondary school graduates outstripped the supply of urban jobs,
the minimum qualifications for employment were raised, thereby encouraging an
even greater investment in education among those who wished to compete for the
few available jobs. The quest for academic achievement permeated the primary
school system, where success was measured by the few who gained entrance to
secondary schools, while the majority who dropped out were not equipped to lead
a productive life in their communities.
34.       Ultimately, as both the ILO/UNDP report on employment and the Bank's
basic economic report pointed out, the misallocation of resources in education
is primarily a reflection of the incentives system prevailing in the economy,
which causes a wide divergence between the social and individual benefits from
education. As long as the rewards to be gained from urban formal sector employ-
ment are 10, 20 or even 100 times greater than average per capita income, the
individual parent may be quite rational in making the sacrifices necessary to
put his children through secondary school, and if possible university, thus
entering the education sweepstake and hoping that one of his children will score.
Moreover, as long as the sweepstake prizes are so high, it will be difficult to
restrain the pressure for more education.
35.       The force of social pressure for education in Kenya has been amply
demonstrated irn the "Harambee" movement, which has proved to be a powerful
development tool, provided it can be steered in appropriate directions. All



-11-
primary schools and teachers' houses in Kenya are built by the self-help
efforts of local communities, and since Independence, several hundred
secondary schools have been constructed by self-help. However, the Harambee
secondary schools, which by 1972 accounted for nearly half of all secondary
school enrollment, highlight the problems which arise when social and
individual motivations diverge. Having built their Harambee schools, few
local communities can afford to pay for equipment or teachers' salaries, and
faced with this "fait accompli" and the strong political support for the
movement, the Government has been forced to assume an increasing responsi-
bility for the operation of these schools, despite the costs involved and the
over production of secondary school graduates. More recently the Harambee
movement has taken a different turn towards post-secondary "Institutes of
Technology" which are intended to provide young people with technical skills.
Provided the Government takes appropriate action to accommodate this new
product of social initiative into overall planning, the output from these
schools might be gainfully employed in the informal sector rather than in the
modern sector where highly trained people are called for.
Proposed Reforms
36.       The most urgent task is to reduce the past rate of growth of expendi-
ture on education to a more reasonable and manageable level without further
reducing the quality of education. The Government has now taken steps to limit
the annual rate of growth of recurrent expenditure in education. This will
be a very difficult task because such a large proportion of future expenditure
is already committed under policies and irreversible programs agreed in the
past. However, the Government has identified a set of far-reaching measures
which have been incorporated in a recent Government white paper on economic
policy. Since the major component of cost increases is the cost of primary
teacher salaries which alone accounts for some two-thirds of total recurrent
expenditure, the most important proposals are those designed to curb the
growth of teacher salaries. This will be done by (i) raising student - teacher
ratios (by having an average of only one teacher per class and maintaining
average class size at 40), (ii) imposing stricter qualifications for promotion
and limiting numbers of higher grade teachers, and (iii) applying the national
wage guidelines to teachers' salaries. The measures also provide for raising
fees in secondary schools, imposing a levy on primary school children for
equipment, and controlling university enrollment more strictly. The net effect
of these measures is estimated to limit the annual growth rate to about 7%
and keep the education budget to 29% of total government recurrent budget.
37.        At the same time as it tackles the pressing financial problem, the
Government is implementing measures to improve the quality and relevance of the
education system. A new curriculum for primary education, with increased
emphasis on natural sciences and practical subjects, was introduced as early as
1967, and the production of local textbooks has made much progress. The quali-
fications of primary teachers have also gradually improved; by 1973 (before
the recent upsurge in enrollment referred to in para. 39) nearly three out of
four teachers were qualified. The secondary school curriculum has also been
broadened, with the assistance of the first and second IDA projects, to provide
courses in scientific, agricultural and practical subjects. The Government is
training teachers in these subjects and new methods, preparing new syllabi and
teaching materials, and persuading staff, parents and pupils to accept the changes.



-12-
38.       All these measures have helped and will continue to improve the
efficiency and relevance of Kenya's education system. However, the Government
recognized in the 1974-78 Plan that to achieve maximum effectiveness, these
measures would have to be supported by much more profound and far reaching
changes in the structure and content of the formal education system, and
that this would require a comprehensive review of educational objectives and
priorities.It has therefore been decided to establish a National Committee
on Educational Objectives and Priorities (NCEOP) which will be composed of
prominent citizens from both public and private life, backed by a professional
secretariat. The Committee, which was set up in early December this year, has
been given far-ranging terms of reference. Its task is to evaluate the present
education system, define a new set of educational goals for the future, and
formulate a program of action to implement these goals.
39.       The recent upsurge in primary school enrollments resulting from the
abolition of school fees in the first four grades has precipitated a crisis
situation, in which a new cohort of unqualified teachers (mostly secondary
school leavers) has been drafted to cope with the influx of new pupils, and
the equipment budget and delivery service have been stretched even more
thinly.  Moreover, while the academic qualifications of teachers have improved
over the years, there is reason to doubt whether the quality of teaching
itself has improved significantly at the primary level. Even the best quali-
fied and most dedicated teachers often cannot practice the new and improved
methods of instruction they have learned because there is hardly any equipment,
particularly in rural schools. Therefore, without preempting the Committee's
work, the Government has decided to deal with the most essential needs in the
education sector before the NCEOP has completed its review and has requested the
Bank's assistance to improve the quality of education offered in the primary
school system.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       Kenya has received two IDA Credits for education, the first (Credit
93-KE) in 1966 provided US$7.0 million to help finance an expansion of primary
teacher training and secondary education, while the second (Credit 185-KE)
in 1970 for US$6.1 million, is giving major assistance to development of
agricultural education and training and minor emphasis to expansion of technical
secondary schools and primary teacher training colleges. In April 1974 a Bank
reconnaissance mission visited Kenya and in the light of the newly completed
Five-Year Development Plan, 1974-78,          identified for possible Bank finance
assistance, a project which was subsequently prepared by a Unesco mission in
November 1974. An appraisal mission visited Kenya in December. Negotiations
were held in Washington in September 1975. The Kenya delegation was led by
Mr. P. Gachathi, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education. A report entitled
"Appraisal of a Third Education Project in the Republic of Kenya" (No. 764a-KE
dated October 30, 1975) is being circulated to the Executive Directors separately.
A project and loan summary is given in Annex III.
Project Description
41.       The proposed project is designed: (i) to improve the quality and effi-
ciency of primary school education, particularly through the introduction of
agricultural and other practical subjects and (ii) to encourage the review of
longer term education policy by supporting the work of the NCEOP.    The project



-13-
would contribute to these objectives by:
a) strengthening the Kenya Institute of Education;
b) improving educational broadcasting and multimedia services;
c) improving facilities at 17 primary teacher training colleges;
d) improving the efficiency of primary school equipment supply services;
e) helping to set up an Examinations Research and Development Unit
in the Ministry of Education; and
f) providing technical assistance in specialized fields to support
the work of NCEOP's secretariat and preparation of new projects.
42.       As the national professional center for primary and teacher education,
the Kenya Institute of Education (KIE) has a prime role to play. It is respon-
sible both for the development and introduction of new curriculum and teaching
methods and for the systematic upgrading of teachers and teacher educators.
In the past, the KIE has concentrated on developing curricula and school text-
books. It will now be necessary to reinforce the KIE's development role and in
particular to strengthen its evaluation role and help it to evolve a systematic
approach to the introduction of rural-oriented practical subjects in primary
education. The proposed project will strengthen the KIE by providing (a) a
Learning Resource Center, which would house the existing library and an expanded
collection of materials relating to curriculum development and teacher education,
coupled with a micro-teaching unit; (b) seminar facilities and accommodation
for 40 workshop participants; and (c) four manyears of technical assistance and
three manyears of fellowships.
43.       The New Educational Broadcasting and Multimedia Service Station (EMS)
would be built on a site adjacent to the KIE. It would take over the present
Schools Broadcasting Service and would develop formal and non-formal education
and training programs in such fields as functional literacy, support to exten-
sion workers and advisory services for farmers.   The proposed project would
help finance buildings, furniture and equipment for the EMS and would also pro-
vide radio receivers and cassette playback machines for schools. Because of the
shortage of technical staff in Kenya, two experts will be supplied for two years
each to be in charge of audio production, visual production, utilization, research
and training, and the installation and maintenance of electronic equipment. They
will also review the possibility of constructing a separate channel for the
exclusive use of educational broadcasting. Five manyears of fellowships to train
counterparts in educational broadcasting systems are also proposed.
44.       The project would help finance the building and equipment needed
to bring the 17 Primary Teacher Colleges (PTCs) up to a uniform standard so that
they all can train teachers in basic practical subjects such as agriculture,
comestic science, use of simple hand tools, as well as the fundamentals of
rural development to equip teachers to become community and village leaders.
Each college would also be equipped with a Learning Resource Center and
i:- rc tcachir.g, faci 4ies to provide in-service courses for teachers in surround-
x-g prinary schools.   Because of the remodellng of existing facilities some
:' ':) sdditioDnal scucent places would be provided.  These additional places



should.provide the Government Wit. SUffiCiec Si        places so L..iat
college construction can be postponed.   The Governmenr has thererore a-c
not to undertake construction plans prior to June 30, 1976 (Section 3.09 of
-,draft Loan Agreement).
45        The Primary School Equipment Services would be strengthened under
the proposed project to improve the distribution of textbooks, equipment and
visual aids to Kenya's 8,000 primary schools. New and expanded stores located
in remote areas would be set up, vehicles and material handling equipment
would be provided, and a study of the organization of the equipment supply
service would be initiated.
46.       Apart from the technical assistance already referred to, the
proposed project would also provide five manyears of technical assistance to
help set up an Examinations Research and Development Unit (ERDU) in the
Ministry of Education. The ERDU will develop testing methods and provide a
continuous evaluation of examinations. Two manyears of fellowships have also
been included.
47.       The project will also support the work of the National Committee
on Educational Objectivesand Priorities by providing two manyears of specialist
services to reinforce the Committee' s  secretariat.   In addition, to facilitate
the smooth operation of the secretariat and help the work of the Committee,
about $30,000 equivalent is included in the proposed project to finance opera-
tional expenses. The work of the Committee is expected to be completed in
about six months.
Cost Estimates
48.       The total project is estimated to cost US$18.0 million or US$17.4
million net of taxes, with a foreign exchange component of $10.3 million, or
57 percent of net total project cost. The cost estimate ii:cludes a 7 per-
cent allowance for physical contingencies and 32 percent for expected price
increases.  The proposed Bank loan of US$10 million would finance 56 percent of
total project costs.
Project Implementation
49.       The project would be implemented by the Project Unit in the Ministry
of Education, which has been responsible for implementing the first two IDA
projects. The Ministry of Works would be responsible for the design, prepara-
tion of documents and supervision of all construction, except for the specialist
work required on the Educational Broadcasting and Multimedia Service Stations,
which would be undertaken by consultants acceptable to the Bank. To ensure
the availability of key personnel, the proposed project provides for an equip-
ment specialist for the Project Unit and an architect and an engineer for the
Ministry of Works. The Unit would be further assisted by an additional six
manyears of specialist services, so that, as a follow-up to the recommendations
of the NCEOP, future projects could be developed and prepared.



-15-
Procurement
50.       Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and imported
construction materials would be on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement except as
follows: (a) civil works costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each; (b)
furniture and equipment contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent;
and (c) locally procured construction materials and transport services. Con-
tracts for these items would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with local procedures which are satisfactory
to the Bank. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be
allowed a preference of 15% or the existing rate of import duties, whichever
is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign spppliers. Qualified
domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin
of 7-1/2% over bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
Disbursements
51.       Disbursements would be on the basis of:
a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported construction
materials, furniture, equipment, including vehicles
and technical assistance;
b) 100% of ex-factory cost or 70% of local expenditures
for locally procured furniture and equipment;
c) 70% of local expenditures for project administration,
operational costs and local transportation of equip-
ment, materials and furniture;
d) 70% of local expenditures for technical assistance and
professional services; and
e) 30% of total expenditures for civil works.
Because of the urgent need for the NCEOP to be formed and its work promptly
started, some $30,000 is recommended for retroactive financing incurred since
October 1, 1975 to cover the services of consultants and general operational
and office expenses.
Benefits and Justification
52.       Primary school enrollments over the last four years have doubled
to nearly three million of which over one million children represent the
increase from 1973 to 1974. This enrollment explosion has inevitably resulted
in a significant lowering of standards particularly in the teaching force which



-16-
was unavoidably diluted by the emergency recruitment of many untrained teachers.
However, the Government is determined that this lowering of standards will be
but a temporary phase in the country's expansion of basic and primary education;
consequently, the proposed project has been designed as a well-integrated
program to promote not only a general qualitative improvement, but more
significantly, a reorientation of basic education from its traditional role
of preparing the few best pupils for entry to secondary schools, to one of
providing a well-balanced education for pupils of varying ability to develop
their talents for diverse employment opportunities including self-employment.
The improved colleges would provide the necessary comprehensive facilities to
provide teachers with instruction in the latest teaching techniques which would
emphasize practical application to rural development. So that the schools
would be equipped to provide the teachers with vital supporting material, the
improved Primary School Equipment Services would ensure that relevant teaching
materials are received by the schools, also those in remote areas, in a pro-
perly phased sequence.
53.        In statistical t:erms, the proposed project would provide facilities
for in-service courses for about 6,000 primary teachers p.a., and thereby
gradually reduce the number of unqualified teachers which was about 30,000
or 39% of the teaching force in 1974. By developing broadcasting and equip-
ment services, nearly three million primary school children and 77,000 teachers
in 8,000 schools would benefit.
54.       Probably the most vital long-term impact which the proposed project
could make on Kenya would emerge from the technical assistance and financial
support proposed for the NICEOP whose report is expected to include far-reaching
recommendations which, without the abandoning of the minority who will pursue
higher education, will concentrate on preparing the majority for a productive
life in their communities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the Bank,
the Report of the Committese provided for in Article III (Section 4, iii) of
the Articles of Agreement, and a draft Resolution approving the proposed
Loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



-17-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
December 1, 1975



WOUNTRYf DATA -KTAPage 1
AMI                                                  POPULATION                                   [ENSITI
3r2!&,h ial                                           -2-.07 -millton (mid-1972)
Per loolf arabic land
SOCIAL IDMICATORS
Reference Countries
,960   K=z4--,9TTanza                Korea      MacIr1ilon
1970g i                 '     9?
GNP PER CAPITA 53$ (ATLAS BASIS) /I.                                             170Ia            120 /ab4      310 Ia       300IA
DEMOGRAPHIC
Urus--hrate (pee Ntsueand)                                  50/c          18 /4            1.7 Ic        28            5/ Ia.a
Orul. death rate (per thousand)                                   20 77;        18d1             22 7.          8            8Ia .ae
Infant mortality rate (per thousad live birthe)                    .55                      16o-165 7.          ..-         (J  aa
Life expectancy at birth (year)                                1.0-15 Ic        1.9 /0           1.3           65           0-3
0-11.                                                          16 /an        48 In            1.1 /o         o1. /a      [oI
15-64.                                                          53lon           T.'7            537T.        57 T-         ;6 7-,
65 and over                                                       371t         4T.              371           371          4Tr
Age~ dependency ratio/A                                          1.0 7         1.1 7.           0.97 T.       0.8 77;      08   l:
Fcoon.ml dependency ratio                                        1.2 7-        1 1 7.           1.2-          1.1.        1.6
Urban population am percent of total.                               87h,a        jot               7/quj       41./k        41. /I
FanilY Planning:   No. of acemptors eamalative (thaus.)...
No. of waese (% of married women)...
EKPLOINENT
T7;tflfbor force (thousande)                                    3,300 /c      5,4.00 Ic        5,600 /e h  12,100 /I       250O
P'ancentags employed in egricolture                             ..-           86 Tr            91            L6 71i        0
Percentage unemployed                                            4.....                                     h   7-i      :-7
INM    DtiSrINUTION
Pe n  f nationjal. innme received by highest 5%               .*.31.A/                                     15 /r
Pc. snt of national income received by higheet 20%...                                             60 71         37 /y
Perment ef matlemal incuse aemieed by lemet 20S                    ...                                         10   t
Pateont af eatbeal lwane    p.a.ie4 by lem"t, 1.0                  ....1Lc                                     21.4  0
DISTRINUTION OP LAND OAAERSHIP
9 caad  y tcp 10  of ownrs                                     ....                                       28
8 c-u-d ly smallest 10% nf ownera                                  .
UEALTH AND) NUTRITION
Incain p-e pyolioe                                     II,000 /co     6,550 Icr       27,95,0 /b    1,873 Ia     3,810 /
P.palatien pee -corng person                                   1,610 71i 3,700 7-r           6 530 7tr     1 363 7r n     91  7r
Pc.paiatinn pee honpital bed                                      810O 787     8o0 -700 7t                  1:85C   7      250 T,
Par capit. calorlo supply an 8 of reqairecenta /                  103 In       101                73          lo0.         101
P'er capita protein ucpply, total (geoae per dayT~6                75 In         71               1.           6            50
Of which, animal and pulse                                       32 In         29              23            15 /0,0      19
Death rota 1-    y. rar  /7                                        4..                            .1.5 1
EiCATION
doijasted IN primary nehool anoll11act ratio                        119           67 /84.          37 /4          t I       105
Adinniad 75 e.ncdary echool enrollment ratio                        3 Ic      .9 /03 I                          1           30 /n
Years o ;atcooling previded, flirst and second level               13            13              13            32           11.
Vona.t.neal esrollamnt as % of sec. school enrollment              12 I           2/cx             4 ./        15 /r         1 /
Adualt lit. nny rate%                                                            35.             ..            32 71.bai..
MUSlING
Average No. of porsens per ream (aeban)                   -       2.5  a.,v      ...2.7
Peccat of ocopied wnilts withoot piped water                       ....                                         C Icc
tcos  i electricity (as % of total population)                                                              Bo*.5  71-
Parcent of tural population connected to electricity               ...                            .Lo 71.
CONSUMPTON
ladleorecevers pee 1000 pepolatien                                  9            1.1 Ia6 Ia,                  128 14       128/
Poss-ager crar per 1000 pepulation                                  8/ad          9T_1ad af        3 7; d        2 Ia       36 ~
Electric peowr connoption (kwh p.c.)                               50            78 7?'           31 7a        392 T.      301 /
N,.woprint consumption p.c. kg per year                           0.1.          0.5 71.          oa 71-        3.7 7a-     0. 8 7a
Notes:  Figuren refer either to the leteat perinda or to              aecount of s-ironmaetal tsaaoe           oyw     i77
the latent year.-   Latest periods refer in principle to              diatribation by age a's sex of national Ppopoltions
the yearn 1956460 or 1966-70; the latest yearn in prim-.          /6  Protei. standards (requirementa) for all countries am estab-
ciple to 1960 and 1970.                                               limbed by USDA Economic Research Service peat ds for a minli-o
/I The Per Capita GNP estimate in at market price. for                allowance of 60 grame of total protein par da3, and 20 grams of
yearse other than 1960,-caculated by the .  amos se,,ario         anmal and paine protein, of which 10 grame stoa.ld be animal
techoiqoe as the 1972 World Bank Atlas.                           protein.  Thees stadslard  are ancabt lose     than these of 75
/2 Average uober of daughters per wooa      of reprodluctive           gram  of total protein and 23 grams of animal pratein am am
aP.                                                               average for the world, propoaed by FAO in the Third World Food
/4  IulatLim  grwth mst. ass for' th. decadse sidlg in              01-
196 od 1970.                                                      S Hesetediee have soggested that crude death ratee of children
A   Ratio of sisder 15 and 65 and over age bracket. to                ages, 1 throes* 4 may be oMas a first appraximatiom     index of
those in labor force bracket of ages 15 through 66.               malnstrition.
/5 FtA08refeenc    standard. repreaent phyeiolngi-n el cm-             Permeentae aerolled of morreepmuing population of school age
qolrefmeta for normal activity and health, taking                 ae definei for eash sountry.
Is197?;       /b  Mainland Tannania;     14   UN estiste for African populatiln, baaed en analysia of data f,rom 1962 poat-conal
sam,ple aervey;    Ia  UN estimate for 1965-70;      Ie 1967;      /f  1960-72;     /L  1962469;     /h20      or core inhabitants;
/I 1971.;     Li. 15 gasetted townships, 1957-67;      Ak   Seoul city and municipalities of 5000 or more;       A1  Pcciaised town-
ships, according to. enlarged limits as of Aogsst 1963, plus teami of Nakcberg;       Ia  1962;     1n  Hazed on complet.e   onu ca-
* tion of non-Africari population and of urban African population and on a 10 percent sample of rural Africa.. ; opelation;
l0 969;    Z4   Ratio of population under 15 ansi 65 and over to total labor force;       /4   16 gasetted township:;     /r   1971;
Ihumber on the register, not nfl working in the country;       A4  Including midwivee, asaistant miduees and braes;
/1973;      /v  Estimate;     /w  1968;     /x  Secondary achollog includes teacher training at the third leve;          /Z   IHone-
holds;    7.   15 years andi ove,r;   /an   1961;    lab   Definition of litermcy unknown;      lac  Water~ piped Inside;
la_d Includiang vehicIen operated by police and other government security orgaznisitions;       lee  Nagiatoed only;      4~E  Ineh.d-
Ing light commercial vehicles;      /sa.  UN esatimate for 1970-75;    /4h   10 yea~rs amd over. -              i-rssrly civere
*  asrtlta has been aeltetd asm a    sample of a predemsinntly agricultural economy, which isjSpllmcing am.e enlightened
*policisa designed to diverify ProductIon and prinote accelerated Indufrtaiallstion.



ANNEX I
ECONOM4IC DEEWPMOSNT DATA                                    Pg     
Actual.                  Prelimo.         Projected    1964-    1973 -    1974 -    1973 -    197L3    1974     1980
1964 I/   1972 I/F9-73 2/         1974       1975       1980   1972:    1974      1975      1980
NAT tONAL ACCOI08TE
C,oss Domestic  oduct    030     1,7       -  At 1973 Prices and Exchange Rates -      AverrageAnnual Growth Rates           As Percent of GDY
Gross INmestic Product     ~~~1,00      75      2,322         2,435      2,526      3,224   634.8              3.8     5.0       100.0    104.9   107.0
Gains free Terms of Trade()             10      - 15       -            -113     -  137     -  212                                           -      -4.9    -7.0
Gross Dome~stic   noeF.                           7!      2,322        7,30         Jf       271     6.5     -0.1       3. 0     4. .7      TU     To 100.0 ~ffTOO
Import (incl. NFS)                     296       500       718           732        744        869   6.1I     1.9       1.6     3.2         30.9    31.6    28.9
Exports    1   ( im3port ~capacity     350       4,43      686           598        570        747   2.68   -14.3      -3.1      5.6        29.3    25.3    24.8
Resource Gap                         5-53        -57        32          -144        flM                                                      Tt- -- 4  6.2   Th
Consumption Expenditures               838     1,426     0,686         1,760      1,964      2,389   6. 6     4.4      11.6      4.0        72.6    75.9    79*3
Investment    '1 (inc. stocks)         149       352       668           703        599        745 11.6f      5.2     -14.8     4.4        28.8     30.3    24.7
Domestic Savings                       202       293        636          560        424        623   3. 9    -12.0    -24.3     8.0         27.4    24.1    20.7
National Savings                       211       298        511          500        382        378   3.0      -2.2    -27.6      7.8        22.0    21.6    17.5
MERCHANlDIOE TEADE                             Annual P-atm at Current Prices                                                         As  Percent of Total
1970                   1971 93    27                                                   93       11
Imports
C,apital goods                                  122.4      170.5       175.2      200.8                                                27.7      19.6
Totermeliat,e goods (arlfuels)                  173.2      714.2       272.6      435.9                                               43.1      42.5
Fu,els and related materials                     41.3       47.4        67.0      227 .2                                               10.4      22.1
of which:   Petrole~um                        (41.3)     (47.4)      (67.0)    ( 227 ,23                                           (10.6)    (72.1)
Conosumtlionl goods                             103.8      la. 1       117.6      161.9                                                18.6      15.8
Total Merch. ImpForts (elf)                     442.7       580.2      63 2.4   1,025.8                                              -100.0 o   100.0
Ex.perts
Primary products Gool, fools)                   144.7       135.8      256.2      291.5
Peels and related materialIs                     40.3       51.4        61.7      227.7
of which:   Petroleum                         (40.3)     (51.4)      (61.7)    (127.7)
Na,nufactured goods                             103.6       112.6      050.1       072.3
Totl  en. Exports (fob)                    28.         9=9.8     468.0       590.5
Tourisn sod Bord-r    Teasle                     25         76          70
Merchandise Trade Indices                                      1973        1974       1975       0980
Export Prior Indes                                         100           035        146       2 22
import Price Index                                         L00           161        177       77
Terms of Trade Indes                                       L00            84         82        83
Exports Volume Index                                       100            98        105       135
VALUJE ADDED EY SECTOR,              Asunual Data at   1961    Prices and Exchange Pates            Average Ana       rwhRts                 As Percenit of Total
1964  1972  1973  l974p/                   ~~~~~~~~~~1964--1972  1972-1973  1973-1974  2964  1972     1973 1974
Agriculture           156       246        2~~~~~~~~~~~~66  264                    5.81           8.17.     -0.67.        23      20       20    70
Industry sod miloIng                119       229        253      264                            8 .57.        10.5%       4.37.        20      23       32    70
Service                             400     7_222        774      816                            7.6%           7.77.      5.47.                          8   _~
Tota-l                              67 5    1,197      1.294    1,344                            7.478.% S.                7.397       100     100      100   100
P28L1C FINANCE                                  O   urn      rcsadecag              ae
Central Covorneent)         ~~~~~64/65  71/72   _72/73     73/74     74/75     75/ 76
Current Receipts                     138       398       419       493       669       711
Current Exopenditures                059       33 7      374       395       569       644
Bualgetary Savings                 - 21         61       45         98      Th)i        67
Empooditure in Develop.eet
Budget                        38       145        173       191       246       361
us $TmlIo,n
CURRENT EXPENDVYTJRE DETALS  Actu.1         Prei..    Estinl.DETAIl, ONJ                                       At end 1975/76 P and.E&__
CARRENTo     CurET entTU   DETAIL              Acua                 Foic.BstLICoj                       SECTOR                                         .'o Total
A %Toal  urn     Eps.           1964/65   1972/73    937       947      1975/76   1977/78    rTbu;      PGPA9(17                        /7    -177    78
Education                    ~~~       ~~~       ~~   ~    ~~11  28  27  28  28  37   Dcimi ~Sectors                           199            16
Other Social SesvicOs                    8        14        01        11       11         9    A-iutr.453
Agriculture                              9         4         8         6        6         7     AgIcdultre n  4    n                     425           35
Other Econonie Serviceo                  3        1i        ii        12      13          5    Indusry sod    M7in84                                    3
Administration end Defense              30        26        25        28       27        21   ~   wradcomnctos7 
ither (mci. CE. Expenditures)  39  18  17  24       15        21      rafloPeni and construction              232            18onsructio  232  1
Tota    iCurretCF.Expenditures        100       I00       100         14       0         0     Pr202
(incl. C.F. expenditures)                                                                     T-ot-al Expenditures               Us$ 1,276 million 100-7.
SEJIECTED INIEICATOPS                          1965-197(0      1975-1980       1981-1985          LINCI
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)
Average ICON                                        3.3             4.7           33pdnlie Sector Savings                                  389           30
Import Elasticity                                   1.0            0.6            0.7                D sestic Borrowing                    347           27
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                     0.29            0.29           0.29              PFreigs, Project Aid                   340           43
Marginal National Savings Nate                      0.22           0.30           0.29               Total Financing                118$ 1.276 million 100%
1.450  FORCE ANT                                   Total Labor Porce                                       Value Added Per Worker (1971-- Prices & REx. Rates)
OUTHIT PER WORKER                           Tn MIllions            7. of Total                                In U.S. Dollars            Percent of Average
1971                 1971                                         1971                         1971
Agriculture                                      4,647                   86                                          109                            36
Industry                                           141                    3                                        1,426                          475
Service                                            301                    6                                        1.286                          429
Total                                            5,377                  100-                                         300                          100
-nil or negligible               I/  In 1967-69 prices and exchange rates.                                                     ECI
--less than half the              T/Revised figures.                                                                            OActoer21      17
smallest unit shown            p/Preliminary figures.



ANNEX I
BALALCE 0F PABIR          RHS L ALI ASSISTANCE AND DEAT
(amnints tn xfl3la,s of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Aeg. A-nIs
Actual                            Prolio19                                   ProJected            V30th Rats
1970  1971  1972         1973         ~~~~~1974    ~        1    7            1977 1I 970              1960u       1965         1974-1960
SUM9AR'f BALANCE OF PAYNSlfTS
Exports (ifel. NFS)                        473         509          560         685            930          1023        1196        1358         1553        2005         3892          13.6
op  s IAinc17A.ID)                      525         655          632         742           1182         1288         1442        1601         1785        2238         4008          11.2
tesoarcecBalance (X-m)                     -52        -146         -72           5              5           Z65         -Z4         -Z43            r3       z233        -mr
Intereat (net))
Direct Invastbeet Incoee
Workers' Remitt-nce        )               -23          -25         -34         -101           -94          -110        -138         -168        -096         -258        -350           24.5
C-rnt T-rnfer- (et)                         26          58           38          22             22           20           18          16           14           10          10         -02.2
Balance on Caridnt Ac-ts                 --To ount s r  _    4       vr9      -r            -m              i          -13r        -mr            Z;        -6-4 -      45
Privte Direct 1n-eet-eet                    59          48           43          45             97            60          65           70          75           86         120           -2.0
Official Ctpital  -ronts                    0/           V           1/           2/            2/            15          25          40           40           40          40             -
Public M&LT Inane
Di3barsemenes                             30 3/       48 3/        68 3/       61 3/          904/        249          305         349          396         504          570          36.0
-R2payeeotc                                -7 3/       -8 3/       -11 3/      -13 3/         -18          -22          -36         -80         -119        -172         -273          57.0
Not Kib       -tits                       23  3/           4 0     57 3           r3/          27 97                                                 48 3 72 2                   27 Z9  26.5
SOR Ucc                                     -            -           -            -             18------
Us. of IMP C-edit                                        -           -            -             53            54          32           36           5           _           _
Shart Tern Credit (Net)                     -            -2           6            2            45            -           -            -
Us. of Reserve   (-+)                      -50           72         -25          -29            16            -          -25         -20           17           23
Eraror  and Oaxiceie.                       11         -52          -19           69             3                        -            -           -            -
Actual                       reclie.
LcBT AND DEBT SBRV7CB           1970      1971        1972      1973       1974
GRANT AND IDAN CDOMMITMENTS                                                                                  Public Debt Out. & Disborsed   283.7     311.9       366.7     401.4       487.6
Official G-rcte & Gract-like              ..           ..          ..           ..           ..7terest ox Pablic Debt                      11.5       12.3       14.8       16.1       18.3
Repaynects OD Public Debt       7.3        7.8       10.7       12.9       18.3
Fublic MetT moons                                                                                           Total Publo D.bt Service      18.8       20.1       25.5      28.8        36.5
I1RD                                    8.3          23.0       29.0         34.0          10.4           Other Debt S.-eJce (eat)        ..
IDA                                    18.7           -         28.0          -            33.5           Total Debt Service (net)        *-
Other                                    -            -          -            -            43.0
Other Multicteral                       1.5           3.5        -            1.1           -           burden an Ropxrt Erxioig, (%(
Oover-ents                             10.5          40.4        28.0        55.2          96.0
Suppliers                               1.1           7 3         -           -              -            Public Debt Service             4.0        3.9        4.6        4.2        4.0
Poancial motitatieo                                  2.5       17.3          1.6                         T leto1 Debt Servc  79
DBc4                                                  -          -            -                           T DonDirnat iScent. Ic..        9 9.      9.          98        14.7       12.4
Pab7o LoonM n.e.i.                      2.1
Total Pub lie )lOT 7aoa                  42.2          76.7       9.           9.           0Tr          Averxge Teres of Publio Debt
EXTERNAL DEBT                                   Actual Debt OUatt    dig  n Den. 11 19741/                    7nt. as % Prior Yexr D3&D        4.3       4.3         4.7       4.4         4.6
DibuEed  a. nl               Percet                          Amort. ax % Prior Year DO&D      2.7        2.8        3.4        3.5        4.6
' World Rank '                                      62.2                     13.8
IDA                                                 74.6                     16 6                         7ID Debt Oat. & Disbursed
Other Mdetilotar.l                                   5.0                       1.1                             05 % Public Debt O&D          1.9       3.8         8.9      12.4        13.3
Oovernments                                        251.4                     55.9                               x as % Public Debt Service   7.6       2.1         5.4      10.0        11.7
Suppliers                                            9.9                      2.2
Financial I7otituti-ce                              19.4                      4.3                         IDA Debt Out. & Disburded
Dbeic                                               27 4                      6.1                             Ox a   Pmbli Debt O&D       11.2       11.2       12.0       15.8       15.4
mobie Debts n.s..i..                                                                                          ax 9 Pblo. Debt DSrelce        0.8       1.2         1.3       1.7         1.4
Total Pablio M&LT Debt                             4g                       1c
Other M1.5LT Debts                                  38.0
Short-torn3 Debt (disb. only)
nct xpplic.ble          1/   In-laded in current tranafere.
ot avail.xble           2/ I ncluded in Pablic Laxox.
oil or negligible       3/  Souroe:   World BRnk External Debt Statis.tce (Kenya only).                                                   October 22  1975
F/  preliminary fig-rex     4    Including capitl grant.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at October 31, 1975
Loan or
Credit #    Year    Borrower   Purpose                   Amount (less Cancellations)
Bank IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Four (4) loans and nine (9) credits,
fully disbursed                                         34.7   40.0
185       1970   Kenya       Education                          6.1       2.0
714       1970   NCC         Water Supply                8.3              2.2
224       1970   Kenya       Road Maintenance                  12.6       2.5
745       1971   TRDC        Hydroelectric Develop.     23.0                .6
276       1972   Kenya       Highways                          22.0       7.2
826       1972   Kenya       Nairobi Airport            29.0              8.5
344       1972   Kenya       Agricultural Credit                6.0       3.0
932       1973   Kenya       Highways                   29.0             25.3
946       1973.   IDB        DFC                         5.0              1.8
468       1974   Kenya       Population                        12.0      12.0
477       1974    Kenya      Livestock                         21.5      21.2
993       1974    Kenya      Tea Factories              10.4              9.1
1093       1975    Kenya      Group Farm Credit           7.5               7.5
537       1975    Kenya      Group Farm Credit                  7.5        7.5
1105       1975    Kenya      Site and Service            8.0               8.0
543       1975    Kenya      Site and Service                   8.0       8.0
1117       1975    Kenya      Program Loan               30.0              18.2
565       1975    Kenya      Agriculture-Forestry              10.0      10.0
1132       1975    Kenya      Agriculture-Forestry       10.0             10.0
1133       1975    Kenya      Transportation-Pipeline    20.0              20.0
1147       1975    TRDC       Hydroelectric Develop.     63.0             63.0
1148       1975    IDB        DFC                        10.0             10.0
1167       1975    Kenya      Mombasa & Coastal W.S.     35.0              35.0
TOTAL                     322.9  145.7      292.6
of which has been
repaid                7.4    0.1
Total now outstanding     315.5  145.6
Amount sold        5.1
of which has
been repaid      4.4       .7
Total now held by
Bank and IDA           314.8  145.6
Total undisbursed         219.2   73.4     292.6
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



Page 2
B.     Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at October 31, 1975
Amount in US$ Milli-on
Year      Obligor                  Type of Business   Loan   Equity  Total
1968 &    Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels              5.2     0.7     5.9
1973
1970 &    Pan African Paper Mills Pulp & Paper        11.9     5.7    17.6
1974
1972      Tourism Promotion        Hotels              2.4     -       2.4
Services
1976      Rift Valley Textiles     Textiles            6.3     2.8     9.1
Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                     25.8     9.2    35.0
less cancellations,
terminations, repay-
ments and sales                            7.4     1.7     9.1
Total Commitments now
held by IFC                               18.4     7.5    25.9
Total Undisbursed                            9.0     1.2    10.2
C.        Projects in Execution 1/
Credit 185 - Education: $6.1 million Credit of May 20, 1970:
Closing Date: December 31, 1975. Construction is proceeding at a slower
rate than anticipated. As remedial action has been taken, it is expected
that all project institutions, except two, will be completed prior to the
Closing Date. An extension of the Closing Date of about 12 months is likely
to be required in order to complete the two project items lagging behind.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



AMNUX I T
Page 3
Loan 714 - Nairobi Water Supply Prolect:   $8.4 million Loan of Dec-ember
11, 1970; Closing Date:   March 31, 1976.    Good progress was made on th'e iair
project items, and water was delivered to Nairobi on schedule in March 1974i.
However, a 12 month postponement of the Closing Date was required to enable
ccmpletion of disbursements for ancillary project components which are behind
schedule.  Cost overruns are about 30% over the appraisal estimates, due mainly
to local cost increases.   The Wa.ter and Sewerage Department has continuing
problems attracting and retaining staff for its engineering and comme-c -1
sections. I'he financial results of water operations have been generally satis--
factory; the increased project costs have been met from internal cash generatlon.
Nievertheless, a water tariff :Lncrease early in 1975 has proved to be inadecquaicE
to mairtain a sound financial position through 1976 and anot'ner increase to
obecome effective in January is being proposed by the Department.
Credit 224 - Road Maintenance:   $12.6 million Credit of December 28, 1.970
CLosing Date:  June 30, 1976.   The project is going well, though its final
completion may be delayed til]LDecember 1976 - 18 months behind schedule.    This
likely time overrun is mainly due to delay in start of construction of regional
workshops on account of unforeseen difficulties experienced in acquisition of
sites and procurement of stee:L. These difficulties have now been resolved and
nio further major problems are anticipated on this project.
Loan 745 - Kamburu Hydroelectric: $23.0 million Loan of June 7, 1971;
ClIosing Date: December 31 1975. The project was completed in August 1974.
C.ost escalation was 9%, principally the result of currency fluctuations, the
imposition of a sales tax in :1973 and an increase in the engineering costs.
The closing date has been postponed from June 30, 1975 to December 31, 1975
to facilitate repayment of retention monies.
Credit 276 - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of June 5, 1972; Closing
Date:  March 31, 1976.   The project, due for completion in March 1975, has
->pped considerably behind schedule and is now expected to be completed by
O~.embcr 1976.  Completion cost of the project is anticipated to exceed the
-.o?.aisal estimates of 42 million KSh by a little over 25% on account of in-
+ ationarv price escalation and the adoption, where necessitated by traffic
cend3itions, of specification, and design standards higher than those envisaged
in the appraisal estimates.
Loan 826 - Nairobi Airport:   $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972; Closing
!7EFa': December 31, 192'5.  Previously reported technical problems in the
(-hons.--uction phase of the project have been largely overcome although the
-L)rcJeI-.t remains behind schedule.  Attempts are being made to ease the finan-
c:tal i)roblems of the main contractor and to improve the rate of construction,
'>"mleteion, is expected by February 1977 (about a year behind schedule),
nre.vi6ing the Governmernt can meet seriolus cost overruns on the project
.cuT-ntIy estnimated at some TTS$13 mil.ion including contractor claims not
neti ,irt:.v-d3.  Establi;'rment of the Aeordromes Department is well under
Wc.. atd pl;'ans for personnel training are now being prepared.  The consultarts
tc est. 'o a the usn:ii7led con.mmercial ald cost accounting system for the
.> oT.e& Departm!ent c7e b;en en.g.5ged anr zre now at .ork.



Page 4
Credit 344 - Agricultural Credit:   $6.0 million Crcd-t of DVE  T77
29, 1972; Closing Date;  June 30, 1976.   The Agricultural Finance Cornorazion
has started a second phase of lending operations, following the completion of
the first under Credit 105. Progress is satisfactory, and disbursements are
ahead of schedule.
Loan 932 - Highways: $29.0 million Loan of September 6, 1973;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1977.    The project has slipped approximately 15
months behind schedule on account of a number of initial problems, including
the time required for a complete review of highway paving standards by the
Ministry of Works and the difficulties encountered in recruiting technical
assistance. However, these problems have now been overcome and the progress
achieved during the last 4 months is satisfactory. A number of contracts,
covering about 75% of the road length required to be constructed under this
project, have already been awarded and tender documents for the remainder are
under completion. Cost overruns of around 50% above the appraisal estimates
are anticipated on this project due to steep inflationary price escalation
since preparation of appraisal estimates.
Loan 946 - Industrial Development Bank: $5.0 million Loan of
November 29, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1976. The Loan has been fully
committed and 65% of the proceeds have been disbursed.
Credit 468 - Population: $12 million Credit of April 1, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. The project forms an integral part of the Five-
Year Population Program, FY 1975-79. The construction components of this
project are estimated to be around 8 months behind schedule. Despite temporary
setbacks and the absence of full-time technical and administrative support, the
situation has improved and the Program can, if the Directorate of Personnel
Management establishes the positions requested by the Ministry of Health,
achieve the manpower, service point and demographic targets set out in the
Appraisal Report.
Credit 477 - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. Work on the ranching component is now proceeding,
but the project is behind schedule. As cost overruns are in the order of two
to three times appraisal estimates on the ranching component, the Government has
been requested to recalculate project costs using appraisal projections as for-
mats. The project is in need of close supervision at regular intervals.
Loan 993 - Tea Factories: $10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980. This Loan became effective September 23, 1974. Contracts
for the first four tea factories have been let but the tendering for remaining
tea factories is behind schedule.
Credit 537/Loan 1093 - Group Farms Rehabilitation: $7.5 million Credit
and $7.5 million Loan of March 27, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981. This
Credit and Loan became effective on September 30, 1975.
Credit 543/Loan 1105 - Site and Service Project: $8.0.million Credit
and $8.0 million Loan of May 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980. This Credit
and Loan became effective on September 25, 1975.
Loan 1167 - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply: $35 million Loan of
October 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980. This Loan has not yet
become effective.



Loau 1147 -    a    k;     .Li,? j  e  . ';O. LI&,
cf July 25, 1975; Closing Date:                          isceubLr '  Loan is not y-t
effective.
Loan 1133 - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project;    $20.0
million Loan of June 27, 1975; Closing Date: February 1, 1979. This Loan i.s
not yet effective.
Loan      Loan 1132/Credit 565 -- Second Forestry '?lantation Project:  $10.0
million Credit and $10.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975, Closing Date:    Dece;.cber
31, 1981. This Loan became effective on Septembe-r 25, 1975.
Loan 1148 - Second Industrial Development Bank Project of July 25, 1975;
Closing Date: July 1, 1979. This Loan became effective on October 7, 1975.
Loan 1117 - Program Loan: $30 mi.llion Loan of May 27, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976. This Loan has been declared effective on August 26, 1975.
D.   Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guar-antte-ed
by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as at May 31, 1975
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
Loan it Year   Borrower      Purpose               Bank   Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                        75.0
638 EA   1969  EAHC     Harbours                   35.0       4.0-
67'i EA  1970  EARC     Railways                   42.4      16.4
675 EA   1970  EAPTC    Telecommunications         10.4       0.1
843 EA  1972  EADB      DeveLopment Finance         8.0       4.5-
865 EA   1972  EAHC     Harbours                   26.5      16.8
914 EA  1973  EAPTC     Telecommunications         32.5      14.8
Total                          229.8       56.6
of which has been
repaid                        29.6
Total now outstanding          200.2
Amount sold:        24.6
of which has
been repaid       24.6         0
Total now held
by Bank                      200.2
Total Undisbursed               56.6



ANNEX II
Page   6
E.   East African Community
Loan No. 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million Loan of May 25,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1976.
The suspension of this Loan was lifted on September 5, 1975. The
reasons for suspension and its lifting are discussed in paragraph 23 of this
report. It is now planned that part of the proceeds of the Loan will be used
for consultancy services to assist in the reorganization of Railways Corpor-
ation. Meanwhile the Corporation is now finalizing a plan to meet its
emergency investment requirements.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million Loan of August 25,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1975
The Harbours Corporation is in a healthy cash position although
there have been problems in transferring funds from regional offices to head-
quarters. Damage to a partially completed pier has delayed project imple-
mentation. It is now expected that the construction will finish in mid-1975.
Legal questions resulting from the damage are under study by the Corporation.
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million Loan of December 18,
1972; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
A delay of six months is expected in completing civil works under
this project. Cost overruns have been experienced in some project items.
The situation is under study by the Corporation, which will shortly issue a
plan for speeding implementation.
Loan No. 843 EA - East African Development Bank Project: $8.0 million Loan
of June 28, 1972; Closing Date - May 31, 1976
Operations of the Bank have been decentralized and the newly formed
regional office teams are now competent in dealing with all aspects of de-
velopment financing operations. The entire first loan has now been committed
by EADB and negotiations on a second tranchehas substantially been completed.
Loan No. 675 EA - Second Telecommunications Project: $10.4 million Loan of
May 25, 1970; Closing Date - December 31, 1975
This project has been completed, but the Closing Date of the Loan
was extended from June 30, 1975 to December 31, 1975 to enable final pay-
ments from the Loan Account.
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5 million Loan of
June 22, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Problems within the EAC have only marginally affected the Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation due to the considerable existing decentral-
ization of operating authority. Deterioration of the corporate cash position
and rate of return has been slight in comparison to other Community Corporations
and the situation has improved by a rate increase allowed by the Community in
February 1975. All major items have been completed by mid-1975, except two
microwave links which, due to long lead time for delivery, will be delayed by
12 months.



ANNEX III
Page 1
KENYA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                The Republic of Kenya
Amount:                  $10 million equivalent
Terms:                   25 years, including 10 years of grace
Interest:                Standard
Project                  The purpose of the project is to help improve primary educa-
Description:           tion by providing finance   for the following:
(a) buildings, furniture and equipment for the following
new facility:
- one Educational Broadcasting and Multimedia
Service Station (EMS).
(b) equipment for, improvements to and rebuilding,
where required, of the following teaching facilities:
- the Kenya Institute of Education (KIE)
- seventeen Primary Teachers' Colleges (PTCs)
(c) buildings, furniture and equipment for the following
to support improvements in primary schools:
-  Primary School Equipment Services
-  Examinations Research and Development Unit
(d) the cost of specialists' services and fellowships
for: development of the KIE; the Educational
Broadcasting and Multimedia Service Station;
the Examinations Research and Development Unit; the
Project Unit; and the National Committee for
Educational Objectives and Priorities (NCEOP).
(e) Support for the NCEOP to meet general operational
costs.



ANNEX III
Page 2
ESTIMATED COST
US$ (Millions)          % of
Local    Foreign    Total     Total
1. Extension to Kenya
Institute of Education      0.29     0.18       0.47        4
2. One new Educational
Broadcasting and Multimedia
Services Center             0.59     1.97        2.56      20
3. Extension to 17 existing
Primary Teachers' Colleges  3.53      3.77       7.30      56
4. Stores for new, or
extensions to about 20 Primary
School Equipment Services
and equipment to existing
Central Store in Nairobi    0.38     0.55        0.93       7
5. Examinations Research
and Development Unit         -       0.01        0.01       -
6. National Committee for
Educational Objectives
and Priorities              0.02     0.01        0.03       -
7.  Technical Assistance        0.27     1.06        1.33      10
8. Project Administration
including equipment         0.27     0.07        0.34       3
TOTAL BASELINE COST
(September 1975)                5.35     7.62      12.97      100
9. Contingencies:
Unforeseen events (7%)    0.46      0.47       0.93
Estimated Price Increase
(32%)   1.93     2.17       4.10
Total Contingencies         2.39      2.64       5.03
TOTAL PROJECT COST               7.74    10.26      18.00



ANNEX III
Page 3
Financing Plan                                Local     Foreign    Total
($ million equivalent)
IBRD                  -         10.0      10.0
Government            7.7        0.3       8.0
Tota:L                7.7       10.3      18.0
Estimated Disbursements:                               ($ million)
1976   1977   1978    1979   1980   1981
Annual           0.2   0.8    2.5    4.3     1.9    0.3
Cumulative       0.2   1.0    3.5    7.8    9.7    10.0
Procurement:             Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and
imported construction materials would be awarded in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
Procurement would be by international competitive bidding
except as follows:   (i) civil works costing less than
US$200,000 equivalent each; (ii) furniture and
equipment contracts costing less than US$50,000 equiva-
lent; and (iii) locally procured construction materials
and transportation services. Contracts for these
items would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Retroactive financing up to $30,000 would be provided
for expenditures incurred from October 1, 1975 in con-
nection with the establishment of the NCEOP.
Consultants:             Assistance to:
(i)  the Kenya Institute of Education (KIE) (4 manyears)
(ii) Educational Broadcasting and Multimedia Services
(4 manyears)
(iii)  Examinations Research and Development Unit (5 manyears)
(iv) National Committee on Educational Objectives and
Priorities (2 manyears).
In addition, administrative expertise would be provided to
the Project Unit in the Ministry of Education (about 12
manyears). The project schools would be designed by the
Ministry of Works except for the Educational Broadcasting
and Multimedia Services which would require consultants.
Appraisal Report:        No. 764-KE, dated October 30, 1975



S U   D A N                . 
E     T  H   I O   P  I A
t  I  r .- lv               \                 h                /    /                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Maadera
b t  9  g  :rtcDit     f                     r S O M A L
U G-A N D A                                                                                    \    ci             -.
ji,~~~~~~~~~~~I
-          LOfdiSni                                                                                R - PU B-L1
< >      W      s    AKU4     ffi2  14;i>      R       <   /K
A-1                   u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
w I   .   w \  Londian;       fA41W-JAh  /      J   ) /~L-I                       / 
:    rgo~ItmlhfO b:naa    or           ci eQ         ,,.                                                               _
\           0}   ~~~~~NAIRO IA XC-,IS MhIG\                                | 
K EN4Y A                     >                      fi-b.:+
TH,RD EDUCA-TION P,20JECT T              '50 \ 0
g0EducotLowl Sro.dcoti.g -nd M.lti.edia Se,.fm               x  V                           7
OKenp' o ,iatuto of Ed.callmn bi<>,              , 
_,440o4 ,ndiOabOallsn /d-oa n
Intetmationl aiW,ot. zw_* lX S
Nallonat airporh/,                      .    . ts-                                   g   ^          _ 'X e : 
Notioncl coplill                           T , v-__,s
Cv Provimcal capifois        A   R  I C  A  '                      ;) 
O Citics und owns   : ~ { KenyoaQ                            ;             r 
=P6iay.-sY ..4.... 
Sacand.ry ro.d.                                                                 5 
KILONLETL-                                              _
vowle@Strt0Uviv~.                0-  'ZO' , AO1 ; 



