Report No. 764a-KE                                                             FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a
Third Education Project
in the Republic of Kenya
October 30, 1975
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT
Kenya Shilling (KSh)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(up to October 27, 1975)
US$ 1 = KSh 7.14
KSh 1 - US$ 0.14
(starting October 27, 1975)
SDR 1 = KSh 9.66
KSh 1  =  SDR 0.10
The US$/KSh exchange rate is therefore subject to change.
DEVALUATION IMPACT ON
PROJECT COSTS
Calculations in this report are at pre-October 1975
exchange rates. The devaluation reduces the total cost of
the proposed project from US$ 18 million (of which US$ 0.6
million represents taxes) to US$ 17.2 million (of which
US$ 0.5 million represents taxes), at a conversion rate of
US$ 1 - KSh 8.05, which is close to the short-term average
exchange rate. The foreign exchange component would be
unchanged at US$ 10.3 million equivalent. The proposed Bank Loan
would now correspond to 60% of the total project cost net of
taxes and duties as compared with 57% before devaluation.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMKARY AND CONCLUSIONS .....................    i  v
I.  INTRODUCTION ...    .............................
II. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEED ........      2
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR .... .......    4
Evaluation of the Sector ....................     4
Educational Policies and Plans    ..............  5
Financing Educational Development    ..........   7
IV.  THE  PROJECT    ........ ........................  9
Objectives  ..   ................................  9
Project Items ...............................     10
The Kenya Institute of Education    ............  10
The new Educational Broadcasting and
Multimedia Service Station (EMS) .......     11
The seventeen existing Primary Teachers'
Colleges   ...............................   12
The Primary School Equipment Services   .......  12
Technical Assistance and Fellowships   ........   13
This report is based on the findings of a mission in December 1974 to Kenya
composed of Mr. R. F. McMahon (technical educator), Mrs. R. P. Brandenburg
(economist) of the Bank and Mr. K. Andersen (architect) of Unesco.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)                           Page No.
V.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT .................   14
Cost  Estimates  . . ........ ....... ............  14
Customs Duties and Taxes   ...............  16
Contingency Allowances ..   ...............  16
The Foreign Exchange Component    .........  16
The Financial Plan    ..........................  16
Recurrent Expenditures .................    17
Project Implementation ......................    17
Administration   .......................................  17
Professional Services (Architectural/
Engineering)   ......................  18
Procurement     ................................  18
Disbursement .    ................................  18
Retroactive Financing ................... ....   19
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....  .............  19
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION            20
APPENDIX The Educational System
ANNEXES
1.  Modern Sector Employment Projections for the Plan Period 1974-1978
2.  Past and Projected Enrollments in the Formal Education System
3.  Recurrent Cost Projections if Present Trends Continue
4.  Recurrent Expenditure Projections if Cost Saving Policies are
Implemented
5.  Ministry of Education Total Expenditures
6.  Technical Assistance and Fellowships
7.  Project Unit Staff and Cost
8.  Summary of Enrollment and Estimated Project Cost
9.  Implementation and Expenditure Schedule
10.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Comparative Education Indicators
CHARTS
1.  Structure of Education, 1974               World Bank 9465 (R)
2.  Enrollment Pyramid, 1973                   World Bank 9466
3.  Educational Administration, 1974
Organizational Chart                 World Bank 9464
MAP      Republic of Kenya                          IBRD 11475 R
Key to Map.



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
BASIC DATA
1973/4
General
Area                                                225,ooo sqnmi
Population (1972)                                12,070,000
Population Growth                                       3.3% p.a.
Per Capita GNP (1972)                                US$170
Education (School year: January-December 1973)
Enrollment in primary schools
(Standards 1 - 7)                            1,816,017
As a percentage of 6 to 13 years age group               73%
Enrollment in secondary schools
(Forms 1 - 4)                                  167,590
(Forms 5 - 6)                                    7,177
As a percentage of 13 to 17 years age group
(Forms 1 - 4)                                       14%
Finance (Fiscal year: July 1, 1973 - June 30, 1974)
Total Recurrent Education Expenditure
as % of Government Recurrent Expenditure            27%
Total Educational Expenditures
as % of GDP at factor cost                         6.4%



GLOSSARY
Primary Education    -  Standards 1-7 of which Standards 1-4
pay no fees.
Secondary Education  -  Forms 1-4 with a terminal examination
of East African Certificate of Education.
Forms 5-6 with a terminal examination of
East African Advanced Certiticate of Education.
Sessional Paper      -  Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1975:  "On
Economic Prospects and Policies"
February 7, 1975.
Harambee             -  Swahili for self-help.  The Harambee
Movement mobilizes communities and resources
for local development projects, particularly
the building of schools.
EACE                 -  East African Certificate of Education
awarded after Secondary School Form 4.
EAACE                -  East African Advanced Certificate of
Education awarded after Secondary
School Form 6.
EMS                  -  Educational Broadcasting and Multimedia
Service Station.
FYDP                  -  The Five-Year Development Plan, 1974-78.
KIE                   -  Kenya Institute of Education.
LRC                   -  Learning Resource Center.
NCEOP                 -  National Committee on Educational
Objectives and Priorities.
PTC                   -  Primary Teachers' College.
TAC                   -  Teachers' Advisory Center.
VOK                   -  Voice of Kenya, the Government radio and
television service.



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a third education project in the Republic of
Kenya for which Bank assistance of US$10 million is proposed. The first proj-
ect (Credit 93-KE, signed in 1966) for primary teacher training and secondary
education was completed in 1970 and the schools are in operation. The second
project (Credit 185-KE, signed in 1970) giving major emphasis to agricultural
education and training has had contracts awarded for construction of 29 of the
31 project institutions and is being implemented satisfactorily.
ii.       The Kenya education and training sector, responding to heavy social
demand, has developed rapidly since independence in 1963: primary school
enrollments have tripled to the point where universal primary education has
virtually been attained; secondary school enrollments have increased six-fold
but unemployment amongst secondary school leavers is now causing concern; and
university education now enrols over 5,000 students. Less spectacular have
been the increased enrollments in agricultural and technical courses, but
present indications are that because of assistance provided under the second
education project, output of graduates from agricultural courses is adeauate
to meet foreseeable demands. In view of the uncertainty caused by recent
adverse world economic factors, the demand for technically trained manpower
will remain unclear until the manpower survey conducted in 1972 and used to
help formulation of the Five-Year Development Plan, 1974-78 (FYDP), is updated.
iii.      The sector's rapid expansion has generally not been accompanied by
a corresponding improvement in the quality and appropriateness of education
and training; social pressures on the Government have forced an expansion
which was largely unplanned and of a nature which now requires modifications
to obtain optimum benefits from the investments in the sector. These modifi-
cations are, with help from the first and second education projects, gradually
being made in secondary schools and in agricultural education and training,
but subjects being taught in the largest sub-sector, viz., primary schools,
are not entirely appropriate and properly balanced for the needs of most
school leavers. The chief obstacle in applying the Ministry of Education's
new primary school curriculum is a dearth of teachers trained to teach basic
agricultural subjects, related science, home economics and handicraft subjects.
Of the 3.1 million children enrolled in primary schools in 1975, very few are
taught subjects other than those of a formal literary nature; the need to
change this is urgent and fundamental.
iv.       The expansion of the education and training system has taken place
at high financial cost to the Government. Educational recurrent expenditures
rose from K Shs 297 million in 1967/68 to K Shs 1,180 million in 1974/75, i.e.,
from 21% to 32% of Government recurrent expenditure, and if the present trend
continues, educational recurrent expenditures would reach K Shs 1,920 million
by 1978/79 representing 41% of Government recurrent expenditure. The Ministry



- ii -
of Finance and Planning has indicated that Kenya will be unable to sustain
expenditures of this magnitude on education and that future increases would
have to accord with the expected growth rate of Government revenue, viz., about
7% p.a. Further far-reaching measures to contain the cost of education and to
ensure more efficient use of scarce resources are contained in the Government's
Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1975, "On Economic Prospects and Policies," which
was considered and approved by the legislature in April 1975. It enumerates
seven measures whose application would reduce the growth rate of educational
recurrent expenditures so that by 1980 education would not absorb more than
29Z of the recurrent budget, while protecting the essential objectives of the
system.
v.        The educational developments and expenditures envisaged in the FYDP
will not now be attainable, thus necessitating a review and revision of all
educational objectives and policies. In the short term, this is being done in
the context of the Paper mentioned in the last paragraph, and for the long
term, the Government has appointed a National Committee on Educational
Objectives and Priorities (NCEOP) who will examine the whole education and
training sector and, in the light of potential manpower requirements and of
financial and other constraints, recommend a comprehensive development program
for the sector to accord with Kenya's needs.
vi.       The main thrust of the proposed project is to meet the clearly
identified urgent need to improve basic and primary education with a maximum
impact on qualitative improvements and a minimal effect on quantitative
expansion. It would, pending the findings of the National Committee, be of
an interim nature and would not pre-empt its findings. Because of Government
concern over rising educational recurrent expenditures, it would generate
recurrent costs amounting to under 0.3% of probable educational recurrent
expenditures in 1978/79 and would principally support the chief educational
policy of the FYDP, viz., to provide basic education for all the population
as quickly as feasible and reorientate primary education towards a more
practical content.
vii.      Specifically, the project would consist of:
(a) buildings, furniture and equipment for the following
new facility:
- one Educational Broadcasting and Multimedia
Service Station (EMS).
(b) equipment for, improvements to and rebuilding, where
required, of the following teaching facilities:
- the Kenya Institute of Education (KIE)
- seventeen Primary Teachers' Colleges (PTCs)
(c) buildings, furniture and equipment for the following
to support improvements in primary schools:



- iii -
- Primary School Equipment Services
- Examinations Research and Development Unit
(d) the cost of specialists' services and fellowships
for: development of the KIE; the Educational
Broadcasting and Multimedia Service Station;
the Examinations Research and Development Unit;
the Project Unit; and the NCEOP.
(e) Support for the NCEOP to meet general operational
costs.
The project's 17 PTCs would have a total of 9,900 student places of which 1,640
would be new; boarding places for about 1,600 students would also be provided.
viii.     The Kenya Institute of Education, which is controlled by the Ministry
of Education, is to be expanded and modernized into the Government's principal
instrument for improving the whole of the basic and primary education sub-sector.
Since its formation ten years ago, KIE has concentrated mainly on developing
syllabuses and writing school textbooks, but a shift in strategy and approach
to meet the urgent needs to improve the quality and reorientate the content
of primary education is planned. The KIE would develop and operate courses
for in-service teacher educators from the country's 17 PTCs, as well as for
supervisors and administrators. In collaboration with the Educational Broad-
casting and Multimedia Service Station (EMS), KIE would prepare radio programs
and back-up materials, primarily in environmental studies and rural-oriented
practical subjects, for Primary Teachers' Colleges and schools, and the timely
distribution of these materials--which would include equipment for the teaching
of practical subjects--would be the responsibility of the Primary School
Equipment Services. KIE would incorporate a Learning Resource Center (LRC)
which would include a well-stocked library; the LRC would be open through
the year as the main center and stimulus for systematic workshop activity in
which curriculum production and in-service training are joint objectives.
ix.       The new EMS, which would be built on a site adjacent to KIE,
would incorporate the present Schools Broadcasting Service operated by the
Voice of Kenya. The large increase of school enrollments has inevitably
resulted in a rapid lowering of standards both in formal and nonformal educa-
tion and the development of the EMS would constitute one element of a combined
attack on these declining standards. Although the EMS would be deeply involved
in the qualitative improvement of primary education in the short term, it will
also have an important part to play in secondary education and particularly in
providing programs for farmers and rural development personnel. The expansion
of EMS would go hand in hand with the extension of the communications network
in Kenya, which aims at fuller coverage and a better quality reception.
x.        Improvements to the 17 Primary Teachers' Colleges (PTCs) would bring
them all up to a uniform operational standard so that each would be equipped
with facilities for the teaching of simple agricultural and technical subjects



- iv -
as well as elementary scientific principles. An innovation would be the
inclusion of a Learning Resource Center at each PTC modelled on the one at KIE;
they would enable teacher trainers, after attending courses at KIE, to operate
similar courses in their own PTCs for in-service teachers in the catchment
areas served by the PTCs. Each PTC would also incorporate a Teachers' Advisory
Center whose staff, supported by the staff of the PTC, would regularly and
systematically visit primary schools to demonstrate new teaching techniques
and equipment and to keep teachers generally informed of professional advance-
ments, particularly those promoted by the EMS.
xi.       For general support of the above project items, specialist services
are proposed amounting to four man-years for the KIE, two man-years for the
NCEOP as well as fellowships for training of counterparts of three man-years
for KIE.
xii.      To assist equality of opportunity in accordance with the potential
and ability of young people, Government is forming an Examinations Research
and Development Unit. The present examination system, which was imported in
colonial days and has since been in continuous use with only occasional minor
modifications, is in urgent need of review and modernization to take account,
inter alia, of the teaching of rural-oriented practical subjects. The function
of the Unit would be to undertake this task. Specialist services of five
man-years are included in the proposed project to enable recruitment of two
key personnel qualified in research and statistics respectively; two man-years
of fellowships for the training of counterpart staff for the Unit are also
proposed.
xiii.     Application of this overall strategy to improve basic and primary
education, centered on the KIE and working in close cooperation with the EMS
and whose coordinated and joint programs are chanelled to the PTCs would, with
the assistance of the Teachers' Advisory Centers, ensure the use of the latest
teaching techniques in a practical and effective manner in schools. Also, the
project would improve the efficiency of the Primary School Equipment Services
which would thus be enabled to make timely supplies of furniture, books and
equipment to the schools. The principal aim of these advances is to reorient
primary education towards a more practical content, so that the great majority
of students who would not proceed to secondary education would be able to lead
a productive life in agriculture.
xiv.      A Project Unit in the Ministry of Education, established under the
first Bank Group education project and now in process of finalizing implemen-
tation of the second project, would be suitably reinforced to enable it to
execute expeditiously the larger volume of work included in the proposed
third education project. The Project Unit would be assisted as regards to
technical services by the Ministry of Works and 11 man-years of specialist
services are included in the proposed project to enable early recruitment of
three key personnel for the Unit. A further six man-years of specialist
services are included for the Unit, so that, arising from the recommendations
of the NCEOP, detailed planning of specific project items can be undertaken.
Because of the special and advanced technical nature of the EMS, provision
for the employment of consultants for its construction is included in the
proposed project; also included for the long-term development of EMS are eight
man-years of specialist services to recruit four key personnel and five man-
years of fellowships for counterpart training in appropriate establishments
abroad.



- v -
xv.       Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and imported con-
struction materials would be on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement except as follows:
(a) civil works costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each; (b) furniture
and equipment contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; and (c)
locally procured construction materials and transport services. Contracts
for these items would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to
the Bank. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed
a preference of 15% or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower,
over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers. Qualified domestic
civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2% over
bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
xvi.      The total project cost is estimated at US$18.0 million, correspond-
ing to US$17.4 million net of taxes, with a foreign exchange component of
US$10.3 million equivalent or 57% of the total project cost. The proposed Bank
Loan of US$10.0 million would correspond to 57% of the total project cost net
of taxes and duties. The project would be completed in approximately six years.
xvii.     The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank Loan
of US$10.0 million for a term of 25 years including a ten year grace period.



I                     I



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Kenya has received two IDA Credits for education, the first
(Credit 93-KE) in 1966 provided US$7.0 million to help finance an expansion
of primary teacher training and secondary education, whilst the second
(Credit 185-KE) in 1970 for US$6.1 million, is giving major assistance to
development of agricultural education and training and minor emphasis to
expansion of technical secondary schools and primary teacher training colleges.
The first project was completed by the closing date of December 31, 1970;
contracts for construction, furniture and equipment for all but two of the
31 institutions included in the second project have been awarded, but a 24-
month extension of the closing date to December 31, 1977, will probably be
needed to complete one technical school. There was no cost-overrun on the
first project and on the second project the cost-overrun is likely to be about
US$0.8 million equivalent (or 8% of the estimate of the total cost made at
appraisal in 1969).
1.02      A Bank reconnaissance  mission visited Kenya in March/April 1974 and
in the light of the newly completed Five-Year Development Plan, 1974-78, (FYDP)
identified for possible Bank finance assistance, a project which was subse-
quently prepared by a Unesco mission in October/November 1974.
1.03      Due to greatly increased oil prices and other factors, Kenya's economic
situation deteriorated markedly during 1974, making it imperative that the
educational objectives and expenditures included in the FYDP be re-examined
and revised within the framework of resources likely to be available. To
facilitate this revision the Government has appointed a National Committee
on Educational Objectives and Priorities (NCEOP) whose task is to evaluate the
present educational system, to define a new set of objectives for the next
decade and to formulate a program of action to implement these goals.
1.04      Another important factor necessitating the re-planning of Kenya's
educational system and reallocation of resources was the Presidential decree
of December 1973 which abolished fees in the first four Standards of
primary schools. This resulted in a large increase in primary school
enrollments, causing immediate heavy recurrent cost increases for teachers'
salaries which had not been foreseen in the FYDP.
1.05      Consequently, because of the necessity to contain further recurrent
cost increases, the project now proposed is significantly more limited in
scope than that identified in March/April 1974, and would have, as its princi-
pal objective, the improvement of primary schools by giving major emphasis to
increasing the efficiency and quality of primary school teacher training and
related support services. Primary education would be reoriented to include a
more practical content and make the primary school a main element in village
development.



1.06      The project was appraised in December 1974, by a mission consisting
of Mr. R.F. McMahon (technical educator), Mrs. R. P. Brandenburg (economist)
of the Bank and Mr. K. Andersen (architect) of Unesco.
II. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS
2.01      In the first decade of independence, Kenya achieved an excellent
growth rate of 6.8% p.a., but socio-economic performance was rather disappoint-
ing in the areas of employment creation and in increased incomes for the lowest
groups. 1/ The FYDP emphasizes continued overall growth of the economy, but
expansion of GDP is not seen as an end in itself but as a means to increase
employment opportunities and improve income distribution. Therefore, the
FYDP provides for a deliberate effort to increase agricultural production and
foster rural development. It promotes policies directed to change economic
incentives and rewards with a view to causing the economy to operate more
efficiently and facilitates wider participation in the process of, and benefits
from, growth. GDP is projected to grow at 7.4% p.a. in real terms over the
FYDP period, total employment at 3.2% p.a. and employment in the modern sector
at 4.8% p.a. (Annex 1). However, due to strong demand for education and
Government policy to provide free universal primary education of four years'
duration, expenditure on education and training will continue to be the single
largest item in public finance.
2.02      In 1972, as a preparation to the FYDP, the Government conducted
a detailed survey of manpower requirements for growth in the modern sector.
This survey, together with the ILO/World Employment Program study on
"Employment, Incomes and Equality," when compared with enrollments and outputs
from the educational system indicates that:
(a) the output from general secondary schools considerably
exceeds both present and projected requirements. In
consequence, there is already serious unemployment amongst
general secondary school leavers.
(b) there is an emerging danger of an oversupply of university-
level graduates; this danger is not yet serious, but if
the large enrollment of 1973 into the first year of the
University of Nairobi courses is continued in future
years, substantial unemployment amongst university graduates
is probable.
1/   A full analysis of development issues in Kenya is included in "The
Second Decade: a basic economic report on Kenya," Report No. 201-KE
in five volumes, January 15, 1974.



- 3 -
(c) more priority should be given to the training of skilled
personnel, especially in agriculture, commerce, engineering
and associated activities.
2.03      Although published as recently as March 1974, these projections
of manpower needs for growth in the modern sector, as well as the macro-
economic and public finance estimates of the FYDP, will be revised to take
account of the international economic events started in late 1973, when most
of the FYDP work had been completed. A Sessional Paper 1/ submitted by
Government to, and approved by, Parliament reviewed the impact of these
developments on the FYDP and outlines the Government's response to the
international economic situation as follows:
(a)  it re-emphasizes the FYDP strategy for development of rural
areas and the informal sector because such development:
(i) is not demanding in terms of foreign exchange and
imported skills, and (ii) will provide goods and services
to low income groups;
(b)  the adoption of fiscal-monetary measures and wage policies
designed to contain domestic inflationary pressures; and
(c)  application of import restrictions and other balance of
payment measures which would prevent too heavy a loss of
foreign exchange.
2.04      The accelerated world inflation, including oil price increases, has
had a severe impact on Kenya's balance of payments. During 1974, the country
was able to absorb the drastic increase in its trade deficit without too
much disruption, but in 1975, owing to an even larger fall in the terms of
trade than experienced in 1974, its external position is expected to worsen
considerably. Prospects for the medium term suggest that the terms of trade
will continue to operate against Kenya until such times as the effects of the
restructuring policy, which the Government has, initiated, are felt. In the next
few years, the volume of imports that Kenya can afford, even wlith Increased
capital inflows from abroad, will be very limited and will have to be channelled
into high priority uses in order to maintain at least some momentum of growth.
The overall growth rate of the economy is likely to be lower than the 7.4%
originally forecast in the FYDP. Consequently, the original target of 4.8%
for expansion of modern sector employment warrants reassessment, both as to
overall level and sectoral composition. The projected needs for high and
medium level skilled manpower depicted in the previous paragraphs may be
overestimated and urban unemployment may be further aggravated. On the other
hand, agriculture and rural development will receive increased attention in
Government policies, hopefully leading to a somewhat better employment situa-
tion in the rural areas than forecast in the FYDP.
I/   See Glossary.



- 4 -
2.05      This accentuates the need for providing the human resources necessary
to support agriculture and rural development included in the Sessional Paper
as a major policy and, in view of this increased priority, re-examination of
the education sector in relation to manpower and relevant needs should be
undertaken at an early date. As indicated in the Appendix (paras. 12, 13
and 16), Kenya already has much of the infrastructure necessary for human
resource development.  Training institutions for high and middle level
agricultural manpower, established and/or improved with the assistance of
Bank Group educational projects, are expected to provide the required
personnel. The existing network of farmer training centers, also assisted
under Bank Group educational projects, covers all districts of the country
and is supplemented by district development centers, district training centers
and major functional literacy programs, assisted by various bilateral agencies.
On a "harambee" 1/ (self-help) basis, a large number of village polytechnics
for training in rural skills has been developed; they are being evaluated
by, and receiving support from, the Norwegian International Development
Agency. With assistance from USAID, an effective National Youth Service has
been established to provide on-the-job training for school leavers through
rural and infrastructure projects. Finally, health education and services
in rural areas are being considerably expanded as a part of a Bank Group
population project.
2.06.     In support of this well-developed infrastructure and also of the
Government's overall strategy for rural development (para. 2.01), the primar,y
school system needs reorienting so that children would, in addition to literacy,
numeracy and other conventional subjects, be taught basic rural and other
practical skills within the framework of a well-balanced program from which
all children could profit according to their ability. Improvement of the
schools, particularly rural primary schools, would enable them and their
teachers to become the main elements of village life and development. The
entire thrust of the proposed project described in Chapter IV is in support
of this objective.
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Evaluation of the Sector
3.01      Kenya's education and training sector is described in the Appendix
and basic data are given in Annex 2 and Charts 1, 2 and 3.
3.02      The FYDP highlights the major educational achievements during the
decade since independence as : (i) rapid expansion of educational opportuni-
ties at the primary and secondary levels; (ii) increased use of syllabuses
appropriate to local conditions; (iii) production in Kenya of textbooks and
other educational materials; (iv) establishment of secondary teacher education
programs; (v) introduction of applied subjects in secondary schools, with
1/   See Glossary.



associated teacher education programs, and of a supervisory service for
primary education; and (vi) major advances and rapid expansion in tertiary
education. During 1964-73, primary school enrollments doubled to a total
of 1.8 million, equivalent to 73% of the population aged 6 to 13, and
enrollments in secondary schools increased five-fold to about 175,000. Be-
tween 1967 and 1972 non-university teacher education enrollments increased by
nearly 50% to 8,700, secondary technical education by nearly 12% to 3,200
polytechnical education by nearly 60% to 3,600, enrollments in Nairobi
University increased by 15% to 3,800.
3.03      In primary schools, the number of teachers rose from 27,800 in 1964
to 56,500 in 1973 and the proportion of untrained teachers fell from 31% to
24%, whilst trained teachers with at least two years of secondary education
rose from 16% to 33%. The secondary schools stock of teachers rose from
4,600 in 1968 to 7,100 in 1972 of whom about 63% were qualified.
3.04      The Presidential decree of December 1973 abolishing fees in primary
schools caused primary enrollments to jump from 1.8 million in 1973 to 2.9
million in 1974, when enrollments in Standards 1-4 were greater than those
projected by the FYDP for 1978. This unplanned expansion necessitated the
employment of a greatly increased teaching force with a consequential sharp
rise in the number of unqualified teachers and recurrent expenditures. The
quality of education significantly deteriorated in 1974 and this trend will
have to be reversed if rural primary schools are to become a main element
in village development (para. 2.06).
3.05      Despite the expansion of the system, the distribution of basic
educational services is uneven: in 1973, while enrollments in primary schools
were equivalent to 73% of the relevant age group for the country as a whole,
enrollment ratios by province varied from 110% to barely 10% of the age group.
The greatly increased primary enrollment in 1974 will have helped to reduce
this imbalance, but detailed statistics indicating the latest enrollment ratios
by province are not yet available for analysis.
3.06      A further important consideration is that the educational system is
producing more secondary school leavers than can, under the present economic
and financial rewards system, be absorbed by the labor market and is equipping
students with aspirations and attitudes which are not in accord with the needs
of the economy. This imbalance between the education sector and the labor
market shows that major policy changes in education need to be promoted together
with policy changes in the economic and financial rewards system. The FYDP's
emphasis on rural development (para. 2.01) indicates that these changes are
being contemplated; in addition, the impact of the recent international
economic developments on Kenya may accelerate such changes (para. 2.03).
Therefore, the time appears particularly appropriate for a thorough policy
review in the educational sector.
Educational Policies and Plans
3.07      The FYDP calls for an overall review of the policies in the education
and training sector to be carried out by the NCEOP (para. 1.03) which would
evaluate the educational system, define a new set of goals for the second



- 6 -
decade of independence and formulate a program of action to implement these
goals. Its terms of reference enumerate the main tasks as: (a) to identify
the elements of the educational process which are significant in promoting
the nation's social, economic and cultural values, especially the development
of rural and remote areas; (b) to examine the relationship between the formal
educational system and the rate and pattern of economic growth; (c) to examine
the optimal structure and content of the first cycle of education and recommend
steps for its implementation; (d) to examine the relationship between the
training function of the formal educational system and other systems of
training; (e) to study the operation and management including the cost effec-
tiveness of the formal system of education; and (f) to recommend measures to
improve the Government's capacity to formulate, implement and control educa-
tional programs and associated capital costs and recurrent expenditures.
3.08      Achievement of the NCEOP's tasks will require considerable professional
backing, and the Government intends to give the Committee's work strong support
by providing a full range of technical and professional experience, both local
and foreign.
3.09      While the NCEOP will provide the long-term policy framework, short-
and medium-term policies are outlined in the FYDP; they reaffirm the Government's
commitment to the fundamental right of every child to have access to basic
education, and also ensure that higher and more specialized levels of education
and training are related to the nation's economic needs. During the FYDP
period, the Government will develop curricula, methods of teaching and associated
use of the media and modern teaching aids as well as techniques for pupil selec-
tion at the primary and secondary levels. Further, because qualified teachers
are expensive to train and their salaries absorb the major share of educational
expenditure, the Government intends to control closely the numbers and types
of teacher trainees and to maximize their subsequent development and utilization.
Reorientation of curricula, teaching methods and teacher training are expected
to focus on primary education to meet the objectives outlined in para. 2.06.
3.10      These are sound intentions but will be difficult to execute completely.
Crucial to the development and improvement of basic and primary education is
the Kenya Institute of Education (KIE) which is to be reorganized, modernized
and expanded to enable it to fulfill its varied functions. It is envisaged
that the KIE, which is active in preparing syllabuses, textbooks and educational
material, would be developed as the national professional center for the
primary teachers' colleges (PTCs) and would cooperate closely with the Govern-
ment's Schools Broadcasting Service whose programs are broadcast by the Voice
of Kenya (VOK). It is planned to develop the Schools Broadcasting Service
into a more comprehensive Educational Broadcasting and Multimedia Service
Station (EMS) to enable it to be more effective in its operations and in its
cooperation with KIE.
3.11      To complement the work of the KIE and EMS and to ensure their
effectiveness, each PTC would have a Learning Resource Center (LRC) (para.
4.04) and a Teachers' Advisory Center (TAC) which would act as links between
KIE and the teachers in primary schools and help train primary teachers in



teaching of practical subjects. Finally, the Primary School Equipment
Services would be strengthened to ensure timely distribution of teaching
materials, including tools for the rural programs.
3.12      At the secondary level only a moderate expansion in enrollments of
maintained schools is proposed by the FYDP, from 92,000 in 1973 to 112,000 in
1978. A "Harambee Package Program" would give qualitative help to 50 unaided
schools annually, and facilities for applied subjects in vocational agriculture,
industrial training, home science and business education are to be made avail-
able to a specified number of these schools. At the tertiary level, the FYDP
includes strict control of growth in university enrollment to accord with
labor market absorptive capacity.
Financing Educational Development
3.13      Educational developments on the scale envisaged in the FYDP would
generate heavy recurrent costs for education (Annex 3) and a continuance of
the present Ministry of Education policies, especially as regards the numbers,
grades and salaries of primary teachers, would result in recurrent expendi-
tures on education rising as follows:
K Shs million (constant prices)
Actual               Estimate
1973/4                1978/9
1.   Recurrent expenditures
on education                        800                 1,920
2.   Total government
recurrent expenditures            3,300                 4,660
3.   GDP at factor cost               15,400                19,654
4.   1-  2                               27%                  41%
5.   1 . 3                              5.2%                 9.8%
Source: Planning Unit of the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Finance and
Bank Group Staff estimates.
The 27% allocation of total Government recurrent expenditures to education in
1973/4 is a significantly higher proportion than are those of neighboring
East African countries which tend to range between 17% and 21%.
3.14      The Ministry of Finance and Planning has indicated that it will
be unable to support rising expenditures (13% p.a. during 1974/5 to 1978/9)
on the scale indicated above and that annual increases would have to be more
in line with the expected 7% p.a. increase of Government revenue. Within
this constraint, recurrent expenditures on education could be as follows
(Annex 4):



-8-
K Shs million (constant prices)
Actual               Estimate
1973/4                1978/9
1.   Recurrent expenditures
on education                        880                  1,500
2.   Total Government recurrent
expenditures                      3,300                 4,660
3.   GDP at factor cost               15,400                 19,654
4.   1 i 2                              27%                     32%
5.   1 t 3                             5.2%                    7.7%
Source:  Planning Unit of the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Finance
and Bank Group Staff estimates.
3.15      In order to keep within these recurrent expenditures, the Government
has agreed on a set of far-reaching measures whose application would reduce
the rate of growth of recurrent expenditures so that, by 1980, no more than
34% of total Government recurrent expenditures would be devoted to education.
The measures have been incorporated in a Sessional Paper (para. 2.03) which
has been considered and approved by the legislature. Since approval of the
Sessional Paper, further measures to limit recurrent expenditures on education
to 29% of total Government recurrent expenditures have been planned; chlef of
these is a scheme limiting the promotion rate of primary school teachers and
applying quotas for each grade of teachers in Government service.
3.16      Because most capital expenditures are financed from multi- and
bilateral aid sources and on a harambee basis, Ministry of Education capital
expenditures on education (Annex 5) are relatively small (about 10% of recur-
rent expenditures) and therefore are not a major problem. However, new schools
and colleges are heavy generators of recurrent expenditures (on average, annual
recurrent costs would be about 20% of capital costs) and therefore this matter
will require the special attention of the NCEOP.
3.17      The essential long-term planning, implicit in the Sessional Paper,
would be carried out by the NCEOP whose terms of reference have been commented
on by the Bank and found satisfactory. The Government has confirmed that they
will develop a plan of operation in consultation with the Bank and will include
a terminal date by which the work of the NCEOP will be finalized.
3.18      To meet the priority objective of improving primary education without
increasing recurrent costs significantly, the Government, in collaboration with
Bank staff, has prepared a project as described in the next chapter.



- 9 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The proposed project would have as its principal objectives:
(i) qualitative improvement of primary school teachers made possible through
provision of facilities to enable teachers to be more proficiently trained to
teach not only conventional subjects, but especially agricultural and other
practical subjects; and (ii) development of the National Committee on
Educational Objectives and Priorities so that a realistic long-range plan for
development of the education and training sector could be expeditiously
prepared. Objective (i) would be promoted by (a) developing the Kenya Insti-
tute of Education to enable it assume a leading role in improving primary
teachers' colleges and hence the primary schools; (b) developing 17 primary
teachers' colleges; (c) improving educational broadcasting and multimedia
services; and (d) strengthening primary school equipment services. The
project items would consist of:
(i) Buildings, furniture and equipment for the following
new facility:
-    One Educational Broadcasting and Multimedia
Service Station (EMS)
(ii) Equipment for, improvements to and rebuilding, where
required, of the following teaching facilities:
Approximate Number of Student Places
Type of Institution            Existing      Additional      Total
Kenya Institue of
Education                             0            40          40
Seventeen Primary
Teachers' Colleges
(PTCs)                           8,260          1,640        9,900
TOTALS            8,260         1,680        9,940
(iii)  Buildings, furniture and equipment for the following to support
improvements in primary schools:
-    Primary School Equipment Services to include new,
or extensions to, stores in about 20 districts
and 41 vehicles
-    Examinations Research and Development Unit



- 10 -
(iv) The cost of specialists' services and fellowships for:
(a) development of the KIE; (b) the Educational
Broadcasting and Multimedia Service Station; (c) the
Examinations Research and Development Unit; (d) the
Project Unit; and (e) the NCEOP.
(v) Support for the NCEOP to meet general operational
costs.
The project's 17 PTCs would have their student capacity increased by 1,640
places to 9,900 places but these new places would be used principally by
in-service teachers attending short courses to improve their professional
experience; accordingly, the numbers attending courses annually would be
several multiples of the new places provided. Similarly, the 40 places
provided at the KIE would be used intensively for in-service training of the
staffs of PTCs. About 1,600 boarding places at the PTCs and 40 at the KIE
would also be provided.
Project Items
4.02      The Kenya Institute of Education is designed to unify and expand the
services concerned with curriculum development and support to teacher educa-
tion, to improve the quality of curriculum materials and to provide for the
systematic upgrading of teacher educators and professional officers responsible
for new approaches and modern uses of the media. Being centrally located under
Ministry of Education control, it is the national professional center for
primary teacher education and as such has a role of prime importance. The
execution of the Government's policy to reorient primary education, develop
supporting teaching methods and evaluate the programs would be included in
the duties of the KIE.
4.03      The KIE has been in operation for ten years, and during this period
it has concentrated on developing syllabuses and school textbooks and has
acquired skills which now enable it to address itself to innovation. Present
considerations of economy dictate a careful approach to learning objectives
and to educational evaluation; expected outcomes of learning must be defined
in operational terms, and activities which lead towards them carefully pres-
cribed, together with the resource materials, including multimedia, which
provide the basis for student assignments. A systematic approach is especially
important in the introduction of rural-oriented practical subjects in primary
education.
4.04      Strengthening of the KIE to make this important shift in approach
and thereby gear itself for the training of teacher educators, supervisors
and administrators, is of high priority. Necessary support for the KIE is as
follows: (a) the provision of a Learning Resource Center (LRC) coupled with
a microteaching 1/ unit; (b) adapting the present library to seminar premises;
1/  Microteaching involves the use of closed circuit television and/or video-
tape recordings. Closed circuit television facilitates a running comment-
ary on a teacher's live performance to a group of trainees and the video-
tape recording enables the teacher subsequently to review his performance.



- 11 -
(c) renovating of existing premises to provide residential accommodation for
40 workshop participants; and (d) provision of four man-years of technical
assistance and three man-years of fellowships (para. 4.16).
4.05      The LRC would house the existing library, the full range of KIE's
publications and an expanded collection of professional materials and textbooks
relating to curriculum development and teacher education. In addition, under
a common system of cataloguing, it would provide non-book materials in the
form of slides, strips, sound and videotapes as well as cards, charts and
other pictorial materials. Much of this latter material would originate in
the Educational Broadcasting and Multimedia Service Station (EMS) (para. 4.07);
but a small production area within the LRC would enable workshop participants
to add to, as well as use, the non-book collection.
4.06      The KIE would be the main center and stimulus for systematic workshop
activity in which curriculum production and in-service training are joint
objectives. The Institute would be responsible for evaluating the effectiveness
of new curricula and teaching methods and make both formative and summative
evaluation studies. The former focuses on the assessment of new educational
processes while they are being introduced in the system with a view to opti-
mizing their impact. The latter consists in assessing a posteriori new
programs and teaching methods after they have been introduced in the system
in order to formulate recommendations to the Ministry of Education as to their
improvement. As the principal aim of the Government is the qualitative
improvement of basic and primary education (para. 3.09), the KIE would give
highest priority to the evaluation of the new primary education curricula and
to training courses for primary school teachers as well as to the effectiveness
of educational broadcasting, particularly as it effects educational services
in remote areas. This aim has been confirmed by the Government and, in addition,
the Government has provided an assurance that the evaluation methodology will
be discussed with the Bank and that, from time to time, it will exchange views
with the Bank on the findings of KIE evaluation studies.
4.07      The new Educational Broadcasting and Multimedia Service Station (EMS)
would be built on a site adjacent to the KIE thus facilitating the essential
co-operation between the two units. The present Schools Broadcasting Service
operated by the Voice of Kenya (VOK) would be absorbed by the new EMS, but
broadcasting would continue to be the responsibility of the VOK who, when the
need justifies, plans to allocate a radio channel for the exclusive use of
the EMS. The project would also include 9,000 radio receivers and 9,000
cassette playback machines for use in schools; maintenance servicing facili-
ties would be organized by EMS.
4.08      Apart from its links with the formal education system, the EMS
would have, as one of its major activities, the development of nonformal
education and training programs in such fields as functional literacy and
support to extension workers and advisory services for farmers.



- 12 -
4.09      The seventeen existing Primary Teachers' Colleges would each have
the addition of a LRC and microteaching facilities; both these facilities
would be complementary to those proposed at KIE (para. 4.04). In-service
teachers from surrounding primary schools would use the LRC as their center
for professional guidance where they would be able to attend courses to
update their knowledge in innovative techniques and methodology. The staff
of the LRCs would regularly visit primary schools to give on-the-spot
assistance to teachers, particularly the under-qualified and newly appointed.
To facilitate the essential travel associated with the operational work,
appropriate vehicles are included in the project cost.
4.10      The 17 PTCs would also be brought up to a uniform standard by
including facilities to enable teachers to be trained in basic practical
subjects such as simple agriculture, domestic science, use of simple hand
tools and application of elementary scientific principles as well as the
fundamentals of rural development to equip them to become community and
village leaders (para. 2.06).
4.11      Very few Kenyan primary school teachers have been trained in agri-
cultural subjects or rural crafts. To help rectify this weakness, the 1640
additional students places, included in the proposed project at the 17 PTCs,
would primarily be used for a program of accelerated rural development courses
for these teachers. Each college could operate three 3-month courses annually;
thus, at least one teacher from each of the country's 8,000 primary schools
could receive training every two years. This program, in conjunction with
the regular program of teacher training, would result in a gradual increase in
the number of teachers able to make a significant impact on village develop-
ment (para. 2.06). Teacher trainers for the PTCs are being trained at Egerton
College in agricultural subjects and at the Kenya Polytechnic in other prac-
tical subjects. From these sources an adequate supply of teacher trainers
for practical subjects is assured.
4.12      The Primary School Equipment Services would be strengthened under the
proposed project to enable regular and prompt delivery of essential textbooks,
stationery, equipment and visual aid materials--including the requirements for
teaching practical subjects--to be made to Kenya's primary schools. At 1975
prices, the value of goods to be delivered annually is about US$5.0 million
equivalent, but because of a shortage of strategically sited stores
and transport vehicles, severe logistical problems exist and deliveries to
schools are often too late for effectiveness.
4.13      Under the present organization, Government places orders with sup-
pliers who deliver to a Central Store in Nairobi from where the Government,
either in its own or hired vehicles, distributes to 39 district headquarters
who in turn deliver to schools. Weaknesses in the system often result in some
schools, especially those in the more remote rural areas, being starved of
supplies, even though the supplies may be available in Nairobi. To overcome
these weaknesses, the following steps are proposed under the project: (i) new,
or extensions to, stores would be built in about 20 districts; (ii) forty-one
vehicles would be provided for the stores and for the Nairobi Central Store



- 13 -
to enable delivery of goods to be expedited and to eliminate the expensive
hiring of private vehicles. Simple materials handling equipment would also
be provided; and (iii) to ensure the smooth and orderly flow of goods from
the Nairobi Central Store to the districts and schools, a thorough scientific
and orderly reorganization of the system is needed. For this purpose the
British Council is recruiting an expert in logistics and materials handling
who would stay in Kenya for two years, study the problem and put into effect
his recommendations.
4.14      Successful implementation of these proposals would enable complete
coverage of all Kenya's primary schools, particularly those in remote areas,
who, because they are often situated in unfavorable terrain and due to a lack
of suitable vehicles, are severely handicapped by a shortage of supplies.
4.15      Technical Assistance and Fellowships.  (Annexes 6 and 7)  To ensure
availability of key personnel, provision for 36 man-years of technical assis-
tance is included in the proposed project and, to provide training of counter-
parts, 10 man-years of fellowships are also included.
4.16      In view of the importance attached to the development of the KIE,
two experts each for two years are proposed; one would assist and advise the
Institute's director and the other would have prime responsibility for
development of the LRC. Fellowships of three man-years would enable counter-
parts to be trained.
4.17      Because of a shortage of suitably technically qualified staff in
Kenya, four experts each for two years would be required for the ENS. Three
of them would respectively head the (a) audio production, (b) visual produc-
tion, and (c) utilization, research and training, whilst the fourth would be
an engineer suitably experienced in installation, usage and maintenance of
appropriate electronic equipment. These experts, in conjunction with those
in the Project Unit (para. 4.20), would also assess the development require-
ments of the EMS, e.g., the possible need for a channel to be devoted exclu-
sively to educational programs as well as the optimum timing for its implemen-
tation. Five man-years of fellowships to train counterparts on courses overseas
on educational broadcasting systems are an essential part of the proposal.
4.18      As part of the Government's policy of making instruction in schools
more relevant to present and future needs, an Examinations Research and
Development Unit is being set up in the Ministry of Education. Its tasks
will include: (a) continuous evaluation of examinations, including analysis
of the effectiveness of individual items in the light of both the interests
of terminal students and the need to select students for continuing education;
(b) the construction of tests which will not give advantages to particular
groups of students; and (c) the improvement of the technical aspects of ex-
aminations such as weighting of scores for different subjects and standardiza-
tion for age and other factors. For the Unit, five professionals are to be
recruited, of whom two should be from overseas and are included in the proposed
project; they should have research and statistical experience relevant to the
duties to be performed by the Unit; for the training of counterparts, two man-
years of fellowships are also included.



- 14 -
4.19      The important work of the NCEOP (para. 3.17) would be supported
by the inclusion of two man-years of specialist services to reinforce the
Committee's secretariat. To facilitate the smooth operation of the
secretariat and to help the general work of the Comnittee, a sum of US$28,000
equivalent is included in the proposed project to support general operational
expenses.
4.20      To facilitate project implementation, the Ministry of Education's
Project Unit would be assisted by 11 man-years of technical assistance, details
of which are given in para. 5.09. The Unit would be further assisted by an
additional six man-years of specialist services, so that, as a follow-up to
the recommendations of the NCEDP, future projects could be developed and
prepared.
V. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Cost Estimates
5.01      Construction cost estimates have been derived from costs obtained
following recent competitive bidding in the second Bank Group education pro-
ject. The average cost per square meter in Nairobi is estimated at about
US$154 which takes into account recent cost increases, primarily higher
prices of materials. The schedules of accommodation are economical and
appropriate to student enrollments, and facilities for the KIE and EMS have
been designed having regard to the academic and technical purposes they are
to serve. Estimates of equipment and furniture costs are also based on
recent information obtained during implementation of the second Bank Group
education project. The estimated costs and foreign exchange component of
the various parts of the project are given in Annex 8 and summarized below:



- 15 -
Details and Costing of Proposed Third Education Project by Item
K Sh (Millions)          US$ (Millions)         % of
Local  Foreign Total    Local  Foreign Total    Total
1. Extension to Kenya
Institute of
Education                   2.09    1.29   3.38       0.29    0.18   0.47         4
2. One new Educational
Broadcasting and
Multimedia Services
Center                      4.15   14.06  18.21       0.59    1.97   2.56        20
3. Extensions to 17
existing Primary
Teachers' Colleges         25.26   26.86  52.12       3.53    3.77   7.30        56
4. New or extensions to
about 20 Stores for
Primary School
Equipment Services
and equipment to
existing Central
Store in Nairobi            2.69    3.95   6.64       0.38    0.55   0.93         7
5. Examinations Research
and Development Unit        0.01    0.07   0.08           -    0.01   0.01        -
6. National Committee
on Educational
Objectives and
Priorities                  0.12    0.08   0.20       0.02    0.01   0.03         -
7.  Technical Assistance         1.90    7.60   9.50      0.27    1.06   1.33        10
8. Project Administration
including equipment          1.97    0.49   2.46      0.27    0.07   0.34         3
TOTAL BASELINE COST             38.19   54.40  92.59       5.35    7.62  12.97      100
(September 1975)
9. Contingencies:
Unforeseen events (7%)   3.31    3.32   6.63        0.46    0.47   0.93
Estimated price
increase          (32%)  13.76   15.54  29.30       1.93    2.17   4.10
Total Contingencies      17.07   18.86  35.93       2.39    2.64   5.03
TOTAL PROJECT COST              55.26   73.26 128.52       7.74   10.26  18.00



-16 -
5.02      Customs Duties and Taxes.  All items specifically imported for the
proposed project would be exempt from direct customs duties and taxes in line
with the practice of the Kenya Government to grant customs and tax exemption
to imports for educational purposes. Some of the building material to be used
by contractors for use in construction of the proposed project's institutions
would be acquired on the open market and accordingly would have been subject
to customs duties and/or taxes. Of the estimated costs, about US$0.60 million
would represent customs duties and/or taxes.
5.03      Contingency Allowances.  Physical contingencies add 10% to the cost
of civil works and professional services and 5% to instructional equipment,
furniture, technical assistance and project administration or 7% of base line
cost in September 1975. Estimated price increases are based upon the follow-
ing annual rates for which price escalation has been calculated from the base
cost date (September 1975) in accordance with the implementation schedule
shown in Annex 9:
Furniture            Professional Services,
civil              and               technical assistance
Year            Works           Equipment            and project administration
1975             16%                12%                          7-1/2%
1976             14%                10%                          7-1/2%
1977-79          12%                 8%                          7-1/2%
1980             10%                 7%                          7-1/2%
5.04      The Foreign Exchange Component of US$10.26 million has been calcu-
lated as follows: (i) civil works and furniture, 30%; (ii) instructional
equipment, 90%; (iii) professional services, 60%; (iv) technical assistance,
80%; and (v) project administration and operational costs, 20%. The US$10.26
million represents 57% of the project cost of US$18.00 million (including
contingencies and taxes).
The Financial Plan
5.05      The total project cost of US$18.00 million would be financed as
follows:



- 17 -
US $ million
Kenya                 IBRD              Total
Category                     Government              Loan             Project
1.   Civil works               3.90                   1.70             5.60
2.   Furniture
and Equipment            1.12                  4.50             5.62
3.   Technical
assistance               0.23                   1.10              1.33
4.   Project
administration,
operational costs and
professional services   0.12                    0.30              0.42
5.   Contingencies             2.63                   2.40             5.03
Total                    8.00                  10.00            18.00
Of which taxes            0.60                   -                0.60
5.06      The recurrent expenditures generated by the project would be about
K Shs 11.0 million, i.e., under 0.3% of the projected recurrent expenditures
on education in 1978/79 as the project places emphasis on reorientation and
quality improvement of the system rather than on expansion of enrollment.
The recurrent cost of the project would therefore have negligible impact on
educational recurrent expenditure (para. 3.14).
Project Implementation
5.08      The project would be implemented in about six years after loan effec-
tiveness (Annexes 9 and 10) including six months for completion of payments
and withdrawals from the Loan Account.
5.09      Administration.  The existing Project Unit in the Ministry of Educa-
tion which implemented the first Bank Group education project and is implement-
ing the second project would be responsible for the proposed third project;
the Unit would work in close collaboration with the Ministry of Works who have
prime responsibility for construction of civil works in Kenya. To ensure
availability of key personnel, provision for 11 man-years of technical assis-
tance is included in the proposed project to cover the cost of an equipment
specialist for two years for the Project Unit and an architect for five years
and an engineer for four years for the Ministry of Works. An assurance has
been obtained from the Government that staff as indicated in Annex 7 would be
provided for the Project Unit and the Ministry of Works and maintained through-
out the period of project implementation.



- 18 -
5.10      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  For the design,
preparation of construction documents and supervision of all construction,
except the EMS, the services of the Ministry of Works would be utilized. Be-
cause of the specialized nature of the EMS, the relevant work would be done by
consultants selected and appointed on terms and conditions mutually agreeable
to the Borrower and the Bank.
5.11      Standardized designs already used for the first and second Bank
Group education projects would be used for the proposed project and modified
in the light of experience to incorporate maximum use of local labor and ma-
terials. Satisfactory sites are available and owned by the Government for all
proposed project items.
Procurement
5.12      Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and imported con-
struction materials would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement except as
follows: (i) civil works costing less than US$200,000 equivalent each; (ii)
furniture and equipment contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; and
(iii) locally procured construction materials and transportation services.
Contracts for items i-iii would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank.
5.13      Sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists of construc-
tion materials, furniture and equipment would be reviewed by the Bank. Review
of tender evaluation documents for civil works by the Bank prior to award
would be required only for contracts above US$200,000 equivalent; for equip-
ment, furniture and construction materials, review prior to award would not
be required for contracts less than US$50,000 equivalent. Domestic manufac-
turers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a preference of 15% or
the existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price
of competing foreign suppliers. Qualified domestic civil works contractors
would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2% over bid prices of competing
foreign contractors.
Disbursement (Annex 10)
5.14      Disbursements, would be on the basis of:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported construction
materials, furniture, equipment, including vehicles
and technical assistance;
(b) 100% of ex-factory cost or 70% of local expenditures
for locally procured furniture and equipment;



- 19 -
(c) 70% of local expenditures for project administration,
operational costs and local transportation of
equipment, materials and furniture;
(d) 70X of local expenditures for technical assistance
and professional services; and
(e)  30% of total expenditures for civil works.
Disbursement would be fully documented except for (c), disbursements for which
would be made on the basis of a certificate of expenditure documentation for
which would not be submitted to the Bank, but retained by the Borrower and
available for review in the course of project supervision. Upon agreement
between the Government and the Bank, any funds remaining on completion of the
project would be used for other project related items. The project would be
implemented in about six years (Annex 9) after loan effectiveness with a
proposed Closing Date of December 31, 1981.
5.15      Retroactive Financing.  Because of the urgent need for the NCEOP
to be formed and its work promptly started, retroactive reimbursement is
recommended for the NCEOP for (a) the services of a consultant or consultants
to reinforce the Secretariat and (b) general operational and office expenses.
This would speed up planning work by up to six months. Retroactive reimburse-
ment should cover expenditures from October 1, 1975. The amount of expendi-
tures before the date of the Loan Agreement is not expected to exceed US$40,000
equivalent, of which US$30,000 equivalent would be eligible for reimbursement.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Primary school enrollments over the last four years have doubled to
over three million of which over one million children represent the increase
from 1973 to 1974. This enrollment explosion has inevitably resulted in a
significant lowering of standards particularly in the teaching force which
was unavoidably diluted by the emergency recruitment of many untrained teachers.
However, the Government is determined that this lowering of standards will be
but a temporary phase in the country's expansion of basic and primary educa-
tion; consequently, the proposed project has been designed as a well-integrated
program to promote not only a general qualitative improvement, but more sig-
nificantly, a reorientation of basic education from its traditional role of
preparing the few best pupils for entry to secondary schools, to one of pro-
viding a well-balanced education for pupils of varying ability to develop their
talents for diverse employment opportunities, especially those in rural areas.
6.02      Within the overall leadership of the KIE (paras. 4.02-4.06) and in
close cooperation with the EMS (para. 4.07), the improved PTCs (paras. 4.09-
4.11) would provide the necessary comprehensive facilities to provide teachers



- 20 -
with instruction in the latest teaching techniques which would emphasize
practical application to rural development. So that the schools would be
equipped to provide the teachers with vital supporting material, the improved
Primary School Equipment Services (paras. 4.12-4.14) would ensure that relevant
teaching materials are received by the schools in a properly phased sequence.
6.03      In statistical terms, the inclusion of the above items under the
proposed project would give the following benefits: (a) by the improvement
of the 17 PTCs, provide facilities for in-service courses for about 6,000
primary teachers p.a., and so would gradually reduce the number of unqualified
teachers which was about 30,000 or 39% of the teaching force in 1974; and (b)
by development of the EMS and Primary School Equipment Services, over three
million primary school children and 77,000 teachers in 8,000 schools would
benefit from the use of modernized media supported by appropriately designed
and delivered equipment and books. The EMS would have a wide educational and
training role, for it would broadcast programs for all sections of the com-
munity.
6.04      Technical assistance, supported by fellowships, would give vital
support to local staff in project implementation, particularly for the EMS
and Project Unit. Support for the Project Unit to ensure its high operational
efficiency is vital to facilitate execution of the project and so reduce the
effect of cost increases which would become substantial with delays in project
implementation.
6.05      Probably the most vital long-term impact which the proposed project
could make on Kenya would emerge from the technical assistance and financial
support proposed for the NCEOP. The outcome of the Committee's work, follow-
ing its comprehensive review of the existing education and training sector, is
envisaged as a plan for its development during the next decade which would take
due account, not only of social aspirations and manpower needs, but also of
financial constraints which are likely to be a feature of the Kenyan economy
in the foreseeable future.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      The Government has provided assurances on the following principal
points:
(a) the plan of operation of the NCEOP and the program of
evaluation of the KIE (paras. 3.17 and 4.06); and
(b) the strengthening of the Project Unit (para. 5.09).



- 21 -
7.02      Retroactive reimbursement is recomended for the NCEOP for (a) the
services of a consultant or consultants who vould reinforce the Secretariat
and (b) general operational and office expenses (para. 5.15).
7.03      Subject to the conditions above, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of US$10 million to the Republic of Kenya
for a term of 25 years including a ten year grace period.






APPENDIX
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
The Educational System
Structure
1.        The educational system has a 7-4-2 structure (Chart 1).  The seven
years of primary education (Standards 1 to 7) lead to the Certificate of
Primary Education (CPE), the four years of lower secondary (Forms 1 to 4) to
the East African Certificate of Education (School Certificate), and the two
years of upper secondary (Forms 5 and 6) to the East African Advanced Certi-
ficate of Education (Higher School Certificate). The East African Certificate
gives access to two- and three-year certificate and diploma courses for teachers
and technicians. A Higher School Certificate is required for entrance to the
undergraduate programs at the University of Nairobi. Unaided schools, which
are either private or community self-help (harambee), accounted for less than
1% of primary enrollments but for 43% of secondary enrollments in 1973/4.
Administration
2.        Administrative responsibilities are divided between various minis-
tries, quasi-government bodies and voluntary agencies. The Ministry of Education
is responsible for most of the formal system (Chart 3). The Ministry of Labor
directs the National Industrial Vocational Training Centers and the National
Youth Service and oversees vocational training carried out by private agencies
such as the National Council of Churches of Kenya; the Ministry of Cooperatives
and Social Services is responsible for Village Polytechnics, the Cooperative
College and adult education; the Ministry of Health is in charge of medical
assistant and nurse training; the Ministry of Commerce trains artisans at the
Kenya Industrial Training Institute; the Ministries of Works, Information and
Broadcasting, Tourism, and Natural Resources have various training schemes as
does the East African Power and Lighting Company. The East African Community
runs railways, harbors, airways, and post and telecommunication training
schools. The Directorate of Personnel (President's Office) operates Secre-
tarial Colleges and the Kenya Institute of Administration. The Ministry of
Agriculture has responsibility for a range of comprehensive agricultural
courses which are detailed in para. 13 below.
Educational Planning
3.        As part of the second Bank Group education project, an educational
planning unit was established within the Ministry of Education. The unit's
chief officers comprise a director, an economist, a social demographer and an
educational planner. The unit reports to the Deputy Director for Development
and Planning and its possible influence on decision-making, both at the highest
level in the Ministry and among Ministries, is therefore appreciable. The



APPENDIX
Page 2
Unit has assisted the Inter-ministerial Planning Committee in the prep4ation
of the educational chapter for the Five-Year Development Plan, 1974-78 (FYDP).
Primary Education
4.        Enrollments in primary education increased from 1,042,000 in 1966 to
1,816,000 in 1973 or by 8.4% p.a. (Chart 2 and Annex 2). The enrollment as
percentage of the appropriate age group was estimated at 60% in 1966 and 73%
in 1973 (unadjusted for over-age students). Free primary education introduced
by a Presidential decree in December 1973 for Standards 1 to 4, caused, in
1974, a sudden increase in overall primary enrollment to 2,919,000. Previous
to 1974, there were large differences in enrollments among provinces. Whereas
over 100% of the age group was enrolled in the Central Province in 1972, the
figure was only 11% for the Northeastern Province. The Government aims at
eliminating these differences as rapidly as possible, and the large enrollments
of 1974 will have gone some way to achieve this. As a result of inability
to pay fees, the facilities in some provinces, previous to 1974, were
under-utilized, and certain tribes showed little enthusiasm in having their
children attend school. In 1972, average class sizes for districts varied
from 19 to 50.  The boys:girls ratio was 58:42 in 1971; this has changed to
56:44 in 1973. Dropout rates are high but retention rates have increased to
60% from 30% in the early 1960's. In 1972 the repetition rate was 14% in
Standard 7. Many students repeat voluntarily, striving to raise their grades
to qualify for places in secondary schools. Secondary school places are
limited; about 14% (26,000) of primary certificate holders entered Government
and assisted secondary schools in 1973. About 18% (33,000) entered harambee
secondary schools while the rest either repeat or enter the labor market.
5.        A new curriculum for primary education was adopted in 1967 with
increased emphasis on natural sciences and practical subjects.  The vernacu-
lar is the teaching language in the lower standards and English is taught as
a subject.  Much effort has been directed to the improvement of English which
is the teaching medium in secondary and higher education.
6.        The qualifications of primary teachers have gradually improved.
While 65% were qualified in 1966, 78% were qualified in 1973. However, the
Planning Unit doubts whether the quality of education itself has improved
correspondingly; firstly, because primary teachers with the highest qualifi-
cations are often school certificate holders who were frustrated by failing
to gain access to higher education, and therefore take less interest in
teaching than experienced career teachers with lower qualifications and
secondly, because teachers often cannot implement new and improved methods of
instruction due to lack of equipment, particularly in rural schools. Further-
more, as a result of the rapid increase in enrollment which has followed the
elimination of fees in Standards 1 to 4, the proportion of unqualified
teachers is expected to increase for many years to come.



APPENDIX
Page 3
Secondary Education
7.        There are three types of secondary schools:  maintained schools
which are completely financed with Government funds; assisted schools which
receive the major part of their financing from the Government and the remain-
der from voluntary agencies; unaided or harambee schools which receive no
Government financial assistance.
8.        Enrollment in secondary education increased at an annual rate of
about 18% from 63,200 in 1966 to 175,000 in 1973. About 5% of the appropriate
age group received secondary education in 1966, whereas the percentage was
about 12% in 1973. The rapid growth in secondary education is caused mainly
by the uncontrolled proliferation of harambee schools. Secondary education is
now offered in 919 schools against 400 in 1966. The new schools started with
few exceptions as harambee schools but once the schools are built the Govern-
ment is usually pressed to take them over but finds it difficult, for politi-
cal reasons, to refuse to do so. The unchecked secondary school expansion
has lowered the quality of teaching and the proportion of qualified teachers
has decreased from 72% in 1966 to 64% in 1973, simultaneously with an increase
in student:teacher ratio. The teaching staff numbered 7,600 in 1973 with
about 85% Kenyans. Student boarding increased from 40% of enrollments in
1966 to 46% in 1971.
9.        Secondary education is overly literary and some is irrelevant in the
Kenya context. But the Government is broadening the curriculum, training
teachers in new subjects and new methods, preparing new syllabuses and teaching
materials, and persuading staff, parents and pupils to accept the changes.
One of the main purposes of the first Bank Group education project was to pro-
vide facilities for courses in vocational subjects in junior secondary educa-
tion. The project has recently been evaluated by the Bank. The evaluation
shows that the introduction of home economics and commerce courses has been
fairly successful but industrial and agricultural courses less so; in parti-
cular, agricultural equipment is sometimes not appropriate to local farming
conditions, especially small holdings. The Government is aware of this prob-
lem and is making an effort to improve the situation; the agricultural courses
are to be expanded and made more relevant to rural needs.  Diversification of
the secondary school curriculum is highly important since the attitudes and
expectations generated by the old conventional educational system are incom-
patible with the opportunities the economy can provide. Thus, serious unem-
ployment has been generated in recent years among secondary Form 4 and more
recently among secondary Form 6 leavers.
Teacher Training
10.       There were 21 primary teachers' colleges with an enrollment of 8,175
in 1973. The Ministry of Education has reduced the number of colleges from
30 in 1966 and a further consolidation into 17 larger and more efficient
colleges will take place as part of the second and proposed third Bank Group
education projects. Candidates for primary teaching certificates enter



APPENDIX
Page 4
specified courses depending on their educational background. Teachers in the
highest category, P1, have an EACE plus two years teacher training. The next
category, P2 teachers, also have four years secondary education, but no
certificate, plus two years teacher training. P3 teachers have a Certificate
of Primary Education plus two years teacher training. Output from primary
teacher colleges rose from 2,400 in 1966 to 3,112 in 1973. In addition, some
980 unqualified teachers were being upgraded in 1973 through in-service courses
to P3 status. The rising unemployment among school leavers has led to an
increased demand for teacher college places.
11.       General secondary school teachers are trained at the University of
Nairobi, Kenyatta University College and the Kenya Science Teachers College.
Teachers for secondary agricultural and commercial subjects are trained at
Egerton College and Kenya Polytechnic, respectively. Teachers who graduate
from the University of Nairobi are called "graduate teachers". S1 teachers
produced at Kenyatta University College and the Kenya Science Teachers
College either have EACE plus three years of teacher training or EAACE plus
two years of teacher training. Annual output of secondary teachers is about
600 of whom 200 are graduates.
Technical Education
12.       In 1973, 3,525 boys were enrolled in the Ministry of Education's
nine Secondary Technical Schools in courses of four years' duration. In the
previous year (1972), 1,011 students successfully completed courses. At the
post-secondary level, 3,711 students, many sponsored by employers, were en-
rolled in the Kenya (Nairobi) and Mombasa Polytechnics, in courses of up to
five years' duration. Meanwhile other Ministries and parastatal or voluntary
bodies carry out their own vocational and technical training programs at
varying levels. The Ministry of Commerce operates the Kenya Industrial Train-
ing Institute (KITI) at Nakuru. In 1972 only 80 students were enrolled full
time, but, according to the FYDP, since 1965, KITI has given training to 4,000
artisans, of whom, it is estimated, 23% have become self-employed. The Minis-
try of Labor is establishing National Industrial Vocational Training Centers
(NIVTCs) in the other three main urban areas of Kenya: Nairobi, Mombasa and
Kisumu. Training is carried out on an apprenticeship basis with time divided
between institutional, in-plant, and day-release tuition; many of the trainees
are graduates of the secondary technical schools of the Ministry of Education.
The first NIVTC, at Nairobi, had 712 trainees in 1973, giving each an average
training of only seven weeks duration (a minimum of two and a maximum of thir-
teen weeks depending on the subject). The Ministry of Cooperatives and
Social Services operates the Cooperative College, Langata, near Nairobi for
training its cooperative officers, and also 22 District Training Centers
for training lower cadres of local governments: chiefs, community development
workers, youth leaders and nursery school teachers. The first harambee
(self-help) Institute of Science and Technology at Kiambu enrolled its first
75 students for a three-year course in 1973. The objective is to turn out



APPENDIX
Page 5
"self-starter" builders who have both the technical and economic skills to
initiate, design and execute construction projects. Entrants are secondary
school leavers from all provinces.  Twelve other harambee institutes are in
early stages of planning or construction. In recent years (1970-73), the
Trade Tests operated by the Ministry of Labor have been taken by over 25,000
people in mechanical, building, woodwork, electrical, tailoring, shoemaking
and other trades.  In 1973, the pass rates at Forms 1, 2 and 3 were 41%,
51% and 56%, respectively.
Agricultural Education
13.       There are over 30 Farmer Training Centers (FTC) which give short
courses for small-scale farmers and their wives; four new FTCs are under con-
struction as a part of the second Bank Group education project. In addition,
two other FTCs give one-year courses for 510 large-scale farm managers. The
Embu and Bukura Institutes of Agriculture offer two-year, post-secondary ag-
riculture and home economics courses with an enrollment of 500 men and women.
The Animal Health and Industry Training Institute at Kabete with a capacity
for 310 trainees, gives two-year certificate courses for animal health assis-
tants and range assistants, as well as a variety of short courses in special
subjects. Egerton College offers three-year diploma courses in agriculture,
animal husbandry and allied subjects for 620 students. Graduates from the
aforementioned institutes usually seek employment with the Ministry of Agri-
culture, but due to severe budgetary constraints have difficulty in obtaining
jobs. At the University of Nairobi 120 and 180 students, respectively, are
enrolled at the Faculties of Agriculture and Veterinary Sciences for degree
courses. Other training programs include a Dairy Training School, a Farm
Mechanization Training Scheme and in-service training for extension staff.
A recent survey of the extensive network of nonformal and formal agricultural
technical training outside the direct purview of the Ministry of Education
found that 3,922 out of a total 5,618 intake places required an entry quali-
fication of secondary general or technical/vocational education; another
1,247 required primary education.
University Education
14.       During the 1970-74 Plan period development objectives for the
University of Nairobi were generally exceeded: new faculties were established
and older ones extended; enrollment expectations were surpassed. Out of a
total Kenya enrollment of 3,913 in 1973, 43% were following various science,
engineering or agriculture courses. When Kenyan enrollments at Makerere Uni-
versity, Kampala, Dar es Salaam University, and Kenyatta University College
are added, the total figure for enrollment in 1973 was 4,916.  Employment for
most categories of university graduates are reasonably good but future pros-
pects depend on the future rate of expansion of the economy and the policy of
Kenyanization of posts occupied by expatriates. One hundred fifty two scholar-
ships were awarded to Kenyans in 1973 to study overseas, but the total number
of such students abroad is much higher. University students receiving Govern-
ment financial assistance are "bonded" to three years Government employment.



APPENDIX
Page 6
Training in Public Administration
15.       The Directorate of Personnel Management (President's Office) provides
from one to twenty-four month in-service training courses at the Kenya Insti-
tute of Administration for civil servants. Enrollments in 1974 were 861,
while up to the end of the previous year a total of 6,012 officials had re-
ceived training. For lower-level personnel, the Directorate runs short
courses at the Maseno Government Training Institute and for secretarial staff,
the Directorate opened a Secretarial College early in 1974 in Mombasa offering
a two-year post-secondary course to a capacity of 450 students. A similar
college will be completed in Nairobi in 1975.
Nonformal Education
16.       A considerable variety of nonformal training programs have developed
in recent years, some of which have attracted the attention of both the Kenya
Goverrnent and outside donors. The Village Polytechnic (VP) scheme, started
on a voluntary basis, has now fallen under the responsibility of the Ministry
of Cooperatives and Social Services. By December 1974, 115 VPs, scattered
across the country, were aided by the Government; enrollments totalled 5,300,
chiefly primary school leavers. Average course length is two years, and the
purpose is to train for local needs for craftsmen in a wide variety of rural
trades such as blacksmithing, leatherwork, carpentry, plumbing, bicycle repair,
agriculture, etc.
17.       The Ministry of Labor oversees the Kenya National Youth Service.  In
1973, 2,640 new recruits were added, bringing the grand total of enlistees to
17,405 Kenyans (7% women) of whom 3,800 were serving at the close of the year.
The Service aims particularly to produce highly disciplined workers by en-
gaging them in several major units working on development projects involving
heavy manual labor such as building roads and air strips in remote areas, or
farming. In 1972, 840 Service members (31% women) were placed in wage employ-
ment.
Special Education
18.       In 1974 there were over 50 schools or units providing full-time
special education for over 2,500 children. Deaf children were educated at
22 schools, the blind at 9 schools, 8 schools accommodated mentally handi-
capped children and 8 others had special facilities for the physically dis-
abled. Training of specialist teachers is undertaken at two teacher training
colleges and the Ministry of Education also arranges overseas scholarships.
School Broadcasting
19.       The School Broadcasting Section operates within the Department of
the Chief Inspector of Schools. It uses the same office, production and trans-
mission facilities as the Government radio, the Voice of Kenya. The staff
consists of 19 persons. The Section transmits 55 programs per week, 30 pro-
grams are for primary education, 15 for secondary education and 10 for in-ser-
vice training of teachers. The Section also produces and distributes teaching
aids related to the programs and teachers' manuals.



ANNEX.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Modern Sector Employment Projections for the Plan Period
1974-1978
(in 'OOOs)
Annual     Annual
Growth     Growth
Employment     Produc-       Rate      Employment
Sector                         1971         tivity       GDP          1978
Agriculture, Forestry
and Fishing                231.7           .0335       .059        294.9
Mining and Quarrying           3.1           .0203       .169          8.o
Construction                  35.3           .0431       .092         48.7
Manufacturing                100.6           .0176       .128        206.9
Commerce                      66.2           .0530       .092         95.0
Electricity, Gas and
Water                        5.2           .1066       .090          4.7
Transport                     46.2           .0793       .087         48.6
Services                      83.5           .0659       .087         95.7
General Government           161.0           .0413      .085         215.4
Total                  732.8                                  1,017e9
Source: Ministry of Finance and Planning, FYDP.



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECr
Past and Projected Enrollments in the Formal Education System
(1967 - 1984)
1984
Enrollment
as a per-
centage of
relevant    Age-
1967        1970         1971         1972         1974         1978         1982         1984      age-group   group
Primary                                 1,133,000   1,427,000   1,525,000   1,676,000   2,920,000   3,600,000   3,900,000   4,000,000              105%      6-13
Secondary:
a.  maintained                           42,759       66,834       73,264       90,910       97,700      111,000      124,000      132,000
b.  assisted                              6,729        7,727        7,782        8,000        8,500 )
)    82,300       95,000      102,000
c.  unaided                              39,291       52,294       59,676       63,000       69,200 )
Total                           88,779     126,855      140,722      161,910      175,400      193,300      219,000      234.000   147% or 16%  13-15
(including
teacher,
technical
and non-
formal
education)
Technical /                                 3,142        5,877        6,815        9,400        9,800       11,700       n,a,/2       n.a.
Teacher Training                            5,904        8,017        8,628        9,100        9,100       14,000       15,000       16,000
Higher Education                            1,297        2,465        3,139        3,808        6,600        9,200       11,000       13,000
/1 Secondary technical and vocational schools and the Polytechnics, except the years 1967 to 1971 where secondary technical schools are not included.
From 1974 onwards, Polytechnics and the Kenyatta University College are included under higher education.
/2  Uncertainties as to technical education policy make impossible a projection of enrollment beyond 1978.  In financial projection, it is arbitrarily
assumed that technical education enrollment will stabilize at around 12,000 from 1978 to the early 80's.
Sources: Ministry of Education Annual Reports for past enrollments; FYDP and World Bank Group staff estimates for projections.
No



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Recurrent Cost Projections If Present Trends Continue
(K Shs aillion)
Average
A C T U A L                                            E S T I M A T E S                          Annual
1967/68    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76          1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    Growth L
1.  Primary                               165        284         349         409         552         762         898       1,036        1,150       1,278        14%
2.  Secondary                              69         95         114         126         142         170         186          206         226         244        11%
3.  Tertiary                               20         58          67          83          94         132         156          172         188         208        12%
4. Other Sectors/Services                  43          98          86         115         88         120          136         152         166         184
5. Total Recurrent Education
Expenditure                        297         535         616         733         880       1,180       1,380       1,560       1,740       1,920         13%
6.  Government Recurrent
Expenditure                      1,400       2,020       2,370       2,650       3,300       3,720       3,900       4,100       4,360       4,660          6%
7. (5) as a percentage of (6)              21       26.5           26       27.7          27          32           35          38          40          41
8.  GDP at Factor Cost/                8,426      10,970      12,270      13,830      15,400      16,170      16,978      17,828       18,718      19,654
9. (5) as a percentage of (8)            3.5         4.9         5.0         5.3         5.2         7.3         8e1          8.8         9.3         9.8
/1 Starting from 1974/75.
/2  5% p.a. growth rate assumed after 1974/75.
Source: Projections are based on Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Education policies.



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Recurrent Expenditure Projections If Cost Saving
Policies are Implemented (K Shs. millions, constant prices)
Average Annual
1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79                    Growth/li
1.  Primary Sector                    552          748            854         946         1,002        1,048                        9g
2.  Secondary Sector                  142          168            174         182           196          204                         5%
2.  Tertiary Sector                     94         132            112         100            90           92                         _
4.  Other Sectors/Services              88          120           130         140           152          164                         8%
5  Total Recurrent. Expenditure       880        1,160          1,280       1,360         1,440        1,500                         5%
on Education
6.  Government Recurrent
Expenditure                    3,300        3,720         3,900       4,100         4,360        4,660                         6%
7.  Percentage to Education           27%          31%            33%         33%           33%          32%
8.  GDP at factor cost             15,400       16,170        16,978      17,828         18,718       19,654
9.  (5) as a percentage of (8)        5.2          7.2            7.5         7.6           7.7          7.7
Summary of Policies:
a)  Primary - Maintenance of fees for Standards V to VII restructuring of teachers salaries, reduction in posts allocated
to schools, reduction of in-service upgrading of teachers.
b)  Secondary- Adherence to 1974-78 Development Plan for secondary education, reduction in program of assistance to unaided
schools, increase in fees.
c)  Tertiary - Enrollments at main campus to be reduced in accordance with the 1974-1978 Development Plan, Faculty of Education at
the main campus to be phased out, improvement of student/staff ratio.
d)  Other Policies - Higher fees for polytechnic students and restriction of assistance to institutes of technology in accordance
with 1974-78 Development Plan.                                                                                                        4
/1  Starting from 1974/75
SOURCE:  Planning Unit of the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Finance, and World BankGroup staff estimates.



REPU3LIC OF KENYA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Ministry of Education Total Expenditures
(K Shs. millions)
Expenditure by Level of Education              1967/68                   1971/72          1972/73          1973/74
1.  Primary                                      165                       349              409              552
2.  Secondary                                     69                       114              126              142
3.  Tertiary                                      20                        67               83                94
4.  Other                                         43                        86              115                88
5. Total Recurrent Education
Expenditure                               297                      616               733              880
6.  Capital Educational Expenditure               38                        44               67                65
7.  Total Expenditure                            335                       660              797               980
Public Finance
1.  Government Revenue                         1,554                     2,824            2,884            3,072
2.  Government Recurrent Expenditure           1,402                     2,370            2,652            3,300
3.  Government Capital Expenditure               436                     1,076            1,442             1,358
4.  GDP at factor cost                         8,426                    12,270           13,830            15,400
1.  Capital Educational Expenditure as %
of Total Education Expenditure             11.3                      6.7               8.4             10.2
2. Total Recurrent Education Expendi-
ture as % of Government Revenue             19.1                     21.8              25.4             28.6
3. Capital Educational Expenditures as
% of Government Capital Revenue             8.7                       4.1               4.6              4.8
4. Ministry of Education Expenditure
as % of GDP at (factor cost)                4.0                       5.4               5.8              6.4
Source:  Ministry of Finance and Mtinistry of sducation.



ANNEX 6
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Fellowships
(Excluding Project Unit shown in Annex 7)
Project Item r-1 - Kenya Institute of Education (KIE)
1 expert (to assist Institute Director) = 2 years @ $35,000
1 expert Learning Resources Center        = 2 years @ $35,000
Total      $14o,000
3 fellowships each for 1 year  = 3 x $7,000            $21,000
Total for Project Item C-1                       $161,000     K Sh 1.150,000
Project Item B-1 - Educational Broadcasting and Multimedia Services (EMS)
1 expert (Head of  Audio Production)    = 2 years a $35,000
1 expert (Head of Visual Production)    = 2 years H $35,000
1 expert (Engineer)                       = 2 years - $35,000
1 expert (Head of Utilization, Research
and Training)                  = 2 years H $35,000
Total      $280,000
1 fellowship (Head of Audio Production) = 1 year  G  $7,000
1 fellowship (Head of' Visual Production)= 1 year  9 $7,000
I fellowship (Engineer)                   = 1 year  J  $7,000
1 fellowship (Head of Utilization,Research
and Training)                1 year  H  $7,000
1 fellowship (Assistant Director,
Production)                = 1 year  H  $7,000
Total       $35,000
Total for Project Item i-1                       $315.000     K Sh 2,250,000
Project Item E-1 - ixaminations Research and Development Unit
1 expert (Research)                       = 3 years a $35,000
1 expert (Statistician)                   = 2 years a $35,000
Total      $175,000
1 fellowship (Research)                   = 1 year  H  $7,000
1 fellowship (Statistician)               = 1 year  H  $7,000
Total       $14b000
Total for Project Item E-l                       $189.000  =  K Sh 1.350.000
Projiect Item F-I   -   National Committee on Fducational Obiectives
and Priorities
1 expert (Head of Secretariat)              2 years @ $35,000
Total       $70,000
Total for Project Item F-1                        $70,000  =  K Sh   500,000
GRAND TOTAL  .........OOO35.000  =  K Sh 5,250,000



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Unit Staff and Cost
Length of Operation = 6 years
Per annum
per person    Years of             Total Salary /]
I.  Project Unit                   in K Sh       Contract       in K Sh          in US$
Local Staff:
1 Project Director           55,000            6           330,000          46,200
1 Educator                   45,000            6           270,000          37,800
1 Accountant                 40,000            6           240,000          33,600
1 Secretary                  20,000            6           120,000          16,800
1 Clerk                      18,000            6           108,000          15,100
3 Drivers                     8,000            6           144,000          20,200
1 Messenger                   4,000            6            24,000           3,400
Sub-total:         1,236,000         173,100
Foreign Staff:
1 Equipment Specialist      250,000            2           500,000          70,000
Total I:      1,736,000         243,100
II. Ministry of Works
Local Staff:
1 Architect                  45,000            6           270,000          37,800
1 Architect                  45,000            2            90,000          12,600
2 Draughtsmen                35,000            2           140,000          19,700
1 Quantity Surveyor          45,000            2            90,000          12,600
2 Clerk of Works             36,000            4           288,000          40,300
Sub-total:           878,000         123,000



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
Per annum                                          /1
per person       Years of            Total Salary
in K Sh        Contrace       in K Sh           in US$
Foreign Staff:
1 Architect /2              250,000            5         1,250,000         175,100
1 Engineer /2               250,000            4         1,000,000         140,000
Sub-total:         2,250,000         315,100
Total II:     3,128,000          438,100
III. Project Development
Technical Assistance          250,000             6        1,500,000         210,100
IV. Equipment
2 Vehicles                                                   100,000          14,000
V. Operational Costs
Stationery, petrol,
maintenance of vehicles, etc.                                250,000          35,000
Summary Costs
Local Staff                                              2,114,000         296,100
Technical Assistance                                     4,250,000         595,200
Equipment                                                  100,000          14,000
Operational Costs                                          250,000          35,000
Total Cost of Implementation:                     6,714,000         940,300
1/ Does not include Contingency Allowances.
21  Also to be used as supervisors at construction sites.



LIU,0000919-    90'I.l ,29=-                   .O
(to  I. 041,.  90 9   .93,~ Rp9.,,o  175 OIS,    -021     34 7.14))
213'1",                                                                           1l                                                             9.    I.91l"'                                     9           le.        ,69999- '
9-1  Ro,S  '24, 59,195   02y41,o        10      559~~1       00         59           I           1,0         1,90                     39.,    1,994           74                        74        1,12        2,9984          -                                    -O                            922
PT"0'9R  9    .0,9,                    59 09 9'              71          -             ,R10                   CIR         ?1,5        -            14'     1,9R            99           -            9        1RR         9.9                                     -                       2,194              -7
1-9       9129.1,0 - p,9l24                                        54         927         1RR                       9 50       1,797                      -      1,291          91            9 -         11           120                                      1,42     --                      ,15               905
4-,  9.o.,','0C   ~~~~~     C,4Sa3  ~     100      So          19          910          -            SI         R,R       -                       1,934          7             -           759       1,173       21,7645                                                         2,90               92
.-,i-  11.  ~      ~       91A10           9         9           0         59           2           T              9                      1        ,94            I                         9         .7          ,4                                                              ,9                 5
2-4  9R099  929  1 9990  49R1901         97      999          20~~~~~~~I  550         4           91,0          7754                   376      .93            7                          9         20         '92                                                             2,99               -2
S-I      9 9,R,           .   s9R99R9 5   190                                    40,5  4-621I4R                                                           25       129             0 -                       99      1   20       1,0 -  - -                              .            -          21~~  ,905         914
2-1  00I..O0R.'R~~~~I91      Cy,99,          55~2   R7 '0          0         '209         -           20            79          -                     2S            9            -           99399                  ,25 -5                                              -          10 .4-             29
AR,  2190  494, 49-,  299,99  '22    420          229499                  9         1,90,         4175          -          909      1,990         143            -          999          9R9        9.709 .5.                                           -          07997aS
99  2,4  091  900       R09          400~       ~     ~ ~ 4I 5  R,S 14 94                         97 R.1.9                              -           7          ,7         20                                                               ,9                  7
9-11  RR9RTI  40, RS. OR  49,.  10  ,20  20  924                -             ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   .  .     .RR          99           -            99        1,111       .10,            -           -                        -          1,902              214 I_1.'I I 4..  , .
9- R    O1oTR  "20, 1 910  N,,  00   710          90         290           -          ~~~~~~~~                ~      ~      ~    ~ ~~21- 0_913  I-  -  199  29   - 13   1931.90                     -.             -            -          -                       2-R919
1  710.1  091    .999.9   99.1 1  110  OoR  090  699      4           910        1,010        -            9,9     1.3(9           00           -            70        1, 90       9 oI9           -                      -                        2,992              3411 ~11  ,1l  6,26
19,9799R               -         -        .991      0,991          .          0 R~~     ~    ~~~~~~~~               ~ ~~~~~~I.-  I.- 499    310.0 -    ,ZR         ,90           3-         92400            .             .,..990                                            9.33
1991 ,7 199oT                              .94      199         ,RTO       4049           90       21.15         _2,151         9. 0      1_0 29 ,9 5R 9_19 22 91                                     12,12         1,09            .                                              2,197.0
9R1 loltooldIa 1,909999991~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                                        1          11             
I.  9129. 990012  91.,5  . -            42          11          4         2499          2799        990          200      4910          996           09         99o        R4919       91994         400            -                                 ____3,919  71  1111  'l  I I 
599, 0194799             9~~~1992                 -          9           1                        0          .s          2             1      221            10          19          19             22      -A1~                                I 13 9-                      92,39              12
-1  90  "dll   909RR9'R,,  '90,9 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,2e                                                                                                               l
19-TO-' 179~I  1  )9999991-.       .          -          1,902        0.49          -            -        ,.99          59          -           95          9,99        6  OS         -                    .                           9,97               99
R-9t,',0R19~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~~  OCOR  6,1,41  -                   -                        -            -         -            .           -            -            790         929         -                       .           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1_4  "  LI-
1W  1     ~       ~        ---                                                  90                5
9,990  of ,', .~~~0 0         -        ,Lo2P!9       9112         -             -      1090           295          -          199         9.'90      .k0~~~~~~~                                       -           ,L,fib,~~            950
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~~~~~.'9991l99T09' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~4                                                             L~G            1                         1
1,501,,,  l,'o22   -  .  -           -                         -           -            .          .           .           -           -              79          29        -                    19RR            -              990              999~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14  e
T-O   ~~~~440, l9'~~~~~~o,  19.9,4   -  -           -             -            .          -             .         -           -            -                        .                       -           239        079          -               II,               29~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al  5






1  2  3     4           5      I            8           I02620-11202                                                  170020                             007072 1   2      4
TI. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~01  Tlon
110210147 2o6 ~ 742- 1926
T.:'                                                     -~~16$TO0602  01061         ...      ..0         TI         TITo       1 61  0                       0267o217-l.                                                 616Il
-1-  Ml) ~~~~~~~~T ~10010                                       51o X                                                               1           9      1       1     0          2     l       6     I          0     1       6     2          1     2       1     7
0. 7-7-ru  0106. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -T T
2111112T2a2hso   7411og-~  71761. 207-0.                                                          TT1
1102.!  001121  of 271001000 ~ ~       ~       0.0             10
.1  -k~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                          ..     ...    ...26 20 ,oo1 ool  ---o 00---0 0-1--0
0.Z~~ .  00 1100222011
Prrooy 0o..ood 001 -6 .oo  210021
17401022 611120  27220  691110 1.oo2  017  0.96  100  00.0    III   III   010   ITT          TOT   ITT    0 .lTl0.1141111                         074      -02    14    11-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ma
01100011  210192                     067              962.                       020~~~~~~~~~~~..    II4  70  I   7     T           14 11 11            11        10    4        4      0         -
1000   ToT0.01   107    2011
0701000 T6 do.oog-21  2001-0






ANNE 10
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Milli-on)~
Accumulated            Undisbursed
Quarterdi         Disbursements            Disbursements             Balance
1                                                                   10000
2                     -                        -                    10.00
3                    0.05                    005                    9.95
4                   0.13                      0.18                   9.82
5                   0.13                      0.31                   9.69
6                     -                       0.31                   9.69
7                   0.34                     o065                    9.35
8                   0.32                     0.97                    9.03
9                   0.38                      1.35                   8.65
10                   0.43                      1.78                   8.22
11                   0.50                      2.28                   7.72
12                   1.18                      3.46                   6.54
13                   1.25                      4.71                   5.29
14                   1.23                      5.94                   4.o6
15                   1.37                      7.31                   2.69
16                   0.67                      7.98                   2.02
17                   0.85                      8.83                   1.17
18                   0.38                      9.21                   0.79
19                   0035                      9,56                   0.44
20                   0.14                      970                  030
21                   0.08                      9.78                   0.22
22                   o 0.14                    9.92                   0.08
23                   0.08                     1000 
24                     -                      1000
Lj Starting from date of effectiveness.






.-A... WE-
CIL,  I".-                                                                                                                  T.-  I
V
TAIT   T                               A.         -V
U61                                                                  AT
V`1lu) ml,                                                                                                                   At                                      ...            01.   I                                               ........ .                         Tlam
I                  11               I                   St                 I               EL              IC                 II                                 11         11        11         I
C                  At                1.                 If                 I               .1                                 11                 11               AT        I         I           C: 1. 11                0 1
I                  or               .1                  M                  L               11              II                 IS                 AL              AS,        IL      Al           ...                      I.I
(R-0               (q;-d)                               (.-,t)             ......T    tzt-61)                                C-941-0)            (0-9)           (0-0                           (0-vo                    . .....
it                 II               SO                                    il               L9                                 11                 09              SC                                 11                    11
C.1             6z              A,                                    CC                                                                    C:C             CAT
67                                                                                                                              A           'Al           C                      I                  I               WI                   1         C16       -S I..                   AT
Z "                                     III               .-Ac         I'll                              .11
IC                                                                                                            A                                                                                                                                                                      -CI
IC
IL                                                    M                                 n                   UI             w            C  .1%               0-611                I.,                I                           A-                                ::1,
;11                                                                     61               C                  I                 1.                                 ct           V,                    "T                                                                -.1-   -Al
EC               66                                                                                                          C:C                               I                                                T
N                                                                                       ...                                                                      ?!.         Z CI                      I                                                                              A
W6                                                                                                        III               1-11         IL61                              :oT
OCC                                                      CS                 I                11              1.                 I                  .1              .1                 6c           I-IT
I I                                II                                 1:                 AS
AT                                     c                                M                                                                                     1:11,                 6:z                                           CIA                           O     I
I                  At                                                      6               a               9                 ITS                 61              iz                              I
n                a                                                      zi                                 IS                 91                                                                     :g                                                                             '9
vt               WI                 a                                "Z
El
4C,                                                    C;
.-SI   "AT                           -M    C
VW
It                                                    IC                                  TO               It                                                                                    wwl              .-It    C-
.1                                 IC              K                                                               Tr
ci            .1                   11                                                                   ..                   11              11                                                                                    11411        .1 11: 1
SC              11                                                                                    A`-vI
JXA9                                                                                                         wt                                                                        I                            -0             IL61                  ....         I
A                  6.            boi       W, AAAbCv             I IC                                                                                                   'IC
11                                                                                                                                                                                I               IW                141I         I11:1
I                  IT               11                  of                 t                                                                                     ot
T.                                         ,WIT   SC                6'.                                                                  zle,                                                                                  IV -IM
...                ...              ...                 ...                ...                                                                                              C                 L,
-011                                 WOM                                                     -11
9                                   ST                                                                                      UI                                                                                                       -1                              I I.A                 II-    A
I                 IC                                    It                I                SE              AS               .6                   0               AT    St   C,                   I                     A-1                             .4             AM             I - I.. -.1                                           ... ... . ..
,A,.1                                W.                                                                                                            SA.,-f "ITt-
PI             n         IT                                                                          01-tV`   It.                                      I                                          T  1-
-A                                       -1 SIT-
Is             LI    uz  Lic                  11::l                 41: 11          W"               141                                                                 L.
n                   vt              M                    AT                 9                Lt              11                IC                                 :C   .    "    .:gr                                   -               CAT                                                                                      -, ;V .1 -.1.
AT                  CZ               I                                      I               0              -                   Ar                -                            C  T'    . t                                                                             -I                     1-  'I                        , -  . ., -C,- -    .:I
I                                                                         I                SE              11                                    I               I                                                        A                                                                                            -1-  4 .-T.                       m.
4.   s                 I-IA                  61            -                 "I    I'll                      11-
69                                            A                                                                              I         11.1                              :11            ..'A.
.,                      -- .. O,                        MI-
n,                II   In,                             I               Aft
ti                                  a                                 41                 0                                    C         ,                       IT                1:11             W"                            116I
At                                                                      "I        11       I'll        11-11                  VC                                             II.C
11               St                                                                     II                 IS
-  AT                                                  (C)
Om.I- MC, MA    .1
-.A,
CS                                                                                                        .6                                                                                                                                       C.C                   -1-C -                                        A,
C                                                                                                                                                               .1                  Z                                A.,             -                                 "I                              411                -,
11                                                                                                                                                     T         EA                                                 19                9            Al.                     .T..   I                        Al.7
I                                     S,I                                                .1                 1               9         1
TV,               rM   a"    -11                                     all              xii                             -I                   .-1. 411
I                  11               11                                                                     I                  Al                                 SC          t                                         C:,           WO                              c                    -T-             C
,-.              .1                A                    H.                 19              0               ...                V                 II              ZA        "        .1           S: 11 11            ACA              -A               't C          11
I                                   :C                  ...                                N               It                 SO                 W               el          C    It             1-6C                                                                                  -":-   :,r
Cl                                                                                                                                                                                                          1114611
11                IL                 K                  AT              St    :C   II                   I-C,                                                                                                                                     l-V  -11    11 `-
.1               I                                                                      16                                    C
11                                 n                                  It   11  I                      1: 1.                                                 .-C   A.,                         -11-              IS                      ... 1-         - I,- - I.,
I                                                     IC              .1                 w                  M                         IT
11                 I                                                                                     n                                                       "         "                                                        1:1           I I    111141111:  I.,                                                             11
C,              .1                                                      11                                                    01                      WI                        -zC               AAA-I           -C                    I         AA                      A.
Is                               WI                   CZ            T!-    ... T,                                                                           .11           C.T                                                               (I
11               I                                                                                                                                                                                               M9                                                                                                        -0)             - A114, (1)
11               I                                                      IC                               III                                                                                                      mcl               ..69          11.1
Ai-                 1.              M                                                       II               Tr               -                   IC                                               C:;,                ..,                                                                                                                                      (C
()C               II                                                                                                                                                                                   Z          "I                              C"11                                                             -11-
IC                                 11                 I               11   .1Z   I                  -111                   A.               .1
C                                     ...             Ar              ...                  T                I,                                                                    C-I            - 1              .-I            .11,
11                                                                                      At                                    OT                                                                                                    %I'             .I
of                                                                                                                                           T.                 1!.                                               "n               .-I    VAST                         I-A-
.1                                               6;                                 Cr        ct       SC           6                     "Z             ,C              ":C                                              I
el               AT                  VI                 I               0                                                                     IT        I                     0-It                  1-1           I,                  4I         cl.,                              41
wr A.A.                   -n                                                                 TAIC                   I.-A
...           AS                                                                                                                                     I
"I                  1                                                                                                6    ST                                                                                                                                                  --  II- -T   -Iq-
;:o                                                     TO                T                                TV                .1                  I               It    61   rI                                         1-1             0               Ix"011                                                                          -1 -IM                                 (1)
SI                 T                 IF.             M               I?L                                   Ill               OT   AEC   Al                                        A.'            MIT              .4           el
cc               U                                                      el                               or                  Am            "C   .11  .91                      1-9Z                  a-,           OWC                                               AS)
IT                                                       ...                 ...                                                It
Ot                                                      1.                               .1                                             SC  It,               I..                                                                 ILII                                                                          I-V
IC                                                                      St                                 II                 ...           .11    "T   w                     ...S                                                  1:,,           1161                                                                        -I- '--P --V  A.
n                   Or                IT                M                    ...            ol                                 II                wz                        WI          C                               W.,             WEI              CC'IT    I'll
...                ...           VVE               ...              ITS                                .1   LI   ml                    W-                    111,            WIT-A             .-            1161                   .1                                      --         s
IA              11                                                                                                                                                                                     C                                                                    "I :1
11               IS                                   11                                 1.                 St             Iti   LA   .1                                            :,            M  -A            -E          I'll                 -1-1  I                                                      .- I .,VI.
WI                                                                                                                                       1:111,                 Z              .11,1            . v            IIII
ITS              .1                                                     IST                                "I                 we                                 L,C            I                                                                                                                                                      -T-
101-
T
.1                 E.                                                     IC                                                                                                   I-,                                      V,             S.-          IIST                                                             1, 1'..A
11                                                                                                                            16                                                                    n                                             0,61            -0-  A--                                           -T,IT                   -V -1
:11                0                  ...             Li                                66                  SI              C"   11  IC                                              I                                                                      ---                                                   --l-   A-
11               11                 66                                                  S.                                                    CT    C,    C                   C-C,                 0:1            = 4               11: !         11 11: 11                   2-0                                                     pl-.
IZ                 IT                1.                 IS                 :i                                                                                                                                                            C:,                                            -1-                                               -T                           -.1
6                ol                  A                   C              VZ              16                11                  IS              :11    Ill  111                   !11               LI: 11                           -1:111        I 11: 11             .-      .-
.1                                   %6                                                 .6                                                     I         11                      :.r                 1-1                                -90,   I'll                                                                        --l.T 11 1=                  -1
76                 66                                                                                                       UT    -t,                                             A'I                C',
I                                     I                              SS                                                    SC         C       TV           1-11                                                                                                                                                                          V
b.   bC  bit                                          "I            -L                             CIO
T                                                      11                           111-                1-11,11-1
I V.
.1 1-                  VI    "-,Z                           A.,                                               .1-                             -1.                                       A.
T-                                                                                                                                          -.-  --w-
A,-A,                                                                                                                                                Z






KENYA: STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION, 1974
Kenya and Mombasa Polytechnics
Secondary Technical Educaton 
_ L1       2                         Harambee Institutes
|   |    L            _  ~~~~~of Technologv
Pre-Craft EACE
i i                 ~~~~~~~~~I Tech. )
Primary Education                                                                          Medical Training Center
|        | (No Pre Requisite)
First Degree Programs, University of Nairobi
Arts, Science, Commerce, Engineering,
Agriculture, Architecture, Law,
General Secondary Education  EACE                                                    Education
4   Diploma in Education
ir                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Medicine, Surgery,
Veterinary Science
CPE - Certificate of Primary Education
EACE - East African Certificate of Education                                  Primary Teacher       r---
EACE (Tech ) -East African Certificate of Education (Technical)               Training              IP1&P2I
EAACE - East African Advanced Certificate of Education                                         I F    __
Pl, P2 & P3 - Primary Teacher Training                                                           {iTH7;
I                                                                               M c I
World Bank-9465(R)



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
Total Enrollment and                                                                ENROLLMENT  PYRAMID, 1973
Ratio to Age Group
Post Secondary-
Both Sexes
18                                                                           48
17                                                                           93
4,044       16                                                                          973
16                                                                        1,126
14                                                                        1,804
Upper Secondary
7,1771 .4IF13                                                                  2,737           844
165%      12                                                                  2,732           864
Junior Secondary
11                                                                      20,061             8,033
167,590        10                                                                                    10,476
14%r
9                                       30                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~165,847
LL8                                                        37,21                          21,479
Primary
7                            t0000000000000::  t;l'l0000040  tti;00tt:ititilittitititit  i;;itii0040;;:ti:;122''7'0'70"'', ..................... 72,168
6                                                         116, '  8 i L  *;             83,867
5                                                         1 1 6,8                       89,666
1,816,01 7
77%        4                                                             ,                        108,552
122,129
. , ................~~~~~~~~~....           .    .......    . .................-.......
2 E 0 . A:1 is 0,~~~~.           -   .......   ,.,,-   _ td..... ... ..   ............14 2 
2  2                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~142,426
7 274          E               '172,096
I-1-I    I   I I II I-1'
200    180    160    140    120    100    80        60     40      20      0      20     40      60     80    100    120    140    160    180    200
BOYS                                                                      GIRLS
-  Male/female breakdown not available.
Source: IBRD staff based on Ministry of Education statistics, December, 1974.                                                                World Bank-9466



S-.,o Assan S--r,ar                     9  
Head cf ALd,t/                         C 
S-.1o A--itat S--lYar     /             ^
Z""f1g and T,-i ng_\                                                         =
SEO~_ /~
IT _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TV 
senror Ass st5nt setretarv   _   ur C  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
lTechnscdl~ ~ ~ ~ Asis0n IC,2E                           
SEn rAsitn S(letryo -gl  c_
|SEO (HI e Eus  nl|V)C   
C1 w:1d C,                                                                                                                          n rs 
.6-I > 21 .I-
R--h< l U.,,                                                                                                                                        .






(                ~~QXk$~-UA- f ZwfA!A !
V ~~~~~~-  ~ ~~~~iF1If 1W. : .5~
C.m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.W~
m~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~t- 
8  '' :At 
*  I                                                                                                             it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,-IDH
'N ~        I 
Id-t
UGAND~~A-
EGI~~~~~~5-                                                                                                  oi
-01 ~ ~  ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      Mrll-5-- 
osi~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~S
NEF
- -                                                          N~~~~~~~~~~K.E~
---t                                                             N                                                                           4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~KGR    
KERic.0  G g,  ~~AGO.              MBU
o~~~4  ttdo~~~~onlw$           a-                    ilL~~~~JM
A-17   fl$                 i
___ _GHRIDGE___            _      101
SCoop soonkAiw'-         oo  ~NAIOn  to
woi   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                                        <A~~~~~~~~~~~-






REPUBLIC OF KENYA
MTIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Key to Map
(Locations and Types of Project Institutions)
Sector A  - Primary Teachers' Colleges and Teachers' Advisory Centers
A-1     Asumbi                  A-10     Kilimambogo
A-2     Egoji                   A-1l     Kisii
A-3     Eregi                   A-12     Machakos
A-4     Highridge               A-13     Meru
A-5     Kagumo                  A-14     Mosoriot
A-6     Kaimosi                 A-15     Shanzu
A-7     Kamwenja                A-16     Siriba
A-8     Kericho                 A-17     Thogoto
A-9     Kigari
Sector B  -  Educational Broadcasting and Multimedia Services
B-1     Nairobi
Sector C  - Kenya Institute of Education
C-1     Nairobi
Sector D  -  Stores for Primary School Equipment Services
Stores not shown on map, locations to be
determined after survey.



