CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1249 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Agricultural Research Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 23, 1976


﻿I
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1976, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC
OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BAJK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by Empresa Brasileira
de Pesquisa. Agropecufria (hereinafter called EMBRAPA), an autono-
mous agency of the Borrower, with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
EMBRAPA the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(C) The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and EMBRAPA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the following modification thereof (said General Con-
ditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions),
namely, the words "and the Project Agreement" are added after the
words "the Loan Agreement" wherever they occur in Sections 6.06
and 10.01 of the General Conditions.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gene-
ral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and EMBRAPA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "ARC" means one of the Agricultural Research Centers of
EMBRAPA;


﻿K-3-
(c) "NCC" means one of the National Commodity Centers of
EMBRAPA; and
(d) "UEPA2" means Unidade de Execuq o de Pesquisa de Ambito
Estadual.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million
dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and services (other than consultants' services) for the Proj-
ect to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be pro-
cured in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to
in Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿w                            -5-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pa; interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. EMBRAPA is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower
shall cause EMBRAPA to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the pro-
vision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, neces-
sary or appropriate to enable EMBRAPA to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make available the proceeds
of the Loan to EMBRAPA for purposes of the Project on the same
financial terms and conditions as such proceeds are lent by the
Bank to the Borrower.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all reasonable action required for the prompt issuance to EMBRAPA
of such import and other permits and licenses as shall be neces-
sary for the acquisition and importation of goods and services
required for the carrying out of the Project in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement and the Project Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have pric-ity over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which will
or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of
such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ra-
tably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation
of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets
of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower
shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of.,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as secu-
rity for payment of the purchase price of such property; and (ii)
any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
*.


﻿8
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.


﻿ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) EMBRAPA shall have failed to perform any convenant,
agreement or obligation of EMBRAPA under the Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that EMBRAPA will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Cc) The Estatutos of EMBRAPA approved by Decree No. 75.374
of the Borrower dated February 14, 1975 shall have been changed
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of EMBRAPA
to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth
in the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdic-
tion shall have taken any action for the dissolution or dises-
tablishment of EMBRAPA or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-10 -
(a) Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and EMBRAPA.
(b) Any events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of EMBRAPA have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action.
(b) The Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, EMBRAPA, and
is legally binding upon EMBRAPA in accordance with its terms.
(b) That the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the
Banco Central do Brasil.
(c) That all necessary acts, consents and approvals (includ-
ing such acts, consents and approvals as are required for the pur-
pose of making available the proceeds of the Loan to EMBRAPA) to be


﻿- 12 -
performed or given by the Borrower, its political subdivisions or
agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision or other-
wise to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying
out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and EMBRAPA, re-
spectively, to perform all of the covenants, agreements and obli-
gations of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement and of EMBRAPA in
the Project Agreement contained, together with all necessary powers
and rights in connection therewith, have been oerformed or given.
Section 6.03. The date September 21, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿wy                                      - 13-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Edificio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada do Ministerios
Brasilia, D.F., Brazil
With copies to:
EMBRAPA
Palacio do Desenvolvimento
go Andar
Setor Bancario Norte
Brasilia, D.F., Brazil
Cable address:
MINIFAZ
Brasilia, Brazil
With copies to:
EMBRAPA
Brasilia


﻿For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
IlTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-15-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Luiz Machado Fracarolli
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 16-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expend-
itures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Fellowships                12,000,000
(a) Outside Brazil                          100%
(b) In Brazil                               30%
(2) Consultants' Serv-          7,200,000        100% of foreign
ices                                         expenditures
(3) Laboratory equip-           3,100,000
ment and furniture
(a) Imported                                 100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Locally pro-                             30% of ex-factory
duced                                   cost
(4) Library and documen-        2,300,000
tation materials and
facilities
(a) Imported                                100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Locally pro-                            30% of ex-factory
duced                                   cost


﻿w                            -17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Civil works, de-            6,000,000         30%
tailed engineering
and architectural
design work there-
for, and research
farm development
(6) Farm equipment and            800,000         30%
vehicles
(7) Unallocated                 8,600,000
TOTAL      4oo,0oo,o0


﻿I
- 18 -                                     M6
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures before the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in re-
spect of Category (5) on account of expenditures incurred after
September 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equiva-
lent of $500,000; and
(b) from Category (5), in respect of payments made for civil
works for a research station, unless the Bank has been furnished
with the evidence referred to in Section 2.08 of the Project Agree-
ment with respect to land and land rights required for such research
station.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to


﻿- 19 -
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) except in respect of the percentage of for-
eign expenditures to be financed, if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Baik may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in
the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such ex-
penditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the strengthening of EMBRAPA's capability to
carry out agricultural research programs on:
(a) certain commodities with a view to increase their pro-
duction by the adaptation and adoption of existing technology and
by the development of new technology; and
(b) farming systems with a view to increase agricultural
production through a more efficient use of available resources.
The Project consists of:
Part A:
Carrying out of research programs on:
1.   Cotton at the NCC in Campina Grande (Paraiba).
2.   Rubber at the NCC in Manaus (Amazonas).
3.   Rice and beans at the NCC in Goiania (Goia's).
4.   Cassava at the NCC in Cruz das Almas (Bahia).
5.   Beef cattle at the NCC in Campo Grande (Mato Grosso).


﻿- 21 -
6.   Sheep and goats at the NCC in Sobral (Ceara).
7.   Dairy cattle at the NCC in Agua Limpa (Minas Gerais).
8.   Maize and sorghum at the NCC in Sete Lagoas (Minas
Gerais).
Part B:
Carrying out of research programs on farming systems in
*    selected agro-ecological areas of Brazil at the ARCs located
in Petrolina/Juazeiro (Pernambuco/Bahia) for the Northeast
area, Belem (Parl) for the North area, and Planaltina (Dis-
trito Federal) for the Central-West area.
Part C:
Adaptation of the technology developed under Parts A and
B hereof to local production requirements and demonstration
of new techniques to farmers in the UEPAEs located in Caic6
(Rio Grande do Norte), Alagoinha (Paraiba), Teresina (Piaui),
Caruaru (Pernambuco), Penedo (Alagoas), Quissamd (Sergipe),
Bacabal (Maranhgo), Irec8 (Bahia), Itapetinga (Bahia), Bar-
reiras (Bahia), Manaus (Amazonas), Altamira (Para), Goifinia
(Goias), and Cuiaba (Mato Grosso).


﻿- 22 -
Part D:   Civil Works
1.   Construction of experiment station buildings at (a) the
ARC sites at Planaltina and Petrolina/Juazeiro, (b) the
NCC sites at Campo Grande, Campina Grande, Manaus,
Goiania and Sobral and (c) the UEPAE sites at Teresina,
Caic6, Goignia, Barreiras, Alagoinha, Quissami, Bacabal,
r
Caruaru, Penedo, Itapetinga, Irece', Altamira, Manaus
and Cuiab9.
Part E:   Acquisition and utilization of:
1.   Laboratory equipment and furniture for the 25 experiment
stations of the NCCs, ARCs and UEPAEs included in Parts
A, B and C hereof; and
2.   Farm equipment and vehicles for such experiment stations.
Part F:   Development of research plots, including land prepara-
tion and levelling, and installation of irrigation sys-
tems as necessary, at the Project research sites.
Part G:   Acquisition and utilization of library documentation and
facilities and preparation of printed materials.
Part H:   Technical Services
1.   Provision of services of a research program advisor to
the director of the Technical and Scientific Programs
Department of EMPRAPA, and of research program consul-
tants and high-level specialists.


﻿w                                     -23 -
2.   Provision of consulting services for (a) selection of
the advisor, consultants and specialists referred to in
paragraph 1 hereof, and (b) administration of the fel-
lowship program included in paragraph 3 hereof.
3.   Provision of about 123 fellowships to study to Ph.D.
level and of about 663 fellowships to M.Sc. level for
selected staff of EMPRABA in various areas of speciali-
zation in agricultural research.
4.   Provision of fellowships for short courses for about
180 staff members of EMBRAPA in subjects related to
the commodity research programs included in Part A
hereof.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 25 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are snecified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2-1/2%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    6-3/4%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                    7-1/2%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


