CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1249 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Agricultural Research Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA
Dated June 23, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA (hereinafter called
EMBRAPA).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fo,ty million dollars ($40,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that EMBRAPA agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS EMBRAPA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EMBRAPA shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
agricultural and scientific research policies and practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist EMBRAPA in carrying out the
Project, EMBRAPA shall:
(a) employ the consultants and specialists referred to in
Part H.1 of the Project, whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(b) contract the services (i) of an agency or agencies
specialized in selection of agricultural consultants, and (ii)
of an agency or agencies specialized in administration of fellow-
ship programs, all under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 2.03. The planning, supervision and execution of the
civil works included in the Project shall be carried out by the
Technical Support Unit, and EMBRAPA shall provide it with such
qualified staff, funds and services as shall be required for the
efficient discharge of such functions. For purposes of this Section
the term "Technical Support Unit" means the unit established by
EMBRAPA on January 27, 1976 under Deliberagao No. 002/76.


﻿Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and works for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. Before inviting bids for the civil works for
the construction of buildings for each experiment station financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, EMBRAPA shall prepare and fur-
nish to the Bank a detailed development plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, for each such experiment station.
Section 2.06. EMBRAPA shall, as and when needed, carry out
such minor upgrading and repair works as shall be required in the
existing buildings and facilities at research and experiment sites
included in the Project, but excluded from the civil works finan-
ced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.07. (a) EMBRAPA undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of', the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by EMBRAPA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, ENBRAPA shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.


﻿*                             -5-
Section 2.08. EMBRAPA shall take all such action as shall be
necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land, and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Proj-
ect and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 2.09. (a) EMBRAPA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) EMBRAPA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to
identify the goods, works and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites in-
cluded in the Project and to examine the goods and works financed
out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan so made available to it and the goods,
works and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) EMBRAPA shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of EMBRAPA and any relevant records and documents.


﻿-6-
Section 2.10. EMBRAPA shall, not later than December 31, 1978
or such other date as the Bank shall agree (a) review with the Bank
its organizational structure in respect of the Project, and the
management procedures and techniques followed in carrying out the
Project up to such date, and (b) promptly introduce such changes
in such structure and in such procedures and techniques as shall
be deemed advisable to EIBRAPA and the Bank in the light of such
review.
Section 2.11. (a) EMBRAPA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement,
the impact of the Project on agricultural development and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) EMBRAPA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by EMBRAPA of its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿*                             -7-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EMBRAPA
Section 3.01. EMBRAPA shall at all times manage its affairs,
plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in
accordance with sound administrative and scientific research poli-
cies and practices and with due regard to economy.
Section 3.02. EMBRAPA shall operate or cause each NCC, each
ARC and each UEPAE to be operated under competent and experienced
management as shall be required to further the objectives of the
Project.
Section 3.03. EMBRAPA shall adequately maintain or cause to
be maintained its buildings, equipment and furniture, and make or
cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound administrative and technical standards.


﻿-8- 8
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. EMBRAPA shall iaintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices (a) its operations and financial condition,
and (b) its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project.
Section 4.02. EMBRAPA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
EMBRAPA and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿*                           -9-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of EMBRAPA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or per-
mitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For EMBRAPA:
Palacio do Desenvolvimento 9. Andar
Setor Bancario Norte
Brasilia, D.F., Brazil
Cable address:
EMBRAPA
Brasilia, Brazil


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of EMBRAPA may be taken or executed by the
President or such other person or persons as the President shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. EMBRAPA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of EMBRAPA, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by EMBRAPA pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but
one instrument.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to ie signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA BRASILEIRA DE PESQUISA AGROPECUARIA
By Is/ Luiz Machado Fracarolli
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts to be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding locally advertised.
2.   Goods for which there is a limited number of suppliers may be
procured by negotiated purchase after solicitation of quotations
from suppliers. Works for which no contractor will bid may be
carried out by force account.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
*        ceeds of the Loan, EMBRAPA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to furnishing to the Bank the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in re-
spect to such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.


