Document of                      FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3192-RW
RWANDA
LAKE KIVU COFFEE IMPROVEMENT AND FOOD CROP PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
March 12, 1981
Eastern Africa Region
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and inay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Franc Rwandais (RF)
US$1.00              RF 91.91
RF 100           =   US$1.09
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                             British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                                          3.3 feet
1 hectare (ha)                                       2.47 acre
1 are (100 mn3)                                      0.02 acres
1 kilometer (km)                                     0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)                             0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)                                       2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                                           0.26 US gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)                                  2,204 pounds (lb)
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BGI       -  Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo Project
IAMSEA    -  Institut African et Mauricien de Statistiques et Economies
Appliquees (African Mauricien Institute for Statistics and
Applied Economics)
ISAR      -  Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda
(Agricultural Research Institute of Rwanda)
OBM       -  Office du Bugesera et Mayaga
(Agency for Bugesera and Mayaga)
OCIR-Cafe -  Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda - Cafe
(Agency for Industrial Crops of Rwanda - Coffee)
OCIR-The  -  Office des Culture Industrielles du Rwanda - The
(Agency for Industrial Crops of Rwanda - Tea)
OPROVIA   - Office National pour le Developpement et la Commercialisation
des Produits Vivriers et de la Production Animale
(National Agency for Development and Marketing of Foodcrops
and Animal Products)
PAK       -  Project Agricole de Kibuye
(Agriculture Project - Kibuye)
SSS       -  Service des Semences Selectionnees
(Selected Seed Service)
TRAFIPRO  -  Cooperative de Vente et d'Achat (Travail-Fidelite-Progres)
(Transport and Marketing Co-operative)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
Lake Kivu Coffee and Foodcrop Improvement Project
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND .................................................    1
A.  Project Background .....................................    1
B.  The Agricultural Sector ................................    2
C.  Government Services ....................................    6
II.   THE COFFEE SUB-SECTOR ......................................    9
III.  THE PROJECT AREA ................................   16
A.  General ................................   16
IV.   THE PROJECT ................................                          19
A.  General Description ................................   19
B.  Detailed Features ................................   20
C.  Project Costs   ................ ................   25
D.  Financing      ................         ................   25
E.  Procurement    .................. ..............   26
F.  Disbursement    ................ ................   27
G.  Accounts and Audit ................................   28
H.  Environmental Impact ................................   28
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .29
A.  Project Organization and Staffing        .       .29
B.  Management of Project Components               ..                30
C.  Project Implementation Schedule ..         ......................   35
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation ..............................   35
VI.   TECHNICAL AND PRODUCTION ASPECTS .......         ....................   36
VII.  GOVERNMENT BENEFITS ........................................   40
VIII. MARKETS AND PRICES .........................................   41
IX.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .........        ........................   43
X.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED ON CREDIT CONDITIONS ...   46
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Rwanda
in June 1980, composed of A. Levi, R. Egli, R. Rambocus (IDA) and A. Bialer
(consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2-
Supporting Tables and Charts
Table 1     Summary of Project Costs
Table 2     Government Cash Flow
Table 3     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 4(a)  Economic Rate of Return Analysis - Cost Summary
4(b) Economic Rate of Return Analysis - Benefit
4(c) Economie Rate of Return Analysis - Cost/Benefit
Table 5     Farm Model - Coffee Growing Areas
Table 6     Farm Model - Highland Area
Table 7     Incremental Production                                                       a
Table 8     Project Preparation Facility
Chart 1     Proposed Project Organization Chart
2     Pre-Project Implementation Schedule
3     Project Implementation Schedule
Material Available in Implementation Volume
Map s
-  Coffee Growing Areas in Rwanda - IBRD 15210
- Project Area - IBRD 15211



RWANDA
APPRAISAL OF THE LAKE KIVU COFFEE IMPROVEMENT
AND FOOD CROP PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      A coffee project was first prepared in early 1974 (wiLth major input
from RMEA) as a component of a larger industrial crops project,, which included
the construction of a tea factory, measures for cinchona development and a
soil improvement program. The project was appraised by an IDA team in late
1974/early 1975. During the appraisal and further discussions with Govern-
ment, the project was reduced to its cinchona component for wh:îch an IDA
Credit (No. 656-RW) was approved in August, 1976. The coffee proposals were
dropped at the request of the Government which, at the time, was not convinced
that the coffee sector required investments of the nature and magnitude
proposed in the preparation documents.
1.02      A growing awareness that coffee production had stagnated over the
past few years prompted Government to reconsider its earlier position. As a
result, a new set of proposals was completed by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock, with assistance from RMEA, in May 1979. The proposals were much
the same as those appraised in 1974, except that in addition to the coffee
growing areas of the three Prefectures along Lake Kivu (the area of the 1974
project), the new project was also to cover the Mayaga, Bugesera and Icyanya
settlement schemes in the central part of the country. Following a series of
discussions between RMEA missions and the Government, the settLement schemes
were dropped from the proposals. Since several other projects are either
being implemented or under consideration for the settlement schemes, it was
felt that a separate coffee project in these schemes was not appropriate and
that future coffee activities in those areas should be integrated with on-going
or future projects. A revised set of proposals was completed in December 1979.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
which visited Rwanda in June 1980. The mission was composed of A. Levi,
R. Egli, M. Rambocus (IDA) and A. Bialer (consultant). The preparation
mission's Project proposals were maintained in large measure.  Government has
evidenced its commitment to the Project by initiating preparatory activities
and appointing key Project personnel. During appraisal, however, it was
agreed with Government not to include the coffee washing station component in
this Project since it was felt that its inclusion would impose an excessive
burden on Project management and seriously compromise one of the principal
objectives which is to increase the quantity of coffee grown in the Project
area.



- 2 -
1.04      To date, the Bank Group has financed five agricultural development
projects in Rwanda. The Mutara Agricultural Development Project - Phase I
(Credit 439-RW) was financed by an IDA Credit of US$3.8 million, and is fully
disbursed.l/ The Cinchona Project (Credit 656-RW) is supported by an IDA Credit
of US$1.8 million, and the Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo Project-BGM (Credit 668-RW)
received an IDA Credit of US$14.0 million. These two projects are progressing
satisfactorily. The BGM project is noteworthy in that the flexibility in
project design has facilitated an effective dialogue with the Government on
all project issues and has made possible careful modification of project
design in accordance with implementation experience. An IDA Credit of
US$8.9 million for the Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project -
Phase II (Credit 937-RW) has had start-up difficulties due in large measure to
problems in recruiting the technical assistance team. The Integrated Forestry
and Livestock Development Project (Credit 1039-RW) which was signed on July 7,
1980, received an IDA Credit of US$21.0 million and implementation is just
beginning.
B. The Agricultural Sector
General
1.05      Rwanda is a 2mall landlocked country in Central Africa covering an
area of some 26,000 km . It is 1,700 km by road from the nearest seaport,
Mombasa, and borders on Uganda to the north, Tanzania to the east, Burundi to
the south and Zaire to the west. Almost all imports and exports are trucked
to and from Mombasa via Uganda. Theft and hijacking of goods transiting
through Uganda is not uncommon. With a per capita GDP of around US$190 in
1980, Rwanda is one of the poorest countries in the world. Its population of
about 4.8 million has been increasing at a rate of about 2.9% during the decade
of the 1970s. Kigali (pop. 118,000) and Butare (pop. 22,900) are the two major
cities. Population densities vary widely, from 87 per âm in the savannah
areas in the eastern part of the country, to 328 per km in Butare prefecture.
The population is relatively cohesive and homogeneous both ethnically and in
terms of living conditions. The average rural per capita GDP is estimated at
about US$95.
1/   A Project Completion Report has been prepared (August 12, 1980).  The
report concluded that even though the Project did not result in the
expected increase in agricultural production, substantial achievements
had been realized in the areas of infrastructure development and in
experience acquired by Rwandese staff in Project management. In addi-
tion, the Project had served as a positive instrument for IDA and the
Government in development a sectoral dialogue for the Mutara area.



- 3 -
1.06      Rwanda is generally hilly, with elevation and rainfall gradually
increasing from east to west. There are three major climatic and geographic
areas. The eastern zone is a savannah region with low rainfall (700 - 1,000 mm
a year) and long dry seasons. Altitudes average between 1,000 and 1,500 m.
The natural vegetation consists mostly of tall grasses and acaLcia trees.
This zone is the least populated area of Rwanda, principally because of the
lower rainfall, and until recently, the presence of the tsetse fly. The
central high plateau zone is densely populated with rolling hills, 1,500 -
2,000 m in elevation, and annual rainfall of from 1,200 - 2,000 mm.  The
mountainous western zone includes the Zaire-Nile divide and the volcanic
region to the north. This region, which is generally above 2,000 m, except
along Lake Kivu where average elevation is between 1,400 and 1,800 m, has an
annual rainfall of 1,300 mm or more, and a cool c1imaie; parts of this zone
are very densely populated. Only about 30% (8,000 km ) of Rwanda is suitable
for cropping and virtually all of this area is already under cultivation.
About 22% of the land area is pastureland, 6% is forest, and the rest is land
with no agricultural use. Subsistence crops cover about 95% of the cultivated
areas while the remaining 5% produce commercial crops.
1.07      Rwanda has a traditional and overwhelmingly rural economy.  About
95% of the population live in rural areas and gain their livelihood from agri-
culture which contributed about 50% of GDP in 1978, three quarters of which
was from subsistence crops. Agricultural exports provide about 70% of total
export earnings. Total food crop production falls short of the country's
basic requirements. To make up its chronic deficit, Rwanda spends about 30%
of its agricultural export revenues on foodcrop imports. In spite of the
importance of agriculture to Rwanda, Government investment in this sector,
until recently, has been minimal. This situation is changing, however, and
about 20% of planned investment for 1979 was earmarked for agriculture.
Agriculture in Rwanda is carried out by smallholders who use t-raditional
cultivation methods on plots averaging one hectare. Farming techniques are
based on hand labor using basic hand tools - the hoe, pick and machete.
Fertilizers and improved seed are seldom used.
Land Tenure
1.08      By law, all land in Rwanda belongs to the Government.  However, most
land holdings are governed by a combination of traditional law and modern
regulations. All pasture land is communally held. Most cultiLvated land can
be passed on to heirs; it is rarely sold for cash. A number of settlement
schemes, called Paysannats, have been organized in the less densely populated
areas. These schemes aim to relieve the general shortage of :Land and to
increase productivity by intensifying the delivery of technical and social
services (access roads, school, dispensaries). Farmers on these schemes enter
into a contract with the State and have usufruct of a 2 ha cu:Ltivation plot.
Settlers may not subdivide their plots among their children and must conform
to set agricultural practices. By 1976, an estimated 62,000 families had been
settled in this manner. Cultivated land under usufruct rights may be acquired
by the Government, in which case compensation is paid on the basis of crops
planted, type and number of trees, and type of dwelling.



- 4-
Agricultural Production
1.09      The variation in elevation and climate allows a wide range of crops
to be grown. Subsistence crops grown at lower elevations include beans,
sorghum, beer bananas, sweet potatoes, groundnuts and cassava. The principal
food crops grown at higher elevations are peas, potatoes, maize and beans.
About 95% of the cultivated land is planted with food crops, with an estimated
one quarter of this area under bananas, 18% under tubers (cassava, sweet
potatoes, and potatoes), 25% under cereals (sorghum and maize), and 34% under
pulses (beans and peas). Rwanda's favorable climatic conditions allow for two
crops per year in most cases, but soil fertility is declining at a fast rate,
crop yields are low and fertilizer use is not widespread. Research indicates
that yields could be increased substantially with improved cultivation tech-
niques, use of selected seeds and application of some mineral fertilizer mixed
with compost. About 5% of the cultivated land is planted with cash crops.
Export earnings from cash crops as a percentage of total export earnings are
as follows: coffee (60%), tea (7%), pyrethrum (2.5%), and cinchona (.05%).
Livestock
1.10      The cattle herd has been declining since 1971.  This is probably
due to a combination of three factors: (i) substantial losses of herds to
neighboring countries, largely due to the reduction in available pastures;
(ii) high mortality of young animals resulting from the poor health situa-
tion; and (iii) over exploitation of the herd as a result of the rising
demand for meat.  Most cattle belong to farmers who own herds varying in size
from three to 12 head. There are no commercial ranches in Rwanda. Rwandese
cattle are in general the result of the uncontrolled crossing of two distinct
strains: the small, short-horned Zebu and the Red Ankole, which is a large
animal with long horns. Parasitism and underfeeding make for poor breeding
performance as well as low yields of meat and milk; however, the animals are
hardy, and respond well to remedial treatment. In 1978, the national cattle
herd numbered 650,000. Nlilk production is low, estimated at about 68
million liters in 1978, of which about one-third was for human consumption.
Meat production was estimated at 10,000 tons carcass weight. The numbers of
goats and sheep, which provide most of the meat consumed in rural areas, are
estimated at 770,000 and 270,000 respectively. Production of pigs and
rabbits has been increasing and their numbers are estimated at 100,000 and
130,000 respectively.
1.11      In spite of a severe lack of grazing land, few cattle are stall-fed,
although most goats and sheep are kept tethered. A major intensification
effort has begun throughout the country involving stall-feeding of livestock
on forage crops such as Setaria and Pennisetum. The manure is transferred to
compost heaps whose contents are then used as organic fertilizer for crops.
The Agricultural Research Institute of Rwanda (Institut des Sciences Agro-
nomiques du Rwanda, ISAR) at Rubona has shown that when small quantities of
mineral fertilizers are added to the compost just prior to its application on
the fields, impressive increases in crop yields can be obtained. In areas
where agricultural personnel have worked with farmers and explained the
utility of stall-feeding combined with compost preparation, farmer response
has been encouraging.



Other Agricultural Resources
1.12      Most of Rwanda's fish catch is taken from its lakes.  The 1978 catch
was estimated at 710 tons, about 25% of which came from Lake Kivu. Fish pond
production, estimated at only 15 tons, was negligible. Rwanda's forest
resources are estimated to cover approximately 170,000 ha, or roughly 6%
of the total land area. This resource, which was previously much more exten-
sive, is being destroyed at a rapid rate. Few trees have been planted to
replace those which have been cut down and sporadic Government tree-planting
programs have had only minimal success. Land is so scarce that farmers plant
most of their land in crops which produce immediate returns. I'he result has
been a decline in the amount of wood available for fuel and charcoal and the in-
creased use of agricultural residues for fuel. Maize, sorghum stalks, bean
and pea hulls and dried dung are burned instead of being used to improve soil
structure and fertility, thereby reducing crop yields. One of the major
constraints faced by replanting programs in general in Rwanda is the critical
shortage of land. Small, scattered, uncultivated hilltops remain, but large
areas suitable for forest plantations are virtually non-existerLt. Reforesta-
tion programs will have to be confined to areas which are unsuitable for
cultivation or livestock production or where tree planting can be integrated
into the farming system by planting trees along contours and roadsides.
Government Constraints, Prospects, and Objectives
1.13      The future development of agriculture in Rwanda is limited by the
shortage of cultivable land. With the acute land scarcity, increases in food-
crop production over the past decade have been largely achievecl through exten-
sion of cultivation to poorer quality land previously devoted to pastoral and
forestry uses. However, this alternative has now been exhausted and in the
future increased production can only come from intensification on already cul-
tivated land, not from putting more land into production.
1.14      Rwanda is experiencing a decline in soil fertility.  In the past,
crop rotation together with long fallow periods preserved soil fertility.
However, during the last 30 years, population pressure on land has been so
strong that the fallow period has gradually been reduced and today it has
practically disappeared.
1.15      Soil erosion is another serious problem.  Seventy percent of the
cultivated land and 60% of the pasture have a slope of more than 17% and it
is estimated that half of the cultivated land has a slope of more than 20%.
Up to 1960 a large effort was made to prevent soil erosion through contour
planting of grass strips and about 40% of the cultivated land was protected in
this way. During the colonial period these conservation measures were imposed
on farmers. Grasses used for this purpose were mostly Setaria and, to a lesser
extent, Pennisetum. They were regularly cut for fodder and mulching material.
After independence, because these measures were resented and also because the
soil planted with these grasses was often exhausted, grass strips were aban-
doned and some of the contours were even destroyed. Today, only a fraction of
these grass strips are visible and soil conservation measures have disappeared
in many areas.



1.16      Rwanda's second Five-Year Plan, 1977-1981, sets out four primary
objectives:
(i) satisfying the population's food needs;
(ii) increasing employment and making better use of the
country's human resources, including educational
reform and technical training;
(iii) increasing living standards through more widespread access
to improved health care and basic social services; and
(iv) improving the country s external position, through a
better trade balance, improved transport links and more
effective and increased use of external financial and
technical assistance.
Increased food production resulting from greater agricultural productivity is
the Plan-s top priority. Agricultural research in Rwanda has demonstrated
that yields can be increased by using improved seeds, by intercropping
bananas with pulses, and by applying soil conservation techniques. Though
the plan underlines the importance of using better seed varieties and apply-
ing soil conservation measures, as well as improving livestock strains and
the coordination of food crop, export crop and livestock activities, little
progress in these areas has been made thus far. One of the principal reasons
for the lack of progress is that the extension service needed to assist with
the introduction and follow-up of such innovations has not been trained or
equipped for the task. Some donor financed programs have been successful in
bringing about increased yields, but unfortunately their results are frequently
not shared as there is little effective coordination of foreign technical
assistance.
C. Government Services
1.17      Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.  The Ministry is responsible
for all activities related to agriculture in Rwanda. The Minister is assisted
by a Secretary General who coordinates and oversees the activities of the
Secretariat and of the four operating departments: Agronomy, Rural Engineering
and Soil Conservation, Livestock, and Lands. The secretariat includes the
Studies and Projects Division, and three offices (archives, budget management,
and agrarian reform). The Agronomy Department is divided into the Extension
Department, essentially concerned with agricultural extension and plant pro-
tection, and the Forestry and Water Resources Department. The Rural Engineer-
ing (Genie Rural) and Soil Conservation Department helps develop marshland
reclamation projects and provides various other services, mainly topographic.
The Livestock Department manages the country s Veterinary Services and is
responsible for promoting animal production. The Land Department supervises
land registration and allocation. In addition, the Ministry operates a
selected seeds service (para. 1.21) and is the umbrella organization for five
parastatal companies: the Office for Industrial Crops-coffee (OCIR-Cafe); the



office for Industrial Crops-Tea (OCIR-The); the Office of Pyrethrum (OPYRWA);
the Office for the Development and Marketing of Food Crops and Livestock
Production (OPROVIA) (para. 1.18); and the office for the Development of the
Mutara Regiona OVAPAM, the implementing agency for the Mfutara E'roject. The
Ministry has over 2,000 staff members, most of whom are field extension
workers (about 1,500) or veterinary field staff (about 400), operating in all
the Prefectures and Communes. In general, field extension services are weak,
as the staff are inadequately trained, poorly supervised and lack logistical
support.
*         1.18      Parastatal Institutions.  The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
oversees the work of the parastatal agencies. The largest is OCIR-Cafe (para.
2.07), followed by OCIR-The and OPYRWA which are responsible for quality
control conditioning and marketing of tea and pyrethrum. OPROVIA is responsible
for the procurement, processing and marketing of food crops and livestock. It
has, so far, limited its activities to the handling and distribution of food
donations.
Agricultural Research
1.19      ISAR (Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda) is responsible
for agricultural research and has received considerable assistance from
Belgium for activities related to food crops, industrial crops" forestry
and livestock. As of June 1980, Belgium has decided to limit assistance to
food crops and livestock. The Swiss are providing assistance in forestry and
the Government and other donors will support industrial crop research covering
coffee, tea, and pyrethrum.
1.20      Most of ISAR's research activities and trials are carried out at
the research station at Rubona. The land at Rubona is considerably more
fertile than most available in Rwanda. ISAR's crop and livestock research has
been excellent but due to a lack of funds and poor coordination with donor
financed development projects, trials at the field level have been lacking.
For coffee, ISAR has concentrated its efforts on plant selection, fertilizer
trials, pest and disease research and the development of plant protection
methods. New varieties are tested in three field locations: Mluyaga in the
East, Nyamyumba in the Central part of Rwanda and Gatovu in the West. In
addition ISAR, runs a coffee seed service which supplies the nurseries of
OCIR-Cafe and those of its equivalent in Burundi, OCIBU, with ioundation
seed.
The Selected Seed Service
1.21      Rwanda has a well-established food crop seed selection and multipli-
cation service, the Service de Semences Selectionees (S.S.S.). The main seeds
produced are beans, sorghum, maize, peas and vegetables. ISAR provides
foundation seed which is multiplied by the S.S.S. in five centers located in
different ecological zones. The varieties distributed have been well tested
and selected to improve yields with low or no fertilizer inputs and to be
tolerant or resistant to the main diseases.



- 8 -
1.22      In theory, the S.S.S. produces selected seed and supplies them
through the Prefectures to the communes for further multiplication and
the production of commercial seed. This organization, although logical in
concept, does not work because the communes lack the necessary personnel,
physical facilities and organization for seed multiplication and distribution.
The consequence is that the S.S.S. has an ample supply of foundation selected
seed for which the demand has been limited.
Agricultural Training
1.23      The absence of trained manpower for the implementation of development
projects is a serious constraint in Rwanda. Three institutions are responsible
for providing post-secondary agricultural training. The Agronomy Faculty of
the National University of Rwanda at Butare is being developed with Canadian
aid to train agricultural engineers and veterinary assistants; the first
class of four students graduated in 1977. The School of Agriculture, in
Butare, largely supported by French technical assistance, operates a four-year
post-secondary course. It trains 10-25 agricultural technicians (A2) and
10-15 assistant level veterinarians and veterinarians (A2) each year. The
Nyagahanga school in Byumba Prefecture trains female agricultural technicians;
the first class of about 30 students graduated in 1980. The agriculture
school at Kibuye gives a two year course and trains about 20-25 lower level
(A3) agricultural technicians each year, but this school is scheduled to be
transferred to the Ministry of Education for the training of A2 agricultural
staff by the end of 1981. Thereafter, agricultural development projects will
have to provide the training for A3 staff. The IDA financed Bugesera/Gisaka/
Migongo project is just beginning to train lower level (A3) assistant zootech-
nicians and veterinarians at a center built for this purpose near Rubirizi.
Agricultural Credit
1.24      Credit to farmers is not well developed at present.  Some credit
is channelled through the People's Bank (Banque Populaire) which receives
deposits and makes loans to cooperatives and individuals for working capital.
Experimental credit programs are being developed under the IDA financed
Bugesera/Gisaka/Migonga and Mutara projects. There are four phases of coffee
operations for which financing is available: (i) collection of parchment
coffee; (ii) purchase and hulling by Rwandex; (iii) storage; and (iv) exports.
For the first stage, banks and savings institutions are authorized to finance
licensed Rwandese traders provided that they have not defaulted in the past,
and co-operatives and parastatal bodies. The latter three phases are financed
by a consortium of local banks.
Local Administration
1.25      Rwanda is divided into ten Prefectures, each headed by a Prefet
appointed by the President on the recommendation of the Minister of the
Interior.  Prefectures are divided into communes (usually seven or eight per
Prefecture), headed by a Bourgmestre who is also appointed by the President.
Each commune is divided into sectors (10-14) and each sector is subdivided
into cells (six to eight per sector).  Each cell has about 60 farm families.
The commune is governed by a council "conseil de commune" made up of one



- 9 -
elected representative from each sector (the sector chief) and the Bourgmestre.
Sector chiefs serve for five years.  The council meets once a week.  Every
five years each cell elects a committee of five which then elects a chairman.
Once a month the cell committees meet with the sector chief. :Each commune has
a Development Committee which is made up of Government civil servants working
in the commune and a Technical Committee made up of members of the commune
working at the national level. These committees, which at present do not play
a very active a role in the affairs of the communes, are to advise on develop-
ment activities. The communes are to finance their activities from a tax of
400 RF per year charged to each adult male and from revenues from market-stall
taxes. Theoretically, there is one agronomist per commune paid by the Govern-
ment the "agronome de commune" and one extension worker per sector who is to
be paid by the commune. As taxes are generally not sufficient to meet all the
communal financial needs, many of the extension posts are vacant. In addition
to personnal paid by the central government and the commune, OCIR-Cafe pays
the salaries of from two to four extension workers in communes where coffee
growing is important (para. 2.08). Although OCIR-Cafe pays their salaries it
has no control over their activities. These agents, like the textension
agents paid by the commune, are responsible to the commune agronomist and the
agronomist of the Prefecture. Like the communal extension worlcers they
are poorly supervised and lack logistic support.
1.26      Each Rwandese citizen works a half day per week on a community
project "umuganda". Projects are selected by the communal council and
include construction of feeder roads, bridges, schools, work onl communal
demonstration plots, tree planting, and the installation of drinking water
fountains. Participation in umuganda activities is very high .nd achieve-
ments, for the most part, are impressive. In Rwanda, local administrative
structures permeate deep into the social fiber of the community and offer a
sound framework on which to build development projects.
II. THE COFFEE SUB-SECTOR
Background
2.01      Coffee is the major source of Rwanda's export earnings (about 60%
in 1978 and 80% in 1979) and is the most important single source of Government
budget revenues. Coffee was first established in Rwanda in 1905 with seed of
Guatemalan origin.  This variety, called "Mibirizi" after the mission where
it was first planted, is still the main variety in both Rwanda and Burundi.
Although well adapted to local conditions, the Mibirizi variety is not high
yielding.  Other strains such as "Bourbon" from Reunion, Guatemala and
Puerto Rico, "Local Bronze" from Kenya together with Kenyan se:Lections of
"Jamaican Jackson" and "Blue Mountain" types, have been introduced subsequently
to Rwanda and have a higher yield potential than Mibirizi. Most coffee in
Rwanda is of the Arabica type. A permanent coffee breeding unit at Rubona is
the sole supplier of coffee planting material within the country. This unit
also supplies seed to neighboring Burundi.



- 10 -
2.02      Beginning in 1927, the Colonial authorities enforced coffee plant-
ing alongside roads and tracks in an effort to provide smallholders with a
cash income and stimulate the economic development of the Trust Territory.
Some of this coffee was planted in areas not suited to coffee growing.
Today, farmers look to coffee as a source of cash and are eager to grow it,
especially since the threefold price increase in 1977.
2.03      There are two principal coffee growing regions, the central zone
which includes the Prefectures of Kigali, Butare, Gitarama, Ruhengeri, Byumba
and Kibungo and the zone bordering on Lake Kivu which includes the Prefectures
of Gisenyi, Kibuye and Cyangugu. The central zone accounts for 75% of the
area planted in coffee and 60% of total coffee production, while the Lake
Kivu zone accounts for 25% of the area planted and some 40% of the coffee
crop (See IBRD Map 15210). Coffee is generally grown in areas receiving an
annual average of 1,000 to 1,800 mm of rainfall and is generally restricted
to altitudes of from 1,450 to 1,800 m.
2.04      All coffee in Rwanda is grown by smallholders who, on average, own
150 trees each covering an estimated 0.08 ha, usually on one plot. Coffee
husbandry is generally poor. Pruning is not carried out regularly and the
coffee trees are seldom mulched. Fertilizer is very rarely applied as with
production techniques currently in use and at current fertilizer prices in
Rwanda its use is not economically attractive. Furthermore, the Ministry of
Agriculture at present espouses a policy which discourages the use of chemical
fertilizer (para. 6.06). Annual countrywide insect control campaigns are
organized by OCIR-Cafe. Yields are low, in the neighborhood of 350 - 500 g
of parchment coffee/tree or 700 - 800 kg/ha 1/.  The number of coffee growing
families is estimated at about 440,000 or about half of the smallholder
families in the country. Coffee plantations cover a total area of about
30,000 ha or about 2.2% of the arable land.
Production
2.05      Coffee production fluctuates betwen 20,000 and 24,000 tons of
parchment coffee per year which results in exports of between 15,000 and
1/   The following terminology is used in this report:  cherry, the complete
fruit of the coffee tree, should be picked when it turns red, and
normally contains two beans. These beans are individually covered by
membranes, the silver skins, and parchment-like shells, all covered by
a mucilaginous substance. The mucilage is surrounded by the skin of the
cherry. The skin and part of the mucilage is removed in the pulping
process which in Rwanda is usually done with hand pulping machines.
Any remaining mucilage disappears during drying. Pulped coffee, when
dried, is called parchment coffee. The parchment and silver skins are
removed in hulling factories, which produce clean or green coffee. All
coffee trading is in green coffee, which is eventually roasted before
consumption.



- il -
18,000 tons of green coffee 1/. It is estimated that area under coffee has
doubled over the past 20 years as has the number of coffee trees. However,
the output per tree has on average declined by 20% as indicated below:
No. of                             Production
Coffee trees          Surface           per tree
( 000)               (ha)               (g)
1960             24,000              15,280              520
1980             51,000              32,000              405
Because of the relatively low productivity, fertilizers are not recommended at
this stage.
2.06      The reduction in yields is attributable to (i) a lack of mulching
material, (ii) soil erosion, (iii) irregular pruning of the coffee trees and
(iv) poor organization of coffee spraying campaigns. In the past, the soil
was effectively protected by mulching but over the past decade, mulching
material has become scarcer and today, only about 10 - 20% of the plantations
are adequately mulched. Mulching both protects the soil and preserves mois-
ture for the coffee tree. Its absence has resulted in a gradual loss of soil
fertility. Soil erosion has been on the the increase as a result of continuous
land use and a lack of farmer interest in erosion contours. Pruning has
declined due to an almost total absence of follow-up by extension staff, a
shortage of pruning tools, and farmers reluctance to forego immediate
production for increased production in the future. Because of population
pressure and the competition with food crops for land, there is not much scope
for increasing the area under coffee. However, increased production can be
brought about over the short run through better maintenance and over the long
run through the development of cultivation methods acceptable to farmers which
would protect soil fertility and retain soil moisture.
Role of OCIR-Cafe
2.07      Following independence, the Office for Industrial Crops of Rwanda
(the Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda, OCIR-Cafe) was created as
a parastatal company under the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock to look
after operations of coffee and other industrial crops. OCIR-Cafe was reorga-
nized in 1978 and split into two groups, one for tea, OCIR-The, and a second
for coffee, OCIR-Cafe. OCIR-Cafe is governed by a Board of Directors consist-
ing of five members named by the President of the Republic on the recommenda-
tion of the Minister of Agriculture. The Director of OCIR-Cafe is designated
by the President. He is responsible to OCIR's Board which delegates responsi-
bility for day-to-day management to him.
1/   The conversion factor from parchment to green coffee is 0.75.



- 12 -
2.08      OCIR employs 45 professionals, six of whom are senior level staff.
In addition it employs 160 support staff and pays the salaries of 235 coffee
extension agents. OCIR's operating budget for 1980/81 is about US$2.8 million
equivalent. About US$650,000 of this is for insecticides, US$800,000 for
salaries and US$250,000 for depulping center operations. Responsibility for
OCIR-Cafe's operations is divided between the office of the Director and three
operating services. The Director supervises overall operations and is
responsible for personnel matters, the annual report and the elaboration and
presentation of the budget to the Board of Directors. The Administration and
Financial Service is responsible for the budget, OCIR's accounts, procurement,
management of physical facilities, vehicles and equipment.  The Production
Service is responsible for relations with local authorities in coffee growing
areas, and for nurseries, pest control campaigns, hand pulping machines, and
all action to increase coffee production. The Commercial Service is respon-
sible for preparing sales contracts, issuing export licences, quality control,
storage facilities, transport coordination, and for proposing the coffee
price structure. Management and technical staff are competent.
2.09      OCIR-Cafe has also jurisdiction over two funds, the coffee stabiliza-
tion fund and the propaganda fund.  The resources of the coffee stabilization
fund, which are kept at the National Bank of Rwanda, insure a fixed price to
the producer and to those that transport, process and export coffee. The
propaganda fund finances coffee extension agents, coffee nurseries and
finances costs associated with the local sale of coffee. Both funds receive
their revenue from taxes on coffee export sales as well as from interest on
Government bonds which are purchased with fund surpluses. The Minister of
Finance, on the recommendation of OCIR-Cafe's Board, sets the price structure
for coffee (para 2.14). This structure includes the taxes due to these two
funds.
2.10      OCIR-Cafe's accounts have not been properly maintained since 1975,
although the system of classification of receipts and vouchers is up to date.
Technical assistance provided under the Cinchona Project (Cr. 656 Rw) has
assisted OCIR-Cafe in updating these accounts and a partial audit of the
accounts for the years 1976-1978 and a full audit for 1979 would be a condi-
tion of Credit Effectiveness. This audit is scheduled to begin in mid-March
1981 and the full report is expected by end-April 1981.
2.11      Prior to 1975 OCIR-Cafe's Production Service was responsible for
all coffee extension agents. In 1975 responsibility for these agents was
transferred to the communes. However, OCIR-Cafe was required to continue
paying their salaries (para. 1.25). The absence of an organized extension
system looking after coffee, with systematic follow-up and logistic support
to farmers, is one of the principal reasons for the decline in the maintenance
of coffee plantations.
Processing
2.12      The object of coffee processing is to separate the green bean from
the ripe cherry with minimum delay and then to dry the bean so that it can be
sent to the hulling factory (para. 2.05). Where sunshine is adequate, the
whole cherry can be dried in the sun and the outer and parchment skins removed
in one hulling process. Because of the high rainfall during the harvest season



- 13 -
(March-June) in Rwanda, this drying process is not possible. In Rwanda, ripe
cherries are pulped by squeezing the cherries by hand on-the-farm or at hand
pulping stations, and the resultant mucilage-coated beans are then dried in
the sun to produce a "semi-washed coffee." Hand pulping centers consist of
hand-driven dise pulpers and water-fed troughs which partially remove the
mucilage from the bean. Pulping in these centers is speedier than the
on-the-farm process and it further improves quality, as pulp removal is
incomplete and drying delayed during on-the-farm pulping, in particular if
water is not available. The pulping centers, established in the coffee
growing areas prior to independence, are maintained by OCIR-Cafe but lack of
preventive maintenance and the resulting frequent breakdowns have greatly
reduced their effectiveness.
2.13      Attempts to produce a high quality fully-washed coffee 1/ were begun
in 1956 when two coffee washing stations, each with a capacity of about 150
tons of parchment coffee, were constructed along Lake Kivu. These stations,
operated by cooperatives, suffered from management problems and high operating
costs and stopped functioning in 1974. Records indicate that neither of them
worked to capacity nor produced a good quality coffee.
Marketing
2.14      Each year, usually in mid-May, the onset of the coffee campaign,
prices to the producer for parchment coffee, traders' margins, export com-
missions and transport and hulling margins are fixed by Government on the
recommendation of OCIR-Cafe in relation to the expected world market price.
Coffee is bought from growers by private traders who are licenced by the
Prefet of each Prefecture. Private banks and Caisses Populaires provide the
traders with credit (para. 1.24). All transactions are in cash but there is
rarely any controlled weighing and considerable under-weighing is said to take
place. The traders transport the parchment coffee to one of three hulling
factories, Rwandex's factory in Kigali or Gisenyi or the Etiru factory at
Ruhengeri 2/. Here they are paid at prices set by Government. After hulling,
the coffee is bagged and sent to the OCIR stores in Kigali where lots are
sampled and classified by grade. It is then exported through Drucafe a
private company headquartered in London. Rwandex is responsible for the
transport of the coffee to Mombasa. The coffee travels by road as well as by
air. Sales are made on the basis of offers received after sample inspection
or on a consignment basis. In 1979, approximately 70% of all exports are sold
in the US market and 15% in EEC countries.
1/   Under the fully-washed process the ripe cherry is put through a simple
machine (pulper) which mechanically separates the outer skin and much of
the pulp from the bean with the aid of running water. The remaining
mucilage is broken down by fermentation (sometimes under water, sometimes
not), over one or two days before being washed off with water. This
speeds up the subsequent drying of the beans. The price margin for fully
washed coffee can be five to (US) seven cents a pound above Rwanda-s
semi-washed.
2/   The Government has 51% interest in Rwandex.  The Etiru factory is pri-
vately owned.



- 14 -
2.15      The price structure of coffee for the year 1979-80 as per the Gov-
ernment's sliding scale is given in the following table:
Kilogram of Green Coffee
A.   Internal Costs                                       --RF--
1.   Price to producer 120 RF/kg parchment 1/    164.40
2.   Collection charge 6 RF/kg parchment               8.20
3.   Factory charges                                   5.00
4.   OCIR taxes
Remuneration                                7.75
Transport subsidy                           2.00
ICA dues 2/                                  .25
Total Internal Costs                           187.60
B.   Government Tax
1.   Customs tax (20% of ex-frontier 3/ value)    37.68
C.   External Costs
1.   Transport Kigali-Mombasa                         16.65
2.   Insurance (.45% the kg)                            .91
3.   Escort charges                                     .76
4.   Financial charges                                 3.30
5.   Transit Mombasa                                   2.05
6.   Port charges (.8%)                                1.62
7.   Allowance for price increase                      1.00
8.   Exporter commission (1.5% x f.o.b.)               4.30
Total External Costs                            30.59
Total (A, B and C)                             255.87
Average f.o.b. price 1979                      285.81 RF
Excess (average F.O.B.-Costs)                   29.94 RF or 30 RF
(rounded)
1/   Green coffee 164 RF is equivalent to 120 RF parchment coffee.
2/   International Coffee Association.
3/   Ex-frontier value is internal costs + RF .820/kg which is the transport
cost from Kigali to the frontier at Kagitumba.



- 15 -
2.16      Rwanda-s coffee pricing policy as implemented since 1977 has guaran-
teed a satisfactory, stable price to the farmer and provided the Government
with an important, although irregular, source of income as it absorbs wide
fluctuations in export prices. As per the current pricing policy, in 1979,
half of the 30 RF/kilo excess went to the coffee stabilization fund and half
to the Treasury. The producer received about 57% of the average f.o.b.
export price, and OCIR's operational tax, including the fuel subsidy paid to
transporters, was 3.5% of the average f.o.b. price.
2.17      The distribution of revenues generated from coffee in 1977, 1978
and 1979 is as follows:
1977      1978       1979
…------   -- - 000 …---------
Tons Sold                                             19.1        18         40
---------RF million-------
Revenue from Coffee Sales                         6,536.0      4,533    12,820
Costs
Purchase of Green Coffee                       3,065        2,883      6,483 (A)
Collection & Transport to Hulling Factories   102              96        217
OCIR Taxes                                       158          149        405
Customs Tax + Gov. Prog. Tax 1/                1,507        1,091      2,779
Transport to Mombasa                             445          419        679
Banking and Insurance                             57           54        122
Transit and Port Charges                          31           29         78
Provision for Increase                            19           18         40
Exporter Commission                               58           55        123
Stabilization Fund                                            -          293
Government Subsidy 2/                                        450        600
State Tax                                        -            -           23
Sub-total                                      2,377        2,361      5,359 (B)
Sub-total (A + B)                       5,442        6,894    11,842
Surplus (deficit) on coffee operations            1,094        (711)        978
1/   The progressive tax was discontinued in August 1979.
2/   Prior to 1979 Government applied a progressive tax to coffee exports
at the time of sale, only to have to subsidize the stabilization fund
at the end of the campaign. Since August 1979 this progressive tax
was dropped and in accordance with the latest price policy, Government
subsidizes coffee when the F.O.B. Mombasa price falls below 255 RF per
kilo or (US) 126 cents/lb. Between 256 RF or (US) 127 cents/lb and
293 RF or (US) 145 cents/lb the excess between the f.o.b. price and costs
are distributed equally between the stabilization fund and the Treasury
and over 293 RF, the stabilization fund receives a steady 18.8 RF per
kilo and the Treasury receives the rest.



- 16 -
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. General
3.01      The Project area is located on the Western slope of the Zaire-Nile
divide and borders on Lake Kivu (Map 2 IBRD 15211).  It lies within the three
Prefectures of Gisenyi, Kibuye and Cyangugu, stretching from Gisenyi in the
north to Cyangugu in the south. It includes four communes and parts of two
others in Kibuye Prefecture, eight communes in Cyangugu Prefecture and two
communes in Gisen i Prefecture excluding the natural forest for a total area
of about 3,000 km . From a deeply indented lake coast line (altitude 1,400
m), steep hills enclosing narrow river valleys rise to the crest that consti-
tutes the Nile/Zaire watershed (3,000m). In the northern end of the Project
area, between Kibuye and Gisenyi, the shore-line is fjordlike in character.
3.02      The Project area is very densely populated.  Over 1.1 million           2
people live in the three Prefectures and the population density of 450 per km
of cultivated land is among the highest in Rwanda. An estimated 450,000
people (85,000 farm families) live in the Project area, 75,000 in the coffee
growing areas and 10,000 in the highland areas. About 99% of the population
is engaged in agriculture and, as in the rest of Rwanda, families live on
individual holdings of from 1.0 to 1.5 ha. Land use and property rights are
determined in accordance with traditional custom; private ownership is not
recognized but limited usufruct rights on cultivated land do exist. The
Government, represented by the local communes, exercises property rights on
all unoccupied land (grazing lands and forest). The Project area contains an
estimated 13.4 million coffee trees, or 25% of the national total and accounts
for about 40% of Rwanda's coffee production.
3.03      Infrastructure.  There are four national roads in the Project area,
three of which cross the Zaire Nile divide (the Cyangugu-Butare road, the
Kibuye-Gitarama road and the Gisenyi-Ruhengeri road); the fourth road follows
the lake shore from Cyangugu to Kibuye and extends inland a little from Kibuye
to Gisenyi. These roads are extremely winding and in some cases quite steep.
The Ruhengeri-Gisenyi road is paved; the others are fairly well maintained
all-weather roads and, with the exception of the Cyangugu Butare road which
can be closed for short periods during the heavy rains, passable throughout
the year. The communal roads (feeder roads) maintained by "umuganda7' work
(para. 1.26) are also in fairly good condition and are passable most of the
year, though the road leading from Nyamyumba to Nkora in Gisenyi Prefecture
requires repairs to bridges and culverts.
3.04      Road transportation in the Project area is complemented by boat
transport on Lake Kivu. Commercial navigation takes place on a limited scale
between the villages of Bukavu and Goma in Zaire and Cyangugu, Kibuye and
Gisenyi. TRAFIPRO, a cooperative purchasing and transport organization,
transports coffee via the lake during the coffee harvesting season (May
through August). The Regie des Transports Publiques (RTP), a state enterprise,



- 17 -
transports passengers between Cyangugu, Kirambo, Mugonero, Kibuye and Gisenyi.
A small fleet of privately owned barges transports beer, cement, sand and
gravel between these landing points. Deficiencies in berthing facilities at
these landing areas reduce the efficiency of both merchandise and passenger
movement. In addition to very small urban centers at the Prefecture headquar-
ters of Cyangugu and Kibuye and a large center at Gisenyi, there are some 16
large markets, mostly on or near the lake and over 80 subsidiary markets in
the three Prefectures.
3.05      Climate:  Climatic conditions in the Project area are generally more
favorable for coffee growing than in other areas of the country. The average
day temperature is almost constant throughout the year (230C), and daily
variations are less pronounced than elsewhere in Rwanda. Both of these
phenomena are due to the proximity of the lake, which has a moderating
influence on temperature fluctuations. Annual rainfall is between 1,300 mm
along the lake and 1,500 mm in the higher areas with the main rainy season
(March - May) followed by relatively dry months (June - September). Rainfall
during these four months averages 200 mm compared with 110 mm East of the
Zaire Nile divide.
3.06       Soils:  The soils in the Project area vary considerably in their
natural fertility and potential for coffee production. In the North, in
Gisenyi Prefecture, they derive from volcanic ashes and are very fertile.
This region is considered to be the best coffee growing area in Rwanda (IBRD
Map 12510). In the central part of the Project area, in Kibuye Prefecture,
the soils derive from shales, mica, shists, quartzite, and granite and have
low inherent fertility. In the south, in Cyangugu Prefecture, the soils
derive from basalt. They are also very fertile but highly susceptible to
erosion.
3.07      Farming systems.  Farmers in the Project area have developed a
complex crop and livestock husbandry system in which altitude is a determining
factor. Beans, sorghum, sweet potatoes, beer bananas and coffee are grown
in the lower areas (1,400 - 2,000 mm), while peas, potatoes, maize and beans,
usually cultivated as a pure stand though sometimes intercropped with beer
bananas, are grown above 2,000 mm. Maize is often cultivated in association
with groundnuts or gourds. Cultivation is mostly done with family labor.
Men are usually responsible for building the house, clearing land, maintaining
the banana plantation and pruning and spraying the coffee trees. Women do
weeding and harvesting in addition to household chores. Each crop is usually
cultivated only once a year on the same plot; potatoes and beans enter twice
in the crop rotation system, but on different plots. There are no permanent
fallows in the Project area. Terracing is still evident in some areas but
anti-erosion fodder strips are rarely planted and erosion remains a serious
problem (para. 1.15).  Improved seeds are available from the S.S.S. (paras
1.21 and 1.22) in Kigali but a satisfactory system for multiplying these seeds
at the local level, storing them and distributing them for the planting season
has yet to be worked out. In the highland areas of Gisenyi and Cyangugu, large
tea plantations have recently been developed, thereby putting added pressure



- 18 -
on land for food crop cultivation. Livestock is raised on post-harvest crop
residues.  There are an estimated 60,000 head of cattle, 150,000 goats and
40,000 sheep in the Project area. Most families keep a few goats, and the
better off families, some cattle. The livestock is grazed on fallow, or along
the road side and brought back to the farm at night.  A few farmers in each
area have built stalls where they feed their cattle and collect manure for
their compost heaps (para. 1.11). Keeping livestock is usually the children's
responsibility.
3.08      Government Services:  As in other Prefectures in Rwanda, the Govern-
ment pays the salaries of the senior level agronomist (the Agronome de
Prefecture) and of one agronomist per commune.  There are, on average, ten
sectors per commune in the Project area. The commune is supposed to finance
one extension worker per sector but due to a lack of funds, and equally
important, the impression that extension agents generally do not contribute to
increased productivity, communes are currently financing, on average, only
three agents per commune. In addition, the communes finance a number of
social workers, youth agents and cooperative agents, all of them under the
umbrella of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Cooperatives. The work program
for these agents is not clearly set out and they lack logistic support. Their
contribution is usually not apparent but sometimes when the Bougemestre is
dynamic he can stimulate them to contribute to the welfare of the community.
Other Donor Activity in the Project Area
3.09      Swiss technical assistance has been financing rural development
activities in the Kibuye Prefecture since 1964 (the Agriculture Project of
Kibuye - PAK) under the umbrella of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.
From 1964-1974 Swiss assistance focused on the highland areas of the Pre-
fecture. Since 1974 the program has been focusing its efforts on four rural
development zones: two in the highlands (the communes of Kivumi and Bwakira)
and two in the lower areas (one bordering in the communes of Gitesi and
Mabunza and the second in the commune of Mwendo). Zones cover from three to
six sectors and 800 - 2,000 farm families. Project staff work with all
services present in each zone - agriculture, health, nutrition, public works
personnel and local administrative structures, to bring about an improvement
in living conditions. Through 1979 agriculture activities focused on increas-
ing food crop production, soil conservation, and the planting of fruit and
forest trees. In 1980 improved methods of coffee plantation maintenance was
added to the PAK's agricultural program. By 1980, about 30% of the families
in the four initial development zones were using selected seeds, stall feeding
their animals and producing compost for family vegetable gardens, 18% were
planting contour hedges and 35% had planted fruit and forest trees. Success-
ful programs are subsequently introduced into other communes. In addition,
the PAK supports three central services all headquartered in Kibuye: a
training service, a marketing service and a livestock center. The training
service provides courses for local extension agents and farmer groups in the
communes of Bwakira, Mwendo, Kivumi, Mabanza, Gitesi and Gishyita and has
developed some excellent teaching materials in the national language. The
Swiss have also been financing forestry activities in the Project area under a
separate project (the Pilot Forestry Project - PPF). These activities include
planting protective belts along the natural forests in Gisovu commune (Kibuye
Prefecture) plus the establishment of a number of forest tree nurseries in the



- 19 -
Prefectures of Kibuye and Cyangugu. In addition to the Swiss, a number of
church groups and other non-governmental organizations are financing health
and nutrition programs in the three Prefectures affected by the Project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The proposed Project aims to increase food crop and coffee produc-
tion and is designed around existing institutions. Projet staff would promote
improved agricultural practices which have been field tested but not introduced
into rural areas on a wide scale because of inadequate extension and logistic
support. A major effort would be made to develop an effective system of
extension so as to better utilize existing human resources and ensure that
Project production goals are met. The extension service would concentrate on
extension themes which have been sucessfully demonstrated in the field. If
successful, the extension system introduced under the Project would serve as
the basis for future extension programs in Rwanda. The Project would be
implemented over five years and it is expected that some 60,000 farm families
in coffee growing areas and a further 2,500 in highland areas, would actively
participate. Project activities would include assistance to rehabilitate
degraded soils and support for coffee and food crop research. Minor improve-
ments would be made to feeder roads and landing facilities along Lake Kivu to
improve transport and marketing infrastructures. The Project is consistent
with Government's objectives of meeting the population-s food requirement and
augmenting foreign exchange earnings through increased coffee exports (para.
1.16).
4.02      The Project would include, over a five-year period, the following
components:
(a) Strengthening of OCIR-Cafe's financial Management;
(b) Improvement of extension services under the direction of
OCIR-Cafe;
(c) Promotion of improved methods of plantation maintenance
and coffee nursery organization as well as pest control
campaigns to increase coffee production; distribution of
improved seed varieties and intercropping of banana p:Lanta-
tions to increase food crop production; and a program to
improve soil fertility through stall-feeding in conjunction
with compost production, introduction of fruit trees, planting
of forest trees and soil erosion control measures.
(d) Improvement of 120 existing hand-pulping centers and
establishment of 130 new ones;
(e)  Construction of two new landing points along Lake Kivu,
minor improvements to three existing landing points
and construction of bridges and culverts.



- 20 -
(f)  Strengthening of crop-related research, studies and
trials.
(g)  The services of three internationally recruited specialists,
one to train OCIR's financial and administrative staff, two
for extension staff training and development, and of short-term
consultants to assist with the extension component activities
and with the applied research activities for coffee and food
crops of the Institute of Agricultural Research (ISAR).
4.03      Government would make funds available to OCIR-Cafe on a grant basis
for Project implementation under a Subsidiary Agreement. The signature of the
Subsidiary Agreement would be a condition of effectiveness. The Project
Director would report directly to the Director of OCIR-Cafe (Chart 1). Local
administrative authorities would participate in the Project through the
Development Committee at Prefecture level and through technical committee
meetings at commune level (para 1.25).
B. Detailed Features
Assistance to OCIR-Cafe
4.04      In order to facilitate Project administration, staff housing,
vehicles and equipment would be provided at OCIR-Cafe's headquarters in
Kigali, at the Project Headquarters in Kibuye and at the training center to
be constructed at Kibogora. The principal investments would be for buildings,
vehicles and equipment and incremental operating costs during the Project
implementation period. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
Government would make land, water and other facilities promptly available for
the development of the Project headquarters complex at Kibuye and at the
training center complex at Kiborora.
4.05      For several years OCIR-Cafe has had difficulty maintaining its
accounts. Project investments would include provision for a financial
adviser who would assist the head of the accounting unit in the preparation
of OCIR-Cafe's budget, accounts and planning. In addition, the adviser would
have special responsibilities for staff training (para. 5.02). Principal
investments would be for housing, a vehicle, equipment, incremental and
operating costs.
Improvement of the Extension Services
4.06      There are presently about 100 extension agents working in the
Project area, 58 of whom are financed by OCIR-Cafe and 41 by the communes.
Agents paid by OCIR-Cafe often work in isolation from those paid by the
communes (para. 1.25). Project activities would focus on developing the
extension services and providing training, follow-up and logistic support.
OCIR-Cafe would be fully responsible for all agricultural extension activities
in the Project area. The salaries of 83 additional extension agents would be
financed under the Project to supplement those already employed in the area so
that there would be one agent per sector. Assurances were obtained at



- 21 -
negotiations that (i) the Communes, OCIR-Cafe and the Government would, over
the life of the Project, maintain the number of extension agents presently
working in the Project area and that Government would continue to provide one
agronomist per commune; and (ifi) that supervision responsibility for all
extension activities in the Project area would be given to OCIR-Cafe for the
duration of the Project (para 1.25).
4.07      Extension themes would focus on erosion control, preservation
of soil fertility, intensification of coffee and foodcrop production and
reforestation. Staff and farmer training would be integrated into the exten-
sion program on a systematic and continuing basis and provision would be
made for extension agents to visit neighboring countries to study coffee and
foodcrop cultivation. Farmers would be grouped into teams of six, each with
a leader and a deputy. In the first year of the Project the team leader and
his deputy would be designated by the commune agronomist in consultation with
the sector extension agent but thereafter they would be chosen by the team.
Each agent would visit each team, at the leader's farm, at the same hour and
on the same day once a month. The principal extension investment items would
be for training facilities, senior staff housing, four wheel drive vehicles
for supervisory personnel, teaching materials, salaries and operating costs
(see paras. 5.06-5.18 for discussion of the extension component).
Improved Coffee Cultivation
4.08      Planting Material.  The aim of the Project is not to increase the
area under coffee but to improve production on existing plantations. About
15% of the coffee trees planted in the Project area are almost barren as they
have been planted in unsuitable locations.  On the authorization of Project
staff, plantations of non productive trees would be uprooted and approximately
the same area of new plantations would be established in regions where more
favorable conditions exist.  Planting an equivalent area in morfe favorable
zones would require an estimated 2 million seedlings.  About 10% of the trees
on existing plantations are in poor condition or are missing and should be
replaced. This would require an additional 1.3 million seedlings. Thus about
660,000 seedlings would be required per year for five years. About 450
nurseries are planned to accommodate about 1,500 coffee seedlingrs each as
well as forest and fruit trees and grasses for contour planting (para. 4.12).
As land is scarce and transportation difficult, at least two nurseries per
sector would be recommended where possible. Investments would be for fencing,
plastic bags, seeds, insecticides, small tools, incremental operating costs
and salaries for a watchman and casual labor.
4.09      Pruning.  Pruning would be done by the farmers teams (para 4.07).
Each team would receive one set of pruning tools (secateurs and saws) and the
program would be carried out over a period of three years.
4.10      Pest Control.  The most serious coffee pest in Rwanda is the antestia
insect (Antestia lineaticollis) which damages beans and adversely affects
their quality. Control against antestia requires two treatments of 15 g. of
"Sumithion" dust per tree for each treatment in August and September, at two



- 22 -
to three week intervals. Due to poor organization, only about 70% of the
trees in the Project area are currently treated; better organization should
increase coverage to 90%. Furthermore, applications are usually made with
small hand dusters at present; these are inefficient and would be replaced by
rotary dusters, one for every four extension teams. OCIR presently provides
pesticide free of charge and recovers the cost through the remuneration tax it
receives from the Goverment (para. 2.17). Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that OCIR would continue to provide quantities of pesticides at
pre-project levels for the duration of the Project.
Food Crop Production
4.11      Production and Distribution of Selected Foodcrop Seeds.  A major
objective of the extension-program would be the introduction of improved seeds
on a wide scale. Three seed multiplication centers, one in each Prefecture,
would be established under the Project. These centers would be operated by a
Seed Officer (one per Prefecture) provided under the Project. Two seed
multiplication farmers would be selected per sector to multiply seeds distri-
buted by the Seed Officer and small storage sheds would be built in each
commune. The seed would be sold to farmers just before the planting season
(see para. 5.19 for organizational arrangements). Seed to be multiplied
include beans, sorghum, maize and peas. Costs to be covered include seeds,
tools, nursery preparation, construction of storage sheds, the seed officers
salaries and casual labor.
Soil Protection and Improvement
4.12      Erosion Control.  A further objective of the extension program would
be the introduction of improved soil practices. Extension agents would work
with farmers to establish contour hedges. The spacing of these hedges would
depend on the slope of the land. On average, 500 m of hedge are required per
farm (1 ha). Planting material would be produced in the coffee nurseries. In
the past, planting of anti-erosion hedges was imposed on farmers by the
authorities with the result that today, many resent them (para. 1.15). In
order to try to overcome this resentment annual prizes (a hoe or a machete)
would be offered to the farmer in each extension team who had made the most
progress that year.
4.13      Stall-feeding and Composting.  Most farmers in the Project area
have some livestock, either cattle or goats. These animals are grazed mostly
on communal land. Good results have been obtained with part-time stall-feed-
ing of these animals mainly with fodder from the anti-erosion hedges and
crop refuse. This permits later use of the manure for crop production. To
increase the volume of organic fertilizer produced, manure would be composted
with other organic material such as bean stalks, banana leaves and coffee pulp
in compost pits. Extension agents would help farmers with construction of
modest animal stalls and compost pits.
4.14      Forest and Fruit Tree Production.  There is a shortage of fuel
wood for cooking, particularly in the areas closest to Lake Kivu. In these
areas, crop residues such as dry banana leaves, sorghum stalks and bean straw,
instead of being returned to the land, are used to make fire, a practice which



- 23 -
adds to the deterioration of the soil through deprivation. Farmers would be
provided with leguminous tree crop planting material for planting along farm
boundaries, in contour hedges and on poor patches of land which are not
suitable for crop production. Although leguminous trees are less efficient
firewood producers than eucalyptus and certain conifers, unlike these latter
varieties, they do not compete with food crops, they increase soil fertility,
and are easily removed should the farmer wish to use the soil after its
fertility has been augmented. Investments would be for building material for
the nurseries (poles and roofing), seeds, tools, pesticides and wages for a
nursery attendant.
4.15      No oil crop is grown in the Project area and the only oil that
enters the local diet comes either from avocados or from palm cil imported
from Zaire. Avocados grow well in the area and are highly appreciated by the
local population. Project staff would distribute avocado seedlings to
farmers to be grown near their houses. Tree crop planting material and
avocado seedlings would be grown in the coffee nurseries (para. 4.08).
Coffee Processing
4.16      About one half of the coffee grown in the Project area is pulped by
hand on-the-farm and half in some 120 pulping centers equipped with hand
operated pulping machines (para. 2.08). Most of these centers are in need of
repair and many have pulping machines which are over 20 years old and should
be replaced (para. 2.12). Pulping coffee with the hand operated pulping
machines has two important advantages: it permits the farmer to pulp large
quantities (150 kg per hour as compared to about 10 kg without a machine), and
more of the mucilage is removed than when the beans are pulped manually on the
farm since they pass through water at these stations. This "semi-washing"
decreases fermentation and results in a higher quality coffee. Only half of
the coffee produced is pulped at pulping centers, usually because the farmer's
plantation is too far away from the existing facilities. An additional 130
centers would be provided under the Project so that most farmers would be
within 1.5 km of a pulping station. Investments would be for piping and
valves, pulper machines, cement, salaries for local masons who would carry out
minor repairs under force account and spare parts. In addition, two mobile
teams would be established with responsibility for preventive maintenance.
Local farmers would contribute sand, gravel and stones and they would also
prepare the station sites. Project staff would work closely with the communal
council to determine the exact location of these new facilities. Criteria for
site selection would include density of coffee trees, the availability of
running water and the farmers' willingness to participate in building and
maintaining the facilities.
Minor Road Improvements and Lake Landing Points
4.17      A dense network of roads and tracks exists in the Project area and
no investment would be required to expand the system. Road maintenance is
adequately carried out through "umuganda" work but some 300 small bridges and
culverts are in need of repair (para. 3.03); the necessary materials for their
reconstruction would be provided. In addition, the Project would provide for
the improvement of three existing landing points (para 3.04) at Cyangugu,



- 24 -
Kibuye and Gisenyi as well as for the construction of two new landing points
at Kirambo and Mugunero. These landing points would be constructed of timber
crib work using local materials, and would not require any special equipment
or skills.
Research Trials and Surveys
4.18      The Project would support ISAR with its research activities at
Rubona and in the Project area on coffee and food crop production. For coffee
improvement, arrangements have been made with the Institut Francais du Cafe,
du Cacao et Autres Plantes Stimulantes (IFCC) who would work with coffee
research staff at Rubona through short term consultancy visits. With funds
provided under the Project Preparation Facility (para 4.25), IFCC visited
Rwanda for two weeks in November, 1980. IFCC has recommended a research
program on farmers plots in the three Project area Prefectures, which would
focus on insect and disease problems and on husbandry techniques applicable to
smallholders, including trials with chemical fertilizers (para. 6.06). This
program program will be carried out by Project staff with technical control
provided by the coffee research staff from ISAR.
4.19      Improvement in food crop yields requires a whole farm approach with
emphasis on soil conservation. Research in this area would be carried out by
existing ISAR staff guided by one of the Project expatriate extension officers.
Research activities would include the establishment of field trials including
trials with chemical fertilizers on farmers plots. Trials would aim at
developing adequate farm management techniques and at testing their accept-
ability to farmers. Investments would include two vehicles for the Rubona
Station and their operating costs, the costs of short term consultants, small
tools, planting materials and other inputs. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that terms of reference for all studies and trials would be
submitted to IDA for approval.
4.20      Base-line data surveys would be made at the beginning of the Project
period with the assistance of the Institute African et Mauricien de Statistiques
Appliquees (IAMSEA) which is headquarted near Kigali. These surveys would
record quantities of coffee and food crops produced and assist Project manage-
ment with their monitoring and evaluation efforts (para. 5.23).
Technical Assistance
4.21      Technical assistance would be required for the extension component
activities and to train Rwandese Project staff to manage Project developments;
suitably qualified Rwandese staff are not, at present, available (para. 1.23).
Specialists to be engaged include three extension advisers (60 man-months each)
a financial adviser (36 man-months) and short term consultants for the research
component (four man-months per year for five years or 20 man-months). The
average man-month cost (including salary, fees, and international travel) for
the advisers is expected to be about US$9,000. The average man-month cost for
the short term consultants (including salary, fees, international travel and
subsistence) is expected to be about US$11,000.



- 25 -
C. Project Costs
4.22      Total Project costs are estimated at about RF 1.5 billion (US$16.6
million) of which US$9.6 (million) or 58% represent foreign exchange costs.
Details are summarized in the following table:
Foreign
Project Component            Local   Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
----------RF-000---------         --US $000 -              %
Project Management          52,000  118,500    170,500       566   1,289   1,855    70
Extension                  145,500  210,000    355,500   1,583   2,285   3,868    59
Coffee and Food Crop
Improvement             210,000  116,500    326,500   2,284   1,268   3,552    36
Pulping Stations            15,500   82,500      98,000      168      898   1,066    94
Lake Landing Points          4,000   14,500      18,500       44      158      202    80
Minor Road Improvement         500    8,500        9,000        6      92       98    95
Research                    22,000   58,000      80,000      239      631-    870    72
Total Base Costs         449,500  608,500  1,058,000   4,890   6,621  11,511    58
Contingency Allowances
Physical              67,000   91,500    158,500        728      996   1,724    58
Price                129,000  177,500    306,500   1,404   1,931   3,335    58
Total Contingencies        196,000  269,000    465,000   2,132   2,927   5,059    58
TOTAL PROJECT COST        645,500  877,500  1,523,000   7,022   9,548  16,570    58
4.23      Project costs were estimated as of January, 1981.  A physical
contingency of 15% was applied to all Project components to reflect the
general uncertainty of the detailed scope of Project investments and staffing
requirements. Price contingencies were calculated on a cumulative basis:
local costs at 15% from 1981 to 1986; foreign exchange costs at the rate of 9%
in 1981, 8% in 1982, 7% in 1983, 84 and 85, and 6% in 1986. Taxes included in
Project costs are negligible since all items would be exempt from import
duties and local taxes.  Details of Project Costs are summarized in Table 1.
D. Financing
4.24      The financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
RF        US$        %
---million---
Government of Rwanda              91.392        1.0        6
Swiss Aid                         60.928        0.6        4
IDA                            1,370.880       15.0       90
1,523.200       16.6      100



- 26 -
4.25      The proposed IDA Credit of SDRs 11.8 million (US$ Equivalent 15
million) would be made to the Government of Rwanda on standard IDA terms.
The Credit would finance about 90% of total Project costs, including 100%
of foreign exchange costs and about 77% (US$5.5 million equivalent) of local
costs. The Government of Rwanda would contribute about 6% of total Project
costs consisting of an increasing portion of local salaries over the life of
the Project. Government would pass on the proceeds of the IDA credit and its
own contribution to the Project to OCIR-Cafe, Governments implementing agency.
The Swiss contribution, representing 4% of total Project costs would be
provided as a grant and would finance the recruitment costs, salaries and
international travel of the two extension specialists. Recruitment of two of
the three extension specialists would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
On November 10, 1980, an advance of US$815,000 was made to the Government
under a Project Preparation Facility to meet the costs of acquisition of
vehicles and equipment, building construction, the financial advisor who has
already begun working, start-up training of extension workers, salaries and
incremental operating costs.
4.26      Because the Government may have difficulty in pre-financing expendi-
tures to be reimbursed under the IDA Credit, a pre-financing revolving fund
of US$0.3 million equivalent (equal to about four months of disbursements less
those items which would be disbursed for directly by IDA), financed under the
Project, would be established in a Project account opened with a commercial
bank for the purpose. IDA would replenish the account from the Credit amount
upon receipt of evidence of disbursements from the revolving fund for allowable
expenditures. Should any disbursements be made from the revolving fund which
are not acceptable to IDA, the Government would deposit the corresponding
amount in the Project account. During negotiations, agreement was reached on
terms and conditions for the operation of the revolving fund.
E. Procurement
4.27      Civil works contracts for construction of the two training centers,
staff housing, stores and lake landing points totalling about US$2.9 million
(including contingencies) would generally be small (averaging less than
US$150,000), geographically scattered and could not easily be grouped for
simultaneous tendering.  These contracts would be awarded following local
competitive procedures which are satisfactory. Locally-based contractors
exist in sufficient numbers and are capable of carrying out the required
works.  Foreign firms can participate in civil works under local procedures.
Vehicles (US$700,000 including contingencies) and materials and equipment
(US$2.1 million including contingencies) would be purchased over a 2 to 3 year
period after quotations had been obtained from at least two suppliers
represented in Rwanda who of fer adequate guarantees of service and spare
parts. Hand pulping machines totalling about US$1.1 (including contingencies)
would be purchased under international competitive bidding following Bank/IDA
guidelines. Assurances as to these procedures were obtained at negotiations.
Technical assistance (the financial advisor to OCIR) and consulting services
estimated to cost US$550,000 and US$1 million respectively, would be hired in
accordance with the Bankls guidelines for international recruitment and use of
consultants.



- 27 -
F. Disbursements
4.28      Funds from the Credit Account would be disbursed over five years
on the following basis:
Us$-000
(a) Category I:    Incremental Operating expenses:
(i)  100% of foreign and 95% of local              2,400
expenditures for fuel, vehicles and
equipment maintenance, materials and
agricultural inputs;
(ii)  95% year 1, 80% year 2, 70%                   2,600
year 3, 60% year 4 and 50%
year 5 for local salaries;
(b) Category II:   100% of foreign and 85% of local               2,200
expenditures for civil works;
(c) Category III:  Vehicles and Equipment:
(i)  100% of foreign and 95% of local              2,000
expenditures for vehicles and small
hand tools;
(ii)  100% of foreign expenditures for              1,035
hand pulpers;
(d) Category IV:   100% of total expenditures for                 1,600
technical assistance costs, Project
related training and studies;
(e) Category V:    refunding Project Preparation Facility           815
advance;
(f) Category VI:   initial deposit in Project Account;              300
unallocated                                   2,000
Total Proposed IDA Credit                        15,000



- 28 -
Disbursements against (b), (c), and (d) and foreign expenditures under (a)
would be fully documented. Disbursements for local costs against (a) would be
made against statements of expenditure certified by the Project Director and
the Project Accountant. These would be retained by OCIR-Cafe and made
available for inspection by IDA in the course of normal Project supervision;
they would be audited by the external auditors selected for the Project (para.
4.30). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all expenditures would
be in accordance with annual work plans (para. 5.04). An estimated schedule
of IDA disbursements is given in Table 2.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.29      Project accounts would be maintained by a Project accountant under
the general supervision of the internationally recruited financial adviser who
would assist the Project accountant in establishing an appropriate system of
accounts. The financial adviser would also assist OCIR-Cafe in establishing
and maintaining proper books of accounts (para. 2.10 and 4.25).
4.30      The Project accountant would be located at the liaison office in
Kigali. He would be responsible for ensuring that adequate records were kept
by the administrative assistant located at Project headquarters in Kibuye and
would coordinate and verify these records. Control procedures would involve
a budget established at the beginning of the fiscal year under the control of
the financial adviser. Assurances were obtained from Government at negotia-
tions that (i) accounts would be maintained in such a way as to enable separate
identification of all Project accounts from other OCIR-cafe accounts; (ii) the
accounts so prepared would be forwarded to IDA, no later than six months
following the end of the financial year to which they related; and (iii)
independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be appointed to audit Project
accounts.
H. Environmental Impact
4.31      Project investments and activities would have a positive environ-
mental impact. The planting of tree crops, the development of anti-erosion
grass strips and cut off drains, and mulching (where possible) would help to
reverse the process of soil erosion in the Project area. The recommended
fertilizer for trials and pesticide inputs are not expected to have any
adverse environmental effects.



- 29 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization and Staffing
General
5.01      OCIR-Cafe would be fully responsible for implementing the Project
(paras 2.07-2.09 and 4.03) except for the research component which would
implement in collaboration with ISAR and Project personnel. A Project
Department would be established as an operating unit under the existing
Production Service. Its chief, the Project Director, would report to the
Director of OCIR-Cafe. The Project would be administered through three
divisions: one for extension, a second for logistical support, and a third
for administrative and accounting matters. Studies, monitoring, and evaluation
would be the responsibility of the Project Director (paras 4.19 and 5.23).
The Project headquarters would be in Kibuye. A liaison office consisting of
the Project accountant, an administrative officer and a secretary would be
located at OCIR-Cafe's headquarters in Kigali. The Project would rely, in
part, on OCIR's existing services for logistic support (see Chart I). OCIR-
Cafe's Production Service would supply seeds and pesticides for the Project
(para. 4.10), the Purchasing Section of OCIR's Financial and Administrative
Service would assist with the procurement of materials, and the accounting
section of this same service would help establish the accounting system and
monitor Project accounts.
5.02      At present there are no Rwandese available with sufficient exper-
ience to develop and manage the extension component (para. 1.23). For this
reason, three internationally recruited extension specialists, responsible to
the Project Director, would supervise the extension component and, assisted
by short-term consultants, run the extension training programs (para. 4.21).
These two specialists would be assisted by three Rwandese agronomists who
would operate at the Prefecture level. A financial adviser, recruited with
PPF funds, is assisting OCIR-Cafe with its accounting, financial management
and training of accounting personnel, spending about 20% of his time on
assistance to the Project's Administrative and Accounting Services division.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the qualifications, experience,
terms of reference and conditions of employment for these specialist posts
would be submitted to IDA for approval. Terms of reference for all key
Project staff (the Project Director, the Project accountant, and the three
agronomists working with the extension component at the Prefecture level)
would be discussed at negotiations. Assurances were also obtained at negotia-
tions that appointments to these posts and any subsequent reappointments would
be made in consultation with the Association.
5.03      The appointment of the Director and the Project accountant would be
conditions of Credit negotiations; given the critical importance of training,
assurances were obtained that OCIR-Cafe-s annual work plan subnitted to
IDA would include a section on the progress of the on-the-job training
programs (para. 5.04).



- 30 -
Annual Project Review and Work Plan
5.04      Project implementation programs would be based on an annual work
plan which would include a detailed Project budget. Budgetary targets for
each work plan would be projected twice a year. The plan would be prepared by
the Project Director and his staff each year; it would be reviewed during
September by the Development Committee of each Prefecture (para. 1.25) and
subsequently by the Board of Directors of OCIR-Cafe (para. 2.07). When
OCIR-Cafe's Board reviewed the work plan, Board membership would be expanded
to include the Prefets of the three Prefectures affected by the Project and
the Project Director.  The work plan would be finalized by the end of Sept-
ember, i.e. three months prior to the commencement of each fiscal year. The
plan would be reviewed with Project staff and the Director of OCIR-Cafe during
IDA supervision missions, which should be timed to coincide with the review.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations on the above points and that the
work program for each year would be submitted to IDA for review by the first
week of October of each year, commencing in 1981, so that the approved budget
could be entered in the normal budget cycle of the Government. The Project
Director would be responsible for coordinating all activities under the
Project. He would also be responsible for the final preparation of annual
work plan, and the subsequent annual report on Project achievements. A PPF
work plan covering the period November 1980-June 1981 and a work plan for the
period June 1981-December 1981 have already been approved by the Association.
Staffing
5.05      In total 12 staff would be required for general services, 171 for
the extension service, nine for the selected seed component, five for the
research component and four for the hand pulper maintenance component. Of
the additional extension staff three would be A level, trained at the
Butare School of Agriculture and 83, A 3level. Î level represents people
who have six years of primary school complemented by short term courses in
agriculture. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that staffing
would be provided for by Government as per schedule 1 by December 31, 1981.
B. Management of Project Components
Extension Services
5.06      OCIR-Cafe would be responsible for all extension activities in the
coffee growing areas of Gisenyi Prefecture, eight communes of Cyangugu
Prefecture and in the commune of Rwamatamu in Kibuye Prefecture. The on-going
Swiss financed Agricultural Project (para. 3.09) would be responsible for all
extension activities in the communes of Kibuye, with the exception of Rwama-
tamu. 1/ The Project would finance personnel and inputs and the improvement
of infrastructure in all three Prefectures and all extension agents would
apply the same extension themes. The communes assisted under the Project,
their subdivisions (sectors and cells), estimated population, the number of
extension workers presently working in the Project area and the number of new
agents to be provided under the Project are presented in the Table below:
1/   Hereinafter the "agronome de commune" will be called extension agent
- commune level, and extension agents, extension agent-sector level.



--EKtension Workers---         (4,5 & 6)
Prefecture and                    1              2               3            4        5           6       Total Exten-
Communes                       Sectors 1/    Cells          Population    OCIR    Commurne         New    sion workers
-000
GISENYI
1.  Nyamyumba                   12            67               38            8         4          1           13
2.  Kayove                      15            90               51           10         2          4           16
Sub-total                27            157              89           18         6          5            29
KIBUYE
3.  Rwamatamu                   12            72               37            8         3          2           13
plus 2 from Gisovu 2/       2             12                6           2         -          -             2
4.  Gishyita                     8            55               31            5         3          1             9
5. Gitesi                       12            75               43            2         5          6           13
6.  Mabanza                     14            84               46            5         2          8            15
plus 4 from Rutsiro 3/    5               28               15           1         3          4             8
Sub-total                53            326              178          23        16         21            60
CYANGUGU
7.  Cyimbogo                    il             57              29            2         2          8            12
8.  Kamembe                      9             56              31            3         2          5            10
9.  Gafunzo                      9            56               32            2         2          6            10
10.  Gatare                       9 (13)        56 (78)         24            2         2         10            14
11.  Kagano                       8 (10)       38 (60)          19            2         1          8            il
12.  Kirambo                      5 (10)       33 (60)           -            2         3          6            il
13.  Gisuma                       7 (13)        43 (78)         39            2         2         10            14
14.  Gishoma                      5 (10)       30 (60)           -            2         5          4            il
Subtotal                 63 (85)       369 (505)        174          17        19         57            93
Total                   143 (165)    852 (988)          441          58        41         83           182
1/   Numbers in parenthesis indicate total number of sectors and cells in the Commune.
Numbers not in parenthesis are coffee growing sectors and cells.
2/   Giko, Muramba.
3/   Gasovu, Gatoke, Gihango, Nyarucundura, Ragarambira.



- 32 -
5.07      The three internationally recruited extension specialists (para.
5.02), assisted by three Rwandese agronomists working at Prefecture level,
would be responsible for extension training and development under the Project.
Two assisted by two Rwandese agronomists, would have responsibility for
extension service activities in Cyangugu Prefecture and the third, assisted by
one Rwandese agronomist, would work with the Swiss-financed Project in Kibuye
Prefecture, supervise extension activities in Gisenyi, and together with the
research assistants, (one for each Prefecture), supervise ISAR research
activities in the Project area (paras. 4.18 and 4.19).
5.08      Extension activities would be carried out at the Prefecture, Commune
and Sector levels (para. 1.25). The extension specialists, assisted by the
agronomists, would coordinate activities at the Prefecture level. Their tasks
would include: directing the activities of the extension training center;
planning monthly work plans and teaching aids; training extension agents at
the commune level to carry out their duties and instructing and advising them
in the field; ensuring the availability of teaching aids and inputs; and
preparing the extension budget.
5.09      The extension agent working at the commune level would coordinate
extension services at this level and would report directly to the extension
specialist in charge of his area. His tasks would include: training the
extension agents at the sector level; ensuring the distribution of teaching
aids and inputs required by the extension agency; instructing and supervising
the extension agents in their work; and actively participating in group
meetings (para. 5.16) and public meetings.
5.10      The extension agent working at the sector level would carry out all
extension activities within his sector. He would visit the farmers teams
(para. 4.07) for practical training sessions, visiting four teams a day (three
in the morning and one in the afternoon) over a 17 day period. 1/ A group
meeting would be made up of four teams (24 members); the extension agent would
meet with such groups four afternoons a month.
5.11      Participation of local officials.  Extension activities eould be
greatly facilitated due to the existence of a local administrative structure
in which the population participates directly through the Development and
Technical committees and through their elected officials (paras. 1.25 and
1.26). The Project would involve local officials in the process of program-
ming, follow-up and the evaluation of extension activities. They would be
asked to comment on the yearly plans for the extension programs, to assist with
the formulation of extension teams, the selection of winners and the awarding
1/   Each extension agent, sector level, would visit 68 teams a month
(17 days x 4 teams = 68). There are six members per team and approximately
7.5 members per family. Thus about 68x6x7.5 or 3,060 persons per sector
would be reached. The population of most sectors is between 2,800 and
3,100 so that the Project would contact most of the families in each
sector each month.



- 33 -
of prizes in local contests, and to take an active part in group meetings and
public gatherings (paras. 5.16 to 5.18).
5.12       Basic Training.  Five weeks of basic training would be given in
Kibuye and Kibogora during the months of June and July 1981; the first
week would be for the agronomists, the second for the extension agents (com-
mune level) and the third, fourth and fifth weeks for the extension agents
(sector level). The training would be given by the two expatr iate extension
specialists, the Swiss-PAK project trainer and two short-term consultants. It
would be financed with funds from the Project Preparation Facility (para.
4.25). This initial training would be followed by another four weeks of
training for extension agents, commune level, (one week) and extension agents,
sector level, (three weeks) in September, 1981 and January, 1982.  The
aim of this basic training would be to provide the extension agents with the
motivation and knowledge needed to carry out their work effectively.  Special
emphasis would be given to how to train others.
5.13       The extension agents, sector level, from Gisenyi and Kibuye (88)
would be trained at Kibuye in three groups over three consecutive weeks and
the extension agents, sector level, from Cyangugu (83) would also be trained
in three groups, over three consecutive weeks.  This training would be con-
ducted by the agronomist, Prefecture level, assisted by the extension agents,
commune level, under the guidance of the extension specialists and short-term
training consultants. Training of the extension agents, sector level, would
be conducted in KiRwanda, the national language.
5.14      Follow-up Training.  Follow-up training for the extension agents,
commune level, would be given by the agronomist, Prefecture level, and the
extension specialists on Wednesdays of each week so that the agronomists,
Prefecture level, could make field observations before and after training.
Initially this training would take place once a week. The extension agents,
commune level, from Gisenyi and Kibuye would meet in Kibuye and those from
Cyangugu at Kibogora. Training would be practical and sessions would review
the experience of the previous week and plans for the coming wieek.
5.15      Follow-up training for the extension agent, sector level, would
take place once a week, on Saturday mornings. It would be led by the exten-
sion agent, commune level. Once again the training would be practical and
focus on real conditions observed in the field. The agronomist would conduct
training so as to encourage group cohesion and group pride. The focused
approach to extension promoted by the Project has not been tried elsewhere in
Rwanda where the impact of extension has been limited by lack of follow-up and
little logistical support. If the system promoted under the Project were
successful, it would be extended to other rural development projects.
5.16      Group Meetings.  The four teams visited by an extension agent,
sector level, on the same day would form a group meeting.  The group would
meet every three months, on their regular meeting day, in the afternoon, after
the team meetings. These meetings would be enhanced by the participation of



- 34 -
sector counselors and cell chiefs as well as the commune agronomist and, when
possible, the chief agronomist of the Prefecture.
5.17      Public Gatherings.  Public gatherings, such as for market days,
church, religious ceremonies and holidays, would occasionally be used for
publicity or to award prizes to farmers who have successfully applied themes
stressed in the extension campaign (para. 5.18).
5.18      Contests.  In order to help motivate the farmer, Project staff would
finance contests and offer inputs and tools as incentives. These items would
be distributed only as the result of a demonstrated effort by the farmer to
improve his agricultural practices and never as gifts. Awards would be
distributed in group meetings or in larger public gatherings. The exten-
sion agent would not participate in the organization of the contest or the
award of prizes. This would be left to the farmers and the local adminis-
trative structure: the Bourgemestre, the sector counselor and the cell
chiefs.
Production and Distribution of Selected Seed
5.19      One Seed Officer, provided to each of the three Prefectures, would
order and receive selected seeds from S.S.S. in Kigali (para. 1.22) and
multiply them at the Prefecture seed multiplication center to be established
under his guidance. The Project would provide one logistic officer per
commune whose duties would include looking after the pulping centers, the
coffee, fruit and firewood tree nurseries (para 5.20) and coordinating the
seed multiplicaton program at the commune level. He would be equipped with a
motorcycle and tools. The logistic officer, with the assistance of the sector
extension agent, would select two seed multiplication farmers per sector. He
would receive seed from the Seed Officer and distribute it to the multiplica-
tion farmers. He would supervise seed growing by the farmers and report to
the Seed Officer during the growing season. At harvest time he would purchase
the seed, at a premium of about 25% above prevailing market prices, from a
revolving fund that would be established for this purpose; the seed officer
and the Prefecture Agronomist would be responsible for the revolving fund.
The fund would be audited along with the other Project accounts. The seed
would be stored in small sheds to be built at each commune. At planting time,
the logistie officer would be responsible for selling the stored seed and
remitting the funds from seed sales to the Seed Officer who would deposit them
back into the revolving fund. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
Government would, to the extent feasible, charge farmers the full cost of
selected seed produced by nurseries and would consult periodically with IDA on
the level of charges.
Coffee, Forest and Fruit Tree Nurseries
5.20      Approximately 450 nurseries, just fewer than three per sector,
would be established in the Project area. The logistics officer would be
responsible for the nurseries (para. 5.19). His duties would include choosing
the site for the nurseries, together with local officials, and hiring local
labor to build and maintain them. One full time nursery attendant would be
provided under the Project. Each nursery would cover approximately five ares.



- 35 -
One are would be used to produce 1,500 coffee seedlings and 1,300 forest and
fruit tree seedlings per year and four ares for the propagation of grasses
for erosion control hedges. Seed for the coffee would be obtained from ISAR
at Rubona.  Seed for forest trees would be obtained from the on-going Swiss-
financed forestry project located in Kibuye Province. Seed for fruit trees
and grasses are available in the Project area. It is estimatedl that on
average, over the life of the Project, farmers would plant 30 Eorest trees
and two avocado trees each.
Maintenance of the Hand Pulping Stations
5.21      The logistics officer would be responsible for the day-to-day main-
tenance and adjustment of the hand pulpers in his commune. In addition, two
mobile teams, each equipped with a four-wheel drive vehicle and tools, one
for Cyangugu and a second for Kibuye and Gisenyi, would operate year-round in
the Project area (para. 2.08). These teams would check to see that the
pulping discs were properly adjusted, the machines properly lu'bricated, and
that the water canals and water-fed troughs were in good repair.
C. Project Implementation Schedule
5.22      The Project would be implemented over a five year period beginning
in mid-1981. Charts 2 and 3 show a tentative Project implementation schedule.
This schedule was discussed at negotiations. The Project Dire,ztor and Project
accountant were recruited prior to negotiations. Two of the three extension
training specialists would be recruited by the end of April, 1981 and initial
training for extension workers would take place in mid-1981. Preparatory
activities with the exception of the three extension specialists financed by
Swiss Technical Assistance would be financed under the Project Preparation
Facility (para. 4.25).
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.23      Funds have been provided under the Mutara Agricultural and Livestock
Development Project - Phase II (Credit 937-RW) to assist the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock's study bureau in establishing a simple system to
monitor progress under on-going projects. As this system is not yet opera-
tional, the Project Director and the Director of OCIR-Cafe, with assistance
from the financial and extension advisers and in consultation with staff from
the Institut African et Mauricien de Statistiques et l'Economi,ss Appliquees
(IAMSEA) and IDA, would establish a simple monitoring plan to provide key
indicators on Project progress. These indicators, which were discussed at
negotiations, would be kept under constant review by supervision missions from
IDA; the plan would be amended from time to time, if necessary. The main
indicators for the coffee component would include: number of farmers adopting
improved agricultural practices such as pruning, mulching wherea possible and
replacing unproductive trees; number of hand-pulpers repaired; number of new
machines installed; number of machines maintained each month; number of fermers



- 36 -
participating in the insect control campaign and average yields per coffee
tree. For soil protection they would include: total length of grass hedges
planted; number of farmers practicing stall-feeding and composting and the
number of forest trees planted. For food crop production the indicators would
include the number of farmers using selected seeds, the number of farmers
interplanting beans with bananas and planting fruit trees, and yields from
selected seed. For the extension component, indicators such as extension
agents effectiveness in introducing farmers to improved agricultural practices
promoted under the Project as well as their participation in extension
activities would be reviewed. For the first few years, the coffee and food
crop components would be monitored over six sectors in one commune in each of
the three Project area Prefectures. The chosen sectors would be visited
quarterly by one or two Project officers assisted by staff from IAMSEA
(para. 4.20). If the results of the information gathered are not conclusive,
the monitoring effort would be intensified and efforts made to reveal the
reasons for conflicting information. The construction program building
schedules for houses, offices, training facilities, minor road works and the
lake landing points would be closely monitored. The Government would submit
regular annual reports on the status of the Project (para. 5.04). Assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
Project Completion Report
5.24      OCIR-Cafe should prepare a completion report sunmmarizing performance
under the Project and evaluating its successes and problems. This should be
submitted to IDA not later than six months after the expected closing date
(i.e. June 30, 1987), and assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.
VI. TECHNICAL AND PRODUCTION ASPECTS
Coffee
6.01      There are about 13.4 million coffee trees in the Project area or an
average of 175 trees per farmer. Their distribution and yield per Prefecture
are estimated to be as follows:
Parchment Coffee
No. of trees            Yield                Production
--million---         -gr/tree-               ---tons---
Gisenyi           4.2                  650                  2,730
Kibuye            3.8                  350                  1,330
Cyangugu          5.4                  450                  2,430
Total          13.4                                       6,490
Project activities aimed at the improvement of pruning, mulching where pos-
sible, insect control and soil protection are expected to lead to the follow-
ing estimated increases in coffee parchment production:



- 37 -
No. of trees            Yield                Production
--million---         -gr/tree -              ---tons---
Gisenyi           4.2                   800                 3,360
Kibuye            3.8                   500                 1,900
Cyangugu          5.4                   600                 3,240
Total          13.4                                       8,500
At full development (in Project year 10), the incremental production for the
whole Project would be about 2,000 tons parchment coffee (1,500 tons green
coffee).
6.02      Coffee Selection.  The older plantations in Rwanda were established
with the Mibirizi variety (para. 2.01) which is still the dominant variety
found in the country. Mibirizi is a vigorous variety with a limited yield
potential of about 1,200 kg. per ha. Over the years, ISAR has established a
variety of collections from other countries (Zaire, Kenya, Ethiopia, Cameroon
and Brazil). During trials from 1958-1971, most of these strains proved to
be superior to Mibirizi. During the past several years, ISAR has introduced
Bourbon-Mayaguez 130 and 71, and Jackson 2. These three varieties are well
adapted to the ecological conditions in Rwanda and have a potential yield of
1,600 kg/ha without fertilizer and 2,000 kg/ha with fertilizer. These
varieties appear to be satisfactory and there seems to be no need to replace
them in the near future (para. 6.06).
6.03      Spacing and Pruning.  Older plantations are spaced at 2.5 x 3 m
(1,333 trees/ha). The present recommendations, based on long term trials at
Rubona, are to plant trees 2 x 2.5 m (2,000 trees/ha) on relatively flat land
and 2 x 3 m (1,666 trees/ha) on steeper land.  The recommended pruning system
consists of (i) formation pruning: bending to the ground the main stem of
the two year old bush and then selecting the best three suckers and removing
the others; and (ii) regeneration pruning: removing two stems and allowing
new suckers to sprout in the fifth year; the third stem is renoved in the
sixth year when the three best suckers begun the previous year are well
established and these are kept until the end of the pruning cycle when the
process starts again. This pruning system has been well tested and is well
adapted to the varieties cultivated in Rwanda. Farmers have resisted it
because they do not want to suffer the temporary loss in production which
results from bending young trees or from cutting old established stems. As
a result, an estimated 40% of the trees are single stem and yields are de-
clining. Multistem plants have not been regenerated, as they should be, every
five years and as a result, their yields are also declining. The systematic
pruning of trees would be the single most important contributor to increased
coffee yields. Farmers would be encouraged to prune one third of their coffee
stand per year for the first three years. As results appear only three years
after pruning, it has been assumed that during the first four years of the
Project, yields would remain constant as small losses from pruning would be
compensated for by improved cultural practices and reduced losses resulting
from more efficient pest control. Yields would begin to increase in the
fifth year and level off by Project year 10.



- 38 -
6.04      Plant Protection.  The most serious coffee pest in Rwanda is Antestia
lineaticollis (para. 4.10). OCIR-Cafe has introduced satisfactory control
measures and the Project would enable OCIR-Cafe to reach a greater percentage
of farmers in the Project area. Berry bores (Stephanoderes spp.) are a
potentially serious pest but so far they have been kept under control by
strip picking at the end of the harvest season. At present there are no
serious disease problems in the Project area.  Leaf rust (Hemilea vastatrix)
is present but is, at the moment, not of economic significance.
6.05      Mulching.  Mulching has been encouraged in Rwanda for the past 25
years. Mulching adds organic matter to the soil, reduces soil temperature and
thus conserves moisture, and controls weed growth and soil erosion. Mulching
material has been derived from banana fields, fallow land and uncultivated
swamps. Mulching is strenuous work. A plantation of 10 ares requires from
three to five tons of mulching material to be effective and from 25 - 50
man/days of work per year depending on the sources of mulching material.
Since mulching was introduced 25 years ago, the population has doubled,
fallow land has all but disappeared and most of the swamps have been brought
under cultivation. As a result, less than 20% of coffee plantations are
properly mulched. On the unprotected plantations, top soil is being washed
away and the soil is deteriorating. Project staff would encourage mulching
where possible. Where mulching is no longer possible, the development of
cover or shade crops would be encouraged to replace mulch, for unless shade or
cover crops are developed over the next few years, the loss of soil fertility
will lead to a serious decline in coffee production.
6.06      Fertilizer trials at ISAR have demonstrated the positive results of
repeated annual applications of nitrogen (but not compound) fertilizers. A
yearly dressing of 195 kg N/ha on the Jackson 2 coffee variety has increased
yield by 456 kg/ha of parchment coffee. At current prices of RF 120/kg
parchment coffee and RF 124/kg nitrogen units (urea), the cost-benefit ratio
is only 1:2.3. However, these results, based on research station trials would
undoubtedly be less favorable on a smallholder-s Mibirizi variety. The use of
fertilizer would depend both on successful field demonstration and on the
future relationship between coffee and fertilizer prices.
Food Crops
6.07      Two Project activities, distribution of selected seed and intercrop-
ing beer bananas (para. 6.08) with beans, would contribute directly to an
increase in food production. The seed provided by the S.S.S. has limited
yield potential but is well adapted to local farming conditions (para. 5.19).
In general their use, without the use of any additional inputs, could be
expected to increase yields by about 10% for beans, 15% for sorghum, 50% for
maize and 15% for peas. When used on land which has been improved by compo-
siting, one of the extension themes promoted under the Project, yields could
be expected to increase by 50%. Under the Project, selected seeds would be
distributed for beans, sorghum, maize and peas. It is estimated that the



- 39 -
selected seeds program would be adopted by 5% of the farmers in the Project
area each year beginning in year 2 and that 25% of the farmers would be using
selected seeds from year 6 onwards. Yield increases are estimated as follows:
Local Seed         Selected Seed
Crop                     (without Project)   (with Project)   Increase
-------------kg/ha----------------         kg.
Beans
- Coffee Growing area         700               800              100
- Highland area               600               700             100
Maize (highlands only)         1800              2200              400
Peas (            "  )          750                850             100
Sorghum (lowlands only)        1600              1800             200
6.08      Banana growing for beer production is a many centuries old tradition
in Rwanda. The cultivar grown for this purpose is called the beer banana
and is not edible. About 30% of the area devoted to food crops in the Project
area is under this crop. Most banana plantations are very densely spaced
and give low yields (9 tons/ha). Trials by the Faculty of Agronomy of the
University of Butare show that bananas planted 4 x 4 m or 2 x 8 m in contour
lines give at least the same yields as when densely planted. Spacing and
training the banana plant on a three stem system would permit intercropping
with beans. About 60% of the area currently planted with banana could be
intercropped and give yields per unit of planted area that are the same as
yields for pure stands of beans. A few farmers in the Project area have
already adopted this system. Project extension agents would provide guidance
on the rational spacing and training of the banana plants.
Forest and Fruit Tree Production
6.09      Possible species to be distributed under the Project include:
Leucena glauca, Casia sismea, Acacia mollisima, Albizia spp., and Croton
mubango. These species have all been grown locally. They are less efficient
firewood producers than eucalyptus and certain conifers but they compete less
with other crops. In addition, they increase soil fertility and if land is
required for crop production at a later period, they are easily removed.
Soil Protection and Improving Soil Fertility
6.10      The establishment of Setaria anti-erosion hedges, interplanted with
legumes (velvet beans, pigeon peas) to assure a longer life for the hedges
would be promoted. Emphasis would be on pigeon peas which can provide food,
either in the form of fresh pods or as hulls. Pigeon peas are widely used in
India as contour hedges for erosion control. Both the Rural Development
Project at Kibuye (Swiss Bilateral Assistance) and the Rural Development
Project at Nyabisindu (German Bilateral Assistance) are using pigeon peas
together with Setaria and Tripsacum in hedges with good results. On an
average size farm, about 500 m of contour hedges are required.  Pigeon
peas planted in double rows on contour lines yield about 30 kg per year and
would help to consolidate the hedges.



- 40 -
6.11      The lack of organic matter in the soil is a frequent cause of low
productivity. In a number of fertilizer trials the response to fertilizer
was practically nil because of the physical condition of the soil. Farm
manure can, with proper treatment, be made into a valuable farm input supply-
ing crop nutrient and organic matter which helps stabilize soil structure.
Farmers in the Project area would be encouraged to keep their animals part-
time under stall-feeding in a simple stable consisting primarily of a grass
roof. Manure collected from the stable would be mixed with crop and household
waste in compost pits. The resulting compost is an excellent fertilizer. The
application of 500 kg per are can increase the yields of food crops by 30% to
50% and also has a residual effect on future crops.
Producer Benefits
6.12      Coffee growing areas.  About 60,000 of the 75,000 smallholder
families living in the coffee growing areas are expected to benefit from
improvements to coffee growing introduced under the Project. About 50% of the
families living in the coffee growing areas are expected to benefit from
increased bean production resulting from interplanting beer bananas with beans
and about 25% of them are expected to benefit from the selected seeds intro-
duced under the Project.  The expected incremental production for coffee at
full development is given in Table 3.  Coffee production is estimated to
increase by 2,000 tons of parchment coffee or by about 30% over a 10 year
period. The expected benefits at the farm level for the coffee growing areas
are shown in the farm model in Table 4. At full development, the value of
production of an average size farm is expected to increase from RF 51,080
(US$555) to RF 62,792 (US$683) annually and cash income from RF 18,000
(US$196) to RF 24,800 (US$270).
6.13      Highland areas.  There are an estimated 10,000 families living
in the highland areas. It is estimated that 25% of these families would
benefit from improvements introduced under the Project. As coffee does not
grow in these highland areas, incremental benefits would come from food crops
only: maize, beans, peas and sweet potatoes. The expected benefits at the
farm level for the highland areas are given in the farm model in Table 5. At
full development, the value of production from an average size farm is expected
to increase from RF 37,750 (US$410) to RF 47,875 (US$520) per year and the
estimated cash income from RF 11,900 (US$129) to RF 20,525 (US$232).
VII. GOVERNMENT BENEFITS
7.01      Costs for certain investments like seed multiplication fields, tree
nurseries and road maintenance would be partly recovered from participants
who would contribute their labor. The costs of the selected seed would be
fully recovered. Costs of coffee seedlings and hand pulping centers would be
recovered from the Government tax on coffee exports.
7.02      The cumulative Government cash flow arising out of the Project
would be positive from Project year 8 (Table 2). From years 8 to 20 the



- 41 -
annual surplus would vary between RF 10 million (US$100,000) and RF 50
million (US$ 500,000) per year averaging about RF 30 million (US$300,000) over
this period. From years 20 to 50 it would decline to an average of about RF
12 million or about US$130,000 per year. The annual costs of continued
extension and other services to the Project area from year 6 onwards has been
included in the cash flow and varies between RF 46 million and RF 60 million
(US$500,000 and US$650,000). The annual cash inflow consists of incremental
revenue from coffee in the form of Government taxes on exports and excess
revenues remaining from coffee sales after all deductions for charges asso-
ciated with the coffee campaign have been made (para. 2.09). A Government
cash flow is included in Table 2. No separate cash flow has been calculated
for OCIR-Cafe since it is regarded as a Government agency and as such, its
costs are reimbursed by Government.
VIII. MARKETS AND PRICES
Demand
8.01      About 25% of world coffee production is consumed ir. the principal
coffee producing countries. Another 25% is consumed in the United States and
a further 40% in other OECD countries. Major importing countries in Europe
are West Germany (10%), France (8%), and Italy (6%). Non-OECD countries
account for the remaining 10% of world consumption. The demand for coffee,
which in most countries is highly inelastic with respect to incomes and
prices, is primarily determined by established habits, per capita income and
prices. World coffee trade has grown from just over 30 million bags 1/ in the
early 1950's to close to 60 million bags in recent years, giving an average
growth rate of about 2.5% per year. World import demand is expected to
continue to grow at about 2.5% per year reaching an estimated 70 million bags
in 1985 and 78 million bags in 1990.
Supply
8.02      Presently the world produces around 75 million bags of coffee per
year. About 60% of world production comes from Latin America, 30% from Africa
and 10% from Asia and Oceania. The largest coffee producer is Brazil (on
average 25% of the world's production), followed by Colombia (14%), Mexico
(5%), and Ethiopia, the Ivory Coast and Indonesia (each with 4%). Rwanda-s
share of the world market production is estimated at a little under one half
of one percent. World coffee production is expected to expand at an annual
rate of 2.15% between 1980 and 1990 reaching 93 million bags :in 1985 and
100 million in 1990.
8.03      Given the severe land shortage and the ever-increas:ing population
in Rwanda, it is unlikely that the area under coffee will increase very much
over the next decade. However, average yields per tree are quite low and,
1/   A bag of coffee contains 60 kg of green coffee beans.



- 42 -
with proper care and maintenance, yields could be expected to increase from
an average of 405 grams per tree to 625 grams per tree by 1990. This would
mean an increase in production of about 54%. Given Rwanda's small share of
the world market, this increase would have virtually no effect on world
coffee supply.
Prices
8.04      High coffee prices in the mid-1950's (US$4.70/kg in 1977 constant
prices) triggered an expansion of coffee plantings in almost all producing
countries, which led to an increase in production and growing stocks during
the early 1960's. Production increased from 40 million bags in the mid-1950's
to 70 million bags in the early 1960's. Consumption only increased from 40-60
million bags over the same period, and stocks started accumulating rapidly,
reaching a maximum of over 80 million bags (almost a two year supply) in
the mid-1960's. Since then, world production has been declining, mainly as
a result of a massive coffee tree eradication program in Brazil. Despite
these programs, prices remained depressed (around US$1.00/kg) because of the
existence of large initial stocks, until the devastating frost of 1975 in
Brazil. Lower stocks combined with the prospect of a significant shortfall
in Brazil's 1976 production sent prices spiralling upward. Prices reached an
average of US$5.30/kg in 1977. Since then they have been coming down to
US$3.16/kg in the first half of 1979. A frost occurred again in Brazil in
June 1979 which sent prices back up to around US$4.50 in September and
October. The frost damage was not severe and checked the down trend in prices
only temporarily. Although this is substantial, it is not sufficient to check
the downward trend in prices more than temporarily.
8.05      In the future, coffee cycles are expected to be shorter and less
volatile as the over supply will be less marked. This is because land
suitable for coffee in the producing countries is limited and is often being
planted in food crops and also because the authorities in most producing
countries are aware of the dangers of overproduction and are proceeding
cautiously with new plantings.
8.06      Prices are expected to decline from their present levels to reach
a forecast low of US$2.93/kg (1981 constant) in 1983. They are then
expected to increase to around US$3.45 in the second half of the 1980's.
Prices for Rwanda's semi-washed arabica coffee have closely followed the
trends for other coffee of comparable standards in the world market and
since Rwanda is a small scale producer with no power to influence market
trends, forecasts for world market prices can be taken as forecasts for
Rwanda prices as well.
International Coffee Agreement
8.07      Producers and consumers cooperate in the International Coffee
Organization (ICO) to try to stabilize the international coffee market. The
latest International Coffee Agreement came into force on October 3, 1980.
It will run through September 30, 1981 and, as have previous agreements, it
provides for a system of export quotas, with the size of individual quotas



- 43 -
based on past export performance and on stocks. Each exporting country which
has had exports averaging over 400,000 bags per year between July 1975 and
July 1980 has been allocated a basic quota. Cotntries such as Rwanda with
averages between 100,000 and 400,000 bags have no basic quota but are per-
mitted to increase their exports at a rate of 5% per year on the basis of
their exports to importing member countries during the 12 months preceding
October 1 1980. Countries with quotas are allocated 25% of their quota,
quarterly. Quotas are adjusted upwards or downwards according to price. The
coffee price which determines the quota level is the 20 day moving average of
the ICO composite indicator price. When prices are at or below US$1.15/lb,
quotas are based on total exports of 51.8 million bags, and the Executive
Board of ICO must review the situation. Between US$1.15/lb and US$1.55/lb the
basic quota varies between 51.8 million and 60.2 million bags and individual
country quotas are adjusted accordingly. Should prices remain at or above
US$1.55/lb. for 40 consecutive days, quotas would be suspended.
IX. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
9.01      The proposed Project would support Government-s policy of increasing
food crop production. In addition it would contribute to increased production
of coffee, the country's principal source of foreign exchange. All incremental
production would either be exported or replace imports. At full development
(Project year 10) the total incremental coffee production resulting from the
Project would be expected to have an estimated value of RF 402 million (US$4.4
million) per annum in estimated 1981 constant prices. At full development
(Project year 6) total incremental food crop production is estimated to have a
value of RF 149 million (US$1.6 million) per annum at estimated 1981 constant
prices. The annual net foreign exchange earnings from coffee exports would be
RF 5 million (US$55,000) in year 5, and RF 35 million (US$380,000) from
Project year 10 onwards. These benefits reflect only the direct production
increases and should thus be considered a conservative estimate of likely
benefits. Additional benefits which are difficult to quantify include soil
protection measures: planting of grass strips, forest trees and fruit trees;
land improvement measures; the promotion of stall-feeding and composting; and
benefits to the coffee industry and to food crop production resulting from the
coffee and food crop research programs. In addition to these agricultural
benefits, Project activities would impact on strengthening existing institu-
tions and assist the development of basic agricultural services; local staff
would be trained to assume increased responsibilities under this and other
rural development projects.  Improvements to rural roads and lake landing
points would also facilitate transportation in the Project area.
9.02      The economic rate of return (ERR) measuring incremental benefits of
the Project as a whole is estimated at about 21.6% over 25 years. The
Project-s benefits are derived from incremental production of coffee and food
crops. Separate benefit streams corresponding to these activities are shown



- 44 -
in Table 4a. In the calculation of the rate of return, foreign exchange was
shadow priced. 1/ If foreign exchange were not shadow priced, the ERR would
decrease by about three percentage points to 18.6%. Detailed calculations of
rates of return, prices and sensitivity analyses are in Tables 4a, b and c.
Basic Assumptions
9.03      The economic life of the Project is assumed to be 25 years.  The
rate of return analysis includes all expenditures for capital investments,
replacements, and operation and maintenance costs related to all the Project
components. The full costs of the expatriate extension experts are included
along with 20% of the cost of the expatriate financial advisor would spend a
portion of his time assisting Project staff with accounting requirements
but the majority of his time, estimated at 80%, working with OCIR-Cafe on
its accounts and organization requirements. The cost of unskilled labor,
including farm labor, was evaluated at the prevailing market price for labor
which is 72 RF per day. Prices used in calculation of benefits were those
prevailing in January, 1981. Costs do not include price contingencies, taxes
and duties. Physical contingencies (representing 15% of Project base cost),
however, are included in the calculation of rates of return. Coffee prices
have been projected in accordance with the latest Bank forecasts. Prices
used for food crops were those prevailing in Rwanda in January, 1981.
9.04      The rate of return was tested for sensitivity.  If costs increased
by 20% the rate of return would be reduced to 19%. If benefits were reduced
by 20%, the rate of return would be reduced to 18%. If benefits were to be
delayed by one year, the rate of return would be reduced to 18%. The switch-
ing values for the Project, using an opportunity cost of capital of 10%, are
as follows: 36% for the benefits and 58% for the costs.
Risks
9.05      The problems most likely to affect the Project would be implementa-
tion delays resulting from management difficulties. The appointment of key
Project staff before Credit negotiations and the establishment of a Project
headquarters in the Project area and a liaison office in the capital, Kigali,
with funds from the Project Preparation facility, should reduce these problems
during Project start-up. Project implementation would be governed by annual
work plans which should reduce delays over the life of the Project (para
5.04). There is the risk that the extension program would be less effective
than planned particularly in view of the lack of success in obtaining increased
output in previous projects in Rwanda, but the emphasis on extension worker
training and close follow-up of farmers in the field should offset this risk
considerably. Farmer response to the extension program might not be as
positive as expected. In order to ensure good farmer response, a team approach
to extension would be promoted which encourages peer learning. Also, adequate
numbers of extension staff and logistic support are provided so as to minimize
this risk. The benefits of certain extension themes, particularly soil
1/   A rate of RF 110 per US$1.00, (18.09 above the official exchange rate of
RF 91.91 per US$1.00) has been used as this reflects more accurately the
value of foreign exchange to Rwanda.



- 45 -
conservation measures would only be realized after several years. Others
however, such as the use of improved seed, the intercroping of beans in banana
plantations and the use of compost from stall fed animals on family vegetable
plots, would begin producing results by the end of Project year 2. The
provision of an increased number of hand-pulping centers for coffee and
efforts to foster a more efficient coffee spraying campaign should encourage
farmers to follow the coffee extension themes the result of which should begin
increasing production by the end of Project year 5. Technical risks involving
plant material to be used and agricultural practices to be promoted are low as
the technology to be encouraged under the Project has already been tested in
Rwanda. The commercial risks are also low, as forecasts of coffee prices have
been based on expected world coffee production increases; unforeseeable
developments in the coffee market would be likely to reflect a lower-than
expected world production, thus pushing prices up, rather than unforeseen
production increases.
Social Impact of Project Benefits and Income Distribution
9.06      An estimated 60,000 of the 75,000 farm families living in the coffee
growing areas would be expected to benefit from the coffee improvement
component; about 15,000 of them would also benefit from the food crop program.
About 2,500 of the 10,000 farm families in the highland areas are expected to
benefit from the food crop component. Farmers' income in the coffee growing
and highland areas is estimated at US$95, about 50% of the national average
per capita GDP of US$190 (para. 1.05). The absolute poverty level for Rwanda
is also estimated at about US$95. If successful, Project activities would
lift beneficiares in the coffee growing areas above the threshold of absolute
poverty (from US$93 to US$129) and lift beneficiaries in the highland areas to
the threshold of absolute poverty (from US$68 to US$98). On the above basis,
it is expected that the social return from the proposed Project's productive
components would be significant and in terms of social desirability, the
Project appears justified.
Employment and Income Distribution
9.07      In accordance with present pricing policies, farmers' share of
the gross earnings from incremental coffee production can be expected to be
in the range of 55-60%. The benefits from incremental food crop production
would accrue entirely to the participating farmers.  There are no significant
differences in income between various segments of the Rwandese rural popula-
tion and the benefits of the Project would be fairly evenly disl:ributed
over all the farm families in the Project area.
X. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED ON CREDIT CONDIT:IONS
10.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
issues:



- 46 -
(a) That Government would make land, water and other facilities
promptly available for the development of the Project head-
quarters complex at Kibuye and the training center complex
at Kibogora (para. 4.04);
(b) That the Communes, OCIR-Cafe and the Government would, over
the life of the Project, maintain the number of extension
agents presently working in the Project area and that
Government would provide one agronomist per commune
(para. 4.06);
(c) That supervision responsibility of all extension activities in
the Project area would be given to OCIR-Cafe (para. 4.06);
(d) That OCIR-Cafe would continue to provide pesticides
at pre-Project levels for the duration of the Project
(para. 4.10);
(e)  That all terms of reference for studies and trials would
be submitted to IDA for approval (para. 4.19);
(f)  Terms and conditions for the operation of the pre-financing
révolving fund (para. 4.26).
(g) Procurement arrangements for the Project (para. 4.27);
(h) That all expenditure would be in accordance with annual.
work plans (para. 4.28);
(i) That separate accounts would be maintained by OCIR-Cafe
in such a way as to enable separate identification of all
Project accounts from other OCIR-Cafe accounts, that the
accounts would be forwarded to IDA no later than six months
following the end of the fiscal year to which they relate
and that independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be
appointed to audit Project accounts (para. 4.30);
(j)  That qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment for expatriate personnel would be submitted
to the Association for Approval and that appointment to the
posts of Project Director, Project accountant and the three
agronomists working under the extension component at the
Provincial level and any subsequent appointment to these
posts would be made in consultation with the Association
(para. 5.02);
(k) That OCIR-Cafe's annual plan to IDA include a section on
the progress of the on-the-job training programs (para.
5.03);



- 47 -
(1)  That Work Plans for each year will be submitted to IDA
for review by the first week of October of each year
commencing in 1981 (para. 5.04);
(m) That staffing would be provided as per schedule 1 of this
report (para. 5.05);
(n) That Government would, to the extent feasible, charge! farmers
the full cost of seedlings produced and would consult
periodically with IDA on the level of charges (para. 5.19); and
(o) That OCIR-cafe would prepare a completion report and
submit it to IDA not later than six months following the
closing date (para. 5.24).
10.02     Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:  (a) the realization
of a complete audit of OCIR-Cafe's accounts (para. 2.10); (b) the Subsidiary
Agreement between Government and OCIR-Cafe has been signed (para. 4.03); and
(c) the recruitment of two of the three extension specialists (para. 4.25).
10.03     Subject to the above assurances, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$15 million to the Government of Rwanda on
standard IDA terms.
March 12, 1981



- 48 -
R W A N D A
PROJET D'AI«LIORAT:C, DE LA CAFEICULTURE ET DE CULTURES
LAKE RSVU COFFEE AND FOODCROI IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                     Schedole  S                                  VIVRIERES DANS LA REGION DU LAC KIVU
Fproposd Stoffino for the Proiect                                                                                   Personnel erorose pour le proeet
Ponts filled/   Ponts to bo         Total staff
Postas           filled roder       reqoired!
remplis          Projeot/Postes   Total personnel
a rouplis pour   requis
le Pr-]et
Cenerao   Services                                                                                                  Serrions Generaux
Kibuye                                                                                                              Kibuve
Projeut Directur lAI)                                    S                                    1                    Di-recteur du utc jet (A1)
Accountant         fA2)                                  1                   -                1                     Conptable  (A2)
Assista-t Admin. Offirer                                                      I               1                     Assistant adniotratif
Assistant A.co.uLu.e.                                                                         1                     Assistant Coupraile
Secretary tr  Dirnotor                                   -                                    S                     Secretaire du Dire-teor
Secretary to Asoos..tant                                -I                                    1                    Seretaire du Comptoble
Support Staff                                           -                    2                2                     Personnel de u-ot ion
SPb-Total                                             2                    f               8                       Sous-Total
u i                                                                                                                Rigali
Admieistrative Ausiotant                                                     S                S                     Assistant adnisirrtif
Secretary                                                                    E                I                    Secretaire
Support Staff                                                                2                2                     Personnel de sortirs
Sob-Total                                                                  4               4                       Sous-Total
Extonsion Component                                                                                                 Elenent de vuloarîsation
Kibuye amd Gisenvi                                                                                                 Kibue et Sisoupi
Extension Advisur                                       -                                     S                    Conseiller de rsagarisutlon
Extension Officer (A1)                                                        1               I                    Agent de vulgarisotion/siveau prefentore (AI)
Suuretary                                               -I                                                          Senretaire
Teaching mate-ials produotioo                            -                   2                2                     Production  soteniels d'auseigeneent
Support staff                                                                3                3                     Personnel de soutien
Cummune agrononist (A3)                                                      -                6                    Agrnonoe de oursons (A3)
Ent-i-so  agents   (AU)                                63                   26               89                    Agentu de vulEarisation  (A3)
Sub-Total                                            69                   34             103                        Sous-Total
Kibogora (Cyasg.go)                                                                                                 Kibogora (Cyangugo)
Extension advient                                                            i                S                     Conseiller de -ulgarisatioo
Eurtnoion Offise   (A2)                                                      2                                     Agent de vulgarisation   (A2)
Surerearis                                              -                    2                2                     Secretaires
Training Conter Manager (Kibogora)                       -                   S                S                    GOrant Centre de intestin  (Kibogora)
Couk                                                                         I                I                     Cuisinier
TeachiEg materials production                            -                   4                i                     Produtien moteriels d'enseigonemet
Support staff                                           -                    3                3                     rersonnol s  '-r   s
Comun-egr..onomiut (A3)                                 8                    P                g                     Agronome de ommune (A3)
Entes io- agents (A2)                                   36                  57               93                     Agents de vulgarisation  (A3)
Sub-Total                                            44                   71             1l5                        Sous-Total
Se.l-ted Seed Ceepusent                                                                                            Volet Senences -  electionnes
Selected SPed Officer (A3)                                                   3                3                    Agent semences selectionnes
Support staff                                                                6                6                     PersonneS de tertien
SPb-Total                                                                  9                9                       Saus-Total
Resrearh Cenposent                                                                                                 Volart Reoerohes
Researoh officer                                                             3                3                     Agent de recherche
Support staff                                                                2                2                     Personnel de soutie
Sub-Total                                                                  5               5                        Sous-Total
Hand pulpers                                                                                                          Machines de de-ulpage manue
Mobile teams                                                                 4                4                       Equippage nubile
SPb-Total                                                                  4                4                         Sous-Total
TOTAL                                               115                  133              248                         TOTAL
November, 1980



R YDANSDA
171E KITS COPUlE 4 USODCROFPI1NPROVEMENT PREOJET
PRRTDILSATION E l  CAWiFUDDLUU   ET  EULTURESDPUEEDNSM OGNlILICS
(RF  50>0
yes   /  ee   il    Tr 2/    Test 3/           ee  4/    Tet          y-Ts  5          ssoI         7
1. FR02811 NINAGE8<EIEE   ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                A    e                     M--t           -        1.  DESTIONE EU FRUOET
lREsootei C-u astlEm1   6                                       35 415        E 600        2 205          NiE          -        56 183         32 110      57              c- Coli  d'ovstuu,s
il 1E         U1E          05E         S 05         2   4        20 540    114 150          SE 459      76                c Tots AsF,afoee
TututS     t2-35il600                                           z 5455       20 540       202540       2135EO       204        108            liN  56                       oa
-opertes   OtO                                     34 510       4E44         5   243      55  24Ti22                5023       2365t.372                   S.-lusd1                     erEese
TotiE6N21                                                      914         5   43       5  745        1  1        51 143     35  50E         209 60                     oo
2 - ETuENSIONul  lest                                     -0       14 662       13 0 3        3  950      18 624       190 633     l   144        NE 128      74             - CoutE d'E-vetEsfeSesst
-  peaTe t$ loui t-535                                                       4    0        281          202         4   I       N  623         27 30       83             - Çote de f..t. ssoee
Tpet 'e l ..                                       3  2          04  437     56 1273      50_701      _61 436       6O2465    23625 787       11  410      59             Toto1
3. CFEUlE     PODS RO ETATIENS                                                                                                                                            43  A1470ELI   DIOE P LA CE   FIUL
1-Evet,seOt C-st                                    4,2         2,51         22,713315    26,32         0,7820      1 6,72    120,144          81,087      72                Cweisdt    esose,e
- llperotitg Costu                                   3,84          3,746      4,8146       ff 246        3 2 246           2   .26623           2171         58              lest   de  oE-tîo....mest
Ttal                                                9,6          50807       56 17.I1                  61Z~ 43       0,2466     2    6 109,93  9 175       T3             otal
6. FunIS u.oToeN~  ES                                                                                                                                                      5. STATIONS lIE EPUPAEEI7
-OpsestUsE uests                                    L,84         _                           .. 746                                                        ,._- îeoi-  d.e.. fotleesee,ot
Tetel1                                                              -          6,765       .3,245           -.           -       10,010           7,640      76            Teta1
6. 882N10 RO4D EIPEOENINT                                                                                                                                                -3.PETITN  TRAVAUX ROUTIERS
... t.               9,191           -            -                                  9,~~~ ~        ~~~~~~~~~~191  N 131  95  - bu.ts   'setsssu
7. RESEEECE                                                                                                                                                               7, RECHERCHES
l- tvet,ut Caste                                                 3,375          130          150        3,125          13E       6,950          6,603      95              bot  d'lievsusoe
-Opsrrttsg tss2,380                                            13, 279       15,029       15,029       15,025       15,329      77,721                    :7 C-tlue  de   oeueebe
Tata1                                                2,300       10,654       15,179       15,179       16,114       15,129      84,725          60,913     22             Total
TcrrAL rNVESTMENT COSTS               S6$64       144,694        43,462       49,.737      40,654       27,423    362,973         269,124      74             rUrAL CO<1T  DDUtVESIrSSUEtNT
TIMLA  OENVCT9IN  IOSTU                           49,635      123,365      132,370      132,370       132,370      132,370   702,696          354,977      49             TIEAL. C0170 DE FIONITIO8EENEE
TOTrAL BASE bOST                                  104,819      268,077      177,851      162,107       173,024      159,793 1,065,671          613,101      56             TOTEAL DOUTE DE OASE
DlsysieslCsieeas   (151.)                          15,723       40,221       26,6768        7,1         25,954      _32,969    159L851          92  263      8              ereo   pEyolq~.se   (15%)
SoIrtaLOl                               4      300,208      204,329      219,423 ~~~~30,2e8198,9780  8 03,6-2 1,223,322        207,366      56              eu-oo
kDnreiou~EoahoseUe501                           -           ,599      14,82E        25,143       33,460       40,293                         -       -Dl-aea-  laaî  47
(Muai  a-ree-a      4e.                                         S.721      20_273        57 110       32 6310      6 7.81         -                       -                M..i~1 1.4/
F5i-rieteUeLs             /                           -         17,3L0       35,101       12,261       66,11E      108,213    3109,103         429,290      50             Neassa  d-  prie  1/
TOrAL, PROJECT COST                               i2-          ,Ive         eso,          tc64         6   90      292~,Dî  1"      6à~25      6646                        TOTAL C1,11 SIU PF10211
1/Prela.ateeae   hav  beee uetlmeted SeS~rAiaU  ta Duajated                                             1/  I., houss  de-  ptieaUeptimee  seo   l   rje                    d-s ta-
TeoF    <9El   19E3    2903    1504    1905    1506                                                      Ancr      1901       1502     1503      1504      1905     1906
9%/     0%%      7 /    7%Z      7%      0%,                                                              ST/        El        Tf/      27        24      6
PeuJeet  Tri.  yr.2        Ir.3   Yr-4   Te.5                                                   A--e  i-jetea         I          2         3        4         5
8. 5%   7.57       Tf       27%     6.5%,                                                                   0,5 2/ ,57           77.       TI       0,1
ln.30, 1981



1.4KE ElIVI? COFFRE & FOODCROF IMPROVEME10 FROJECT
PROJET D'AMOELIORATION DE LA CAFEICOLTERE ET DE CUITURES VIVRIERRO DANS  LA EIi1OND01 LAC RKIVU
Consmens Pro lent- Realaed  assh Fln11
Years                                 1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989            1990   1991    1992    1993    1994         1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2900    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2004
_ ___  __________ _                    O        1       2        3        4        5        6        7        8        9       10       11       12       13        4       13       16       17       10       29       20       21      22 2_             24       23
Inetires nE Fonds
toern-  I S-ornes - IDA                  109.8   289.7   214.9   240.9   254.8   260.9            -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -         -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
G     ove1mn-                             12.2    32.2    23.9    26.8    28.3    29.0-
CoffPe/                           -        -        -        -       9.0    IR.9    2R.5    02.9    47.3    57.0   31.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0                 57.0    51.0    07.0    57.0    57.0    57.0          57.0    57.0
S.opl.s_/                        _         -       _                    2.6    6.0    12.5    IR.4    30.0    46.0   46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46 4646.0    06.0    46.0    46 0
Total So..es of Fonds                    122.0   321.9   238.8   267.7   295.2   314.8    41.0    56.3    77.3   103.0  103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0
Uses of Fonde
ProJeet Mana-e-enE                        31.6    6444      25.4    26,1    24.5    23.6         9.7    14.4    10.9        9.2    9,7    14.4    10,9         9.      9.7    114.4    10.)9      9.       9.7    14.4    10.9         9,7     9.1    14.4    10.9        9.7
Coffes 6 Fond Grop  Impronenene             -    103.3    64.3    65,2    20.4    21.9    11.3            7.1      7.1     11.3    6.1       7.1      2.        .      61        12.2     7.4      6.1    11.3       7.1     7.1    11.3        6.1     7.1    12.5       6.1
Pulping Stations                           7,1    26.2    28.3    26.6    121          121.1     4.1 6.            4        41               6.       4.1      4.1      4.8     6.8       4.1     1 4      4.4 6.8           4.1      4.1      4.8      0.8      4.1      4.1
R-e-eh                                     4.3    200       161      16 1     19.0      610      3.5      3.5      6.4      3 5    3         3.5      6.4      3 . 5    3        35      6.4      3          .5     3.5      6.4      3.5      3.5      3.5      6.4      3.5
Eotnnnlos                       2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9.0o    29.5    50,9    61.0    20.8    50.2    12.2    12.7    22.6    12.2   17.7    12.25    22,4    17.7    17.7    17.7    22. 6   17.7    12.2      12.2    22.6    12.2    12.1    127.7    21.6    17.7
Laketnndîe0Poloss                           -               10.6    20.6                                                                                             -            -        -
Mli_orRoad joprs_en_t                        -      10.6                                                                                               -        -        -        -
IDA Snroie-  Chatne & Repsynent              .4     1.9      3.8      5.5      7.3      9.2    10.3    10.3    10.3    10.3   10.3    23.9    23.0    23.7    23.6             23.5    23.4    23.3    23.2    23.1    23.0    50.3    49.9    49.6    49.3    49.0
Total UIos of Funds                      122.4   306.5   207.5   211.8   204.9   191.6    57.3    59.8    66.4    56.6    52.1   73.4    85.3    64.8    65.4    78.1    79.8    64.4    70.2    72.6    29.1    96.6    91.7    99.1   110.8    90.1
Net Collh FIns                            7047    15.4    21.3    55.9    90 3   123.2   116.31    (3.5)   10. 9    46.4    50.9   29.6    17.7    38.2    37.6    24.9    23.2    38.6    32 8                     30.4    23.9      6.4    11.3        3.9    (7.8)   12.9
2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014    2015    2016   2017    2018    2019    2020    2021                  2022    2023    2024    20225    2026    2027    2028    2029    2030    2031                       c
26      27       29       29       30       31       32       33       34       35      36       37       38       39       40       41       42       43       44       45       46       42       48       49       50
E-orne     S-    - IDA
EnserRaI nors  -  0
Tao.s on Copten-.                         57.0    57.0    56.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0   57.0    57.0    57.0    57,0    57.0    57,0    57,8    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57.0    57,0    57,0
Dospîso-                        46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.03    46.0   46.04    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0                      46.0    464.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0    46.0
Toala Sooetne nf Fonds                   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0  103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0   103.0
Tees ne Feinde
Pr-(ee-  M-n0n-ntn                          9.7    14.4    10.9       9.7      9.7    14.4    10.9        9.7      9.1     14.4   10.9       9.7      9.7    14.4    10.9        9.7      9.7    14.4    10.9        9.7      9.7    14.4    10.9        9.7      9.7
Coffee & Fond GTop Irproseenn              6.1    12.2       7.4      6.1    11.3       7.1      7.1    11.3       6.1      7.1   12.5       6.1      6.1     12.2      7.4      6.1     11.3      7.1      7.1    11.3       6.1      7.1    12.5       6.1      6.1
Polplng Stations                           4.8      6.8      4.1      4.1      4,0      6.0      4.1      4.1      4.0      6.8    4.0       4.1      4.8      6.8      4.1      4.1      4.8      6.8      4.1      4.1      4.8      6.8      4.1      4.1      4.8
Researet                        3.~~~~~~         ~~~~    ~ ~ ~~~5 35  6.4  3.5 35  3.5  6.4    3.        5       35      64       35       35       35      6.4       3.0      3.5      35      6.4      35 5   3           3.       .4      95       3.5
E5enti on                                 31.7    17.7      27.6    17.7    17          3       2             6  14   17 7  173 5   2276    1377    1 .7    17.7    2716        17,7    177       1         77      177      17.7    37.        7.6    1727        7
Laek LanditPists                             .       .        -        -        .--                                                                             -
Minonr Rad Ipremn                                                                                                                     -        -
IDA S-rvics Chargs   R Opsy-ens           48       48.4   4Il1    47.8    47.5    47.2    46.9    46R6    46 2    45.9   45.6    45.3    45.0    44.7    44 4    44.1      53                     43.5    43.2    42.9    42.5    42.2    41.9    41.6    41.3
Total Tee nf Fonde                        90.5   103.V    104.5    88.9    94.5    96.7   103.0    92.9    88.0    95.4  107.1    86.4    86.8    99,1   2(1.08  80.2    90.8    93.0    99.3    89.2    84.3    91.7   103.4    82.7    81.1
Ner CGRh FtIn                             52.5      0.0    (1±5)   14.1        8,5      6.3      0.0    10.1    15.0        7.6   14.12   16.6    16.2         3.7      2.2    17.0    12.2    10.0         3.7    13.8    18.7    Il3    (70.41    20.3    19.9
I/  Gverenasot leties s 20% tan  neth,e -a1u  nf Etoyrted  -offee nx-fronIer   I tees neted tielods pries -o prodesr,
-1lestonn ehargea, f-t-ory  h-arges, OG7R-Gfaf  renee.r.titn, tan plsI .r.apnet tons-       fr    KigERi to 1he frontier
sE Kagltanha Cnes para. 2.11 SAR).
2/  Sea footnote 3, pata 2.13 SAR fRo  soplanstlon nf thEs -1leoloslon.



- 51 -                        Table 3
RWANDA
LAKE KIVU COFFEE & FOODCROP IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT D'AMELIORATION DE LA CAFEICULTURE ET DE CULTURES VIVRIERES
DANS LA REGION DU LAC KIVU
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Calendrier estimatif des decaissements
IDA Fiscal Year         Cumulative Disbursement               Exercic(e et
and Quarter                  at end Quarter/                  trimestre IDA
Decaissements Cumulatif
(Us$'000)
191                                îIDA                       1981
June 30 1/                           800                     30 juin ]!
September 30                       1,100                     30 septembre
December 31                        1,400                      31 decembre
1982                                                         1982
March 31                            2,000                     31 mars
June 30                            2,600                     30 juin
September 30                       3,300                     30 septembre
December 31                        4,000                      31 decembre
1983                                                         1983
March 31                            4,700                     31 mars
June 30                             5,400                     30 juin
September 30                        6,200                    30 septembre
December 31                         7,000                     31 decemire
1984                                                         1984
March 31                            7,700                     31 mars
June 30                             8,400                     30 juin
September 30                        9,200                    30 septembre
December 31                        10,000                     31 decembre
1985                                                         1985
March 31                           10,800                     31 mars
June 30                            11,800                     30 juin
September 30                       12,600                    30 septembre
December 31 2/                     13,400                     31 decembre 2/
1986                                                         1986
March 31                           14,200                     31 mars
June 30                            15,000                     30 juin
1/ Expected Date of Effectiveness June 1981/Date prevue pour entree
en vigueur, Juin 1981.
2/ Expected Date of Completion, June 1986/Date prevue pour achevement
du Projet 30 juin 1986. Expected Closing Date, December 31, 1386/Date
de Cloture, 31 decembre 1986.
February 25, 1981



R RO ND A
LARE KIVU COFREIOOROVDART AND F001 CROF FROJECT
PROJET D'OOI1,1ORATION DO LA CAFEICILTIORE ET DE CULTURES VIVRIERES DANS LA RWIO0N OU LAC KIVU0
(80$ 000)
T..t                                           1900     1901     1980      1983     1984     1980     1986     1987      1988     1989    1990      1991     1992     1993    1994       1995     1996     1997     1998      1999    2000    2081    7002    7003    2004           2009    Fo.-
Frojoct Y...                                     O        1        2         3        4        S        O        7         O        9       10       il       12       13       14        15       16       17       18        19       20       21       22       23       24        25     1
Frojoot Oonogonent               ~~~~~~~31.6    64.4  05.4    20.1    24.9     23.0      9.7    14.4    10.9         9.7      9.7    14.4      10.9      9.7       9.7    14.4      10.9       9.7      9.37   14.4      10.9      9.7      9.7    14.4       IR9       97       R
CofOce & Foodcrop Inproveocnî     -   1~~~09.    64,5    69.2       70.       19      1.3       7.1       7.11    113       6.1      7.1      12.5     6.1       6.1    12.2       7.4      6.1      11.3      7.1      7.1    11.3       6.1       7.81   12.5       6.1    36
PO1pIFO  Otorînno                            7.1    26.       21 .3    26.6    1'2.1      12.1      4.       6.0      4.1      4.1      4.8      6.8       4.       4.1      4.1      6.8      4.1       4.1       .       6.8      4.1      4.1       4.8      6.0      4.       4.1     84
Rosorl,4.3    20.0                                             16.1    16.1      19.6      16.1      3.        .        .4       33       35       3.5      6.4      35       3.       3.3       6.4      34       35       35       64        3.        .        .       6.4      3.       72
OstensIon                       ~~~~~~~~~~~79.0    79.5    08 .9  61.7  79.0   50.7     17.7      17.7    27.6    17.7    17.7        17.      27.6    177        17.7     17.7     27.      17.7    17.7       17.7     27.6    17.7    17.7        13.7    27.6      177      59
LAhe LIndtog PoInts                             -              10 .6    10.6         .                                                                                                                                                      -  -  -   -                                     88
Rînoroodîlpron....t                             .     10.6        -         .        .        -        -        -         .            -   .                           .         -        -        -        -        .                                                                      95
FootCcs(in 009'800).                1327.4  39315.2  2217.4  7244.6  21479.9  1984.9    5171.4    138.6   610.4 5903.8   494.8   538.6   669.15  447.2   454.8   594.1   613.6   447.12  5171.4   53R.6   6510.4   5863.8   454.0   538.6   669.9   447.2
(Ors RF  Llîlîn              12 2.0   304.7    203.8   206.3   197.6   182.4          47.0    49.5    96.1    46.3    41.8    49.5    61.5    41.1    41.8    54.6                56.4    41.1    47.0       49.5    56.1    46.9    41.8    49.5    61.5    41.1
Ton  pocsn                                           O        O        O        O      335      670     1005      1340    1675    2010    2810    2010    2010    2090            20D0    DO0O      281 2010      2010          2810 2010         2818 2010     2010      2010 2  
CotOso Volte  (10 0O&0007                                                               52      104       156      708      260      312      312      31   32       3     12  3    12  3    11 '   2     31 2     312      312  31     2      31 2     310 32        312      312
,in RF nIliOoo)                                                           4.0      9.6    14 .3    19 .1    23.~9    28.7    28.7    28 .7    28.7    28.7    2R.7    28.7             28.7    28.7    28.7    28.7    28.7    28.7    28 .7    28.7             28.7
Fondono TonDs
2/                          ~~~~     ~~~~     ~~~~122  2448   366  4878  62100  6100    62100    6100    6100    61200    6100    610      618      6108      610.    610.    6100    610R    6100    62100    610.    618.    6100    610
R_I                                          ~~~~             ~~~~~~~4.4  .6 13.2    17.6    778 22.  22      2 20     7220      22      220      22 .R    22 .8     22.      220      220      22.       228      22.       22.     22.      22.       22.      22.8
5.6    11.2    16.8    22.4        28.      2. 2      8.02    20.        80     2.        28.      20.0    28.8    28.0        201.8    28.0    20.8    78.0        20.0    28.8      2^8.0    28.0    28.8      28.8
blIu   W/                                     '~~~~    ~~~~~2.7  54  0.1    10.8    13.8    3513.5   1          .5     1.5      8..5   15          3.3.5.5113.53.5 1.5             13.5                   13.5     13.5.5    5       13. 1    3.5       1.5      1.
Fe... !                                                        .5      1.0      1.5      2.0       2.5      2.5      2.5      2.5      2.5       2.5      2.  7.5      2.5       2.5      2.5           7.  2.5       2.5      2.5      2.    5 2.5            2.5      2.5      2.5
Fondnrnp Tome.  (In U0$'000(                                  3       2708   405        540      6761   6761   6761   6761   6766.    6761   6761   6761   6761   6761   676.    6761   6761   676                                6261   626.    676          676      676      676
(On RF nillnn7)                            12.4    24.       37.2    47.6    62.         62.      62.      62.1          62.      62.      62.      62.       62.      62.      62.      62.       62.1    l 62.     62.1 6.       62.1    62.1    62.1       62.1
Pneily Lober Cn-R   (On US$''000(             O        O      135      770      405      592       700      832      804      936      988       008      988      988      988         R        g      '8  988  988 988           988       98890 00 9      8      988      98808
(In RF mIllIon          O        O       12.4    24.0      37.2    54.4       71.7    76.4    01.2    06 .0    90.8    90.8          98.8    90.8      9.8    90.0    98.8    90.8    90.0    90.8    98.8    98.8    98.8    98.8    98 .8    98.8
Tntel Cnnts (Oic 003.000)                    1327.4  3319.2  73152.4  2514.6  2554.9  2576.5  129~1.4  1370.6  114944  1439.8  1442.8  1526.6  1657.1  1435.2  1442.8  15812.1  1601.6  1435.2  1499.4  j152.6  1598.4  1491.8  14422.8  1526.6  1657.1  1435.2
(OnRF nOllîno)                  172.0   304.7    216.7   231.1   231.8   236.0   118.7   825.9   137.3   132.3   132.6   140.3   152.3   131.9   132.6   145.4   147.2   131.7   137.8   148.3   146.9   137.1   132.6   940.3   152.3   131.9
-/Rroclo.cff..  -  S hg/-.n d.y on.  yinlo Inres ti  yr,  2 - 6 i. 25 fl/re1 yr.; ..25  gonex13.4 Sillon-  335  os    335.808 60    67,8080I .1e 72 FR8  4,824,808 FR8 -952,800.
2/Beonos/b...n..  -  50 + 12 + 480 kg/ho. - 24 -86  on doyo/ho.  Eoch Cor-o  ho. .3 ho. (86 55 .33   26 non dloyo   72 = 1,872 n2 - 3,744 n 3000 Ror.-r  - 11,232,088 FR8   $122,000.
20
3/ ....no h-r   jn.-  th  hornoot tins lecnodrd    100 kg/ho.  n .3 - 30 kg  (28 kR/m-n dOy ho-noo) -1.5 mndays/ho.  1.5 o72 - 108 FRW   2 (2 cropo) - 216 PRW   3500 Romes-   408,888 F640 =  4,417 884.488 ronold9.
20
4'  9n1048     200 k06190.  .3 - 60O kg (25 kg hnvno t/mon doy)   2.4 no  dloyo n 72 -173 FRW n 5,080 -518.000   $3.000.
25                                                                               91.91
5/  Moine-  400 kg   .5 -QLOO kg (hornoso 30 k8/mo  doy) - 7mo  doys o 72 - 504 PRW n 500 - 250.000 - 92,700.
30                                                                           91.91
6/P-o   -  100 ORg  .2 - 20 kg (horneni  15 kg/mon doy) - 1.3mo  doys  1.3 o 72 = 93.6 n 500 - 46.800   $506.
13                                                                                91.91



RW A N DOA
LADR KIVU CR00E0 I'RRODDRTONT ARR FOOD OE10P PROJECT
PROJET D'AMLIETRATIRN DR LA CAFEICURTER ET RDE COLTURIRE VIVRIERES RANS LA RECTON RDU LAC NORD'
Benefits
ROO *RRR
RD, illion
Tsar                                         19R1t    1982      1983      1984      198R     1986      1987      1988     1989      199R      1991     1992      1993      1994     1995      1996      1990     1990      1999      2RRR     TROT      2RR2      20R3      200o     2RR5
Projoor y-o                                    T        2         3         4         O        6         72        R        R        TO        RT       12        1 3       14       10        1 6       TO       TO1       19        2R       2 1       22        2 3       24       205
Tons p-ho...nt                             R         R         R        R        335       620     IRRO      134R     1625      2010      2010     2RIR      2ORD      2R1R     DODO      DRU0      DR0       2RIR     2RR0   23RRR        201R     2010      201R      DOLA      201R
Tons OT-r                                                                        251       503      754      TORS     1756      1008      TORS      TORS     1500      IRRO      TORD     TORS      TORD      1008      TORD     TORS      TORS     1000      TORS      DORS      1008
O0SSeo Robe         (On 0000005)                                                    640      1320     2360      2260      3050     4320      4320      4325     4305      437 5     4375    4375       4335      4315      4320     4 375     4320      4 375    4300      4370      0375
TIr D RF Rinr -                                                  50. 8    121.3    21 6.0    233.17   326.1   402.1    402.1    402. 1   402. 1   402. 1   402.1   402. 1    402.1   402. 1    402 .1   402 .1   4D2.1    492. 1   402. 1    402.1   402. 1
Food Cr-p0
B.s.-r-o-rs                               O      860      1220      2580       3440     4300      4300      4300     4300      4300     4300      4300      4300      4300     4300      4300      4300     4300      4300      4300     4300      4300      4300      4300     4300
Reo-   -nîn   (in US$26O/ror)             R      220       440       660        000     1100      1100      1100     1100      1100      TR 1100       1100      1100      1100     1100      1100      1100     110     0 1100      1100     1100      1100 lu        1103     1100
(Rn RF  iTllon.)           R        20.2     40.4      60.7       80.0    101.1    101.2    101.1    101.1    101.1    101.1    101.1          0I    oI 101.1    101.1 TOE.D         101.1 001.11i, 101.1    101.1 10,      001.1TR.           TIl    101.1    101.1
u-nnos-nonL                               R       200      ARR       600        800     TORT      1000      1000      TORD     1000      1000     1000      1000      1000      1000     TROR      1000      2000     TOTO      TROT      1000     1000      1000      TORT      1000
(RS$195/TonO                              O       52       104       136        200      260       260       260      260       260       260      260       260       260j     200       260       200       200      260       240       260      260       200       260      2600
(RF mtlRooS)                              R        4.0       0.6      14.3       19.1     23.0      23,0      23.0      23.0     23.9      23.9      23.9     23.9      23.0     23.0      03.9      23.0      23.0     33.0      23.0      23.9     33.0      23.0      23.0      23.0
Oorg6hrs -nnn>'                           R       180      300       540        720      RO        OR 900    000       900      900       900      900 9      00       900       000      000 9      00       000      900       900       000       900 00 00 90                 000
1000$195/Don                              R       35        70       100        140      175       175       105      175       175       175      175       175       105      175       175       175      125       175       100       070      TOI       020       120      120
(RF nIîon                                           3.0      4,4       9.7       12 .0    16.0      16.1      10.1      10.1     16.1      14.1      10.2     16.1      16.1      16.1     16,1      10.1      16.1      10.1     10.2      16.1      16.1     16.1      16.1      16.1
Mooorbons/                                O       100      000       300        400       000      000       000       000      000       000       500      500       500       100      000       000       000       000      000       500       00       000       000       5000
(RR1T63/En-3                              R       14        33        48         64       80        80        60       OR        DR,    OR          80        80        OR       OR        DR        OR        OR       OR        60        OR       80        'OR       60        goR
,RP  illTio)                              R         1.0      2.0       4.4        0.0       0.4      7,4       7.4       0.4      7.4       0.4       2.4      7.4       0.4       0.4      7.4       7.4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4       0.4       2.4
Pros-Dn t..                               R         T        2         3          4         O        O                   O         O        S         O1        3        O         O         O         O        3         O         o        s         o         s        o
(RS5/261/tonT                             R        0.2       0.0       0.7                                                                            T        T         T         T         T1       T         T         T         2        î         i        î         i 
Vodros 0100,(10 002,000)               R      323       6406       6        1293     1816      1616      1616     1616      1616      1616     1616      IU 1616        1    416  1616     1616           10 16         1616      16 16 1616         1     61 116   1616      1016
(In DF riTlTon>           R       20.0      59.3      89.1      TTO.R    148 .5    108.0    140.0    148.0    T480.0    148.0    140.3    140.5    140.5    140.0    140.5    140.0    140.1    141 .5    148.05   040.5   140.0    146.5    048 .0    148.0
Totol Vnl1-  (ir US100005                      R      323       646       969       1933     2936      3905     4306      0166      5991      0091     38909  01  5991              3091 59 91     5     001  5   001      0901 599 1     599 1    5     00i591   59T1    0991       5901
Db. RF?  illTio)                R        29.1     59.3      89.1      0770.0    269.8    6560.    402.2   404.8    000.6   000.4    5004 30.6    5            00.8    100.6    050.6      000.6    050.6    050.  0    500.6    5 00.6    550.6    5  00.6    550.6    550.655
1/400 kg/hoil.                             I/  100 kg./ho.                              I/  300 kg./hs.                              e/  460 kg./ho.                              0/  100 kg./ko.
-  .3 T/R/Drr).3 TO.Dreî.3.52
144 kg.forn30S kg./Ssono                                                                    60 kg.(Snrns                               200 kg./fnrrnr                                20 k.Dr
60,000 f-eo-                                  70,000                                      60,000                                        10,000                                      10,000
.05                                           .00                                         .00                                          .0                                           .05
3,000                                         3,5060                                      3,000                                           500                                          5000
144 kg.                                        30 kg.                                       60 kg.                                     200 kg.                                   - 20 kg.
432,000                                       100,000                                      480,000                                       0000                                          100
430  Tons                                     100 Dons                                     100 Don?-s"L
1905 roT                         ~~~~~~~~~~~2607 Don                           1000  ror1635  o                                                                          2615   0
2110,000 rob-  o  r        $ 220,000 yr. O  (26,000  reoîr  oY,D    $32.600 y,. O S 30,000   on               Yr,    535,0     2or  O   14,300   onos.=  1,02y.3 S26                             nnO  r          01 y.2
440,000 y-. 3                                004,000 y,. 3                                 00,000 yr. 3                                 32,000 y,.  3                                022 yr 
6600,000 y-. 4                               106,000 y-. 4                               100000 Yr. 4                                  40,000 yr. 4                  ~R00    r  4
080 ,000 y,. O                               008,000 70. 3                                140,000 20. O                                64,ODO                                      1040 or5
TOTRORO  y-. ô                               260,000 y-. 6                                [00,000 y,. 4                                 0:0,00 or'. 6                               130'0 6r



RWANRA
LAR  RIRE COFFRE IMROVEMEOT ARE FORE CERFP FRWECT
PROJET DEAWILII1ATION DEt LA DAVEICLTERE CET DE CULTURES VIVRIERER 009S LA RECCON RU LAC ERRE
Etonoaoo Rate Rf Rltur
leur                       ~~~~~ ~~1900  190   1902     1903      1004     1903      1900     1903      1990     19R9      1900     1991     1992      1993     1994      10995    1996      1997    1990       1999     2000    2RRI       200?     2R03    2004       2005
Foojeotyear                   E ~ ~         ~ ~ R  2      3        4         5        R         3        O         9       10        il       12-      13        14       15        16       I/        18       19       2R        21       22        23       24        2
ToalRonRo  eREt                          0.0      0.0    323,0l   646.0    960.0  1933.0  293R.O  3935.0  4336.0  5166.0  5991.0  5991.0  3991.0  5991.0  5991.0  5991.0  5991.0  5991.0  5991.0   5991.0  5991.0  5991.0  5991.0  5991.0  5991.0  9991.0
TotaEl ...nelo tuaIs                  1320.4  3315.0   2352.4  2514.6  2554.2  2506.5   1291.4  1370.6  1494.4  12.30.0  1442.0  1526.6  1653.1  1435.2  1442.0   1582.8  1601.6  1435.2  11499.4  1526.6  1590.4  1491.6  1442.0   1526.6  1657.1  1435.2
Rat Etuto..t i eel    t              (1327.4)(3315.2)(2029.4)(1R68.6)(1585.9) (642.53  1644.6  2604.6  2001.6  3700.2  4540.2  4464.4  4333.9  4555.0  4540.2  4400.2  4309.4  4555.0  4491.0  4464.4  4393.6  4499.2  4548.2  4464.4  4333.9  4555.8
Eoooe   oeo  Retoro  I0.65T aittoul shadow ptilolo
21.6T  oltO   tdr  VCe
eeeAe17, 19800



RWANDA
LAUE KIVU COFPPE AdN  POODCRO PS DFVELOPimuT PROJI3C
Farg Modal. CIff.  Gr-tin- Atga
Modale de Ferme, Rlgion a Cale
After trans for. uto.    of b-anna playt.tion                         Afte-  f011 dereloapnt of collas
sud u e 0f aelectad  oe d                                                              I'i  a i u
A-e  tnnfrato  de baaneraie etaeo                                            Ploie rend-ouant du C.fe
…gi--------vi thouat  roect/ans proet--------                  ----------  de semenes selti-...… ----------- -    --__--- ------------n----iolet Ia,                         … -- … --------
Preduc-                                                         Pr-duc-                                                        Proda-
Rende_    tian/                       ReveIe, /                Rend.-   tien/                         Renue/                  Rende-    tion!/                        Rvene..
Sorfuaa/   seint/ Ptroden      Pi- !   Vailr!   e-5h           S_rface/ .    e. t  Produa-    Prie!   Valer   icas            Serf ..s   senS!    P-od-c    patce    Valeur!   Ceeh
U-a       tiaid     l.10      Paies    VaIaa      nne           Oa        tl        tion     Pries    Moine   I-ZIn            Ageen     ltld    lion         ?rise     Velor   insone
ha       kg/h.      kg      PRo/kg      FR.       FRR          ha       kg/bu       kg     FRt/kg       FR.       FRo          ha       kg/ha      kg      FRv/kg       FRe       FRv
101        805        80      120      9,600    9,600          0.1         806        80      120     9,600    9,600           0.1      1,054        105      120    12,600   12,600              Cela  2/
Mane--                  0.3      9,000     2,700         4    10,800      7,200 /      0.3      9,000    2,700         4    10,800      7,200          0.3      9,000    2,700         4    10,800    7,200               .o.ane
B .... e-1              0.3        700       210       24      5,040       _            0.6        800       528       24    12,672    3,800-          0.66        800       528       24    12,672    3,800              K-rin-e  3/
Sor6h_um                0.0 3     ,600       460       18      ô,640       -            0.3      1,800       540       18      9,720       -            0.3      1,900       540       18      9,720       -             Sorgho 4/
Eveet poiesoes          0.3      7,000    2,100         6    12,600        _            0.3      7,000    2,100         6    12,600        _            0.3      7,000    2,100         6    12,600        -              Vetete
gIssellenenos-/         0.1      4,000       400         ô     3,200        _           0.1      4,000       400        8      3,200       -            0.1      4.000       400        8      3,200        -               lver5/
Lilv.sook-/             1.4                                    1,200    1,200                                                  1,200    1,200                                                  1,200    1,200             Elevage 6/
Tots1                   1.25                                  51,080   18,000                                                 59,292   21,800                                                 62,792   24,800            TYtal
e Before in- rue coffra produo.I     on.
2/  Coîfee yield parchanen  romain atehie for ahe firs-  4 yare and  t-ar.t i..reiog fran year fiv0 o...rds, 1,660 free-/ha.                                                           1/ Avent eaaroîeseno  production caEa
3/  Be.n prodactlon inrcaes b-uuee           inrplonting wL11 b-nane uld                - n d  -eed  Bravoea  piaot d tviceayaar)                                                      2/  Rcnde=ent cfeE  p_rche reste conerso  les 4 premivras orneecer
4)  Yield Increase r;sult. fro=  -se of selected seed.                                                                                                                                 -ommence a accroitr1 a partir de l'ao n  5a  1660 arbees/he
5)  M.'tlyietn      ,  y    A  vegaabl.                                                          -                                                                                          Production d'bhainot aoinonte anues  nul trrln,errulsirrneetpivî
6)  On ao  -ae-ge   hrar -s bava 3 goate and se-11 ona  nimal par y-ar et FRP  1,200.
7)  00 ano,--ptln- choc 1/3 of bhau  produ-fi.o  (300 lite-l Ot FRo i  sold at Pao 24 par litor                                                                                        4/  Rende=ent anananta du e l'nscIOi de  nemnc -electioncer
2Oi If    rr i_                                                                                                                                                                     5/Peniueernnn,gnne5lgn.
8)  H.lf of               i-Id(nattai prodtiot le sold  12 672   5'040 ' 3s )                                                                                                                    yvorinci   le rtet e 3    re  es et 3r1i-one p-r            PnR 1,200.
2  7/  tR aapp;nf 95un tiar de lu producti-n de hiere, 300 litren 0f von d-t
s  Ro t24/lte
8/  La soie de ls praductian uddinnneîle est vendue a Pao _12672_   5 040. 3,816
Pabr-ary 10, 1981                                                                                                                                                                le 10 fevrier 1981
I..



8(AN0A
RWANOA COFFRE
RWANDA CAFE
Fate radai Hghlands (2 ha)-
Moadei de Ferma Regi.n Racle (2 ha)
--------------------Wlthu    r e/a    proj  a------------------------------                               -----------------------With FrJet/Avec proJt -------------------------------
"raa          Yieid/        Fruducnkau/       Frite/        Vuite/       Cash Incame!                    Amea           Yild/        Fre.durian/       Frite/        Veiae/         Cash Ineo/
Surface      Re- devt        Freduotten        Fric          Valeur      Revenu eceetaire                Surface      Rendement       Froductien 1-ie                 Valeur        Revenu 1e-Rt-re
(hn)         (kg/ha)           (kg)         (FRW/kelO        (YRw)          (FR-)                        (ha)         (kg/ha)           (kg)          (FnR/kg)        (FRB)            (FRo)
Furatova                       0.25          2,000            500             L5           7,500          5,000 2/                      0.25           3,500             875           15           13,125           9,125 2/                       PFe   de terre
cuite 3/                       0.5            1,500           750             18          13,500          4,5R0 4/                      0.5            2,000            000             18          18,000            9,oF7l                         Nage 3/
Brava 3/                       0.5              675           340             25           8,500                                        0.5              750             375           25            9,37'                                           gariret 3/
Pern  3/                       0.2              750           150             24           3,600                                        0.2              800             160           24            3,840                                           pgte 3/
oitreiiaaeneua                 0.1            1,500           150             15           2,250                                        0.1            1,500             150           15            2,250                                           mi-err
Llvettcuk 5/                                                                               2,400          2,400                                                                                      2,400           2,40o                           Eieage
Toaei                                                                                     30,750         11,900                                                                                     47,875          20,525                           T-ael
1/   About halE of the farm ha uader  alion                                                                                                                            1/   AppranimarOvament la nai1ie de le ferma est en Jachere,
2/  FOrera seal ail chair plapto amp and bny aweet petatoea   Cou-  cf yard                                                                                              2/   tac feriese dent toute 1a ten1tr de pee  de terre et ath.tet
deducted (nFR  15/kg, FR. 20/kg neierted  erd).                                                                                                                          den hean. e.  Cout de neneurse d'ndeic (Foi  15/kg pric  errhe, FRB  20 prie
3/   Cant cf neadnegiigihin                                                                                                                                                   eem,ene" eaecie    nneee
w/   onid for hent aakhcg                                                                                                                                                3/   CVut deaseanaanegîigeahle.
5/   On an average farmer han fiv0    g-ata ot eheap and sall tn  p-er year at                                                                                          4/   Vende poar faiRe de la biar.-
FRB  1,200 eacl                                                                                                                                                    5/   En meyeeoe lea farmgern anc 5 chenres au amoutan  eten   vende  deux p-rer
e FRo  1,200   pianan
Fabruary 11, 1981                                                                                                                                                        le il fearter 1981



RWANDA
LAKE KIVU COFFEE AND FOODCROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Increinental Prodyction
Wlithout            Ye-r              Ye-r Year                         YSen               Ye.r              Year              Yeur              Year              Ye-r              Ye.               Ye-r
Project              1                 Z                 3                 4                 5                 6                 7                 8                 9                10               11-20
Cof f ee
Gisemji (4.2  illion treet)        650  2.730         650  2,230        650  2,730       650  2,730        650  2,730        625  2,835        700  2,940         725  3,045       750  3,150        775  3,255        800  3,360
Kilvyn (3.8 Oillion tree-)         350  1,330        350  1,330        350  1,330        350  1,330        350  1,330        375  1,425        400  1,520        425  1,615        450  1,710        425  1,805        S00  1,900
Cifngug. (5.4 million tree..       450  2,430        450  2,430        450  2,430        450  2,430        450  2,430        475  2,565        500  2,700        525  2,835        450  2,970        475  3,105        600  3,240
uo-Sage Yicld                      485               485               485               485               485               510               535               560               585               610               635
Total (13.4 million trees)               6,490             6,490             6,490             6,490             6,490            6,825              7,060             7,495             7,a30             8,165             8,500
A2/    p_         A3'   501'        A    IP           A     IP          A     Ir         A      IP         A      IP          A     IP         A      IP         A      IP          A     IP
Foodcroep
Oeaoa                              21,000 45,G00
Through interplanting in
baoacsae/                                          -       -          900    ô60     1,800  1,720      2,700  2,580      3,600  3,440      4,500  4,300      5,400  5,160      6,300   6,o20    7,200  6,880        8,100  7,74O   9,000   8,640
Th-couh ue cf  -olected see-&                         -      -        1,050    210      2.100    420      3,150    630     4,200    840       5,250  1,050      5,250  1,050     5,250   1,050    5,250  1,050       5,250  1,050
borghuc                            18,000 28,00
Through ue of eoloct.d .e.                              -       -         900    180      1,800    360      2,700    540      3,600    720      4,500    900      4,500    900      4,500      900    4,500    900      4,500    900
hfi- 5,00  9,000
Th-rogh u-e cf eelected .eed--                               -          250    100        500    aoo        750    300     1,000    40O       1,250    500     1,250    500      1,250      500    1,250    500      1,250    500
Pae-                             2,000  1,500
Through  -on of eelected .ee.d                       -                  100     10        200     20        300     30        400     40        500     50        500     50        500      50       500     50       500      50
1' Y = Yid14 ic gru-o parchment pcr tre-; P = Production ic ton-  cf porchcent.
2/ A = E.ti.atcd total c-co ic ha; P = Estimattd totcl productio- ic on.
3/ A = Are  iO h.;IP = Iccren,ntaî prodoctico  ic ton.
4/ Two -rope cf b-oco are planted per ynar.
Sl bOu c     crec it  cctimctod et 18,000 h.  E.ch year 57 of the farcr- .o.ld take  p interpl-nticg cf ba iatue 000h bea-.   The yield of beans under bon.a hre Qessura to be 480 kg/hA,
I/ It ie auouced thet every leur 5.% cf the fornero take up the u-e cf selected seeAd; gcrreceo yielde  -rc for b-an. 200 kg pe- he uith 2 cr-.p  por yeari for sorghuM  200 kg/hc,
for mai-e 400kg/he; for pcee  100 kg/ho esch for ccc crop c y..cr   It io f0rthcr ococcethat ocly 25% of ell furcerz sill  -cc aelected ccdA,



R W A N D A
LAKE KIVU COFFEE & FOODCROP LMPROVEMYNT PROJECT
PROJET D'AMELIORATION DE LA CAFEICULTURE ET DE CULTURES VIVRIESES DANS LA REGION DU LAC KIVU
Project Preparation Punds (PFF) : Detailed Schedule
Fonds d'Avance pour la preparation du projet   Plan detaille
(RF '000)
Units                 Unit cost             Units                 Coats
Unites                Cout unitaire         Unites                Couts
BUILDINGS /BATIMENTS
Center/Centre (Kibogora)                                                        m2                        20                  470                 9 400
Center/Centre (Kibuye)                                                          m2                        20                  210                 4 200
Houses/Maisons                                                                  m2                        40                  250                10 000
Houses/Maisons                                                                  m2                        40                  200                 8 000
S1 650
Unforseen/Imprevus                                                                                                                                5 650
VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT/VEHICULES & EQUIPMENTS
Small passenger car/voiture                                                     Each/chaque              900                    1                   900
Station wagon/Camionnette                                                        "                     1 600                    1                 1 600
4-Wheel drive pick-up/Camionnette tout-terrain                                                         1 300                    5                 6 500
Equipment (dormitory)/Equipement (dortoir)                                      Sets/Ensembles           300                    2                   600
Equipment (classrooms)/Equip. (salles de classe)                                 "      "                150                    3                   450
Furniture (extension specialist/Meubles (Expert en vulgarisation)               1o0                  Base cost/cout de base   107                 1 125
Furniture (support staff)/Meubles (personnel locale)                            10o                   "     "I/  "   "  "      107o                 900
Audio visual/Audio visuel                                                       Each/chaque              575                    1                   575
Material preparation/Preparation du materiel                                    Lump sum/Somme globale                                              900
Spares (Pulping station/Pieces de rechange (Station de pulpage)                 Each/chaque               28                   60                 1 680
Tools set/Trousseau d'outils                                                    Each/chaque               22                    2                    44
Copying machine/Machine a photocopier                                           Each/chaque                1                  560                   560
Radio telephone/Radio telephone                                                 Set/Ensemble               1                1 900                 1 900
17 734
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE(ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE
Extension specialist/Specialist en vulgarisation                                Man-year/Romme-annee  9 000                     1.33             12 000
Short-term consultant/Consultant a court terme                                  Man-month/Homme-mois  1 685                     1.00              1 685
IFCC Consultancy/Consultant IFCC                                                 I    "     "    "       988                  j3.00               2 960
Financial Director/Directeur financier                                          Man-year/Pomme annee  Y 400                     0.75              5 550
22 195
SALARIES & OPERATING COSTS/SALAIRES ET COUTS DE FONCTIONNEMENT
Salaries/Salaires
Extension agents/Agents de vulgarisation niveau prefecture (A 1)              Man-year/Homme-annee    102                     0.66              5 500
Drivers/Chauffeurs                                                                 "  /  "      "      150                    5.00                750
Watchmen/Gardiens                                                                  'I /  "      "       75                    2.66                 200
Research Assistants/Assistants en recherches                                   "   I /  "       "      180                    1.50                 270
Headquarters/Siege (Kibuye)                                                         "    "      "                                                  095
Liaison office/Bureau de liaison (Kigali)                                      "   "     "      "                                               1 125
Mechanics/Mecaniciens                                                                                  180                    1.50                 270
Operating costs/Couts de fonctionnement
Vehicles (Extension/Vehicules (vulgarisation                                   1000 km                  30                   45                  1 350
Teaching materials/Materiels d'enseignement                                                              4                  200                    800
-deeds/Semences                                                                Lump sum/Somme globale                                              200 
Office supplies/Fourniture de bureau                                           "   "      "    "                                                1900               CD
Vehicles (Pulping Station)/Vehicules (Station de Pulpage)                      1000 km                  30                   45                  1 350
Vehicles(Project Unit)/                                                        1000 km                  68                   22.50              1 530
Extension Start-up Training                                                   Lamp sua/Some globale                                             1 30
17 640



RWANDA
LAKE KIVU COFFEE & FOOD CROP IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
Ministry of Agriculture
and Livestock
I                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agriculture
Board of Directors                                                                              Pro- ct
OCIR-CAFE           j;Kibuye                                                                                   -
Director          L                                                               j          ISAR                i
OCI01R-CAFE              -                                                  -    -              R ubonaF
-. ,                                                       .I**
Director Financial    I
Director                                and Administrative                                              etor Production
Commercial Services                                Service                                                      Service
-    -                                                                   T              I                                 I 
Director-offee
-           .                                 e                  and Food Crop         J
Improvement Project !
Accountïng             Purchasing               Lfias                                                                             i
Section                Secti on               Kigali
*                                  Accounting and                  Agrctural                            nsion
| l ~~~~~~~Administration                                    Serviœs   
L.~~~~~~~~~~     
Worid Bank - 22517



- 60 -
RWANDA
LAKE KIVU COFFEE AND FOOD CROP                                                Chart 2
IMPROVEMENT PROJFCT
PRE-PROJECT ACTIVITIES
1980 - 1981
Nov.        Dec.        Jan         Feb.        Mar.        April        May         June
Personn el
Project Director                                                 -           -----
Project Accountant                                                           -
Extension Advisors (2)
Financial Advisor
3 Agronomists Pre-
fecture Level
Extension Agents
Headquarter Staff
Kubuye                                                                                           -
Liaison Staff Kigali
Pulping Station
Mechanics
Buildings
Training Center                                                                          50           50         50
Additions Kibuye                                                                      -          -
New Training Center                                                                    15            25          25          25
Kibogora                                      33            33          33_
Houses Kibuye (2>                                                                                    2
25          25          25
Houses Kibogora                                                                                      -
Vehicles and Equipment
-   Station Wagon
(Director)                                                              1
-   Small Car
(Liaison Office)                                                        1
-    Pick Ups for
Pulping Station
Mech anics                                                                          2
-   Station Wagons
(Extension Component)                                                               2
-   Training Materials
Extension                                                             2 sets
-   Office Equipment                                                        2 sets
Consultants                               3 weeks                                                                     2 weeks
-   Coffee Research
5 weeks
-   Extension Training
Worid Bank - 22101



RWANDA
LAKE KIVU COFFEE & FOODCROP IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1980              1981             1982              1983             1984              1985              1986
Negotiations
Effectiveness
Completion
Closing
Project SPaffing and Management
Recruitment Expatriate Personnel
- Extension Experts
- Financial Advisor
Recruitment Local Personnel
- Project Director
- Project Accountant 
- Key Proîect Personnel
- Extension Agent
Coffee I mprovement Comnponent                                              - - - -               - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Food Crop Component                                                         - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Research Activ,ities                                                        - - - - -                 - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Lake Landing Points
Minor Road Improvementl
Extension Training
Housing and Buildings %
- Kigali406
-  Kibuye                                                30  30  30 _
- ,ioogora
Vehicles and Equipme nt%                                 10                                                  
Studies and Trials                                                   I -   -   -   --0~~-*W                                                                                B  k        03
World Bank - 22103






IBRD 15210
Mbâ,o,o à eàodI. 1                                   AUGU5T 1980
29
,0
RWANbA
E KIVU ÇO  E
LÀK                                               CI                             m i
IMPAOVEME4T, 1-PeJECT
D»,«Elloklgrtcw bÈ ix C,4FEàd M
Er OES CUIrUkES VIVRERES"S 1.4                        ÔÜ IAC K-IV-U
T 9 M Z A N 1 A
Hbo PPODUC ç.)Fq                 IK,
CÉ i                                                                        .'A
z                             IN
A K A G E R
c                                                                                                             N A T 1 0 NA L
P AR K
4AIJ41 O
À -11,                                                                         ......
)MMÙNE e!NN[DARlïg
£
7
PREFECTURE BMIDARIES
ùgeN1'NA:Ti
Z A KE /elVU
K.ffle
eyozi
à
-7
l1"Vu
W,74m
7
ffi,                                                               h àÏ
rhm     b- 9,,db, W
r
111.,1 d.
z A  t'j   A
k..
----------
LIGANQ
KENYA                                                                                                                         N  D
U:: R
50     60     70      80
'w
Z A 1 R E
7ANZANlA
0          10          20         30
B U R U N D 1
zAMBnuE
%wl






1ïAkE. kiVU C ÈFFÉ A~ND O-F00  CROP 
IMROVEMENT PROJECI
RWJET £!'AM4I/ORATf~QN DEM CA  G~/tfl/kE E7~ DES  -   -  R  N DA
VtI~ 'vîOwEFSL2
LA'GcX7  ÀKV/
~'R*MQTAMA  F-
P- FE(Ù3IN COAPItA       -- 
S~oDrY RIOADS                                          RHE
DOMMUE - BOUNDARIES                                      KNG
2£ 0C EWWERRFPCON TUWE* 
2FP0Z FVFS
KAGNAAA            GIIY
GASEKE
Koyove         ~RAMBA
A    ~ ~~~    "~~KAYOIVE
4  ~ ~ ~ l-~~"<~~      RLTSIRO
4 \ < ~~~~~~  -KIBL~~~~1LIRAy
-~~            o' GITESI ~      ~~BWAKIRA
y'     ) MWENDO          »
f             M~~~~ASANGO
rG, TRE,(>~ ~
<~~GAFUNZO'  -i~~~~~~       N                         R~UKONDO
f    "#-,  (                     > ~     ~~~~~MUSEBEYA       KRM
~ISUMA         eoe~      KIRAMBQ         _-NGR
2-30.  INYAKABUYE ~~~~~~~MUDSMW                               YAAB
H                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RWAPMI%' 6 NY
~UGARAMA~                                     KIV
~~~ ~~~~~ ~~B  UR UN  D                                           MUBGA
.JYKIZU
O  S  L  s   ~~~20  25  '
ILOME-ERS



