Document of                     FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2987-RW
REPORT ANM RECOMMENDATlON
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A
LAKE KIVU COFFEE IMPROVEMENT AND FOODCROP PROJECT
March 11, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
US$1.00           Rwandese Franc (RF) 91.91
RF 100            US$1.09
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BGM         -  Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo Project
ISAR        -  Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Rwanda
(Agricultural Research Institute of Rwanda)
OBM         -  Office du Bugesera et Mayaga
OCIR-Cafe   -  Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda - Cafe
(Agency for Industrial Crops of Rwanda - Coffee)
OCIR-The    -  Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda - The
(Agency for Industrial Crops of Rwanda - Tea)
OPROVIA     -  Office National pour le Developpement et la Commerciali-
sation des Produits Vivriers et de la Production Animale
(National Agency for Development and Marketing of
Foodcrops and Animal Products)
PAK         -  Project Agricole de Kibuye (Agriculture Project - Kibuye)
PPF         -  Project Preparation Facility
SSS         -  Service des Semences Selectionnees (Selected Seed Service)
TRAFIPRO    -  Travail-Fidelite-Progres
(Transport and Marketing Cooperative)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                              British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                        =                     3.3 feet
1  hectare (ha)                                          2.47 acre
1  are (100 m )                                          0.02 acres
1 kilometer (km )      2                                 0.62 miles
I  square kilometer (km )          =                     0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1  kilogram (kg)                                         2.2 pounds (lb)
1  liter (1)                                             0.26 US gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)               =                     2,204 pounds (lb)
I/   As of December 1, 1980.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(i)
RWANDA - LAKE KIVU COFFEE IMPROVEMENT AND FOODCROP PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Rwanda
Amount:            SDRs 11.8 million (US$15.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA terms
Beneficiary:       OCIR-Cafe
Relending Terms:  Grant
Project            (i)  Objectives:  To build up an effective extension
Description:           service which would assist farmers in increasing
foodcrop and coffee production using field-tested
techniques and also help OCIR-Cafe (the implement-
ing agency) improve its financial management.
(ii)   Components:  The proposed Project would provide for:
(a) strengthening of OCIR-Cafe's financial management;
(b) improvement of extension services under the direc-
tion of OCIR-Cafe; (c) promotion of improved methods
of plantation maintenance, coffee nursery organization
and pest control, distribution of improved seed vari-
eties, intercropping of banana plantations to increase
food crop production and a program to improve soil
fertility; (d) improvement of 120 existing hand-pulping
centers and establishment of 130 new ones; (e) con-
struction of two new landing points on Lake Kivu, of
bridges and culverts and minor improvements; to three
existing landing points; (f) strengthening of crop-
related research, studies and trials; and (g) the
services of four internationally recruited specialists,
and of short-term consultants.
(iii)   Benefits:  Increased production of foodcrops and of
coffee, Rwanda's principal export. All incremental
production would either be exported or replace food
imports. The planting of tree crops, the development
of anti-erosion grass strips and cut off drains, and
mulching would help to reverse the process of soil
erosion in the Project area. An estimated 60,000
of the 75,000 farm families living in the coffee
growing areas would be expected to benefit from the
coffee improvement component and about 15,000 from the
foodcrop program.  An estimated 2,500 of the 10,000
families living in the highland areas are also expected
to benefit from the food crop component. Farmers'
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peroormanceof
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auttorization.



(ii)
share of the average F.O.B. price of incremental coffee
production can be expected to be in the range of 55-60
percent. The benefits from incremental foodcrop
production would accrue entirely to the participating
farmers.
(iv)   Risks:  The problems most likely to affect the Project
would be implementation delays resulting from manage-
ment difficulties. The appointment of key Project
staff prior to negotiations and the setting in place of
most of the physical infrastructure during the project
preparation period should reduce these problems. The
extension effort might be less successful than planned
particularly in view of the difficulties in obtaining
increased output experienced in previous projects in
Rwanda; however, the emphasis on extension worker
training and close follow-up of farmers in the field
should offset this risk. Technical risks are low as
the technology involving plant material to be used and
agricultural practices to be promoted under the
Project has already been tested in Rwanda. The
commercial risks are also low, as forecasts of coffee
prices have been based on prudent assumptions on
the expected world coffee production increases.
Estimated Costs 1/:
US$ Million
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Management                    0.57          1.29          1.86
Coffee and Food Crop Improvement    2.28            1.27          3.55
Pulping Stations                      0.17          0.90          1.07
Research                              0.24          0.63          0.87
Extension                             1.58          2.29          3.87
Lake Landing Points                   0.04          0.16          0.20
Minor Road Improvement                0.01          0.09          0.10
Total Base Costs                   4.89          6.62         11.51
Physical Contingencies                0.73          0.99          1.72
Price Contingencies                   1.40          1.94          3.34
Total Contingencies                2.13          2.93          5.06
Total Project Cost                 7.02          9.55         16.57
1/   Taxes included in Project costs are negligible as all items would be
exempt from import duties and local taxes.



( iii)
Financing Plan:
US$ Million
Local        Foreign       Total
IDA                                    5.5            9.5         15.0
Switzerland                            0.6             -           0.6
Government                             1.0             -           1.0
7.1            9.5         16.6
Estimated
Disbursement:                                    IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ Thousand)                     82      83     84      85       86
Annual                       2,600  2,800  3,000   3,400   3,200
Cumulative                   2,600  5,400  8,400  11,800  15,000
Economic Rate
of Return:       22 percent
Appraisal
Report:          Report No. 3192a RW dated March 12, 1981
Maps:             IBRD 15210, 15211






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
FOR A
LAKE KIVU COFFEE IMPROVEMENT AND FOODCROP PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Rwanda for the equivalent of SDRs 11.8 million
(US$15.0 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Lake Kivu Coffee
Improvement and Foodcrop Project. These funds would be passed on as a grant
by Government to OCIR-Cafe, the implementing agency. The Project would be
cofinanced with Swiss Technical Assistance (about US$650,000) on a parallel
basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report "Memorandum on the Economy of Rwanda" (No. 1108-RW) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on July 27, 1976. An economic mission
visited Rwanda in February 1979; its major finding are reflected below.
Country data are provided in Annex I.
3.        Rwanda became independent in 1962.  Since the present Government
came to power in 1973, the country has enjoyed considerable political
stability. This has been partly facilitated by the unity and relative
homogeneity of the population and the absence of serious inequalities in
the distribution of income and wealth. With a per capita income (GDP)
around $180 in 1978, Rwanda is one of the poorest countries in the world.
It is one of the smallest but most densely populated countries in Africa,
with a population density of around 180 persons per square kilometer or
about ten times the average density for all of Sub-Saharan Africa. The
population remains predominantly rural, and only about 4 percent were
estimated to be in urban areas in 1978.
4.        About two thirds of Rwanda's surface area is suitable for agricul-
ture, virtually all of it already under cultivation. Small family farms of
about one hectare predominate with little use of hired labor. Roughly 95
percent of the cultivated area is devoted to foodcrop production with fairly
good diversification over a range of foodcrops (bananas, sorghum, peas, beans,
maize, cassava, and sweet potatoes). More than half of all farms also grow
coffee, the principal commercial and export crop, and many farms combine
crop production with cattle and small stock.  Agriculture (including Forestry
and Fishing) accounts for about 45 percent of total value added.
1/   Part I of this report is substantially the same as that in Report
No. P-2818-RW on the Telecommunication Project, considered by the
Executive Directors on July 29, 1980.



- 2 -
5.        Apart from coffee, the only other significant agricultural export
crops are tea, pyrethrum, and quinine bark (cinchona). Coffee accounted for
about 60 percent of the value of merchandise exports in 1978, tea for around
7 percent, cinchona and pyrethrum each for roughly 3 percent. Significant
tea production and export only date from the mid-1970s and expansion has
been rapid.
6.        Cassiterite and wolfram, the principal mineral products, are still
important sources of export earnings (together accounting for about 20 percent
of merchandise export receipts in 1978) but production has stagnated over the
last decade due to resource depletion and rising production costs.
7.        The growth of output in manufacturing has been relatively rapid
over the past decade with gradual enlargement of the range of manufacturing
activities. In 1979 manufacturing accounted for about 15 percent of GDP
compared to around 11 percent in the early 1970s. Agro-industry and food
processing activities remain the most important.
8.        The landlocked position of the country and the great distance to
the nearest sea ports (1,700 km to Mombasa) create special problems. Apart
from the obvious effect of transport costs on import and export prices,
seriously exacerbated by recent increases in the price of petroleum, the
country has been periodically subject to serious disruptions in transport
links from political events within and between neighboring countries.
Although the Government has demonstrated commendable resolve and effective-
ness in containing and correcting the direct and immediate effects of these
disruptions on the domestic economy, the process of smooth and orderly
development has been made more difficult.
9.        Under the present Government there has been a marked reorientation
in the focus of development strategy towards agriculture and the rural areas.
Increased food production is recognized as the cardinal priority, and major
emphasis is also placed on improving infrastructure in transport and communi-
cations. These objectives are reflected in the current (1977-81) Five-Year
Plan and in the new Constitution which was adopted in December 1978. While
tangible progress has been achieved, the rapid population growth, general land
shortage, diminishing soil fertility and the country's landlocked position
impose serious constraints on the pace at which development can take place.
10.       While real GDP growth averaged between 5 and 6 percent between 1975
and 1979, progress was rather erratic and uneven. Poor weather conditions in
1977 and 1978 adversely affected agricultural output, particularly domestic
foodcrop production which, over the past few years, has barely kept pace with
the rate of population growth. Production of coffee and tea, while affected
by the adverse weather conditions, has been stimulated by high world prices
during much of the period 1976-79. Information on developments in agricul-
ture is still very fragmentary and incomplete but it would appear that such
increases in foodcrop or export crop output as have taken place in recent
years have been due mainly to extension of cultivation area--at the expense of
animal pasture and forestry uses--rather than any significant improvements in
yields.



11.       The closing of the Uganda border during the first half of 1979
created serious supply and export problems. Domestic manufacturing and
construction activity were particularly affected as was the production and
export of tea. General shortages of imported raw materials and consumer
goods resulted in accelerated price increases -- the general inflation rate
in 1979 is estimated at about 25 percent. However, the measures which the
Government took to allocate import supplies to priority uses an,d to limit
monetary and credit expansion did much to contain the adverse effect.
12.       The trade balance, which had been in surplus in 1976 (US$8.3 million
equivalent) and 1977 (US$22.9 million equivalent), registered a deficit of
about US$33.7 million equivalent in 1978. This was due mainly to lower coffee
export prices and to delays in exporting the coffee crop at the end of 1978
with the closing of the Uganda frontier. The deficit on services account has
grown rapidly over recent years with the effects of higher petroleum prices
and transport difficulties on transport costs. With significant exceptional
external aid in 1978 to meet the transport crisis, the overall balance of
payments remained healthy and Rwanda's foreign exchange reserves at the end of
i979, were equivalent to about nine months' imports. This build-up has been
sustained except for a small decline in 1978, when coffee prices fell dra-
matically and a substantial current account deficit had to be met with recourse
to short term credits. With the strengthening of world market funds for
coffee in the second half of 1979, coffee export receipts almost trebled, and
the current account balance recorded a surplus of about US$55.0 million in
1979.
13.       The Government has traditionally followed rather prudent fiscal
policies and succeeded in mitigating the financial impact of adverse inter-
national developments. Sizeable budget surpluses in 1976 and 1977 enabled
the Government to reduce its reliance on the banking system while increasing
somewhat its development expenditures. The situation was relatively less
favorable in 1978 with a decline of more than 50 percent in coffee receipts
owing to reduced market prices. The stagnation of development expenditures
in nominal terms resulted, however, in a small surplus in overall Government
operations. The prospects of continued depressed coffee prices and the revi-
sion of wages and salaries for public employees that took place in July 1978
led to adoption of a financial program supported by an IMF stand-by arrangement
approved in October 1979. The outcome for 1979 was remarkably favorable as a
result of this program and of a strong increase in the volume and prices of
coffee exports in the second half of the year. It is likely, however, that
the impact of the salary revision and the employment policy of the Government
adversely affected the financial situation in 1980.
14.       Economic and financial developments over recent years illustrate
the country's vulnerability to external economic factors as well as con-
tinuing structural weaknesses in the base of the domestic deve:Lopment effort.
The priorities which the Government has established for its development stra-
tegy, the initiatives which it has taken in fostering cooperation with neigh-
boring countries and its generally sound and responsive management of the
economy are encouraging signs. More adequate progress in agricultural
development requires intensified efforts in infrastructure and extension
services. Better coordination of external aid and technical assistance would



- 4 -
also be required. Recent efforts to bolster project identification and
appraisal capacity need to be expanded and intensified. A more systematic
effort is needed to monitor Plan implementation and, particularly, to better
coordinate the annual budget development expenditures with the Plan's invest-
ment program. The recent reorganization of the Ministry of Economics, Trade
and Commerce, which aims at more effective coordination of policies, is
evidence of the Government's awareness of these problems.
15.       Even with continued improvement in economic performance over the
next few years, the need for external assistance will increase, particularly
with the prospect of deteriorating terms of trade. Rwanda's external
debt is low and debt service payments represent only about 1.5 percent of
export earnings. Given the country's level of poverty, the prospective
world trade situation and the length of time which structural adjustments
in the economy are likely to take, external assistance should continue to
be on the most concessional terms possible.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA 1/
16.       Bank Group assistance started in 1970 and initially focused on the
improvement of the road network and the strengthening of agricultural produc-
tion. Rwanda has received thirteen IDA credits totalling US$115.5 million, of
which four (totaling US$43.1 million) were for roads, five (US$49.3 million)
for agriculture, two (US$9.2 million) for DFC projects, one (US$6.4 million)
for education and one (US$7.5 million) for telecommunications. There have
been no Bank loans. An IFC loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory was signed in
1976; a second IFC loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitment of up
to US$60,000 to expand the tea factory were signed in September 1980. Annex
II contains a summary statement of IDA credits, IFC investments and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       The first three highway projects are completed and totally disbursed.
A fourth credit for a highway maintenance project (Credit 769-RW) was approved
by the Board in February 1978 and became effective in August 1978; the special-
ists financed under the technical assistance program are performing satisfac-
torily and equipment is being procured.
18.       The first agricultural development (Mutara) project was completed
in July 1979 and funds have now been completely disbursed. 2/ A second credit
1/   Part II of this report is substantially the same as that in Report
No. P-2818-RW on the Telecommunications Project, considered by the
Executive Directors on July 29, 1980.
2/   A Project Completion Report (August 1980) concluded that even though the
increases in agricultural production were less than originally expected,
substantial achievements had been realized under the project in the
areas of infrastructure development and in experience acquired by
Rwandese staff in project management. In addition, the project had
served as a positive instrument for IDA and the Government in developing
a sectoral dialogue for the Mutara area.



- 5 -
of US$8.8 million, which supports the second phase of a long-term development
for the Mutara region, was declared effective on May 30, 1980, but has experi-
enced start-up problems due to difficulties in recruiting technical assistance.
The credit agreement for a cinchona project (US$1.8 million) and the credit
agreement for the Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo (BGM) mixed farming and rural
development project (US$14.0 million) were signed in August 1976 and in March
1977, respectively. Construction, procurement and budgeting are proceeding
satisfactorily under the BCM project, though the results of foodcrop and plant
improvement components are well below appraisal estimates due to a failure to
come up with appropriate technical packages for the relatively dry project
area. The Cinchona project is progressing satisfactorily. A project to
support reforestation programs in Kigali, Butare and Gisenyi Prefectures (IDA
Credit of US$21.0 million) was signed July 2, 1980; the project also includes
a study of renewable energy options for Rwanda. A credit for an education
project (US$7.9 million) became effective in 1975. Physical implementation
has been slow and complicated by procurement problems. The first credit of
US$4.0 million to the Development Finance Company (BRD) has now been fully
committed. BRD's performance under the credit has been highly satisfactory.
A second credit of US$5.2 million to BRD was signed on July 13, 1979, and
became effective on January 4, 1980. A credit for a telecommunications
project (US$7.5 million) which aims at reducing Rwanda's geographic isolation
from other countries and on improving internal telecommunications facilities,
was signed on August 13, 1980.
19.       Mainly because of shortage of trained manpower and managerial skills
in Rwanda, the execution of projects requires substantial assistance from Bank
Group staff (through extensive supervision) and from expatriate experts, for whom
financing is included in most credits.
20.       For the future, the primary emphasis of Bank operations will remain
on agriculture and the rural areas, the main objective being to increase food
production as well as export crops while maintaining soil fertility. A major
emphasis will also be placed on improving transport and communications to
reduce the country's isolation and provide incentives to more intensive
cultivation and diversification through better marketing. The development of
human resources will continue to have high priority. Preparation of a second
Bugesera rural development project is under way. In highways, the Government
has asked the Bank Group to participate in the financing of the Butare-Cyangugu
road, for which a feasibility study and detailed engineering are being carried
out; the project would open up the southern region of Rwanda towards Zaire and
Burundi and support both the forestry (FY80) and the proposed project. A
second education project is being prepared which will focus on improvement
of occupationally-oriented secondary education. It is expected that the Bank
Group will continue to support industrial development through the development
bank (BRD).



- 6 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   General
21.       Rwanda spends about 25-30 percent of its agricultural export
revenues on foodcrop imports. Government investment in the agricultural
sector has been surprisingly low, accounting for about 13 percent of total
development expenditures during the period 1977-79. This situation is
changing, however; about 20 percent of planned investment for 1979 was
earmarked for agriculture. Agriculture in Rwanda is overwhelmingly tradi-
tional and is carried out by smallholders on plots averaging 1 ha and using
such basic hand tools as the hoe, pick and machete. Fertilizers and improved
seeds are seldom used.
Agricultural Production
22.       Foodcrops.  Variations in elevation and climate allow a wide range
of crops to be grown. Subsistence crops grown at lower elevations include
beans, sorghum, bananas, sweet potatoes, groundnuts and cassava. The
principal foodcrops grown at higher elevations are peas, potatoes, maize and
beans. About 95 percent of the cultivated land is planted with foodcrops;
close to one quarter of this area is under bananas, 18 percent under tubers,
25 percent under cereals and 34 percent under pulses. Rwanda's favorable
climatic conditions allow two crops per year in most cases, but soil fertility
is declining fast and crop yields are low. Research indicates that yields
could be increased with improved cultivation techniques, use of selected
seeds and application of some mineral fertilizer mixed with compost.
23.       Livestock.  The national cattle herd was estimated at 650,000 head
in 1978 but has steadily declined since 1971 largely due to the reduction in
available pastures and high mortality among young animals resulting from poor
health care and over exploitation of the herd as a result of the rising demand
for meat. Most cattle belong to farmers who own from three to twelve head;
there are no commercial ranches in Rwanda. Milk production is low, estimated
at about 68 million liters in 1978, of which about one-third was for human
consumption. Meat production was estimated at 10,000 tons carcass weight.
Goats and sheep provide most of the meat consumed in rural areas; their
numbers are estimated at 770,000 and 270,000 respectively. '?rbduction of pigs
and rabbits has been increasing and their numbers are estimated at 100,000 and
130,000 respectively.
24.       Coffee Production.  There are two principal coffee growing regions,
the central zone and the zone bordering on Lake Kivu. The central zone
accounts for 75 percent of the area planted with coffee and 60 percent of
total production; the Lake zone for 25 percent of the area planted and some
40 percent of the crop. All coffee in Rwanda is grown by smallholders who,
on average, own 150 trees each covering an estimated .08 ha, usually one
plot. Coffee husbandry is generally poor. Pruning is not regularly done,
the trees are poorly mulched and no fertilizer is applied. Annual countrywide
insect control campaigns are organized by OCIR-Cafe (para 32). Yields are



low, in the neighborhood of 350-500 g of parchment coffee per tree or 700-800
kg/ha. There are an estimated 440,000 coffee growers, about half of the
smallholder families in the country. Coffee plantations cover a total area
of approximately 30,000 ha or 2.2 percent of all arable land. Coffee produc-
tion fluctuates between 20,000 and 24,000 tons of parchment coffee per year,
giving exports of between 15,000 and 18,000 tons of green coffee. It is
estimated that the number of trees and the area under coffee have doubled
over the past 20 years. The output per tree has on average, however, declined
by 20 percent. The reduction in yields is attributable to lack of an organized
extension system following up on proven field-tested extension themes:
mulching where possible, regular pruning and spraying, and adherance to sound
soil control practices. Because of population pressure and the competition
with foodcrops for land, there is not much scope for increasing the area under
coffee. However, increased production could be brought about in the short
run through better maintenance of coffee plantations and in the long run
through development of cultivation methods which protect soil fertility and
retain soil moisture. Section B, paras 31-34, provides a more detailed
discussion of the coffee sub-sector.
Constraints on Agriculture
25.       Because of the shortage of cultivable land, increases in production
to meet the needs of the growing population can only come from intensification.
In the past, crop rotation together with long fallow periods preserved soil
fertility. However, during the last 30 years, population pressure on the land
has become so strong that the fallow period has gradually been reduced and
today it has practically disappeared causing serious soil erosion on most of
the tilled land and progressive loss of soil fertility. Agricultural residues
are burned as domestic fuel instead of being used to improve soil structure
and fertility, thereby further reducing crop yields and soil fEertility.
26.       Seventy percent of the cultivated land and 60 percent of the pasture
have a slope of more than 17 percent and it is estimated that half of the
cultivated land has a slope of more than 20 percent. During the colonial
period, contour planting of grass strips, as a conservation measure, was
imposed on farmers. After independence, however, grass strips were abandoned
and contours were even destroyed. Today, only a fraction remain. Any in-
creases in foodcrop production over the past decade have been largely achieved
through cultivation of poorer quality land previously devoted to pastoral
and forestry uses. The general picture is one of stagnating or declining
yields.
Government Services
27.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is responsible for all
activities related to agriculture in Rwanda; it has four operating depart-
ments: Agronomy, Rural Engineering and Soil Conservation, Livestock, and
Lands. In addition, the Ministry operates a Selected Seeds Service and is
the umbrella organization for four parastatal companies, the largest of which
is the Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda (OCIR-Cafe -- para 32).
The Agricultural Research Institute of Rwanda (ISAR) is responsible for



- 8 -
agricultural research; most of its activities and trials are carried out on
the research station at Rubona. Crop and livestock research have both been
good but due to lack of funds and insuffient coordination with donor-financed
projects, trials at the field level have been inadequate. For coffee, ISAR
has concentrated its efforts on plant selection, fertilizer trials and
entomological research. Rwanda has a well-established foodcrop seed selection
and multiplication service, the Service des Semences Selectionees (SSS).
ISAR provides foundation seed which is multiplied by SSS at five centers in
different ecological zones. The main seeds produced are beans, sorghum,
maize, peas and vegetables. The varieties distributed have been well tested
and selected to improve yields with little or no fertilizer inputs and to be
tolerant or resistant to disease. In theory, SSS produces selected seeds and
supplies them through the Prefectures to the communes for further multiplica-
tion and the production of commercial seed. This organization, although
logical in concept, does not work well in practice because the communes lack
the necessary personnel, physical facilities and organization for seed
multiplication and distribution.
28.       Agricultural Training.  The absence of trained manpower for the
implementation of development projects is a serious constraint in Rwanda.
The Agronomy Faculty of the National University of Rwanda at Butare is being
developed with Canadian aid to train agricultural engineers and veterinary
assistants; the first class of four students graduated in 1977. The School
of Agriculture, also in Butare, operates a four-year post-secondary course
for higher level technicians with French technical assistance; it trains 10-25
agricultural technicians and 10-15 assistant level zootechnicians and vete-
rinarians each year. The Nyagahanga School in Byumba Prefecture trains female
agricultural technicians; the first class of about 30 students graduated
in 1980. The agriculture school at Kibuye offers a two year course and trains
about 20-25 lower level agricultural technicians each year; this school is
expected to be transferred to the Ministry of Education for the training of
high level agricultural staff by the end of 1981. Thereafter, agricultural
development projects will have to provide the training for lower level staff.
The IDA financed Bugesera/ Gisaka/Migongo project (Credit 668-RW) is presently
training lower level assistant zootechnicians and veterinarians.
29.       Agricultural Credit.  Credit to farmers is not well developed at
present. Some credit is channelled through the People's Bank (Banque
Populaire) which receives deposits and makes short-term loans to cooperatives
and individuals for working capital. Experimental credit programs are being
developed under the IDA financed Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo (Credit 668-RW)
and Mutara (Credit 937-RW) projects (para. 18). Credit for the coffee
campaign is provided by a consortium of local Banks.
30.       Local Administration.  Rwanda is divided into ten Prefectures, each
of which is headed by a 'Prefet' appointed by the President on the recommenda-
tion of the Minister of the Interior. Prefectures are divided into communes
(usually seven or eight per Prefecture), headed by a Bourgmestre who is
appointed by the President. Each commune is divided into sectors (10-14) and
each sector is subdivided into cells (six to eight per sector). Each cell
has about 60 farm families. The commune is governed by a council, "Conseil



- 9 -
de Commune", made up of one elected representative from each sector (the
Sector Chief) and the Bourgmestre. Each commune has a development committee
but these have not, so far, been particularly dynamic. Theoretically, there
is one agronomist per commune paid by the Government and one extension worker
per sector who is to be paid by the commune. As taxes are generally not
sufficient to meet all the communal needs, many of the extension posts are
vacant. Each Rwandese citizen works half a day per week on a community
project ("umuganda"); in the project area the results of communal work, for
the most part, have been good. Local administrative structures permeate the
social fiber of the community and offer a sound framework for development
projects.
B. The Coffee Sub-Sector
Background
31.       Coffee was first established in Rwanda in 1905 with a Guatemalan
variety, "Mibirizi". This is still the main variety grown and although well
adapted to local conditions, it is not high yielding. Other strains have been
introduced subsequently and have a higher yield potential than Mibirizi. All
coffee grown in Rwanda is of the Arabica type. A permanent coffee breeding
unit at Rubona is the sole supplier of coffee planting material within the
country, serving neighboring Burundi also.
32.       OCIR-Cafe (para 27) has responsibility for activities in the coffee
subsector including staffing, budgetary, procurement, accounting, production,
storage, pricing, and licensing for export activities; it is diLvided into
three services: administrative, commercial and production. OCIR-Cafe is a
parastatal whose Director and Board of five members are nominated by the
President of the Republic on the recommendation of the Minister of Agricul-
ture. Although management and technical staff are competent, OCIR's accounts
have not been properly maintained since 1975; technical assistance provided
under Credit 656-RW (Cinchona Project) has helped to update these accounts,
and a complete audit, expected by end-April 1981, would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Prime responsibility for coffee extension work was transferred to the communes
in 1975, although OCIR-Cafe continues to finance a number of extension posts
in each. The absence of an organized extension system for coffee with
systematic follow-up and logistic support to farmers is one of the principal
reasons for the decline in the maintenance of coffee plantations.
Processing
33.       The object of processing coffee is to separate the green bean from
the ripe cherry and then to dry it. Where sunshine is adequate, the whole
cherry can be dried in the sun and the outer and parchment skins removed
in one hulling process. Because of the high rainfall in Rwanda during the
harvest season (March-June), this method is not practicable. Instead,
ripe cherries are pulped by hand or at pulping centers, and the resultant
mucilage-coated beans are then dried in the sun to produce a "semi-washed
coffee." Pulping centers have manually operated disc pulpers and water-fed
troughs which partially remove the mucilage from the bean. Pulping in these



- 10 -
centers is speedier than the manual on-farm process and gives a higher quality
product. The pulping centers, established in the coffee growing areas prior
to independence, are maintained by OCIR-Cafe but lack of preventive mainte-
nance and the resulting frequent breakdowns have greatly reduced their
effectiveness.
Pricing and Marketing
34.       Each year, usually in mid-May, Government, on the recommendation of
OCIR-Cafe, fixes producer prices for parchment coffee, traders' margins,
export commissions and transport and hulling margins in relation to the
expected world market price. Coffee is bought from growers by licensed
private traders who obtain credit from private banks and 'caisses populaires';
all transactions are in cash. The traders transport the parchment coffee to
one of three hulling factories and are paid at Government prices. After
hulling, the coffee is bagged and sent to the OCIR stores in Kigali where lots
are sampled and classified by grade. It is then exported through Drucafe, a
private company.  The coffee is then transported by road or air to Mombasa.
Rwandex, a company in which the Government has a 51 percent interest, is
responsible for most of the hulling (transformation from parchment to green
coffee) and the transport of the coffee to Mombasa. Sales are made on the
basis of offers received after sample inspection or on a consignment basis.
Approximately 70 percent of all exports are sold in the US market and 15
percent in EEC countries.
PART III - THE PROJECT
Background
35.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Lake Kivu Coffee Improvement
and Foodcrop Project" Rwanda, No 3192a-RW is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately. A Credit and Project summary is provided at the begin-
ning of this report. A map of the Project area is attached (IBRD-15211).
Supplementary data on the Project are contained in Annex III. Negotiations
were held in Washington from January 26 to 28 1981. The Rwandese delegation
was led by H.E. Frederic Nzamurambaho, Minister of Agriculture and of Livestock.
The Project was appraised in June 1980 by an IDA mission comprised of Messrs.
A. Levi, R. Egli, B. Rambocus and A. Bialer (consultant).
The Project Area
36.       The Project area, which accounts for 25 percent of the total area
planted with coffee and 40 percent of total coffee grown, is located on the
Western slope of the Zaire-Nile divide and borders on Lake Kivu (Map -- IBRD
15211). In the northern end of the Project area, between Kibuye and Gisenyi,
the shoreline is fjordlike in character. The Project area is densely popu-
lated with an estimated 475,000 inhabitants (75,000 farm families in the
coffee growing and 10,000 in the highland areas), 99 percent of whom are
engaged in agriculture on individual holdings of 1.0 to 1.5 ha. It includes



- 11 -
2 communes in the Prefecture of Gisenyi, 4 (and parts of 2 others) in Kibuye
Prefecture and 8 communes in the Perfecture of Cyangugu. Land use and
property rights are determined in accordance with traditional custom;
limited usufruct rights exist for cultivated land but the Government (which
in principle owns all land in Rwanda) exercises property rights on all
unoccupied land.
Project Objectives and Description
37.       The Project design builds on existing institutions.  The Project
would promote improved agricultural practices which have been field tested
but not introduced on a wide scale due to lack of adequate extension and
logistical support. A major objective of the Project would be to build an
effective system of extension which would better utilize exist:lng resources
to ensure increased foodcrop and coffee production. The Project would be
implemented over five years.
38.       The Project would include the following components:  (i) strength-
ening of OCIR-Cafe's financial management; (ii) improvement of extension
services under OCIR-Cafe; (iii) promotion of improved methods of plantation
maintenance, coffee nursery organization and pest control, distribution of
improved seed varieties and intercropping of banana plantations to increase
foodcrop production and a program to improve soil fertility; (iv) improve-
ment of 120 existing hand-pulping centers and establishment of 130 new ones;
(v) construction of two new landing points along Lake Kivu, of bridges and cul-
verts and minor improvements to three existing landing points; (vi) strength-
ening of crop-related research, studies and trials; and (vii) the services of
three internationally recruited specialists (a financial adviser and two
extension specialists), and of short-term consultants.
Detailed Features
39.       Assistance to OCIR-Cafe.  Staff housing, vehicles and equipment
would be provided at OCIR-Cafe's headquarters in Kigali, at Project head-
quarters in Kibuye and at the training center to be constructed at Kibogora.
Project investments would include provision for a financial adviser who would
assist the head of OCIR-Cafe's accounting unit in the preparation of the
budget, accounts and financial planning and would assume speciLal responsi-
bility for staff training in financial matters.
40.       Improvement of the Extension Services.  There are 99 extension
agents working in the Project area, 58 of them financed by OC:tR-Cafe, 41 by
the communes; they often work in isolation from each other. Project activi-
ties would be geared to developing the extension services and providing
training, follow-up and logistical support. OCIR-Cafe would 'be responsible
for all agricultural extension in the coffee growing areas of Gisenyi Prefec-
ture, 8 communes of Cyangugu Prefecture and Rwamatamu Commune in Kibuye
Prefecture. The on-going Swiss-financed agricultural project would be re-
sponsible for all extension activities in Kibuye Prefecture with the exception
of Rwamatamu (para. 52). Increased extension activities would be financed
under the proposed IDA credit, and all extension agents in the 3 project area
Prefectures would apply the same extension themes. An additional 83 extension



- 12 -
agents would be recruited so as to provide one agent per sector. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that (i) the communes, OCIR-Cafe and the
Government would, over the life of the Project, maintain the number of
extension agents presently working in the Project area and that Government
would continue to provide one agronomist per commune (Section 3.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement); and
(ii) supervision responsibility for all extension activities in the Project
area would be given to OCIR-Cafe. (Section 3.04 of the Development Credit
Agreement). Extension themes would focus on erosion control, preservation
of soil fertility, intensification of coffee and foodcrop production and
reforestation. Provision would be made for agents to visit neighboring
countries to study coffee and foodcrop cultivation. Teams of six farmers
would be formed and an extension agent would visit four teams a day over
seventeen days or sixty-eight teams each month.
41.       Improved Coffee Cultivation.  The aim of the proposed Project is not
to increase the area under coffee but to improve production on existing
plantations. About 15 percent of the coffee trees planted in the Project area
are almost barren, as they have been planted in unsuitable locations. On the
authorization of Project Staff, plantations of nonproductive trees would be
uprooted and approximately the same area of new plantations established where
more favorable conditions exist. This would require an estimated 2 million
seedlings. In addition, about 10 percent of the existing trees should be
replaced, requiring an additional 1.3 million seedlings. Thus, about 660,000
seedling would be required per year for five years. About 450 nurseries, two
per sector where possible, are planned to accommodate about 1,500 coffee
seedlings each as well as forest and fruit trees and grasses for contour
planting. Each team of farmers would receive a set of tools to carry out a
three year pruning program. Control of Antestia Lineaticollis, the most
serious coffee pest in Rwanda, would be achieved through better organization
of pesticide spraying and the substitution of rotary sprayers for the less
efficient hand dusters currently used. OCIR-Cafe presently provides pesticide
free of charge, costs of which are recovered through coffee export taxes.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that OCIR-Cafe would continue to
provide farmers with at least 210 tons of pesticides per year (the pre-Project
level) for the duration of the Project (Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement).
42.       Foodcrop Production.  The Project would promote intercropping of
beans with bananas and the use of selected seeds for beans, peas, maize
and sorghum. Three seed multiplication centers, one in each Prefecture,
would be established and operated by a seed officer who would distribute the
seed at the sector level for further multiplication. Five of the seven basic
extension themes, those focussing on erosion control, preservation of soil
fertility, use of improved seeds, interplanting of bananas with beans, and
reforestation would have direct impact on increased food production.
43.       Soil Protection and Improvement.  Extension agents would work with
farmer groups to establish, on average, 500 m of contour hedge per farm.
Planting material would be produced in the coffee nurseries. Most farmers in



- 13 -
the Project area have some livestock which are grazed mostly on communal land
Extension agents would help farmers with construction of modest animal stalls
and compost pits. To increase the volume of organic fertilizer produced,
the animals would be stall-fed with fodder from the anti-erosion hedges
and crop residues; the manure would be composted with other organic material
such as bean stalks, banana leaves and coffee pulp. Farmers would be provided
with leguminous tree crop planting material for use along farm boundaries, in
contour hedges and on land which is not suitable for crops. Leguminous trees
do not compete with food crops, they increase soil fertility, are easily
removed should the farmer wish to use the soil after its ferti:lity has been
augmented and can be used for fuel in lieu of increasingly scarce fuelwood.
44.       Coffee Processing.  About half of the coffee grown in the project
area is pulped by hand and half in 120 pulping centers equipped with hand
operated machines. Most of these centers are in need of repair. Pulping
coffee with the hand operated machines has two important advantages: it
permits the farmer to pulp large quantities and results in a higher quality
"semi-washed" coffee.  An additional 130 centers would be established at
suitable locations so that most of the coffee grown in the Project area could
be pulped by machine. Investments would be for piping and valves, pulper
machines, cement, salaries for local masons, who would carry out minor repairs,
and spare parts. In addition, two mobile teams would be established with
responsibility for preventive maintenance.
45.       Roads and Lake Landing Points.  A dense network of roads and tracks
exists in the Project area and maintenance is adequately carried out. Some
300 small bridges and culverts are, however, in need of repair; the necessary
materials for their reconstruction would be provided. In addition, three
existing landing points at Cyangugu, Kibuye and Gisenyi would be improved
and two new landing points would be constructed using local materials at
Kirambo and Mugunero.
46.       Research Trials and Surveys.  The Project would support ISAR at
Rubona with its research on coffee and food crop production. Arrangements
have been made with the 'Institut Francais du Cafe, du Cacao et Autres
Plantes Stimulantes' (IFCC) to work with ISAR staff through short term
consultancy visits, and IFCC would also establish a research program to focus
on insect and disease problems and on husbandry techniques applicable by
smallholders, including trials with chemical fertilizers. Imlprovement in food
crop yields requires an integrated approach with emphasis on soil conservation.
Research in this area would be carried out by existing ISAR staff guided by
one of the expatriate extension officers and would include field trials aimed
at developing adequate farm management techniques and at testing their accept-
ability to farmers. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that terms of
reference for all studies and trials would be submitted to IDA for approval
(Section 2.12 of the Project Agreement).
47.       Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance would be required for
the extension activities and to train Rwandese staff to manage extension
services. Specialists to be engaged include three extension advisers



- 14 -
to be financed by Swiss Technical Assistance (60 man-months each), a financial
adviser (36 man-months) and short term consultants for the research component
(four man-months per year for five years or 20 man-months). Recruitment of
two of the three extension specialists would be a condition of Credit effective-
ness (Section 5.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement). The average man-
month cost (including salary, fees, and international travel) for the extension
and financial advisers is expected to be about US$9,000. The average man-month
cost for the short term consultants (including salary, fees, international
travel and subsistence) is expected to be about US$11,000.
Project Costs and Financing
48.       Total Project costs in January 1981 prices are estimated at about
US$16.6 million equivalent, of which 58 percent represents foreign exchange
costs. A physical contingency of 15 percent was applied to all Project
components to reflect the general uncertainty of the detailed scope of Project
investments and staffing requirements. Price contingencies were calculated on
a cumulative basis: local costs at 15 percent from 1981 to 1986; foreign
exchange costs at the rate of 9 percent in 1981, 8 percent in 1982, 7 percent
in 1983, 1984 and 1985, and 6 percent in 1986. The financing of Project costs
would be shared as follows: Government of Rwanda, US$1.0 million equivalent
or 6 percent of the total Project costs; Swiss Aid, US$0.6 million equivalent
or 4 percent of total; and IDA, US$15.0 million or 90 percent of total. The
proposed IDA Credit of SDRs 11.8 million (US$ 15.0 million equivalent) would
be made to the Government of Rwanda on standard IDA terms and passed on by
Government as a grant to OCIR-Cafe under a Subsidiary Agreement. Signature
of the Subsidiary Agreement is a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01(a)
of the Development Credit Agreement). The Credit would finance all foreign
exchange costs as well as about US$5.5 million of local costs which is
justified in view of Rwanda's very limited own financial resources (para.
15). The contribution of the Government of Rwanda would cover an increasing
portion of local salaries over the life of the Project. The Swiss contribu-
tion, provided as a grant, would finance the recruitment costs, salaries and
international travel of the three extension specialists. On November 11,
1980, an advance of US$815,000 was made to the Government under the Project
Preparation Facility to meet the costs of acquisition of vehicles and equip-
ment, building construction, the financial adviser (who has already begun
work), start-up training of extension workers, salaries and incremental
operating costs.
49.       Because the Government may have difficulty in pre-financing expendi-
tures to be reimbursed under the IDA Credit, a pre-financing revolving fund
of SDRs 0.25 million (US$0.3 million equivalent) would be established in an
account with a commercial bank in Rwanda. IDA would replenish the account
from the Credit upon receipt of evidence of disbursements from the revolving
fund for allowable expenditures. Should any disbursements be made from the
revolving fund which are not acceptable to IDA, the Government would deposit
the corresponding amount in the Project account. During negotiations, agree-
ment was reached on terms and conditions for the operation of this account
(Section 2.02 (c) through (g) of the Development Credit Agreement).



- 15 -
Procurement
50.       Civil works totalling about US$2.9 million (including contingencies)
would generally be small, scattered and could not easily be grouped for
simultaneous tendering. These contracts would therefore be awarded follow-
ing local competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory. These proce-
dures allow participation of foreign firms. Vehicles and farm implements
totalling about US$2.8 million (including contingencies) would be purchased
after quotations had been obtained from at least two suppliers represented in
Rwanda who offer adequate guarantees of service and spare parts. Hand
pulping machines totalling about US$1.1 million (including contingencies)
would be purchased under international competitive bidding following Bank/IDA
guidelines. Assurances as to these procedures were obtained a,t negotiations
(Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement). Technical assistance (the financial
advisor to OCIR-Cafe) and consulting services estimated to cost US$550,000
and US$1.0 million respectively, would be hired in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines on the use of consultants.
Disbursements
51.       Funds from the Credit account would be disbursed over five years on
the following basis:
US$'000
(a)  Category I:       Incremental Operating expenses:
(i)  100 percent of foreign and 95 percent        2,400
of local expenditures for fuel, vehi-
cles and equipment maintenance, mater-
ials and agricultural inputs;
(ii)  95 percent year 1, 80 percent year 2,        2,600
70 percent year 3, 60 percent year 4
and 50 percent year 5 for local salaries;
(b)  Category II:      100 percent of foreign and 85 percent        2,200
of local expenditures for civil works;
(c)  Category III:    Vehicles and Equipment:
(i)  100 percent of foreign and 95 percent        2,000
of local expenditures for vehicles and
small hand tools;
(ii)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for    1,035
hand pulpers;
(d)  Category IV:      100 percent of total expenditures for         1,600
technical assistance costs, Project
related training and studies;



- 16 -
(e)  Category V:       refunding Project Preparation Facility          815
advance;
(f)  Category VI:      initial deposit in Project Account;             300
(g)  Unallocated:                                                    2,000
Total proposed IDA Credit                         15,000
Disbursements against (b), (c), (d) and foreign expenditures under (a) would
be fully documented.  Disbursements for local costs against (a) would be made
against statements of expenditure certified by the Project Director and
Accountant. These would be retained by OCIR-Cafe, made available for inspec-
tion by IDA in the course of supervision and would be audited by the external
auditors selected for the Project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that all expenditures would be in accordance with annual work plans acceptable
to the Association (Section 2.08(b) of the Project Agreement).
Project implementation
52.       OCIR-Cafe would be fully responsible for implementing all Project
components, except research, which would be implemented in collaboration with
ISAR and Project personnel. A Project Department would be established as a
new operating unit of OCIR-Cafe. Its chief, the Project Director, would
report to the Director-General of OCIR-Cafe. The Project would be adminis-
tered through three divisions: one for extension, a second for logistical
support, and a third for administrative and accounting matters. Studies,
monitoring, and evaluation would be the responsibility of the Project Director.
The Project would rely, in part, on OCIR's existing services for logistic
support; the production service would supply seeds and pesticides, the finan-
cial and administrative services would assist with the procurement of mate-
rials, and the accounting section of this same service would help establish
the accounting system and monitor accounts. OCIR-Cafe would be responsible
for extension services in the coffee growing areas in Gisenyi and Cyangugu
Prefectures and in the Commune of Rwanatamu in Kibuye Prefecture; other
communes in Kibuye would be serviced under an ongoing Swiss bilateral agri-
cultural project (para 40). Three internationally recruited extension special-
ists financed by Swiss Technical Assistance and responsible to the Project
Director, would supervise the extension component and, assisted by short-term
consultants, run the extension training programs (para 47). The extension
specialists would be assisted by three Rwandese agronomists who would operate
at the prefecture level. A financial adviser has been recruited and is
assisting OCIR-Cafe with accounting, financial management and training of
accounting personnel (para 50). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the terms of reference and conditions of employment for these specialists
would be submitted to IDA for approval. Terms of reference for all key
Project staff were discussed at negotiations and assurances obtained that
appointments to these posts and any subsequent reappointments would be made in
consultation with IDA (Section 2.02 oS the Project Agreeement). Given the



- 17 -
critical importance of training, assurances were obtained that OCIR-Cafe's
annual work plans submitted to IDA would include a section on the progress
of the on-the-job training programs (Section 2.08(a)(iii) of the Project
Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
53.       Project accounts would be maintained by a Project accountant under
the general supervision and with the assistance of an internationally recruited
financial adviser (para 52). The financial adviser would also assist OCIR-Cafe
in establishing and maintaining proper books of accounts. The accountant
would be stationed at the liaison office in Kigali and be responsible for
ensuring that adequate records were kept by the administrative assistant at
Project headquarters; he would coordinate and verify these records. Control
would be provided through a budget established at the beginning of the fiscal
year under the financial adviser. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that (i) accounts would be maintained in such a way as to enable separate
identification of all Project accounts from other OCIR-Cafe accounts; (ii)
independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be appointed to audit Project
accounts; and (iii) the audited accounts would be forwarded to IDA no
later than six months following the end of the financial year to which they
relate (Sections 4.01(a) and 4.02 of the Project Agreement).
Annual Project Review, Work Plans and PPF
54.       Project implementation would follow an annual work plan containing
a detailed project budget; budgetary targets within each work plan would be
projected twice a year. The Project Director would prepare a plan each year
to be reviewed in September by the Development Committee of each Prefecture
and subsequently by the Board of Directors of OCIR-Cafe expanded to include
the Prefets of the three Prefectures affected by the Project and the Project
Director. The work plan would be reviewed with Project staff and the Director
General of OCIR-Cafe during IDA supervision missions. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations on the above points and that the work plan for each year would
be submitted to IDA for review by the first week of October of each year,
commencing in 1981, so that the approved budget could be entered in the normal
budget cycle of the Government (Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement). A
work plan covering the period, November 1980 to June 1981, and a Plan for the
period, June 1981 to December 1981, have already been approved by the
Association.
Project Implementation Schedule
55.       The Project would be implemented over a five year period starting
in June, 1981. The Project Director and accountant were recruited prior to
Credit negotiations. The extension specialists are to be recruited by
June 1981, and initial training of extension workers would take place during
the third quarter of 1981. Preparatory activities, with the exception of the
three extension specialists financed by Swiss Technical Assistance (para 48),
would be financed under the Project Preparation Facility.



- 18 -
Monitoring, Evaluation and Completion Report
56.       The Project Director and the Director General of OCIR-Cafe, with
assistance from the financial and extension advisers and the Institut Africain
et Mauricien des Statistiques et de 1'Economie Appliquee and in consultation
with IDA, would establish a simple monitoring plan to provide key indicators
on Project progress. These indicators would be kept under constant review
by IDA supervision missions, and the plan would be amended from time to
time if necessary. (OCIR-Cafe would prepare a completion report summarizing
Project performance and evaluating successes and problems.)
Benefits and Risks
57.       Benefits resulting directly from Project investments would include
increased production of foodcrops and coffee. All incremental production
would either be exported or replace foodcrop imports. At full development
(Project year 10), the value of incremental coffee production (a 30 percent
increase) is expected to be US$4.4 million equivalent a year in 1981 constant
prices and of foodcrops (year 6) US$1.6 million equivalent a year (at
1981 constant prices). The annual net foreign exchange earnings from coffee
exports would be US$550,000 equivalent in Project year 5, and US$3.8 million
equivalent from year 10 onwards. This estimate reflects only the direct
production increases and does not include other benefits which are difficult
to quantify such as those arising from soil protection and land improvement
measures, the development of basic agricultural services, staff training and
improvements to rural roads and lake landing points. Project investments and
activities would have a positive environmental impact. The planting of tree
crops, the development of antierosion grass strips and cut off drains, and
mulching (where possible) would help to reverse the process of soil erosion
while the use of fertilizers for trials and of pesticides is not expected to
have any adverse environmental effects. The annual surplus accruing to
Government as a result of the Project would be about US$300,000 from years 8
to 20. From years 20 to 50, it would average about US$130,000 per year.
Farmers would be asked to pay for selected seed, including distribution
costs. Small farm implements, insecticides for coffee, coffee seedlings and
hand pulping centers would all be provided free of charge. Farmers would
participate in the maintenance of hand pulping centers.
58.       The economic rate of return (ERR) measuring incremental benefits
resulting from the Project as a whole is estimated at about 22 percent over 25
years. In the calculation of the ERR, foreign exchange was shadow priced. 1/
If foreign exchange were not shadow priced, the ERR would decrease by about
three percent to about 19 percent. The rate of return analysis includes all
expenditures for capital investments, replacements, and operation and mainte-
nance costs for all components. The full costs of the services of the ex-
1/   A rate of RF 110 per US$1.00 (RF 18.09 above the official exchange rate
of RF 91.91 per US$1.00) has been used as this reflects more accurately
the value of foreign exchange to Rwanda.



- 19 -
patriate extension experts are included along with 20 percent of the cost of
the expatriate financial advisor. The cost of unskilled labor, including
farm labor, was evaluated at the prevailing market price for farm labor which
is 72 Rwandese Francs per day. Coffee prices have been projected in accordance
with the latest Bank forecasts. Food prices used were those prevailing in
Rwanda in January 1981. Costs include neither price contingencies nor taxes
or duties (which are negligible). Physical contingencies (representing 15
percent of base cost), however, were included in the calculation of rates of
return. The rate of return was tested for sensitivity. If costs increased
by 20 percent, the rate of return would be reduced to 19 percent. If benefits
were reduced by 20 percent, the rate of return would be reduced to 18 percent.
If benefits were to be delayed by one year, the rate of return would be
reduced to 18 percent.
59.       Employment and Income Distribution.  An estimated 60,000 of the
75,000 farm families living in the coffee growing areas would be expected to
benefit from the coffee improvement component and about 15,000 from the
foodcrop program. An estimated 2,500 of the 10,000 families living in the
highland areas are also expected to benefit from the foodcrop component. If
successful, Project activities would lift beneficiaries in the coffee growing
areas above the threshold of absolute poverty (from US$93 to US$129 equivalent)
and lift beneficiaries in the highland areas to the threshold of absolute
poverty (from US$68 to US$98 equivalent). In accordance with present pricing
policies, farmers' shares of the gross earnings from incremental coffee
production can be expected to be in the range of 55-60 percent. The benefits
from incremental foodcrop production would accrue entirely to the participat-
ing farmers and would be fairly evenly distributed.
60.       Risks.  The problems most likely to affect the Project would be
implementation delays resulting from management difficulties. The appoint-
ment of key Project staff prior to negotiations and the establishment of most
of the physical infrastructure during the Project preparation pieriod should
reduce these problems. The extension effort might be less successful than
planned particularly in view of the difficulties encountered in obtaining
increased output in previous projects in Rwanda; however, the emphasis on
extension worker training and close follow-up of farmers in the field should
offset this risk. Technical risks involving plant material to be used and
agricultural practices to be promoted are low as the technology to be encour-
aged has already been field-tested in Rwanda. The commercial risks are low,
as forecasts of coffee prices have been based on prudent assumptions on
expected world coffee production increases.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AIJTHORITY
61.       The Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Rwanda
and the Association, the Project Agreement between the Association and
OCIR-Cafe and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 20 -
62.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the
Credit would be the recruitment of two of the three extension specialists and
execution of the Subsidiary Agreement, and completion of the audit of OCIR-
Cafe's accounts (Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement). There
are no other special conditions.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 11, 1981



AINEX I
- 21 -                                               Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
RWANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWANDA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERiCES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)--
TOTAL             26.3
AGRICULTURAL      15.0                               MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 t ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHAPA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  80.0       110.0    210.0                 260.0                  868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       ..        11.0      17.0                 80.0                  699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     2.8         3.6       4.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 2.4          3.2      4.1                  17.1                  2F. 9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      8.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       24.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. rM.                      106.0       137.0    171.0                 27.4                   6:1.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    185.0      229.0    300.0                  82.6                  126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.5       43.8      46.4                 44.9                   45.5
15-64 YRS.                        53.0        53.2      50.8                 52.2                   51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.5         3.0       2.8                  2.8                    2. 8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.2         2.6       2.9                  2.7                    2.7
URBAN                             11.5         5.3       6.2                 6.8                    4. 9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.0        50.0      51.0                 47.4                   46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.0        22.0      19.0                 19.6                   16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3. 3/c      3. 4      3.4                  3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         81.0       102.0    103.0                  91.8                   94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREKENTS)                  80.0        96.0      98.0                 90.2                   92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         49.0        61.0      59.0                 53.0                  '53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      25.0         34.0     30.0                 18.4                   15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    41.0        32.0      27.0                 27.7                   21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.0        42.0      46.0                 45.3                   50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..       127.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      35.0                 23.2                   31.0
URBAN                              ..          ..      41.0                 58.0                   66.8
RURAL                              ..          ..      35.0                 16. 8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        53.0      57.0                 28.9
URBAN                              ..        83.0      87.0                 67.0
RURAL                              ..        52.0      56.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        138095.0 /   57629.0  36442.0              30910.4                14'508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    11197.0Jd    7292.0   9827.0               5793.2                 3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              ..       760.0    611.0                1198.9                 1141.5
URBAN                              ..        32.0
RURAL                              ..      3994.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        21.2      21.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..       4.5
AVERAGE NUMIBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..



-22-                                                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
RWANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWANDA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLIARY:     TOTAL                  49.0         70.0       61.0                  57.7                     61.7
MALE                  68.0         79.0       66.0                   74.2                    69.2
FEMALE                30.0         62.0       57.0                  54.1                     51.4
SLCONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          2.0        2.0                  10.0                     20.6
MALE                   2. 0         3.0        3.0                  13.7                     29.2
FEMALE                 1.0          1.0        1.0                   7.1                     14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (i OF SECONDARY)  40.0           12. 0      17.0                   6.8                      7.0
PUPIL-TLACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         60.0       53.0                  45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                           14.0         13.0       15.0                  25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         16. O/d        ..       23.0                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4          1.0        1.6                   3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          8.0       16.0                  31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..                   1.                        .
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..        0.04                  4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUlAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..       14.6                                            0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABoR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1563.6       1940.6    2369.1
PDIALE (PERCENT)                    48.7         48.3      48.0                   33.5                     38. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               95.4         93. 2      91.0                  80. 7                    54. 3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   1. 1         1.6       2.0                    8. 1                    17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 55.4         54.0       53. 2                 42.2                     38. 8
MALE                                  57.6         56.5       55.9                  55.1                     48.4
FEMALE                                53.4         51. 6      50.6                  29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          0. 9       0. 9                  1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      148.0                 138.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      85.0                   86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 107.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..       43.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      30. 0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      90. 0                  66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Ic   1957;  /d 1962.
Mcst recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 23 -                                                                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFLINI_TIONS (in SQU IAL INyLcT'.ul
Piseit  Olcoog,. ti  dune  it,decen Irae sr consg...rei.  Jugdtems  stonoiead reliable, ct should mIn  be noted nha: the- ma, not be inter-
natonaly   omarale  ecetnel  hc  ac  of  lenaoandizod delieitlion  ao, coocopt-' use  bo 'dnleocIct          - icn no  ocletn   thedos                daarenn-
theess  uotu  tdese fi  edue  i eoc nude  Inicaite trends, and oh-aracrnlac cnu-i  e  c  dittec.ube ;                ate  uontlie
of the mebleot  -notocIeen   u o        upii Srcio  01 t,Eposrsgop  eStesOle                        c    Soroh Arued M  eii feeti  chosen bsoaame of strogec
anniecuttraT   fitrtleu.   I: thertroc  gru   en   h  ae..reg.. .ee populoti-oeiabt-d arhtbntl -n.  for aezhnn, rmonud ehows nnl-7 roant a
least  alf ofthrooanrircIn a geuf 'e  dotefor  tha   ndunn.Nic  tine cevrage oh conrnna  og ton  ..indIctor  d.p-erd   noteuohatlls   o
data  -4 i  not  -nlnm c_       nc  ms       ..... eeceoin ecitng  .  .  .vema  el ...  eilna--n  ear-hr. ICh-a  s ege                 ir- ni  afi.n emaegthe na1ue
of ... indluateasatoIeamoo-gohrcu.t-   cod retern.ce gecp..P.
IAND iRBA (thru-ea aq.km.l                                                                     poultion  -e  Ph,mIotrrpiso ni deeld   op sameer or practitieg phy-
Tete1 - Total surface ara ne-pr" ig ledorsad intodaen.                                          liens. qualIfied tree a   dlm  achna  at f u ..nesiy leve.
Agiclunl- teinate ef arcltue  erausdtemoarl  orpermnentY                            Poualn           S Rms  Pemo  -  Popolar-e  dliodd bnIste   fpatno
for  -rpi.psue,  nabn n--cbn  adoae  n   i  fallen; 1977 dana.                              male and female graduate noes.s, peettinal e.rse., asd ...nistast tnurse.
GNP PER CAPITA  it  - GNPp er onpine  -slstnaa   urn  see                    nn  no-              nhn  and e.ra.    'divdd by terrmetienme   f  optlbd
ealated by Isae   IeIeIo  meho.d an Worl   Bthte (1977-79 beau.); 1960,                       avilable is public and private genera  ae .d syiolai.ed he.pta  ende_
1970, and  1979 data.                                                                         habilitetleecntes          opnt r  establishmen ts permaaetlplstaffed
LN.ERYCONSM .PTLNPER  API-A- A ... 1  .o.-pI,   Ifle- 11,1 Iby at le-ot on. pyios.    Estish eotI. pvidieg prisnipally n..tsdis1
EnERGY C0NSINPTIN PEE cuilIg - aso dl e  .......i . at c endneaereeg   I oal         rer  arrest itpolo'ded.  uRe-l hespitats, howne,  nnod  health and medice
sodtigtt, ptroeu. etoal  as  odsyde-,nulea ed    gnheeslie-                          c isnet Per                 thonnly   afed  yIl ePhypsI.i. (bus by e  adi-aIsiees
cnotfl   iVo., o   ol  qialn   e  upita; 1960. 1910. end 1978                          nus.mdef,ito.  cIc                I Ifeet-pnt     noeandte   o   rsd
dana.                                                                  l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~imited ran ge of medical facilities.   or-mais:a  porpeecs Ib o hen  asi-
POPtULATION ANDS fETAL STATISTICS                                                                tela inilude Wits pnisnipa1 geseral aed  perteliend h,eitle   md r..nI
beet tle  oca  o   r he . bepitnn   nsdmdictna trisy ceters.
Tntnl Pepalantee.  Mid-Year (milllons) - A. of JulY 1; 1960, 1970,                             h-p17N Ad isales  prIneril. e  -  er!e  o   disos to  rdshre
Uehes Prleltise (p.enet of tesslI) - Rtaie of orhen to tota1 pepulnniee;II.hptl  did    bth.bIfb:.
dfeetdefisiti_n  of orb. as  ees  ma y  ffeot nnmpa-olitny of data                HOUS51NG
ameg  setrino:;i1960. 1970, and 1979 dnts.Aeee Sloe of HN.u.ebhld (ocr..s  P., isoseb.hld) - tete1. orban. enedel
.Peesl.tt. P-eletlon .ti.    :b..d.190                                                         A ho..ethold  onsin    fagruofedivid-lts who share tining qoe1rtar
Petaien is y..e 210-lrespplnn   rjotn   r   aado   90                                     coierml   el                .oe       rldjec may or may vet be i-nloded is
total populotios by age nod see and thei  motlity and  tenlofrts                           he h,o.mehoid for soeislparpeons
Projecinpaaees   r otatity IIIeI InpIne oI.f three te.e,  asI-ueeenoe   fissynro- tta. o'hes.so  rua..                                                         oraesit
inglf  epecntacy ahtrhioainwshnutepr biptrthnmeter  f   eenspret.i  n"i aeb ts adrrleopd HIc-nnatio..al
leesl,nad faute lie erpetanny  tahil teing at 77.5 years.  The pare-             doe11ings, reapettnely.  D.e11ise   -  'ode  -o-poreer-t Itrasu eend
maters fee fertility reta als  av  three  leel  aes=ing danlsa to                         unoccu.pied Darts.
feritIIIy aoording to Income level end pest family planning performance..               bosecfetIcito frees f dwlInr2 I- tota.- erbas. and rara1 -
Eachi n..ntry Im then emeinmed one ot tbeeaise yombinatinna of aenalitty                -  oynna   wlins.   thtb eletic Liity in living qoarters an perne..tege
and fertility trends for prejentien perpenee.                                             of total, -vine, and ruro1 doeJli tgs reap-niv-ly.
Inetnisarr  osoto   Is a a.tnimary pepalatie  there In asgoth since
the hirih easiI       qa   nthe daath,rate, and.also the agI        traitore re-    EDUEATION
ma in  notst.   Ths Is ani d oe1  aftrferility rates decine5                           iutdfueletNto
ehe ealce     -t ee  of enae net repred-ctica rate, ohms each geea n                      Psimary school - tonal, male aend female-CGross  tst1, male and femal
of wemeereplanee islnacly.  The statiasry population sle  wa                      -         enrollmen..t of all ages an the yrimary leve  am perneategee of r-pe-tee
esntmte.d.en the ,basist f the pre,Jenned  faateino   atthe popula.tion                     primary ochnl-age pplelt lone; noraly icciodes childen agad 6-11
im the yea  lOtI  nsdnhe rtee  deie of fertility rate to replace-                           yasbtdjte fordiffern  iegthm  If primar  ad-taios; for
meon  leel                                                                                    eunertes with u-l-erma  cdeusio eIt.'         i   ayecedltpecn
Yeee statin...ry pnpulatton Is reanhed -The year when statia..ary population                   since some ppile are blia or shov  the official shool age.
slee has been reac.hed.                                                                   Seco.ndary enbool - statl mal and f"a_    - CmP.tad as  boe-; .....adary
Pepalani.Den.Ba tyn                                                                              edoe..tleoreqairesa   least.  for ynara' of appvn-edprImary tnstractieal
Pee so. bi. -Mid-year Vpepaltien pee square kilometer flat hentereal of                        pr-videm  generarl,-venti-eil, or tno..her training iset-teni... for papib.
"t"                                                                       11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~umal  of 11 to 17 yearn of agel neteepandee ... aesea..  are genera11y
Pee em  k.    aiala eland - competed as above fee agrir.a1tar1 load                            e..aded
only.                                                                                     vaatoa   naletIacnto1esdrl-Ictea    tasitoeskea
PepalaIne hg)Ax  StErut... (percentl - Children (0-li years). working-age (15-                   incad   teheica.I  todnteintl,' eether programs wich operate indepe-
6Gyar)      Imarcred (61 peara a ad aver  as percetatges of mid-year pope-                     dnlydra  dprass   faeedty-sitnoe
lanCes; 1960, 1970, ad198dta.Prltoherne-ti.                                                                                   -sad scodry i    - totai. stdnt  carolled ie
Pooan   rowth keae fprertoese1tl. errei - tete1 - A-nua  groath brtes ef ntal. mid-        primary enod marndary tenet  divde  by  usheTt of tenhae te the
year pepalatis fee 1950-60. 1960-7t, and 1970148.. nre-p-disg levels.
Paetla ins Cret pttefeen to) - arba   - Annea  groth ennee of erbne pOpO-                    Adolt IItIr... rane (nernesnl - Literate  AdaIte  (able to e-d end write)
laniesa far 1951-60C.t 196t-Pt, Isd 1970-78.                                                   as a pernestge of total ada1t popalatia  aged 15 years and sever.
Erode Bir th fae  oe  thead)- Annua  live births per tha.....d  f mdd-ye.n
popalat irs; 1960, 1970, and 1978date.                                                  CONSUMPTI0
Erode tent  Bes       re theaead)I -Annea  deatbe per nhnenod of mid-peer                   Peeseseer cars feer thousan  nenalttoel - .Paeeger cars eampriae mater
p   haeis 9t, 1971, end 197  date,                                                      cars seating less thar et'gt per_t.o; aecladee anholases., hearses and
Fre. esEpeedonti.n Nate - Average un fra  dsaghtars a nones will hear Is                       ailitary   eils
her norma  rsprd-tni-e period If abs experiannee pee..eent e-s-spanifi to fe-             Rdie teetnra `an  h..a.a.d popsl.ttirL  - All types of receives-     rra
rilny  eEs; uualy   is-yer aeraeaending in 1960, 1970, aed 1977.                 branast  gnrlpbi  prtosn  e   euain  acee   mi
fmlPnisn  -Acespea  Anea  (tho..anad,)   Annea  musher of Iaceitoee                     ....end ra...ivere  is   . trsnies and Is yer I  bnregistration of  .ndi. e
of bYiet-MNoorel d-eita   ndrnopoa  fnisi  fam,ily pleinsigP~ro.ge_                           nein effect; data for recent years may net he com.p-bla since mast
eamenl     E ofohldherin  ealo     I 1-g    yers  whd mbrthcotrol deIcedt                     l. Betivera free.l t IIen  r.o...)...frnine  frheann
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wsae Ciruh(Po freeetousand., eoalTVa  - hn heaeae ie.
ladw  nf Peed Pr-acin  ear isia(99-tltr    adno.a  cpt   nop                                   iso.dal   aea intees eceppen,hef ned I asprindicet  tab
is  n clenar  earbais.inmediimsnoae  rimry  ood  (.g.eacnas         s  b  "dily" Iif toapear ahn leastrtifear onim VsIseeb.
rOsDAtND NURTOf mgn hihaedilanotintret(egnffead                                             cinem  u Cno_l Atnac   a   atn  a    erBtde  h  mushe  n
t   I Ier Let foed.LAgegt  pre            II_eo     eah cea.s.ry  d handeed en d        iticket  sod.vtdap .rng ythe  yer,eincdioSg admeafse..IntdIne-tenidsmad
Par neita enelv  f calries  rerceti. ofI resirem yNe)d -    I Eampodiytifitp..ed from..   I--                                                  -k
energy eqoIveeto  neth foodibsplesen    evatlahlnetis  eatry pe,        e onitnLBt P                  IAtn...prItiCEr  .,-B-                               h  .bI.
pe.r. dey.dAvailAbl regmpptse cepr else.        .. d heei  pod...ntly, bmeeslee            oaldae PIre    thouaaodm7      Economicall  amine.. ptses dri-        oieg.
eI9n,nd  hna   sstn.BteppieeEo eanima  feed  ceede                                        armedt foces e-ndgsmlydhtaooighawie,oo t,ec
netee.eer...tImaapId.b.e      thnedo pro    ' hyalolgi9 elneed 8foe  armalantil1978dana
Ptep aI    bnI     nealern   pevreo.entaIf  tempoesana, bod  weights,d agfr..(een)-Fml   abrfrea   seeng   ftta   ae ae
sad men distrtbsnosf p. opodatplie, amd 1eblonn    0peetfewsea                       ernlo (eat       ao   oc in               forming,yfPreanry, buntingRan
Pe -Ypt   eul  of. inrcIt faam  eR  day)pli- Peolein enite  ofe  pe  dspBt            Ttad Lebro Fnrest) -tho-dr fi-  in.. minIngy cti-neonion, manfetaIg
se  spyly. _dof  odprdaI         Ntdp1yo   odisdfnda   abn.i-                             adeatilp   ae   n  gsa   eonaeo                               ao   oes;191
qolenoests Eonall coentetes  stablishedrby.t enpravidl.fr-minimum.1in0andt1970 data
alewre fI       tgrd    ofn tota  proteing pe   ayad  20..  i   gi.rams  fanIma  andi.  PartiGitaiu..n fae-prne...        toal  male  nodfemale -90 P 19i7paio  or
pelst  protein, tof ebi FA 10grame should be animl protei.   Theme_ atne-                 anvnroaeomoe    sttl    ae   n   eaelbrfeea
ardtar  berthnthsdod5  es  of na talperenein andy 23grams of                              penenaee oftoa.1ae  sado female Iyopeacaiis of Intaege1.especfively
endl  esana  an avagb  fo  the-I         - eneld,prpoedb 0 pAl int  thf    hid            190  1971,andt197  dat., Thesr se ill'  patiianertile relctn
Beeld Ped Serey; 198-65, 170 ned1977 data.fihgI.pre.gott1   brf                                                                     6, 70nd91dt
Per cenita neoteinsaynlo F rem emiml and dales - Protin eapply of feeddin-  agc-ie.ntroctee ni.the pinpblaiof  , end tong.nn metrend.ti fwo f     ati
,r ined  ! Ero   afeooad per eed   is gram - per- day; 191-5  1970i end  1977 dees      EconmicYendnoEti-  atofppunioner1ad65sdvr
childnanes  ll   ieratitoBetatearntdnsard)- Annal-deths pefthoetnd1in                 tobth  tonallabe196e0e
aegep -ipo.1  so. chidrentbin his age gSDAp-;       d for msdeloing coos
nnire date danced  from  life  tablee; 1961, 197t and 1977~~'.     ..  . I date.d bIb  dISTt 8tdTt.O
Pf e'It In ninth                  -   p:    n  e   .yed                                   Petennagie oPRivte Incom n        hon  incshad id    - tabrtiend bytohes-
.rd. e. I .. I tb.   th...f 75 g-    f t..1 pr.i.-d  3 g5-percenvt,  ihof   20.1  peI.eent, pooes  20 pericent nod p11-en h.P potent
inelproein..  n  - 8. - Average      , somer.of year   FOf life reaIing         of    I-Ie
at biech; lOhIt. 1971 and 19P0 data. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ie           7     d  95  .t.    h..           LO.  ..ilp.ln  .t               1   rn
hot et Oetmlny Sf~,jsr neoead)     annual7. deths af lofh pteoidee one yonegPliEnTin TdRCA c_oii
efat   ertruaddo hfr.a. .n.maad7bsoltetfveriA,s -                                                                              Level (If   peeirj    onnita -5 endha  and roa-
ACcessd tn -at   Genr  (pcat' of   anathIel) - toa. uras  andtb  peratl..  -         n         t ' lthe   ovt rn ineen  lei     ht   os  lvlhae    hihaniie
Sobr  of,n  peole (.-tee   o1lren, sad rthai  g esnh        frsaaal  mecet   to safe 
easer duoty deio-oe   tecd   surflif    ae.   waters or7 entreated.hEset     minaned          E af STRdeBleTIO
ente  soca   ta   rmpuetdhrble,arns   n   ateye la                                         feimse        rlhttos P20c poome  evlt P5 preeva vital e        re nd m..4     ealen-
fonanor Ia et Bicuayned see see   then I  200 sener   f    lnaiuae   a  heii.        p     ...nn  inoeh.   sencty. ubnlee   sdrie   rm                         as
do,_  M- have     R.tohpsddnpeoeienepr  of :thedyi  fandIi                   ..g the     POERnd TARGET -GFROUtPS         eos nfre   n  frl   h   r  "h aope"
Anoese- to Eebeenandisensal-(NerAean of. -nrelasten.- tonal. uhtei.and
rubra  -f number of popl  (toa, ace, ad r..        ra~lhl .. nerve  hpeseren
disposal as  eremetegna m  nbetr reepstine pepolmtnsa.  Eecr to di-f         _coemi  an  Soia  Datad Dqivision                                         ne
p    lalmy    (oclud d te  trienniod  sod dipslf tIe inotrams,ltomaaayi   n   eeetosDpem
t.. I-oh - lhe I fl.. pI,;t- t.d b I.h.l.., pri.g., ..d ... itoteher.1900
at  aco  enres  ed   ase-wte   by water-horns eysnoms or the ass ofb,  ~d  .
Pe  pI..te.  In itheirlre.o tosItelletinIpblna.                                                                                        .I   "i'do                 pr     i



-24 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - RWANDA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978-79        1978                     1979
US$ Mln.     %          US$ Mln.     %
GNP at Market Prices               817.9      100.0        956.3      100.0
Gross Domestic Investment          106.6       13.0        124.6       13.0
Gross National Saving               86.o       10.5        107.7       11.2
Current Account Balance            155.4      19.0          65.0        6.8
Export of Goods, NFS               131.9      16.1         235.2       24.5
Import of Goods, NFS               287.3       35.1        300.2       31.3
AVERAGE ANNUAL GROWTH IN VALUE ADDED (%, constant 1970 prices)
1970-78                 1975-78
Agriculture                             3.5                     4.4
Mining                                  0.7                     1.4
Manufacturing                          10.1                    11.3
Construction                            8.2                     4.7
Transportation                          9.3                    14.8
Commerce                               10.9                     2.2
Others/                                11.1                     6.6
GDP                                     6.8                     5.7
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
RFr  Mln)                 % of GDP
1978                  1978      1972
Current Receipts                      8,766                  11.4       8.3
Current Expenditure                   6,930                   9.0     10.7
Current Surplus                       1,836                   2.4     -2.4
Capital Expenditures                  1,032                   1.3       1.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES         1975      1976          1977        1978         1979
(RF Million outstanding, end period)
Money Supplym/                   5,987     8,047        10,173     11,204        15,450q-.
Bank Credit to Public                                                                    c
Organisations                    456.8     480.1         249        250.6         357.7-
Bank Credit to Private Sector   1,706.7   2,392.1        4,353.4    5,267.6       5,037.8-
(Percentage of Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as %
of GDP                            12.2      11.9          12.9       14.3          15.2
Consumer Price Index (Jan-Mar
1976 = 100)                       95.3     101.9         116.7      131.4         152.1
Annual Percentage ehanges in:
Consumer Price Index                30.2       6.9          14.5        12.6         15.8
Bank Credit to Public l
Organisations                     70.7       5.1         -48.1         o.6         42.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector       -0.5      40.1          82.0       20.9          -4.3
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
a/ Includes public administration, private institutions, import taxes and statisticalerrors.
b/ Includes Money and Quasi Money.
c1 As end of December 1979.



- 25 -                                 ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - RWANDA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS    1975   1976   1977   1978   1979    MERHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-79)
(US$ Million)                              US$ Mln         %
Exports of Goods, NFS   62.8  123.9  141.4  131.9  235.2  Coffee              71.6         64.7
Imports of Goods, INFS  127.8  15.1  180.4  287.3  300.2  Tea                  8.3          7.5
Resource Gap                                                 Cassiterite      13.9         12.5
(deficit = -)        -65.0  -31.2  -33.0 -155.4  -65.0   Wolfram             5.9         5.3
Pyrethrum         1.9          1.7
Factor Payments (net)   -3.3   -3.9   -4.4   -5.0  -2.1   Cinchona             1.6          1.4
Other             7.5          6.8
Total       110.7       100.0
Net Transfers           _7.7   54.0   64.8   93.4  122.0
Balance on Current
account              -10.6   18.9   21.0   67.0  -54.9
EXTERNAL DEBT, I)ECEMBER 31, 1978
Direct Private Foreign                                                                     US$ Mln
Investment             2.9    5.9    5.0    4.8    4.9
Net MLT Borrowing                                           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed  95.4
Disbursements         13.5   17.8   27.7   19.8   38.6  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization           0.3    0.7    0.4    2.0    2.5   Total Outstanding and Dis-
Subtotal              13.2   17.1   27.3   17.8   36.1       bursed
EXTERNAL DEBT,
NET DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977 '
Other Capital (net)                                         Public Debt incl. guaranteed    1.0
and capital n.e.i.     7.0  -9.5  -25.1   26.9   11.8
Increase in Reserves                                        Non-guaranteed Private Debt
(-)                  -15.5  -30.0  -22.9    o.4 -68.5   Total outstanding and Dis-
bursed
Gross Reserves
(end year)            25.6   64.3  82.9   87.6  152.3
Petroleum Imports        9.5   10.9   11.7   14.6   19.6
Petroleum Exports         -     -       -      -      -
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                             IBRD/IDA LENDING (Dec. 31, 1980)
kUS$; Mln)
Annual Averages      End Period
IDA
1974-79          March 1980
Outstanding and Disbursed      58.05
US$ 1.00 = RF                92.84             92.84        Undisbursed                     57.48
RF  1.00 = US$               0.011              0.011       Outstanding incl. Undis-
bursed                     115.53
a/ Debt Service net of interest, earned on foreign exchange reserves as a percentage
of Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
Not available.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of December 31, 1980)
Amount US$ million
Credit No.   Fiscal Year   Borrower   Purpose                      IDA   Undisbursed
(Four credits have been fully disbursed)                          31.90
567-RW          1975       Rwanda       Education                 6.38        3.68
655-RW          1977           "        DFC I                     4.00         .46
656-RW          1977           "        Agriculture Cinchona    1.80          0.90
668-RW          1978           "        Bugesera
Gisaka-Migongo
Mixed Farming and
Rural Development        14.00       4.36
769-RW          1978                    Road Maintenance         15.00        7.03
896-RW          1979                    DFC II                    5.20        5.02
937-RW          1979           "        Mutara Agricultural
and Livestock
Development              8.75        7.53
1039-RW          1980 1/        "        Integrated Forestry and
Livestock Development  21.00        21.00
1057-RW          1981 1/        "        Telecommunications        7.50        7.50
Total                                            115.53       57.48
Repaid                     .09
Total Held             115.44
Note: Rwanda has received no Bank loan.
B. Statement of IFC Investments
In 1976, IFC made a loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory. A second
IFC long-term loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitments of up to
US$60,000 for an expansion of the tea factory were signed in September 1980.
I/   Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
PROJECTS IN RWiANDA 1/
Credit No. 567-RW      Education Project; US$8.0 Milion Credit of June 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1975,
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the construction, furnishing and equipment
of 150 workshops for about 6,000 students and of a print shop, and the
provision of paper for production and distribution of text books written
in Kinyarwanda. The project also provides technical assistance to the school
financing and construction unit (SFCS), which was established under the
project. The design and construction standards of the workshops are simple
and solid, and the buildings are well-built. Construction of the office
building for the SFCS has been completed and construction of the print shop is
nearing completion. Following an in-depth review: (i) the number of workshops
to be financed under the credit were increased from 150 to about 250; (ii) an
amount of US$130,000 was cancelled because of misprocurement of certain
construction materials; and (iii) an amount of about US$1.75 million, improperly
disbursed, will be restituted to the project by the Government through a
temporary reduction of the agreed disbursement percentages. Because of
misprocurement of paper, IDA recently cancelled $1.4 million from the project.
Credit No. 655-RW      Rwandese Development Bank Project; US$4.0 Million
Credit of August 20, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This credit to the Banque Rwandaise de Developpement (BRD) is
intended to help meet the foreign resources requirements of this institution
which provides long-term financing to the main productive sectors in Rwanda.
This project is proceeding satisfactorily, and the credit is now fully
committed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directcors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the umderstanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 656-RW          Cinchona Project; US$1.8 Million Credit of August 20, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides over a five year period inputs and extension
service to grow cinchona for export. Progress is satisfactory and there is
a strong demand from farmers for planting material. World market prices for
cinchona derivates remained low during 1979, and OCIR had to reduce the farm
gate price for cinchona bark and abolish the export tax and the OCIR levy
to arrive at an export price which is competitive on the world market. In
September 1980 it was decided to establish a cinchona bark processing plant in
the Cyangugu area. This would give Rwanda a much stronger position in the
future to compete with cinchona derivates on the world market.
Credit 668-RW          Bugesera Gisaka/Migongo Mixed Farming and Rural
Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness:  November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of the promotion of mixed farming and rural
development in two regions and the strengthening of the central services
responsible for rural development. The project includes tse tse control,
field extension and infrastructure, provision of farm inputs on credit,
construction and improvement of feeder roads and water facilities, schools,
health centers, establishment of two cattle ranches and a study for an
irrigation project. The project is cofinanced with BADEA (US$5.0 million
equivalent for livestock development and water facilities) and France. The
Ministry of French cooperation is providing six experts required by the
Project. Satisfactory progress has been made with programming of work,
budgeting, procurement and construction. The results of the livestock,
foodcrop and plant improvement components however are well below appraisal
estimates. Arrangements for the preparation of a second phase project are
underway.
Credit 769-RW          Fourth Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Credit
of April 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1978;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Implementation of the Fourth Highway Project (a US$15.0 million
Credit for road maintenance) started in January 1978. Specialists financed
under the technical assistance program are in the field and are performing
satisfactorily. Procurement of equipment is in progress. On the suggestion
of the Association, an expert on labor intensive methods visited Rwanda
for three weeks in June 1978 and recommended that one mechanized unit be
replaced by one unit utilizing labor intensive methods. Following the con-
sultant's recommendation, the Government decided to introduce labor-intensive
methods for road maintenance.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
P'age 4
Credit 896-RW          Second Rwandese Development Bank Project; US$5.2 Million;
Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: January 4, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Project aims at providing further assistance to the industrial
sector by supporting the activities of the Rwandese Development Bank. It
includes two components: (a) a second line of credit of US5.0 million which
would finance 67 percent of BRD's foreign exchange requirements in 1979 and
1980; and (b) a feasibility study for the establishment of an auditing firm in
Rwanda (US$0.2 million). Although the feasibility study was delayed a year,
Project implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily in all respects.
Credit 937-RW         Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project;
US$8.75 Million Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is the second phase of a long-term development program
for the Mutara region. It aims at developing techniques, procedures, and an
institutional environment which will make it possible to preserve the
production potential of the area, make a rational and more intensive use of
available resources, improve farming and ranching techniques, and integrate
the project into the local administration. Although the credit was declared
effective May 30, 1980, project implementation was initiated earlier under
financing by the Project Preparation Facility.
Credit 1039-RW        Integrated Forestry and Livestock Development Project;
US$21.0 Million Credit of July 7, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: August 10, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The terminal date for effectiveness has been postponed from November
10, 1980 to March 10, 1981 and again to August 10, 1981 to permit satisfaction
of outstanding conditions of effectiveness, which include defining the project
area on the basis of aerial surveys and land use plans for the Gishwati forest
currently being prepared.
Credit 1057-RW        Telecommunications Project; US$7.5 Million;
Credit of August 13, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: May 29, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The terminal date for effectiveness has been postponed from
November 14, 1980 to March 10, and again to May 29, 1981 to permit satisfaction
of the conditions of effectiveness which call for finalization of two
cofinancing arrangements.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
RWANDA
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Lake Kivu Coffee Improvement and Foodcrop Project
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification of project                  1974/75
(b)  Appraisal Mission                          June/July 1980
(c)  Negotiations                               January 1981
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness              June 1981
II. Special Bank Implementation Action
Annual Work Plans (para 54)
III. Special Conditions
A.   Special Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
(a) the execution of the Subsidiary Agreement (para 48);
(b) the recruitment of two out of three extension specialists
(para 47) ; and
(c) the realization of a complete audit of OCIR-Cafe's accounts
(para 32).



4                   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
2               N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
it  I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=.-J.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
N   f                       4p~~~~~~~~~~~- pi~ 






R WANDA                            ~2ADJ,
LAKE KIV-U COFFEE AND  FOOD  CROP                                                          Y A,
IMPROVEME-NT PROJECT
PROJET D~AMEL/IORArION DE LA CAfE/CULTURE ET DiY                      4kR
CUrLTUS WM0FERE  DAIVS LA REGION DUI LAC K/IVLU)                                 ) 
PROJECT AREA(COFFE, N0E                        ~
ZONEF CV APROEC CAFECUYEIRE~
EEIOJTCT AREERYH GHLAAND ZONE
- MAIN ROADS                                                    2     y"3 '
ROUTES PRIANCIPALES
SECONDARY ROADS
ROUTES SECONCAA/RES
PREEFECTURE CAPITAtS
CHEF-I/EUJ DE PREFECTURE,
COMMUNE ESUJNOAR/ES                                                  K[1G
ZlhfTE'S DE COMMWUNEfRLHNq
3ON                         PREFECTUES  PREFECTRIE NSU                       ~         2AK 
MEES OT       /J
Z5RFS  IAEN10AI5
&  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
4'ip.~~~~~i  t)-b
K AYO'V ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ U  ANG
B\OAKNGE
4~~~~~GFSUMA                                                    - ____-~MA 
p   ~ ~~~~~~ 
*  C,~~~~~AN  U                     -                       IY~~~~~~~~ 4~~~~~5 D IE C
N  AGANO                                            LMbc-~~~~~-A3
Th,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "~~~~~~~~~~~P~~ 
2f~~~~~~~~  ~                     lh    B
~~~ 2, Sb  ~        2    2   ~
22W                                                             2930 



