                                                                                            87530
                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                              International Development Association
                                 International Finance Corporation
                            Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                          CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                    EDS2000-396
                                                                                November 29, 2000
                                                                                     03:34:53 PM


Statement by Terrie O'Leary
Date of Meeting: November 30, 2000

                  Jamaica: Country Assistance Strategy and Bank Restructuring and Debt
                                           Management Loan


Introduction

My authorities in Jamaica would like to thank Bank Staff and Management for their hard work
and dedication which has resulted in the preparation of a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Jamaica, the first to be presented to the Board since 1993. The intervening period has been very
challenging for the Government and people of Jamaica, who have had to cope with a number of
domestic and externally generated shocks. This Chair welcomes the decision taken by Bank
management to initiate a fresh assistance program for Jamaica to support efforts aimed at dealing
with many of these challenges, and in particular, the effects of a financial sector crisis, which is
unquestionably the most economically devastating in the post-independence period.

We wish to congratulate staff on having prepared a focused CAS, which seeks to support the
medium-term priorities of the Jamaican authorities, namely the reversal of adverse debt
dynamics caused by the financial sector crisis and the strengthening of mechanisms to protect the
poor. We are particularly impressed by the broad consultative process which Staff engaged in
during preparation of the CAS, and their efforts to build on the experiences of past lending
operations in Jamaica to make the Bank's intervention more effective this time around.

Background

During the past two decades, Jamaica faced several challenges as the authorities struggled to
transform the small highly regulated economy, to one that is efficient and globally competitive.
Comprehensive reforms were undertaken in trade policy, tax administration, financial sector
intermediation, the foreign exchange system, and in the operations of the public sector. These
were supported by a privatization program and liberalization efforts aimed at fostering private
sector activity, and ensuring that markets played an increased role in resource allocation.
The reform efforts were supported by the IMF, World Bank, IDB as well as bilateral partners.
There are specific areas in which reforms have taken place successfully. These include the
following: implementation of a simpler tax system; reduction of trade barriers; removal of
quantitative restrictions on imports; removal of price controls and implementation of a
liberalized foreign exchange system.

However, the economy still experienced significant instability. Furthermore, the financial cost of
the adjustments and reforms was high, as the government borrowed heavily externally, thereby
leading to significant increases in external indebtedness. Despite the massive capital inflows,
economic growth was lethargic; inflation remained high; and there was instability in the foreign
exchange system, with significant fluctuations in the value of the currency. In particular, the
series of massive devaluations in the 1990s proved counterproductive because, following the
initial positive results in terms of compressed imports and lower wage costs, the associated
inflationary effects, which resulted from excessive wage demands, could not be controlled.

After analyzing the results of the country's experience under successive Fund programs, the
Government decided that in certain critical areas, the recommended policy prescriptions had
failed to deliver the desired outcomes. Although the country's performance in the various "tests",
particularly during the last IMF Agreement was broadly satisfactory, the sustained economic
growth and build-up in external reserves which were the principal objectives of the program, did
not materialize. Therefore, in March 1995 at the conclusion of the last Extended Fund Facility,
the decision was taken to end the 18-year borrowing relationship with the Fund. There was
broad public support for this decision.

Although the decision was taken not to enter into any new borrowing arrangements with the
Fund, constructive engagement was maintained with the institution through the annual Article IV
consultations, and Jamaica benefited from technical assistance from the Fund.

The Government developed and embarked on a macro-economic program which sought to
achieve greater stability through: (i) reduction in the level of inflation in line with that of
Jamaica's main trading partners; (ii) stabilizing the exchange rate system; and (iii) the
maintenance of adequate reserve cover. These objectives complemented the positive aspects of
the structural reforms which had taken place with the assistance of multilateral development
partners.

The authorities have been dealing with a very difficult situation, and have achieved some
successes. Inflation, which had reached a historic high of 105% in fiscal year 1991/1992 has
been reduced to single digit levels for the last four fiscal years, the first in over thirty years that
this has been achieved. Unlike previous years, stability was brought to the foreign exchange
system with the elimination of the black market and the introduction of a market determined
system in which adjustments in the exchange rate have been orderly. External debt was reduced
from 165% of GDP in March 1996 to an average of 47% for the past three years. Net
International Reserves (NIR) moved from negative levels to $935 million at the end of August
2000 - a record level. The increased stability led to significantly lower wage demands and
longer term wage contracts. Finally, the time horizon of investors in the domestic capital market
moved from short-term to longer periods, leading to a deepening of the market.

However performance has been weak in some areas. The tight monetary policy to reduce
inflation led to increases in real interest rates which adversely affected growth. Following several
years of some growth, aggregate real output declined each year between 1996 and 1999. The
fiscal position deteriorated to deficit from surplus positions. However the authorities have
reduced the Central Government deficit from a high of 8% of GDP in 1996/97 to 4.3% in the
past fiscal year. The external accounts have also deteriorated, but external debt indicators have
improved. Most worrying has been the large build up in the domestic debt, which at March 2000
was 98% of GDP. These negative developments can be traced to several factors, the major one
being the financial sector crisis.

Financial Sector Crisis

Liberalization of the financial sector was not accompanied by a sufficiently robust prudential and
supervisory infrastructure. The increased competition in the liberalized system encouraged the
creation of new institutions and engagement in deposit-taking activities not subject to adequate
regulation. This resulted in many institutions having a mis-match of long term assets financed
by taking short term deposits. Dishonest business practices also contributed to the crisis. The
Government's intervention to stabilize the sector was through the establishment of a special
entity – the Financial Sector Adjustment Company Ltd. (FINSAC) which acquired interests in
several financial groups which were insolvent.

The authorities moved quickly to contain the fall-out, using its own resources as well as shoring
up insolvent institutions with government-backed securities. In addition it moved to strengthen
the prudential and supervisory framework for the sector. As a result there was no capital flight
and widespread disruptions were successfully avoided.

The gross cost of the intervention is estimated at over $2.5 billion and the major challenge facing
the authorities is how to deal with the severe debt dynamics - reflected in high debt stock and
high interest costs - which have been created. In particular, the high level of domestic debt
remains a major drain on the economy, as it preempts resources for investment in capital and
social infrastructure.

Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program

In consultations with the multilateral development institutions, the Jamaican authorities have
designed a strategy to deal with the adverse debt dynamics created by the crisis. The strategy
comprises the following elements:

   The creation of an economic and financial framework, within the context of an IMF Staff
   Monitored Program (SMP), to consolidate the recent macroeconomic gains and strengthen
   the conditions for the resumption of growth over the medium term;
   A substantial initial reduction in the stock of debt to be effected mainly through the proceeds
   of loans US $325m from the World Bank, IDB and CDB;

   Write off of debt owed by FINSAC to the Government and an offset of liabilities with the
   Central Bank;

   Sale of assets to help write down the stock of debt in the initial years, while overall public
   sector surpluses would be generated in subsequent years to further reduce the stock of debt;

   Payment of interest in cash on FINSAC notes with effect from April 1, 2000; and

   Divestment of the two major banks which were acquired through intervention, and further
   strengthening of the prudential and supervisory framework for the sector.

The authorities have already taken corrective actions to deal with problem banks and to improve
the regulatory powers of the Bank of Jamaica (BOJ). In this regard, all deposit-taking
institutions are now regulated by the BOJ and must adhere to stricter operating guidelines;
directors, senior managers and shareholders are subject to stricter “fit and proper” criteria;
legislation has been passed to allow the supervisory authorities to intervene in a more timely
basis; and for the first time, deposit-insurance has been introduced. Apart from a small technical
assistance package from the IDB, the intervention and rehabilitation of the sector have taken
place with no external resources.

An important contribution which the Bank will make through its intervention is to assist in the
strengthening of the prudential framework for non-deposit taking institutions, such as entities
dealing in securities, collective investment funds (e.g. unit trusts and mutual funds), investment
advisors, insurance companies, and private pension funds. A major outcome will be the
establishment of a single regulatory agency for non-depositing taking entities, the Financial
Services Commission (FSC), which will be operational on April 1, 2001.

With respect to the macro-economic framework, the policy content of the program involves
measures to reduce the public sector deficit, maintain an appropriate monetary stance and
accelerate structural reforms. Specific targets have been established and IMF staff commenced
monitoring April 1, 2000 and will continue to do so until March 31, 2002. In the opinion of the
Fund Staff:

        “……the macro economic targets established in the authorities’ program are
sufficiently ambitious to improve Jamaica's medium term economic outlook and external
viability. The policy measures in place and those envisaged, if implemented consistently,
are capable of achieving the program's targets. In particular, the medium-term
projections indicate that the adverse debt dynamics will be reversed and economic growth,
albeit modest in the initial years, will be resumed. Thus at the completion of the
authorities’ program, a solid macroeconomic foundation would be re-established
permitting Jamaica to address more aggressively the unemployment, poverty and other
social challenges.” (Jamaica Staff Monitored Program IMF Doc. EBS/00/152)
A first review of the program was undertaken by Fund Staff during a Mission to Jamaica from
September 8 - 15, 2000. In their report, the Staff confirm that Jamaica's adjustment program is
broadly on track, and that, based on the preliminary data available for April - June 2000, all
quantitative targets have been met and the majority of structural benchmarks achieved.

Social Welfare

In spite of the economic challenges facing the authorities, significant advances have been
registered in improving the levels of welfare over the past decade. Many social indicators remain
good and in some cases better than countries with similar income levels. This achievement has
been as a result of the emphasis placed by the authorities on the social agenda, which targets, in
particular, those groups which are likely to be adversely affected by the adjustment process. In
addition, support from external sources, including the Bank, has contributed to Jamaica's
impressive record in this area.

These achievements, however, must be safeguarded. We note, in particular, the excellent
technical support which has been provided by the Bank, with respect to the Jamaica Survey of
Living Conditions, which since 1988, has collected household data annually to assess the impact
of macroeconomic policies on the most vulnerable groups within the society. The Survey has
become a very valuable tool in the formulation of social policies and programs affecting the
poor.

We must also mention the Jamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF), which the Bank has supported
since its inception three years ago, and which has significantly enhanced Jamaica's social
infrastructure.

Education is another area in which Jamaica has done well. One of the major achievements in the
nineties has been the expansion of education at all levels. However much remains to be done to
improve quality and delivery. A strategic approach to generating improvements, has been
outlined in the authorities’ Green Paper 2000: Education the Way Upward. Throughout the
years, the Bank has been very involved in the sector and this Chair is pleased that it will benefit
from additional resources in the Bank's lending for FY2001/02.

Comments on the CAS

The CAS represents a very important first step in the re-invigorated lending and non-lending
relationship between the Bank and the Government of Jamaica. We strongly support the over-
arching objective which is to prevent a reversal of recent gains in poverty reduction and pave the
way for continued poverty reduction over the longer term. This is fully in keeping with the core
objective of the institution. We also believe that these objectives will not be successfully
attained without a final resolution of the financial sector crisis and the reversal of the adverse
debt dynamics.

Our authorities are very interested in working with the Bank to better understand the
relationships between investment and economic growth and the interesting dynamic that has seen
better than expected poverty outcomes during an extended period of negative economic growth.
A better understanding of these complex dynamics can only help Jamaica to develop a robust
and pro-poor development strategy.

There are a number of important issues which have arisen within the context of the Bank's recent
relationship with Jamaica and we would like to comment on a few of them.

Macro-Economic Framework - There is general agreement that a stable macro-economic
framework is an essential basis for sustainable development. However, debate and discussion
continue within the development community over critical aspects of the reform agenda, such as
the correct policy mix, timing and sequencing of reforms which will achieve the most desirable
outcomes. The Jamaican experience at correcting the imbalances in the economy over the past
decades has failed to achieve the positive economic and development outcomes which are
necessary for sustained growth and development. At the same time we have seen positive
outcomes from the Banks interventions in the social sector.

Our Jamaican authorities have taken a hard look at their experiences and developed a program
which they feel will deliver in some areas where others failed. This approach has broad public
support, which is partly reflected in the fact that the current Administration has secured a third
term in office, the first time in the history of Jamaica that any party has ruled for three
consecutive terms. While the adjustments might be slower than Bank or Fund staff would have
liked, we cannot ignore the realities which exist in the country. Jamaica has gone through an
extended adjustment period which has resulted in a fragile social fabric. As we have seen in
many countries, the pace and sequencing of reform is driven not only by economic imperatives,
but also cultural, political and social realities facing each and every country. We cannot ignore
these realities and must seek to take into consideration, the views of the country. Broad country
ownership is an essential element for a successful development strategy; however, country
ownership takes time and patience to develop.

Bank staff are to be commended for adopting a more open and flexible stance in recognizing that
the macro-economic program under implementation, is within a framework in which new
lending can take place. This position demonstrates very clearly the Bank's willingness to adjust,
to some degree, to the pace of reform chosen by client countries.

Donor Coordination: We are very pleased that the approach to lending for the financial sector is
based on a partnership between the Bank and the Fund, and close coordination with the IDB and
the CDB. We would specifically note that the IDB Board has already approved a $150 million
financial sector operation for Jamaica. The proposed $75 million World Bank operation, together
with an additional $75 million approximately one year from now, will complement the support
already approved by the IDB. We, like the Jamaican authorities, would have preferred the
Bank's loan to mirror that of the IDB in terms of a single operation, rather than two separate
loans of $75 million, given the magnitude of the debt dynamics and the greater impact which a
single tranche would have made. Furthermore, we should not underestimate the efforts and
energies required for loan preparation and negotiation, requirements which are particularly
onerous on a small state.
In closing, we would again like to thank staff on behalf of the Jamaica authorities for the work
which has been done to date. We also join our authorities in looking forward to a renewed
engagement with the Bank to address the challenges facing Jamaica in the future.
