Report No. PID9540
Project Name                     Jamaica-Bank Restructuring and Debt (@)
Management Program Adjustment Loan
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Finance
Project ID                       JMPE71112
Borrower                         Jamaica
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Finance & Planning (MOF)
Ms. Shirley Tyndall
Financial Secretary
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston 4, Jamaica, W.I.
Date this PID Prepared           October 19, 2000
Project Appraisal Date           September 14, 2000
Project Board Date               November 30, 2000
Country and Sector Background
The financial sector in Jamaica suffered a severe shock in the mid-1990s
largely due to the spread of a wide variety and number of financial
institutions that operated under weak regulation and supervision. In order to
avoid a systemic crisis the Government provided extensive assistance to
troubled financial institutions in the form of bonds issued by a newly
established public sector entity The Financial Sector Adjustment Company
Limited (FINSAC). Interest on these bonds was capitalized in the form of
fresh bonds and little cash interest was paid. While the Government's action
achieved its objective and stabilized and re-capitalized the financial
sector, it created two major problems. First, it has generated a large stock
of public sector liabilities (FINSAC debt) which continues to grow because of
capitalization of interest. As of June 30, 2000 FINSAC debt is estimated to
be over 40 percent of GDP. Combined with an already high pre-crisis public
debt level of over 100 percent of GDP, FINSAC debt has contributed to the
creation of severe adverse public debt dynamics. Second, since FINSAC bonds
make up a substantial portion of the assets of intervened financial
institutions and the bonds do not pay cash interest, these institutions have
become extremely illiquid with little capacity to undertake financial
intermediation.
Since the beginning of the crisis, Jamaica has experienced negative or zero
economic growth and credit to the private sector as a percentage of GDP has
been decreasing. An essential element in re-starting economic growth in
Jamaica and thereby creating the environment for sustainable poverty
reduction is a resolution of the financial sector crisis and reversal of the
adverse debt dynamics. The Government has recently committed itself to a
program of macroeconomic stability and financial resolution of the crisis,
which is being monitored by the staff of the International Monetary Fund.
This program is intended to enable Jamaica to get back on to a sustainable
growth path and gradually reduce the high level of public debt.
This Government's Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program (BRDP)
includes the following key elements:
Re-capitalization and resolution of financial institutions by FINSAC of the



financial institutions that have received assistance from the Government.
FINSAC has closed, merged, restructured, and sold several financial
institutions that were intervened. FINSAC still owns substantial equity in
two large banks and one large insurance company and it is making efforts to
bring these institutions to resolution. FINSAC is also actively disposing of
a large portfolio of non-core assets such as real estate, commercial and
residential property, and art work that came into its possession as a result
of the intervention process. It is also developing a strategy to dispose the
large portfolio of non-performing loans that it acquired from distressed
financial institutions.
Improvements in the supervisory and regulatory framework including
strengthening the powers of the Bank of Jamaica, improving coordination
between various supervisory agencies, and forming an integrated regulatory
agency for insurance, securities, and pensions. The Government has also
introduced: changes to the definition of regulatory capital in line with
international norms; tighter guidelines on asset classification and
provisioning; improvements in the enforcement of regulations by the Bank of
Jamaica; improvements in effectiveness of powers of intervention; and revised
norms for disclosure and audit.
Restructuring and management of the government's public debt arising from the
resolution of the financial crisis including write-off and off-set of FINSAC
debt held by other public sector entities such as the MOF and the Bank of
Jamaica; utilizing proceeds from asset disposal to bring down the stock of
debt; restructuring the debt by using longer maturity and cheaper
multilateral debt to replace shorter maturity and more expensive domestic
debt; taking steps to arrest the growth of FINSAC debt by undertaking to
service all outstanding FINSAC debt (after the steps identified above) in
cash out of fiscal resources from April 1, 2001 onwards.
Loan objectives, description, and financing
The Bank loan would support the Government's Bank Restructuring and Debt
Management Program described above. Bank funds would help finance part of
the Government's debt-servicing needs arising from the implementation of its
bank resolution program, complementing other sources of funds available such
as fiscal resources and proceeds from asset disposal/recovery. The proposed
operation would be the first of a series of two loans in support of the
Government's BRDP for a total amount of US$150 million. The proposed loan
will be for US$75 million, to be disbursed in full in a single tranche, upon
effectiveness.
Program implementation
The Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOF) is the implementing agency for the
operation. FINSAC will be closely involved with the MOF in the implementation
of the   actions supported by this operation.
Program sustainability
The actions being supported under the proposed loan are intended to ensure
the sustainability of the financial sector in Jamaica. Resolution of the
financial sector crisis is essential if the Jamaican economy is to achieve
sustained economic growth in the future. The resolution transactions to be
supported by this operation are expected to create stronger institutions with
greater liquidity that will be able to operate and expand credit availability
in the Jamaican market.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The operation has been designed to take into account the lessons learned from
the Bank's past experience in Jamaica and in other countries in the region.
- 2-



It is being structured taking into account the capacity of the Government to
take actions on various issues.    The operation is based on strong borrower
ownership that is necessary in complicated, time-intensive banking sector
operations. Loan disbursements are being restricted to specific policy
actions and transactions that are part of the Government's overall reform
strategy.
Poverty category
The proposed loan would have little social impact in the short-run. In the
longer run, however, the measures supported by this operation would have
important social implications as they would assist in the creation of an
environment conducive to the resumption of prudent lending to the private
sector, with the associated benefits in terms of output growth and employment
generation. The ultimate objective of the restructuring/resolution process
supported by the proposed operation is a better functioning financial sector,
able to withstand external shocks and better able to lend to the private
sector. Given the extremely low level of new lending in Jamaica as a result
of the financial crisis, it is hoped that new lending would spur economic
growth and thereby create more job opportunities. A banking system less
vulnerable to crises will be better able to sustain growth and, therefore,
improve the welfare of the poor, who tend to be severely affected by
generalized banking system dislocations.
Environmental aspects
The bank restructuring and debt management program to be supported by the
proposed loan is not expected to have any environmental impact. For that
reason, it has been placed in Category "C", in accordance with the Bank's
Operational Policy on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01).
Program Objective Category. The Program Objective Category is Economic
Management (EA).
Contact Points:
Task Manager
P.S. Srinivas
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-8939
Fax: (202)522-2106
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington , D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October
20, 2000.
-3-



