                                                                                         87534
                     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                              International Development Association
                                 International Finance Corporation
                            Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                         CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                 EDS2000-404
                                                                             November 29, 2000
                                                                                  06:24:51 PM


Statement by Balmiki Prasad Singh
Date of Meeting: November 30, 2000

               JAMAICA - Country Assistance Strategy and Bank Restructuring and Debt
                            Management Program Adjustment Loan


       I welcome the discussion on the Country Assistance Strategy for Jamaica as well as the
proposed Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program Adjustment Loan of Jamaica. I
must compliment the Country Team for its very detailed study and analysis of the current
economic situation of the country. The last time the Board discussed the C.A.S. for Jamaica was
in March 1993. The resumption of constructive engagement reflects our shared vision: a
welcome change in the relations between the Bank and the country.

2.      Even though each country has its own unique features, Jamaica stands out as being
particularly different from others. On the one hand it is a stable democracy with a largely
meritocratic system of governance, an extremely high savings rate, primary surplus is in excess
of 12 percent of the GDP and its social indicators are exceptionally high. On the other hand, it
has seen a steep fall in poverty over the last few years, since 1996 when the GDP has shown a
negative growth rate. The economy is almost caught in a debt trap with debt re-payments and
government wages preempting the surplus, crowding out productive investment, high interest
yields has driven out liquidity from the system besides leading to an appreciation of the real
effective exchange rate. To put it bluntly, while the economy is shrinking, so have its poverty
rates! (This lack of consistency could be for various reasons including a large un-reported
informal sector, shift in income structures etc.)

3.      It is this ‘paradox’ that we have to confront. The Government of Jamaica has shown
considerable courage in tackling its problems. Tax collections have gone up leading to large
primary surplus mentioned above. Privatization of public utilities and units has been started, the
yields of the Banking sector have been largely sterilized and an ambitious program of off-loading
non-performing loans and non-core assets has been undertaken. I have already mentioned about
the lack of fresh investments, which is stifling GDP and employment growth rates. This is a
steep price to pay for the country. Government’s intervention in practically taking over the
banking system has led to a steep growth of domestic debt - external debt is very manageable
and historically at its lowest. To preserve the integrity of the financial system and prevent a run
on the currency, interest rates have risen extremely high. As a result, whilst there has been no
flight of capital to offshore locations, the banking system has become totally illiquid. This has
particularly hit the small and medium enterprises. However, the two steps being taken now,
namely, payment of interest in cash by the Government with effect from April 1, 2001 and
strengthening of the regulatory system should bring welcome liquidity and prudential norms into
the system.

4.      I would characterize the strategy adopted in the C.A.S. as basically a holding operation to
enable Jamaica to go back on the growth path. We can see at best moderate growth in the short to
medium term. The effort is basically to prevent the economy from going down as a consequence
of the debt overhang. Therefore, the partial replacement of expensive domestic debt with much
lower cost, external debt is a step in the right direction. At the same time, the improvements in
the safety net with emphases on better and efficient delivery, quality and equity will help the
poor in this transitional phase. The strengthening of opportunities for the vulnerable by
increasing their accessibility to secondary and vocational education is particularly noteworthy
and I commend it.

5.      There are two aspects that would need more analysis in the present situation. One, public
expenditure would have to be re-structured to release more resources for productive investment
in infrastructure, physical and social, without putting addition strain on the deficit. Private
investment will only flow after a certain threshold has been achieved. Also, if Jamaica wants to
capitalize on its English language/ common law heritage/ geographical location and become a
player in the IT world, which it wants, it would have to step up its expenditure on secondary/post
secondary/technical education institutions. This sector requires expertise and skills at different
levels and Jamaica must be prepared to invest in providing them.

6.      My second point deals with agriculture. It contributes 7% to the GDP while 21% of the
workforce is engaged in it. This large productive gap must be reduced. Rural poverty is also
more pervasive than urban poverty. Better educational attainments will help but may not be
enough. Only about 25% of the arable land have assured sources of irrigation. Quality of other
inputs and more efficient marketing services will have to come in. The reduction in preferential
access to its agricultural exports will, in any case, effect them adversely. Therefore, Jamaica’s
development partners will have to further refine their programs in the near term.

7.      Lastly, I would like to strike a note of caution at this stage. This relates to the possibility
of the Jamaican economy being adversely affected by external developments. We have seen the
effect of higher oil prices coupled with a fall in the value of unit exports of alumina and bauxite,
which has led to a widening of the trade deficit. This has also put an upward pressure on
domestic prices and inflation rates have moved up by 2 percentage points after a long period of
price stability. In case the situation worsens, the entire effort to bring down real interest rates
would suffer and the Jamaican economy and society would face much more unsustainable
situation than in the past. Since, in this scenario, it would not be possible to reduce the
percentage of its debt to GDP or bring down the interest rates; we would automatically shift to a
low cost scenario. In other words, the country would be penalized for no fault of its. The Bank
would necessarily have to rethink its strategy in the circumstances, else our credibility, as a
development partner would be increasingly challenged.

Bank Restructuring & Debt Management Program

8.      This joint effort by the Bank with the Inter-American Bank (IDB) and the Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB) represents the first major multilateral intervention in the Jamaican
economy for almost half a decade. Over the two-year period the Bank proposes to put in $150
million along with like amount by the IDB and $ 25 million by the CDB. The need for
restructuring of the banking sector and for appropriate debt management is well recognized. The
program itself has been drawn up imaginatively and barring external developments, should be a
successful one.

9.     I particularly like the way the banking crisis in Jamaica has been studied in parallel to the
one in Mexico. The striking similarities, particularly the way the crisis developed, the
intervention by the State and the cost incurred as a proportion of the GDP and in terms of
opportunities lost is very instructive. Other bank clients can draw lessons from it and distinguish
between “least-cost” and “least-pain” remedies. However, it is to be seen that often-fragile
economies have no option but to opt for the latter as against the former. Burden sharing with the
depositors is a sound idea since the situation of moral hazard cannot be allowed to prevail
always. However, in systems where due to laxity or a lack of understanding, have actually
encouraged moral hazard, it is difficult to suddenly reverse the course.

10.     In Jamaica initially the Government tried to enforce burden sharing and limit payouts to
depositors with a ceiling of J$ 100,000. This was tried out with Blaise Group (1994) and a year
later with the Century National Bank (1995). Despite this there was a run on the Citizens Bank
(1996) and had the scope of the pay-out not extended to cover everybody else, the entire banking
industry could have conceivably collapsed and there could have been a significant flight of
capital. The currency would have come under pressure and in 1996 the quantum of external debt
was much higher than at present. Instead of the present scenario of a limited shrinkage of the
GDP, and a domestic debt burden, Jamaica could have run into other, even more serious
problems. The document has clearly indicated that a small percentage of account holders are
responsible for an overwhelming amount of deposits. So whilst in the interest of equity they
could have been made parties to loss sharing, in practice the scenario could have been quite
different. Hindsight is not always a useful diagnostic tool.

11.     Having almost completed its restructuring and the Government moving considerably on
the way to disposing off its assets in the financial sector as a whole, we are surprised that the IFC
has not come into the picture. It has a comparative advantage in advising governments in the
fields of privatization, particularly those of the banking and insurance sectors. Simultaneously it
could always work with other partners in actually engineering the buy out of these banks and
other financial companies. However, we do not see this happening. I would urge the
Management of IFC to engage with Jamaica pro-actively and bring to bear its considerable
experience, expertise and prestige to the courageous effort of the government in restructuring and
privatizing the financial sector.

Issues Raised:
12.    We address the five issues raised in the CAS as follows:

1) The CAS does strike an appropriate balance between the costs of not supporting Jamaica and
the significant risks involved. I would strongly recommend that the Bank go ahead in its
engagement with the Government of Jamaica – not doing so at this juncture would put our
reputation at a far greater risk than that of failure of the present operations. The reasons and
details of our involvement have mentioned already. I would only add one more and that is, it
would send a powerful signal to the international community to do business with Jamaica on a
much greater scale than in the past. This is only way that the country could launch itself on a
path of sustainable growth.

2) Since this is basically a holding operation, and meant to just help Jamaica as it tries very hard
to get back on the path of growth, and given the extent of threat to the economy from the failures
of the banking sector, the balance in lending is correct.

3) The low-case scenario (volume, composition) and triggers are appropriate. However, the Bank
should look at it only if the country underperforms or backslides, on its own volition but not
because of factors beyond Government’s control.

4) Given our lack of active engagement in the recent past and Jamaica’s priorities, we agree that
the non-lending services are on the right track.

5) The development indicators seem quite modest but given the need to put the country back on
track, and probable difficulty with numbers, we feel that these are not very indicative of progress
we seek or are even relevant.

Conclusion:

13.   In conclusion, I commend the CAS and support the Bank Structuring & Debt
Management Program Adjustment Loan for US$ 75 million. Jamaica is at a critical stage and the
Bank           should           not            be              found                wanting.
