Document of
THE WORLD BANK
For Official Use Only
Report No. P 7397 JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
BANK RESTRUCTURING & DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$75 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
November 2,2000
Finance Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of August 31, 2000)
42.94 Jamaican Dollars = US$1.00
JAMAICAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNS                        bank of Nlova Scotia
BOJ                                maica (Jamaica's Central Bank)
BRDP               .[-structuring and Debt Management Prograrn
CAN                        Country Assistance Note
CAR                        Capital Assets Ratio
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
FINSAC                     Financial Sector Adjustment Company Limited
FIS                        Financial Institutions Services
FSC                        Financial Services Commission
FY                         Fiscal Year
GAAP                       Generally Accepted Accounting Practices
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
IDB                        Inter-American Development Bank
IFI                        International Finance Institution
IMF                        International Monetary Fund
JDB                        Jamaican Development Bank
JDIC                       Jamaica Deposit Insurance Company
LAR                        Liquid Asset Ratio
LOJ                        Life of Jamaica
LRS                        Locally Registered Stock (Treasury bonds)
MOF                        Ministry of Finance & Planning
MOU                        Memorandum of Understanding
NCB                        National Commercial Bank
NIBJ                       National Investment Bank of Jamaica
NPLs                       Non Performing Loans
OSI                        Office of the Superintendent of Insurance
PDL                        Past Due Loans
PIOJ                       Planning Institute of Jamaica
RBTT                       Royal Bank of Trinidad & Tobago
SC                         Securities Commission
SMP                        Staff Monitored Program
Vice President:           David de Ferranti (LCRVP)
Country Director:         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos (LCC3C)
Sector Director:          Danny Leipziger (LCSFP)
Task Manager:             P.S. Srinivas (LCSFF)
Project Team: This operation was prepared by a World Bank team composed of: Messrs./Mmes. Fernando Montes-
Negret, Yira Mascar6, and Juan Ortiz (LCSFF); Fernando de Mergelina (LCSFR); Sanjay Kathuria (LCC3C);
Eduardo Brito (LEGOP); and Steve Weisbrod (consultant). Cara Zappala (LCSFF) provided logistical support. The
team was led by P.S. Srinivas (Senior Financial Economist, LCSFF) and worked under the general guidance of
Fernando Montes-Negret (Sector Manager, LCSFF).
Peer Reviewers: Krishna Chalia, Sector Leader, LCC4C; Hunt Howell, Principal Economist, IDB.



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
PROPOSED BANK RESTRUCTURING & DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.    MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND RECENT PERFORMANCE...........................................S
A. The Context                                            .5
B. Recent Economic Developments and Prospects                              .6
C. Recent Initiatives of the Goverment                                .8
11. THE BANKING CRISIS OF THE MID-1990s                                     ..8
A. Structure of the Financial Sector Prior to the Crisis                     .9
B. Policy Environment .10
C. Legal, Regulatory, and Supervisory Environment .10
D. The Role of Insurance Companies .12
E. Financial Contagion .12
111. THE GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE TO THE CRISIS ................................................................. 13
A.  The Intervention Phase of FINSAC's Operations ...................................................................... 14
B.  The Rehabilitation Phase of FlNSAC's Operations ..................................................................... 15
C.  Impact of the Financial Sector Intervention on the Public Debt .................................................. 20
D.  Evaluation of the Government's Crisis Management Program .................................................... 22
IV. THE GOVERNMENT'S BANK RESTRUCTURING & DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.. 24
A.  The Structure of the Financial Sector in Jamaica after FINSAC Interventions ............ ............... 24
B.  The Government's Financial Sector Restructuring Strategy ....................................................... 25
C.  The Government's Debt Management Strategy ......................................................................  27
V.  BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ......................................................................  29
A.  Overall Assistance Strategy ......................................................................  29
B.  Rationale for Bank Lending to the Financial Sector ......................................................... -- ....... 31
C.  A Programmatic Approach to Lending to the Financial Sector ................................................... 31
D.  Coordination with the IMF and the IDB .......................................................................  33
VI. THE PROPOSED LOAN ....................................................................... 33
A. Loan Objectives and Description .33
B. Commitments under the Proposed Loan .34
C. Disbursements, Records and Auditing .35
D. Impact, Benefits and Risks .36
VII. RECOMMENDATION .38
ANNEXES
I  Matrix of Policy Actions .39
II  Letter of Sector Development Policy .45
III   Overview of the Supervisory Framework in Jamaica .55
IV  Banking System Structure .71
V        Financial Institutions under Resolution by FINSAC                      .8
VI    FINSAC Finances: Cash Flow and Liability Management .93
VIl  Status of Bank Group Operations .99
VIII    Jamaica At a glance                                                                         101
IX  Key Economic Indicators .103
X  Key Exposure Indicators .105
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in -he
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






1
JAMAICA
BANK RESTRUCTURING & DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (BRDP)
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROPOSED LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
BORROWER:                Jamaica
AMOUNT AND TERMS: US$75 million. The loan is proposed to be a fixed-spread US
dollar denominated loan with a maturity of up to 17 years
including a 5-year grace period. The Bank's standard front-end fee
of 1 percent and commitment fee of 0.85 percent for the first four
years and 0.75 percent thereafter will apply.
DESCRIPTION:             The operation will support the first stage of the Government's
Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program (BRDP)
which includes:
Resolution and restructuring of financial institutions. This
operation will support the sale of one large bank and progress in
the restructuring of two other large financial institutions in
Jamaica. As part of the restructuring and sale, Bank funds will be
used to retire a part of the FINSAC bonds being held at intervened
financial institutions and will complement other sources of funds
available to the Government such as fiscal resources, proceeds
from asset disposal, and loans from other international financial
institutions (IFIs). The Government will also begin to service in
cash the remaining FINSAC bonds that are held as assets in the
intervened institutions.
Restructuring and management of the public debt arising from
the resolution of the financial crisis. The Jamaican Cabinet has
approved a write-down and restructuring of liabilities accumulated
during the financial crisis. Specific measures include: (i) write off
of J$19.4 billion in FINSAC debt held by public sector institutions;
(ii) off-set of J$13 billion of FINSAC bonds held by the BOJ
against deposits of the Government at the BOJ; and (iii)
restructuring of about J$13.2 billion of FINSAC bonds held by the
BOJ. These measures will permit a reduction in the outstanding
stock of FINSAC debt to be serviced in cash by about a fourth.
Beginning April 1, 2001, the Government will service all
outstanding FINSAC obligations in cash.
Regulatory and supervisory reforms in the financial sector. The
authorities have been taking several steps since 1997 to strengthen
the legal, regulatory, and supervisory environment of the financial



2
sector. Recent additional measures to make further progress in this
area include giving strengthened powers of intervention in troubled
financial institutions to the BOJ, improving the coordination
between bank and non-bank supervisory authorities, creating an
integrated supervisor for insurance, securities, and pensions in
Jamaica, and committing to undertake an independent assessment
of the Basle Core principles by the second quarter of 2001.
PROJECT RATIONALE: Jamaica's economy faces major challenges in the medium term.
The Government's intervention of financial institutions affected by
the crisis that occurred in the mid-1990s has generated a stock of
public sector liabilities (FINSAC debt) of about 43.9 percent of
(FY2000) GDP as of August 2000. Combined with an already high
pre-crisis public debt level of over 100 percent of GDP, FINSAC
debt has contributed to the creation of severe adverse debt
dynamics. The intervention also led to Government ownership of
over half of the country's banking system. A key factor in re-
starting economic growth in Jamaica and thereby contributing to
poverty reduction is a resolution of the financial sector crisis and
reversal of the adverse debt dynamics. Bank assistance is proposed
within the context of strong Government commitment to reverse
the inappropriate policies of the past. This operation supports the
Government's recently articulated Bank Restructuring and Debt
Management Program (BRDP) which, while ambitious and subject
to risks, is nevertheless necessary to revive the economy. The
Government has also recently committed itself to a program of
macroeconomic stability and  minancial resolution of the crisis
which is being monitored by the staff of the IMF. If successful,
this program carries with it a good chance that Jamaica will be able
to get back on to a sustainable growth path and gradually reduce
the high level of public debt. This loan supports the Government's
efforts to begin paying the fiscal costs of the financial sector crisis
in cash.
In order to minimize risks to the Bank and retain flexibility to
respond to changing circumstances, a programmatic approach to
lending in support of the Government's BRDP is being adopted
which calls for two separate single-tranche loans (of which the
proposed operation is the first), each of US$75 million, over the
next two fiscal years. Each operation would support specific
actions taken by the Government prior to Board consideration.
BENEFITS:                The proposed first loan would have several benefits. First, it would
contribute to moving the resolution of the financial crisis forward
by supporting the sale to a foreign investor of one financial
institution and making substantial progress towards restructuring



3
two others. The Bank's loan would also support the provision of
greater liquidity to the banking system. Strong and well capitalized
banks with adequate liquidity would be in better position to resume
prudent lending to the private sector with the attendant beneficial
effects on growth, wider access to credit, and employment. By
contributing to the Government's financial restructuring program,
the loan would also help the Government make explicit the fiscal
cost of intervention and avoid additional and more costly delay.
Second, the loan would support the strengthening of the regulatory
and supervisory framework for the financial sector in Jamaica.
This is expected to reduce the vulnerability of the financial system
to future crises. Third, it would support the Government's program
of debt management by restructuring a part of the stock of high-
cost domestic debt into longer-term, cheaper, foreign debt. This
would modestly ease the Government's fiscal burden and reduce
the pressure on domestic interest rates. Fourth, it is expected that
the Bank's support together with that of the other IFIs will increase
confidence of the domestic and foreign private sector regarding the
Government's commitment to resolving the financial sector crisis
and thereby contribute to greater economic activity. Finally, the
success of the Government's BRDP and the Bank's operation will
assist in the completion of the Government's financial sector crisis
resolution efforts which is key if the Jamaican economy is to move
back on to a growth path.
RISKS:                   Both the Government's program and the proposed operation face
several risks that are being recognized by the Bank, especially
since it is not realistically possible for the proposed operation to
address all of these risks and mitigate them adequately. While the
Government's program faces many challenges, the Bank believes
it is worth supporting, in order to attempt to restart growth in
Jamaica. However, the Bank stands ready to re-assess its approach
to assisting Jamaica, should macroeconomic and sectoral
conditions warrant it.
The main risks facing the operation are the following: First, at a
macroeconomic level, if interest rates do not decline as assumed in
the Government's macroeconomic program (as reflected in the
SMP), the Government's debt service burden will be higher than
anticipated and the fiscal adjustment needed to achieve
stabilization and reduction of the stock of public debt will be even
larger. Given the extremely high level of overall public sector
primary surplus (over 11 percent of GDP in the medium term)
necessary even under the Government's relatively favorable base
case assumptions, the room for further maneuver by the
Government is limited. The Government has committed itself to



4
mobilizing greater fiscal resources and to approaching the IFIs for
further assistance in the event that unfavorable macroeconomic
scenarios materialize.  Second, the very tight fiscal discipline
required to make the proposed program successful may not be
sustainable and could create social tensions if economic growth
does not resume. Third, it may be difficult for the Government to
dispose of the remaining financial institutions that it proposes to
sell as part of the overall financial sector restructuring program.
FINSAC may also find it difficult to manage intervened financial
institutions for substantial periods of time if buyers are not found
soon. These risks could create problems for the Government's
financial sector restructuring strategy. Fourth, expected inflows
from sale of assets could be smaller than estimated. In this event,
the debt service burden will be correspondingly larger, placing
greater stress on Government finances. Fifth, while banking sector
and non-bank financial institutions' regulation and supervision has
been significantly strengthened, with substantially more progress
in the banking sector, both areas are still not yet up to international
best practice and therefore, could expose the financial system to
additional risks. The Bank has addressed some of these issues in
this operation and proposes to continue to address them in the
second phase of its assistance to the Government under the
proposed programmatic approach. Sixth, the Government's fiscal
planning for FY2001 calls for substantial resources to be raised
from privatization of state owned enterprises and international
borrowings. In the event that these resources are not mobilized as
envisioned, the Government may be forced to borrow from
domestic markets, increasing the pressure on interest rates and
consequently increasing its debt service commitments on existing
public debt. Finally, external shocks to the economy would also
adversely affect the Govemrnment's debt management program.
Further increases in oil prices, fall in alumina/bauxite prices, or a
decrease in tourism receipts are some of the external shocks that
could negatively impact the macroeconomic framework.
SCHEDULE OF
DISBURSEMENTS:           The full amount of the loan is expected to be disbursed in a single
tranche upon loan effectiveness, likely to be in December 2000.
CLOSING DATE:            June 30, 2001
PROJECT ID NUMBER: P071112



5
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
BANK RESTRUCTURING & DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (BRDP)
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO
JAMAICA
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed loan
to Jamaica in the amount of US$ 75 million to support the first phase of the Government's Bank
Restructuring and Debt Management Program (BRDP). The program focuses on advancing the
financial resolution of the crisis that occurred in the mid-1990s and involves three components:
(i) restructuring of the financial sector, including sale of one large bank and progress towards
sale of two other major intervened financial institutions; (ii) re-configuration of the domestic
debt as a result of the Government's commitment to explicitly assume debt servicing obligations
in cash of liabilities accumulated during the crisis; and (iii) strengthening of the legal, regulatory,
and supervisory framework for the financial sector. It is expected that the Bank will provide
continued support to the Government's BRDP through one additional single tranche loan of an
equal amount. The current loan would be a fixed-spread loan denominated in US dollars with a
maturity of up to 17 years including 5 years of grace and would be disbursed in a single tranche
upon effectiveness.
1. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND RECENT PERFORMANCE
A.   The Context
2.    Jamaica has had negative per capita GDP growth for much of the last 25 years. From the
late 1970s up to 1996, Jamaica operated under a series of IMF programs and obtained several
structural and sector adjustment loans from the Bank. The Bank's assessment of its own
operations has been that, for a variety of reasons, they largely failed to achieve their objectives,
while contributing to increasing Jamaica's official external debt burden'. The IMF resumed its
involvement in Jamaica only recenitly after not having been involved since 1996. No Bank
structural adjustment loans have been processed after 1993.
3.    The Government initiated a series of economic reforms in the mid-1980s focusing on
liberalization of the trade and financial sectors. During the mid-1990s, however, a severe
financial sector crisis over-shadowed these efforts. The crisis was largely attributable to financial
sector liberalization that was not complemented by a sufficiently robust prudential and regulatory
infrastructure. A large number and variety of financial institutions emerged, enabling regulatory
arbitrage. By late 1996, there were compelling signs of liquidity and solvency problems of
ISee Jamaica: Country Assistance Note (CAN) dated December 30, 1998. Report No. CODE98-80.



6
systemic dimensions in several financial institutions and inflationary pressures built up. The
Government's response focused on reducing inflation through tight monetary policy, maintaining
a stable nominal exchange rate, intervening in the financial sector through a full guarantee for all
depositors, strengthening the regulatory and supervisory framework of the financial sector, and
re-capitalizing weak institutions using Government-backed debt issued by a newly created
failure resolution agency - the Financial Sector Adjustment Company Limited (FINSAC). This
institution was established in 1997 with the objectives of intervention, rehabilitation and
divestment of troubled financial institutions. Through the interventions of FINSAC, the
Government largely avoided a melt-down of the financial sector.
4.     However, the stabilization of the financial sector came at a substantial cost. Since the
Government did not have the resources to service all FINSAC notes in cash, it resorted to
capitalizing interest on FINSAC paper through the issue of more FINSAC paper2. While this
postponed the financial recognition of the costs of the crisis, the compounding effect of interest
capitalization resulted in an extremely rapid growth of FINSAC paper - reaching a level of about
J$127 billion (about US$3 billion or about 43.9 percent of GDP) as of August 20003. Taking into
account the already high (non-FINSAC) public debt that existed before the crisis - over 100
percent of GDP in 1995 - which has largely remained stable since then, Jamaica faces a severe
fiscal problem. Wages plus interest payments on all public debt (including FINSAC debt) would
have required 111 percent of Government revenues in FY 1999 and 104 percent of Governent
revenues in FY20004.
5.     Overall, while the Government has succeeded in stabilizing the financial sector and
reducing inflation, the real effective exchange rate for the Jamaican dollar has appreciated, real
interest rates have remained high, although recently on a declining trend, growth has remained
weak, and public debt has been on an unsustainable growth path.
B.    Recent Economic Developments and Prospects s
6.     In the two most recent fiscal years 1999 and 2000, interest rates have shown a marginal
decline. Real interest rates on six-month treasury bills, to which interest rates on FINSAC bonds
are indexed, have been on a declining trend from 13.8 percent as of end-FY 1999 to 10.4 percent
by end-FY-2000. Largely as a result of a conscious Government strategy to reduce public sector
domestic borrowing, liquidity pressures on the domestic financial system have eased marginally.
2 As of August 31, 2000, the Government was servicing less than 0.5 percent of FINSAC paper in cash.
3 FINSAC debt as of March 31, 2000 had been estimated at J$107 billion or 37 percent of GDP and this is the figure
that forrns the basis of the projections in the SMP and the CAS. This earlier estimate was based on data available as
of July 2000. This document uses revised estimates of FINSAC debt based on data as of August 31, 2000, which
becamne available in September 2000. Bank and Fund staff have agreed with the authorities on the revised estimates.
Increases in the total FINSAC debt from J$107 billion to J$127 billion resulted mostly from: (i) about J$8 billion in
FINSAC debt owed to MOF due to the issuance of LRS or provision of cash to cover asset gaps for the resolution of
three insurance companies (mainly for Mutual Life with J$7.4 billion), (ii) J$2.3 billion in additional realized costs
for the restructuring of Union Bank, (iii) J$I billion in additional capitalization of LOJ, (iv) interest accrued and
capitalized from March to August; and (v) other, relatively small, additional commitments.
4 The reduction is due to additional government revenues in FY2000 and lower interest rates.
5 For more details regarding the macroeconomic situation, see the Country Assistance Strategy for Jamaica being s
presented to the Board together with this operation.



7
Real weighted average lending rates declined from about 24.5 percent in March 1998 to 16.6
percent in March 2000. Real GDP growth is still flat, however, having increased from a negative
0.5 percent in FY 1999 to zero in FY2000.
7.    Inflation (end-of-period) rose 2 percentage points reaching 8.4 percent by the end of
FY2000 largely due to higher prices for oil imports. Unemployment is estimated to have
remained high at about 15.5 percent with a growing informal sector that the Government has
estimated at about one-fourth of the formal economy. The real effective exchange rate of the
Jamaican dollar has appreciated by about 30 percent since FYI 995-96, despite a modest reversal
of this appreciation in FY2000.
8.    The external current account deficit increased from 3 percent of GDP in FY 1999 to 4.5
percent in FY2000 in spite of strong bauxite/alumina prices, large private remittances, increasing
tourism receipts (the largest source of foreign exchange earnings), and decreasing imports of
capital goods. Total export proceeds decreased due to lower prices of many other items such as
sugar, bananas, and non-traditional items together with many closures in the apparel industry.
The external current account deficit and official debt amortization were largely financed by
foreign borrowing as the government was able to raise about US$300 million a year in
international markets. Gross official international reserves rose US$100 million to reach US$801
million as of March 31, 2000, equivalent to about 10 weeks of projected imports of goods and
services.
9.    The public sector primary surplus improved by 6.6 percentage points of GDP reaching
7.2 percent in FY1999, mostly because of strengthened tax administration and efficiency gains in
the operation of the public enterprises. This marked improvement helped cover the growing
interest bill on the large public sector debt, but the overall public sector deficit still expanded by
one percent of GDP to reach 12 percent in FY1999. The improving trend in the overall public
sector primary surplus continued in FY2000 as it rose by over 5 percentage points to an
impressive 12.5 percent of GDP. This was achieved through increased consolidation efforts,
largely arising from expenditure cuts and some revenue increases including the introduction of a
withholding tax on interest. Notwithstanding these improvements, the stock of public debt
increased from about 124 percent of GDP at end FY1998 to about 131.2 percent of GDP at end-
FY2000 (excluding intra-public sector debt which is being written down).
10.  In terms of the short and medium term prospects for the economy, the Government faces
two challenges to restart growth: (i) reversing the adverse debt dynamics due to the large stock of
public debt combined with high interest rates; and (ii) strengthening the fragile financial sector
and increasing its intermediation in the economy. The Government is committed to making
strong fiscal adjustments in'the current fiscal year, aimed at reducing the public sector borrowing
requirement and bringing about a sustained reduction in interest rates. This fiscal stance will
complement the monetary measures aimed at increasing liquidity in the banking sector through
the lowering of the cash reserve requirements for banks. These measures are expected to have a
positive impact on the debt dynamics as well as to encourage increased investment by the private
sector in order to spur growth. However, given the size of the public debt, a sustained fiscal
effort and the restoration of growth over several years will be needed to reverse the debt
6 The total stock of public debt to GDP (including intra-public sector debt) is 144 percent, as of FY2000.



8
dynamics. The Government's own program is cautious on the outlook for the economy. As a
base case, real GDP growth is expected to increase from zero in FY2000 to 3.5 percent in
FY2005. An alternative scenario, discussed with the Government, arising from different
assumptions about exogenous conditions and private sector responses within the context of a
fundamentally similar policy stance, envisages real GDP growth to increase to only 2.5 percent
in FY2005.
C.    Recent Initiatives of the Government
11.   The Government has recognized that resolution of the financial sector crisis and reversing
the adverse debt dynamics is essential if the economy is to achieve significant recovery. Over the
past few months, the Government has undertaken several promising initiatives, further building
on the improved policy stance and performance of the past two years. First, it further tightened
its fiscal stance, adopting a near-balanced central government budget for fiscal year FY200 1 with
an ambitious target of 14.1 percent of GDP for the public sector primary surplus. Second, at the
time of budget presentation in March 2000, the Government gave a public undertaking that it
would address remaining problems in the financial sector without delay, notably through a plan
to deal with outstanding financial sector liabilities and complete the restructuring and disposal of
intervened financial institutions. Third, the Government requested an IMF Staff-Monitored
Program (SMP) that went into effect in April 20007. The authorities see the adoption of the SMP
as helping to: (i) give creditors and financial markets a strong signal of Government commitment
to a sound macroeconomic framework and credible reform program; and (ii) pave the way for
support for the completion of financial sector restructuring from intemational financial
institutions (the Bank, the IDB, and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)). Within a
supporting macroeconomic framework (which provides, inter alia, for continued maintenance of
a very tight fiscal stance over the medium term), the SMP lays out a general plan for addressing
the remaining financial sector problems and also sets structural benchmarks that the Government
has agreed to meets. In addition to financial sector reforms, other structural benchmarks
established by the Government as part of the SMP include privatization of a power company and
selected public enterprise reforms. All these actions, if implemented over the coming months,
will represent significant progress.
II. THE BANKING CRISIS OF THE MID-1990s
12.   Many of the root causes of the 1995-96 financial crisis can be traced to policies from the
1980s and early 1990s. In the mid-1980s, the Government's overall strategy was to reduce the
size of the public sector in a widespread privatization process. Banks that had been acquired by
the government in the 1970s were sold back to the private sector although the privatization was
7The SMP was formally approved by the IMF's management in July 2000. However, its benchmarks have been set
retro-actively  to  begin  on  April  1, 2000. A  copy  of the  SMP  is  available  online:
http://www.imf.org/external/country/JAM/index.htm.
Bank and IDB staff contributed to the development of the financial sector resolution strategy as reflected in the
SMP.



9
largely limited to domestic investors9. In the early 1990s, there was a rapid growth in variety and
number of financial institutions and Jamaica experienced a credit boom. Management of most of
these institutions was weak. The legal, regulatory, and supervisory environment was deficient
and allowed regulatory arbitrage. Insurance companies, which were allowed to offer deposit-like
products, raised funds through such products to finance longer-term investment projects in the
real estate and tourism sectors. As a result, they increased their risks, and played a key role in
precipitating the crisis. Government policy, which initially attempted to implement loss-sharing
arrangements with depositors for the first few failed institutions, also contributed to erosion of
depositor confidence.
A.    Structure of the Financial Sector Prior to the Crisis
13.   Prior to the crisis, the Jamaican financial sector was characterized by extremely rapid
growth in assets and a large number and variety of financial institutions. Between 1990 and
1994, total assets in the financial sector grew at an average rate of 16.2 percent with a credit
boom concentrated in the real estate and tourism sectors. Financial services increased their
contribution to GDP from about 7 percent during the 1980s reaching 15.9 percent 1994.
Commercial bank assets multiplied seven times between 1990-95, while merchant banks and
building societies' assets grew four and ten times, respectively (Table 1). A large number of
institutions emerged partly motivated by regulatory and tax arbitrage opportunities that surfaced
in the system. From 1981 to 1990, the number of merchant banks increased from 6 to 21. After
reserve requirements were raised on merchant banks, non-supervised building societies with no
reserve requirements and lower prudential standards increased from 6 in 1990 to 32 in 1995
when BOJ assumed supervisory responsibility for the sub-sector.
14.   FINSAC conducted an extensive study of the weaknesses that characterized the financial
institutions that had to be intervenedl'. It found that most financial institutions were poorly
managed and had inappropriate organizational structures with little or no strategic planning. In
spite of being ill prepared to understand and control their risks, the re-privatized banks went into
a lending-spree beginning in 1990, which previously credit-rationed borrowers eagerly absorbed.
Institutions frequently undertook lending activities largely in the interest of their major
shareholders and the obvious incentive problems led to poor supervision by their Boards of
Directors. FINSAC found evidence of excessively high operating costs including inappropriately
high compensation packages for certain executives. Almost all institutions were under-
capitalized, especially given the large role that real estate played as collateral. Credit origination
and evaluation techniques were weak as banks used largely illiquid real-estate collateral as
security for loans instead of focusing on expected cash flow from projects financed. Financial
institutions' asset portfolios were highly concentrated with substantial related party lending and
consequently, there was little assessment or monitoring of loans. Non-performing loans were not
adequately provisioned for and there was substantial mismatch in the maturity of assets and
liabilities.
9 The largest commercial bank, National Commercial Bank (NCB-formerly Barclays Bank International) that had
been nationalized in 1977 was transferred to the private sector in stages, starting with the sale of more than 40
percent of the shares in 1986. Another large bank, Workers Savings and Loan Bank, was privatized in 1991.
For more details, see FINSAC's website: http://www.finsac.com.



10
B.    Policy Environment
15.   The policies of the early 1980s of exchange controls, interest rate controls, and high
reserve requirements, negatively impacted the decisions of the commercial banks. By the late
1980s, the authorities had initiated a process of financial liberalization and the Bank of Jamaica
(BOJ) shifted to market-based instruments of liquidity management. By 1989, the BOJ had freed
interest rates, removed credit controls, significantly reduced the liquid asset ratio (LAR),
introduced a program to remunerate reserve requirements, and started open market operations to
replace credit ceilings as the primary instrument of monetary control" . Between 1989 and 1991
a major policy reversal took place because of the surge in credit and exchange rate pressures,
which led to the reintroduction of credit ceilings, an increase in LAR, and the discontinuation of
payment of interest on a portion of the reserve requirements. The reform program was reinitiated
in late 1991 when credit controls were abandoned. LARs, which continued to be prominent as
instruments of monetary policy, were extended in 1991 to foreign currency deposits. Since then,
open market operations have become a crucial component of a restrictive monetary policy which
was implemented to contain high inflation experienced during 1991-1994.
16.   Tight monetary policies instituted by the Government during the mid-1990s caused high
real interest rates and a recession in 1996. Many of the large investments in projects financed by
banks during the credit boom of earlier years did not provide the anticipated returns, widening
credit defaults. As defaults increased, the maturity mismatch between assets and liabilities
became evident, particularly at several insurance companies, increasing their liquidity needs.
These companies then demanded more credit from their associated banks within the same
conglomerate, which in turn affected the already fragile liquidity of the system. Many of the
liquidity and solvency problems that caused the financial sector crisis thus originated in
insurance companies and spread to the banks and other financial institutions.
C.    Legal, Regulatory, and Supervisory Environment
17.   The financial liberalization process of the early 1990s was not accompanied by the
development and enforcement of an adequate framework of supervision and regulation and
prudential requirements were inadequate. The distinction between deposit-taking institutions
(traditional commercial banks) and other financial institutions was minimal because of the
creation of unregulated instruments that mimicked deposits at lower regulatory costs. The
number of institutions that were subject to lower reserve requirements and relatively lax
supervision increased as market participants searched for ways to access cheaper funds and
broaden their deposit base. This was particularly the case initially of merchant banks that had
lower reserve requirements than commercial banks and later of building societies, which were
not subject to any legal reserve requirements until 1996 after implementation of formal
supervisory arrangements for the sector under the BOJ. The pattern of regulatory arbitrage
continued as the liabilities of insurance companies increased mainly because they remained
poorly regulated.
In Jamaica, cash reserve requirements (CRRs) are a component of the liquid assets ratios (LAR). The difference
between the latter and the forner is the portion that is required to be maintain in eligible liquid assets, primarily
government paper.



11
Table 1. Changes in the Financial System Structure: 1961-1999
(Total Assets, Deposits, Loans in J$ millions, figures as of December 31)
1961     1971      1981      1990     1995      1996      1999
Commercial banks
Number of banks              6         6         8        11        11        9         6
Number of branches          69       131       179       170      205       188       129
Assets                       --      517     2,634    17,328   121,325   135,986   192,843
Deposits                     --      406     2,103    12,098    89,135    94,103   126,814
Loans                        --      330     1,495     8,997    45,864    54,563    36,719
Merchant banks
Number of institutions       --        3         6        21        25       23        13
Assets                       --       12        93     4,527    17,334    19,778    10,078
Deposits                     --        2        35     2,843     6,868     6,760    4,545
Loans                        --       10        38     2,863     6,024     7,349    2,704
Trust companies
Number of institutions        2        6        10         3        --        --        --
Assets                       --       24       163       109        --        --       --
Deposits                     --       14       126        86        --        --       --
Loans                        --       14       104        75        --        --       --
Building societies
Number of institutions        7       16         7         6       32        14         5
Assets                       17       57       388     3,058    29,084    35,926    40,412
Savings funds               14        53       367     2,667    25,217    28,765    32,577
Loans                        14       46       271     1,596     9,714    15,570    14,709
Credit unions
Number of institutions      110      127        96        80        82       77        66
Savings                      2        10       185      694      3,516    4,681     9,436
Loans                         1        9       184       652     2,831     3,652    6,680
Finance houses
Number of institutions       --        --       10         5         4        4         2
Assets                       --       --        59       266      639       530       724
Savings funds                --       --        47       157      210       236       393
Loans                        --        --       33       168      206       185       205
Life insurance companies
Number of institutions       16       20        13        10        12        12        7
Total Assets                61       129       403     2,072       n.a.     n.a.   24,000
Source: Bank of Jamaica
n.a.: not available
18.    Lacking an adequate legal framework also complicated supervision, further undermining
the soundness of the system. The eventual legislation that was approved in 1992 gave
inadequate powers of intervention, sanction, and enforcement to supervisors. While the BOJ
supervised the banking system, sanctioning powers were chiefly vested in the Minister of
Finance  and Planning12. Exemptions to  legislation  and to  prudential requirements were
12 By law, it is only the Minister of Finance and Planning and not the Ministry, that is vested with these powers.



12
sometimes granted, which undermined the ability of the BOJ to supervise the industry, because
institutions were inclined to seek exemptions or delays as opposed to complying with particular
requirements of the supervisor. Moreover, although the BOJ extended substantial amounts of
unsecured overdraft facilities to institutions in difficulties, it did not have legal powers to
intervene unless an institution was declared insolvent by the Minister. It could also not impose
early corrective measures such as mandatory financial restructuring and managerial changes.
The BOJ could not impose fines for violations of regulations, since the Jamaican legal system
required (and still does) that all fines be levied only by the courts'3. In addition, while the BOJ
became more stringent in supervising deposit-taking institutions, the other financial regulators
did not replicate this supervisory approach.
D.    The Role of Insurance Companies
19.   Insurance companies played a key role in triggering the crisis. They offered new
insurance products in the early 1990s (popularly known as investment or lump-sum policies)
which enabled them to take deposits disguised as insurance premiums. A small portion of the
deposits went to insurance coverage, while the majority was used to invest in real estate, stocks,
bonds, and securities (Annex V). As noted above, once the liquidity problems emerged,
insurance companies tapped mostly their related banks for funds, triggering the problems that
surfaced in the banking sector.
E.    Financial Contagion
20.   The Government initially attempted to implement loss-sharing arrangements with
depositors for the first few failed institutions as demonstrated by the Government's intervention
in the Blaise group in 199414. In the aftermath of the bankruptcy of this group, the Government
established the Financial Institutions Services (FIS), a wholly Government owned limited
liability company (Box 1), to liquidate the group and implement a scheme of loss-sharing
arrangements that were drafted in July 1996. The loss sharing arrangement limited payouts to
depositors to 90 percent of deposits with a ceiling of J$100,000 (about US$2500). Despite the
small size of this institution, there was significant negative impact on public confidence.
21.   The second bank that ran into major liquidity problems was Century National Bank. The
first signs of instability emerged in 1992, and by 1995, BOJ's on-site examinations revealed a
shortfall in capital of more than J$1.5 billion. The liquidity problems were originally addressed
with the provision of overdrafts by the BOJ for an amount of J$4.3 billion (close to 2 percent of
GDP) by mid-1996.'5 When this support proved inadequate, the Government announced that it
would assume temporary management of Century group'6. It also announced that FIS would
implement a loss-sharing scheme similar to the one adopted for Blaise. This action, combined
3The only exception to this rule is fines on overdrafts, as this provision pre-dates the Jamaican constitution.
14 The Blaise group consisted of the Blaise Trust & Merchant Bank, Blaise Building Society, and Consolidated
Holdings Limited.
1 There is an automatic and unsecured overdraft provided by the BOJ at penalty interest rates triggered by the
banks' inability to cover their payment clearing obligations. This facility was widely used in the crisis.
6 The Century group consisted of the Century National Bank, Century National Building Society, and Century
National Merchant Bank.



13
Box 1. Financial Institutions Services
FIS was the first bank failure resolution entity established by the Government. While it continues to
exist, its activities are limited and since 1997, FINSAC has taken over as the special Government
entity to resolve the financial sector crisis.
FIS is responsible for paying creditors of the two intervened groups (Blaise and Century) - issuing
debt in its own name to finance the payout - and for selling the assets acquired from these groups.
In the case of Century Group, depositors are entitled to open accounts with National Commercial
Bank (NCB), which in tum receives FIS notes as corresponding assets. This is an ongoing process
with a few depositors still claiming their funds from Century at NCB, which results in increases in
FIS' outstanding debt. As a result of this arrangement, most FIS bonds are held by NCB. FIS bonds
are issued both in Jamaican dollars and US dollars with coupon rates ranging from zero to market
rates linked to Treasury bills. All FIS bonds are serviced in cash. As of August 2000, FIS debt
amounted to J$5.4 billion (about 2 percent of GDP).
FIS is also empowered to pursue civil litigation against shareholders and directors of the Century
group and to assist the judicial system in its effort to investigate fraudulent behavior on the part of
former managers and owners. If a judgement against the forner owners and managers is issued.
FIS would assist in identifying and obtaining the control of assets of the respective individuals.
with rumors of liquidity problems at a much larger bank-Citizens Bank- triggered a run on
Citizens Bank in late 1996. A run later began on Eagle Bank in early 1997.
22.   As confidence eroded, depositors shifted their funds into stronger institutions -
particularly foreign-owned - in an extensive flight to quality'7. The authorities then reassured
the public by extending full coverage of all bank liabilities, revoking their original response to
earlier bank failures. The implementation of this costly approach emerged from the large risk of
ongoing bank runs becoming systemic and increased possibilities for capital flight, coupled with
evidence of increasing social turmoil.
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE TO THE CRISIS
23.   Faced with the risk of systemic runs, the Government implemented a wide ranging
intervention in the system, de facto insuring all depositors, life insurance policyholders, and
pension fund investors for their total assets. In the process, the Government effectively became
the owner of, or a major investor in most of the domestically owned financial sector. The
Jamaican approach to the management of its financial crisis was similar to that taken by Mexico
after its 1995 banking crisis (Box 2).
24.   As mentioned above, Jamaica initially established the Financial Institutions Services
(FIS) to wind down the operations of two failed groups - Blaise and Century. In 1997, the
Government established another public sector limited liability entity, the Financial Sector
17As a result of the continuing flight to quality the largest foreign institution in Jamaica - the Bank of Nova Scotia
(BNS) - increased its share of deposits in the banking system from 37 percent in March 1998 to 41 percent in June
2000 (Annex IV).



14
Adjustment Company Limited (FINSAC), with a broader mandate to: (i) restore liquidity and
solvency to distressed institutions; (ii) strengthen the financial management of institutions; (iii)
improve the efficiency of the financial sector in mobilizing and allocating resources; and (iv)
restructure existing financial institutions so that they could be attractive to private investors in
the future'8. FINSAC was originally envisioned to have a limited life of five to seven years.
Recently, the Government publicly stated its intention to close down FINSAC, subsequent to
satisfactory achievement of its objectives, by September 30, 2001. FINSAC assisted financial
institutions and re-capitalized them by purchasing shares, making subordinated loans, and
purchasing non-performing loans.
A.    The Intervention Phase of FINSAC's Operations
25.    FINSAC  implemented a series of interventions and acquired a large share of the
ownership of the financial system. It provided assistance to five commercial banks, five life
insurance companies, two building societies, and nine merchant banks. Initially, it provided some
resources in cash, but when the size of the problem increased, it provided institutions with
special, largely illiquid FINSAC notes that allowed capitalization of interest19. FINSAC notes
carried mostly floating interest rates usually indexed to the 6-month Jamaican Treasury bill
rate 20. The interest payment on almost all notes was capitalized in the form of fresh FINSAC
notes (Annex VI). As of August 2000, FINSAC's gross support to the system amounted to about
J$127 billion (43.9 percent of GDP). Several modes of intervention were used by FINSAC, as
listed below.
-  Acquisition of cross-holdings. FINSAC often acquired shares of one financial institution
from another in return for payment of an agreed amount in FINSAC bonds and/or cash, and
in some cases, acquisition of certain properties. Valuation of the acquisitions was largely
done at book value, not reflecting appropriately the weakened financial position of the
intervened institution and the lower market values of the acquired properties.  This
effectively transferred public resources to existing shareholders at some institutions.
*  Purchase of non-performing loan portfolio. FINSAC  purchased non-performing loans
(NPLs, principal plus at least three months of accrued interest) from several institutions at
par value. In exchange for the NPLs, the institutions received FINSAC bonds.
*  Direct capital injection.  FINSAC  also attempted to restore liquidity and solvency to
financial institutions directly. The intervened institutions issued new preferred or ordinary
shares to FINSAC in exchange for FINSAC notes and/or cash. In some cases, the previous
stockholders gave up control of the institution to FINSAC and management was substituted
18 FINSAC has divided its activities into six major functional areas: Asset Management & Divestment (including
non-performing loans); Liquidity Management; Institution Rehabilitation - Banks and Insurance Companies;
Insurance Regulatory Reform; Monitoring and Evaluation; and Investigation of Claims for Fraudulent Activities.
About 82 percent of the total amount of resources provided by FINSAC at the point of intervention was in the
form of bonds.
20 Only a few of the bonds canry fixed interest rates - mostly ranging from 9-10 percent for FINSAC notes
denominated in Jamaican dollars and 7-9 percent for notes denominated in US dollars. FINSAC notes denominated
in US dollars are a small fraction of overall FINSAC paper.



15
or institutions were sold or merged. Most preferred shares were cumulative and redeemable,
and counted as Tier 1 capital.
* Provision of loans, subordinated loans, and advances. FINSAC provided loans to financial
institutions for liquidity and solvency support, and in some cases, for assumption of an
institution's liabilities. These loans were also sometimes issued to cover earlier BOJ
overdraft advances.
* Payoff of depositors through new accounts in other "good"financial institutions. In some
cases, FINSAC provided assets to "good" financial institutions to back up liabilities of "bad"
financial institutions that were assumed by the "good" financial institutions. This support was
provided in the form of Treasury bonds (Locally Registered Stock or LRS), issued by the
MOF to the intervened institutions. In return, FINSAC provided bonds to the MOF.
B.   The Rehabilitation Phase of FINSAC's Operations
26.   Subsequent to initial intervention, FINSAC attempted to rehabilitate intervened financial
institutions through introduction of better management and cost-cutting measures such as staff
and branch rationalization in order to prepare them for sale.
27.   Rehabilitation of banks. This involved mergers to consolidate the banking operations of
all FINSAC controlled institutions into two banks -Union Bank (UB) and National Commercial
Bank (NCB). FINSAC first merged (the good bank portion of) smaller intervened domestic
banks into Citizens Bank, and changed its name to Union Bank in June 1999. It merged a
smaller merchant bank into NCB. As of June 2000, intervened FINSAC institutions consolidated
into NCB and Union Bank held over half of the total commercial bank deposits of the Jamaican
financial system (Annex IV). The restructuring process also involved a substantial reduction in
the number of branches and staff of the two banks. UB has reduced its number of branches from
the pre-merger level of 42 down to 23, while staff was reduced from 1,425 to 800. As of March
2000, NCB staff had been reduced from 3,110 to 2,614, while its number of branches was
reduced to 49, with additional reductions pending. In contrast, the Bank of Nova Scotia, a
foreign bank with a large and growing presence in the market, significantly increased the number
of staff in 1999.



16
Box 2. Jamaica and Mexico.- Comparison of Two Banking Crises;
Two very different economies -Jamaica and Mexico- have many similarities in the causes, management, and
effects of the financial crises that they faced in the mid- 1990s.
1.     Causes
Bank nationalization, followed by poorly implemented re-privatization, rapid financial liberalization, a large
credit boom with substantial assets concentrated in real estate, poor standards of accounting and disclosure,
and weak legal, regulatory, and supervisory frameworks, characterized the onset of crises in both countries.
Both countries nationalized almost their entire domestic banking sectors during the 1970s and the early 1980s
and subsequently re-privatized them in the context of a process of rapid financial sector liberalization. In both
countries few new foreign entrants were allowed during the privatization process. Both Mexico and Jamaica
experienced a credit boom in early 1990s. In both cases a boom in the real estate sector preceded the crises,
and a large share of outstanding commercial credit had been extended either directly to real estate or with
real estate as collateral. Tight monetary policies introduced by both governments in response to the credit
booms caused interest rates to increase dramatically. As the real estate bubble burst, both financial systems
were left with a large percentage of non-performing loans in such illiquid assets. Finally, both crises were
characterized by weak legal, regulatory and supervisory systems that prevailed during the crises together with
major issues in corporate governance that undermined the bank resolution process.
2.      Crisis management
Both governments managed to contain systemic crisis through large interventions in the financial sector and
provision of a full guarantee for all depositors. Mexico's FOBAPROA and Jamaica's FIS and FINSAC
provided financial institutions with a broad range of support. Both countries' failure resolution mechanisms
issued Government backed debt to re-capitalize banks and purchase non-performing loans. Both countries
postponed the financial resolution of their interventions by allowing the debt to accrue interest in the form of
fresh bonds. Mexico created a new institution - IPAB - to take over FOBAPROA's liabilities and undertake
financial resolution of the crisis. In Jamaica, FINSAC has this responsibility.
3.      Effects
Both governments allowed liabilities to accumulate for about three to four years and are now at the early
stages of explicitly assuming liabilities created due to the crises and servicing them in cash. The "least-cash"
as opposed to "least-cost" strategies employed by the two countries resulted in significant accumulation of
crisis-related liabilities, which ultimately will translate into high fiscal costs. Mexico's support to the financial
sector is estimated to cost the country over 20 percent of GDP, while the cost of Jamaica's FINSAC
intervention is estimated at about 43.9 percent of GDP as of August 2000. The two countries have taken
different approaches to dealing with the debt accumulated as a result of the crises. Mexico plans to service the
real component of interest on crisis-related debt in cash while gradually assuming amortization
responsibilities for some of the debt as individual financial institutions are sold. Jamaica plans to restructure
and reduce its debt up-front and assume the responsibility for servicing all interest payments on the entire
stock of outstanding debt as of April 1, 2001. Amortization of debt will depend on agreements between the
Jamaican Government and the buyers of the intervened institutions. The real level of intennediation of banks
in the financial sector in both countries has been severely curtailed due to the crises. In Mexico, growth of
real credit to the private sector has been negative since 1995, while in Jamaica, credit to the private sector as a
percentage of GDP is still below that in 1996. Since the crises, both govemrnents have engaged in a major
overhaul of their regulatory and supervisory frameworks to reduce the likelihood of future crises.
An important difference in the impacts of the crises on the two economies is that in contrast to the Jamaican
economy, Mexico's economic growth has dramatically improved since the crisis. Mexico's close economic
ties to the US economy due to NAFTA (which came into force just prior to the crisis) and the booming US
economy since the mid-1990s have undoubtedly had a large role to play in Mexico's economic performance.
Nevertheless, Mexico is estimated to have to pay about 1 percent of GDP per year for the foreseeable future
to service its crisis related liabilities while the costs to Jamaica are estimated to be much larger - between 2-4
percent of GDP for the foreseeable future. It may be easier for Mexico to bear these costs with a rapidly
growing economy, lower overall debt/GDP ratio, and a freely floating currency. Jamaica's future rate of
economic growth will largely determine the sustainability of its crisis related debt management strategy.



17
28.   Rehabilitation of life insurance companies. Concomitantly with the advances in the
banking sector, the Government has restructured the insurance sector. Importantly, in providing
support to intervened insurance companies the government cut off the financial ties that existed
between these companies and related banks, thus improving transparency and soundness in the
system. This endeavor complements the concerted effort within the industry to return to the core
business of insurance, while moving away from other financial activities in which they were
heavily involved in the past. FINSAC undertook a major restructuring process and divestment
strategy for the insurance sector. It sold the interest-sensitive deposit-like instruments of
intervened insurance companies to BNS and used Treasury bonds (LRS) and cash obtained from
the MOF as assets to back up these liabilities. It sold the traditional life policies and pension
funds of intervened insurance firms to non-intervened insurance companies and new foreign
markets entrants (Annex V). FINSAC has essentially divested most of its insurance assets except
Life of Jamaica (LOJ), in which it currently holds a 26.5 percent equity stake.
C.    Reform of Regulation and Supervision
29.   As FINSAC attempted to restore liquidity and re-capitalize weak institutions, the
Government undertook reform of the regulatory and supervisory framework. Significant
progress has been made in several areas since the onset of the crisis. The supervisory power of
the BOJ over commercial banks, merchant banks, and building societies has been strengthened.
In the first quarter of 1998, Parliament approved the Deposit Insurance Act with limited
protection to cover deposits up to J$200,000 (about US$5,000) of banks and near banks, funded
by premiums paid by these institutions. Keeping in view that poor regulation and supervision of
the insurance companies was a key problem in precipitating the crisis, a major overhaul of the
regulation and supervision in the insurance sector was undertaken through technical assistance
from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and is being continued through technical
assistance from the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB).
30.   Reforms in the Regulation and Supervision of the Banking Sector. Since 1997 critical
regulatory improvements have been introduced. These measures addressed the following issues:
improved risk-based capital adequacy requirements; tighter credit classification and provisioning
requirements; stronger sanctions based on the "ladder of enforcement" concept; more effective
intervention powers by empowering the Minister of Finance and Planning to take control of the
equity of a licensee; strengthening fit and proper criteria; stronger regulations regarding
connected lending; tighter limits on unsecured lending; stricter requirements for external audit;
preliminary steps at consolidated supervision through access to accounts of holding companies;
and tighter procedures against money laundering (Annex III).
Definition of Regulatory Capital: Prior to the crisis, capital requirements consisted of a
minimum 6 percent primary capital ratio required for all deposit-taking institutions and
gearing ratios (deposits/capital) of 25:1 for banks and 20:1 for near banks (merchant banks
and building societies)21. In 1999, the authorities expanded the definition of capital base with
the concepts of Tier-I and Tier-2 to enable the implementation of a 10-percent risk-based
capital adequacy requirement for deposit-taking institutions, compared to the Basle
minimum standard of 8 percent, while maintaining the earlier gearing and primary capital
21 Capital base includes paid-up capital, reserve fund, retained earnings, and share premium, less losses.



18
ratios. Although regulations to this effect have not yet been formally approved, there is de
facto implementation and most institutions are already in compliance with these rules.
*  Asset Classification and Provisioning Guidelines: A more conservative policy for the
classification of non-performing loans was implemented by reducing the time period before a
loan could be classified as non-performing from six to three months, in line with
international best practice. Among other improved prudential measures, the BOJ has issued
guidelines for the review of loan portfolios, the classification of loans, loan loss provisioning,
loan renegotiation, the suspension of interest accrued on past-due loans, and write-off
procedures.
*  Improvements in the "Ladder of Enforcement": A ladder of enforcement was issued clearly
specifying the increasing levels sanctions that supervisors would impose in response to the
progressively higher assessed levels of problems in the financial institutions. As a result, the
enforcement powers of the BOJ were spelled out in a transparent and consistent manner.
* Improvements in Effectiveness of Powers of Intervention: Prior to the crisis, the only way for
the Government to take control of a financial institution was after it was bankrupt. In 1997,
the Minister of Finance and Planning was empowered to take control of the equity and
subordinated debt of non-viable institutions and effect sales of assets and shares, or to effect
other types of resolution in the interest of depositors. In addition, the BOJ was given new
powers to adopt prompt corrective actions in the form of undertakings, supervisors'
directives, or "cease and desist" orders.
*  Restrictions on Connected and Unsecured Lending: Unsecured credit to any connected
person has been prohibited. Secured lending to all connected parties along with investments
in any connected parties have been limited to a maximum of 20 percent of the capital base,
with no more than 10 percent in any one connected entity.
*  Restrictions on Investments and Fixed Assets: Individual investments in unconnected
parties/entities are limited to an aggregate of 50 percent of a bank's capital base, with no
more than 10 percent in any one entity. Fixed assets are limited to 100 percent of the capital
base.
*  Norms for Disclosure and Audit: The BOJ was given power to issue accounting standards
applicable to banking institutions and to examine the accounts of holding companies of
supervised financial institutions.- Auditors were required to report any significant issues and
problems uncovered during their work to the supervisor and the Boards of Directors of the
licensees. In addition, the BOJ is empowered to require special audits or order banks to
expand the scope of an audit.
*  Changes in Reserve Requirements: The authorities are reducing reserve requirements (cash
reserves requirements (CRR) and other components of the liquid assets ratio (LAR))
following international trends, while leveling the regulatory playing field across banks and
near banks (i.e., merchant banks, trust companies and finance companies), thus limiting
opportunities for regulatory arbitrage. The CRR and LAR for commercial banks and near
banks have been equalized. From August 1998 to June 2000, the BOJ reduced the CRR of



19
commercial banks from 25 to 14 percent and the LAR from 47 to 32 percent, with further
reductions of the CRR to 9 percent being planned by March 2002.
*  Self Assessment of Core Principles: The BOJ has conducted a self-assessment of the Basle
Core Principles, and concluded that Jamaica is largely compliant with many of the principles.
This self assessment has been shared with the Bank on a confidential basis and shows that in
some areas such as sanctioning powers, consolidated supervision, and information sharing,
further enhancement is needed.
*  Strengthening of On-and Off-site Supervision: The BOJ has taken steps to enhance on- and
off-site supervision and to bring its supervisory methodology more in line with international
best practices. These enhancements include: establishing an identification unit for troubled
institutions; improving systemic risk analysis via the establishment of the Financial Stability
Monitoring Committee; and enhancing the quality of the on-site examination process and
examination reports. In addition, the BOJ has issued "Standards of Best Practices" in several
areas such as credit risk management, cash flow analysis, asset/liability management, etc.,
which are checked for compliance by the supervisors during inspections. The staffing of the
supervisory division has been increased and internal and external training initiatives have
been expanded.
*  Regulation of Credit Unions: The BOJ has also issued draft regulations in 1999 to start
supervising credit unions. However, due to constraints on the number of supervisors the BOJ
has thus far relied mostly on a self-regulatory agency to supervise credit unions. The BOJ is
obtaining technical assistance from the CDB to strengthen this aspect of its functions.
31.   Reforms in the Regulation and Supervision of Non-Bank Financial Institutions. The
Government has taken several steps to improve the regulation and supervision of non-bank
financial institutions.
*  A new Insurance Bill has been drafted and has received Cabinet approval to be presented to
Parliament. The Government proposes to repeal the existing Insurance Act and have the
new one in place by early 2001. The proposed new Act corrects several deficiencies of the
existing legislation and addresses issues such as solvency standards, accounting standards,
early warning indicators, fit and proper criteria, and audit and actuarial requirements.
*  A "Green Paper" on the pension system has been prepared proposing reforms to the pension
system. Although supervision of pension funds is currently weak, it is expected that the
proposed reforms will form the basis for strengthened supervision.
.  The Government is aware that the multiplicity of regulatory agencies (Office of the
Superintendent of Insurance (OSI) and Securities Commission (SC)) and weak coordination
between them and the BOJ was one of the problems that led to regulatory arbitrage prior to
the crisis. In April 2000, the authorities announced the formation of a new Financial
Services Commission (FSC) that will be the single non-bank regulatory and supervisory
agency responsible for securities, insurance, and pension supervision. It will be effective
from April 1, 2001 and report via a board to the Minister of Finance and Planning. Its main
objectives are to: (i) build institutional capacity on the basis of the OSI and the SC; (ii)



20
strengthen securities market regulation and surveillance, including timely and proper risk
identification; (iii) improve insurance analysis and supervision; and (iv) supervise pension
funds in accordance with the proposed reforms mentioned above.
32.   Deposit Insurance. The Government recognized that one of the major causes of the
large stock of liabilities created in the aftermath of the crisis was that a full guarantee was
provided to all depositors, irrespective of the size of the deposits. While the Government felt that
this was necessary within the context of the systemic risks faced during the crisis, it has since
established a mechanism for making explicit that only limited coverage of deposits will be
available in the event of any future problems in the financial sector. The Jamaica Deposit
Insurance Corporation (JDIC) commenced operations in August 1998 with compulsory
enrollment for all institutions supervised by the BOJ. Coverage has been limited to J$200,000
(approximately US$5,000) to protect small depositors and to attempt to force large depositors to
monitor the condition of banks. According to a September 1999 survey of insurable accounts,
the JDIC covers 90 percent in number and about 34 percent in value of deposit accounts. The
JDIC has no independent oversight capacity but has access to the BOJ's information on the
financial status of its insured members. The Government originally transferred a nominal
amount of J$A million to capitalize JDIC and the institution funds itself through premiums of 10
basis points/year on total bank liabilities (excluding inter-bank liabilities and Government
deposits). The resources available to the JDIC are still very small and cover a negligible fraction
of total deposits.
33.   Regulations against Money Laundering. Drug money laundering had been declared a
criminal offense by virtue of the Money Laundering Act passed in 1996. Supporting regulations
were issued in 1997. Guidance Notes on Money Laundering, which are intended to bring to the
attention of financial institutions the minimum standards required of an effective program to
detect and deter money laundering, were also issued by the BOJ, in consultation with the
industry, in July 2000. These Notes, which are being periodically updated, are comprehensive
and set out policies and procedures as required under legislation and include procedures for
voluntary reporting and provide examples of suspicious transactions.
34.  Jamaica is a member of the Caribbean Financial Action Task Force (CFATF), a regional
initiative to achieve the effective implementation of, and compliance with, the 40 Financial
Action Task Force (FATF) Recommendations and the 19 CFATF Recommendations. Under the
aegis of CFTAF, Jamaica undertook an evaluation of the implementation of the Kingston
Declaration of 1999 that pointed out two shortcomings of the Money Laundering Act: the failure
to criminalize non-drug money laundering and the omission to create an obligation on financial
institutions to report suspicious transactions. Both these omissions have since been addressed
through legislative amendments. Jamaica is not among the 15 non-cooperative countries or
territories in the international fight against money laundering identified by the FATF in its report
of June 2000. It has also not been identified by the OECD as a tax haven and is not included in
its list of 35 jurisdictions with harmful tax regimes in its report issued in June 2000.
C.   Impact of the Financial Sector Intervention on the Public Debt
35.   The support programs aimed at averting the collapse of the financial system generated a
large stock of debt as a result of the direct assistance given to banks and the purchase of non-



21
perforning loans by FINSAC, plus the accruals of interest being capitalized on the debt. As of
August 2000, the estimated total stock of FINSAC/FIS liabilities amounted to J$127 billion,
equivalent to 43.9 percent of GDP, almost as large as Jamaica's external debt. The main holders
of this debt are the MOF, the BOJ, Union Bank, NCB, and others (mostly insurance companies)
(Annex VI).
Table 2. Stock of FINSAC Liabilities due to the Financial Sector Intervention
(Figures as of August 31, 2000)
Program                                            Billion J$          percent of GDP
Ministry of Finance/NIBJ/JDB                        19.4                6.7
Bank of Jamaica*                                    25.9                9.0
Union Bank                                          19.5                6.7
NCB                                                 44.3               15.3
Others                                              12.3                4.3
FIS Liabilities                                      5.4                1.9
Total FiNSAC/FIS liabilities (including net        126.9               43.9
commitments)
Source: FINSAC
GDP for FY2000 is estimated by the IMF at J$289.4 billion
*Total FINSAC paper held as assets at the BOJ as of August 31, 2000 was J$25.9 billion. However, Cabinet
approval was obtained on October 17, 2000 for restructuring J$26.2 billion of FINSAC paper at the BOJ - with
J$13 billion being offset against Government deposits and J$13.2 billion being restructured into cash yielding
Treasury bonds. The difference of J$300 million between the two figures is due interest accrued between
September 1, 2000 and the date of Cabinet approval. The figure of J$25.9 billion has been used in this Table in
order to maintain consistency with the rest of the computations in this Report, which are based on data as of
August 31, 2000.
36.    FINSAC paper held by the MOF and other public sector banks: The origins of the
FINSAC paper held by the MOF lie in the support directly provided by the MOF to certain
"good" financial institutions in order for them  to take over the liabilities of "bad" financial
institutions. FINSAC then provided notes to the MOF. A small amount of FINSAC paper is held
by public sector development banks in return for the support that they provided to troubled
institutions at the behest of the MOF. FINSAC paper held by the MOF can be viewed as fiscal
costs already bome in cash terms by the Government.
37.    FINSAC paper held by the BOJ: The BOJ provided overdraft facilities to several
intervened institutions. Since these institutions could not repay these overdrafts, FINSAC
provided the BOJ with notes as a settlement of the overdrafts and the intervened institutions
converted their overdrafts from the BOJ into a loan from FINSAC.
38.    FINSAC paper held by banks and other financial institutions: As discussed above,
financial institutions hold FINSAC paper due to interventions by FINSAC (Annex VI).



22
D.      Evaluation of the Government's Crisis Management Program
39.    The  financial sector, hit hard  by  the  crisis, has stabilized. The  intervention  and
rehabilitation programs implemented by FINSAC were successful in preventing a financial
sector melt-down while maintaining social stability. However, Jamaica has achieved this at
substantial cost, which is among the highest when compared to 114 episodes of systemic banking
crises in 93 countries that have taken place since the late 1970s (Caprio and Klingebiel, 1999)
(Figure 1). The following factors played a major role in the Government's management of the
crisis.
Figure 1. Cost of Banking Crises
Ghana, 1982 89  _                                 I:            
United States, 1984 91
Sweeden, 1991-94
Russian Fed, 1998
Norway, 1987-93l
Czech Rep. 198991 
Brazil, 1994-96
Philippines, 1983-87  _
Malaysia, 1997-presenti
Spain. 1977-85            _
Mexico, 1995-present        I
Japan, 1990s
Venezuela, 1994-97                      F
Cote d'voire 1988-91 
|Rep. Of Korea, 1997-present  _
Thailand, 1997-present  _
IChile, 1981-83O
China 1990s       _        _                          -
Jamaica, 1996-present
Indonesia, 1997-present                   I                                                   l
Argentina, 1980-82 _                                                   .
0           10          20           30          40           50          60
Fiscal Costs as a percentage of GDP
Costs for Ghana and Spain are shown as a percentage of GNP.
Source: Caprio and Klingebiel. "Episodes of Systemic and Borderline Financial Crises", 1999.
40.    Political Constraints: Political pressures restricted  the range of crisis management
solutions open to the Govemment. As in the case of many banking crises worldwide, the
Government was unwilling  or unable to force the shareholders of many  of the troubled 



23
institutions to accept a higher share of the losses. FINSAC acquired most assets at book value,
indicating that there might have been insufficient write down of shares to reflect the real
financial position of the distressed institutions. Removal of corporate owners and prior
management has been slow. In some large institutions, such as NCB and LOJ, some
shareholders and management that controlled the institutions prior to the crisis still do so. Due to
contagion risk, the Government was also unable to adopt a solution in which there was some
burden sharing with the depositors even though the structure of deposits was extremely skewed
and there was evidence of widespread connected party transactions
41.   Constraints imposed by FINSAC's structure: FINSAC was established as a corporation
under the Companies Act rather than as a special intervention agency with special powers. Since
it had no legal power to intervene, FINSAC was required to obtain authorization from the MOF
to intervene and to coordinate interventions with other institutions (BOJ and OSI). FINSAC also
has had to rely on negotiated arrangements with the owners and directors of distressed
institutions to acquire ownership and control in them. These constraints did not enable writing
down of shares at the time of intervention and there was limited burden sharing with
shareholders. Within the constraints, however, FINSAC has done a commendable job negotiating
the purchase of ownership stakes of over 25 percent in all institutions in order to have veto
power over management decisions, especially since in some cases the old management of the
institution was retained.
42.   Complex corporate structure: Financial conglomerates in Jamaica had extremely
complicated and intricate ownership structures. In some instances, it took FINSAC a substantial
amount of time to unravel all of the connected institutions and assess the true extent of the
financial support needed. This structure also led to periodic increases in the amounts of
assistance that FINSAC had to provide.
43.   Legal and regulatory constraints: The legal framework to deal with problems of this
magnitude was clearly inadequate and magnified the other constraints facing the Government.
Until the 1997 reforms, the only way for the Government to force loss-sharing by shareholders in
Jamaica was to declare an institution bankrupt. In addition, bankruptcy proceedings had to be
instituted in the courts, thereby delaying restructuring and increasing costs of intervention.
Further, the exemptions to prudential requirements or forbearance in terms of additional time to
meet prudential requirements that were sometimes granted complicated supervision and
increased the overall costs of the intervention.
44.   High level of public debt prior to the crisis: In March 1995, prior to the crisis, the
Government already had a high level of public debt - 103 percent of GDP. Interest payments
(excluding FINSAC paper) plus wages were about 59 percent of Government's revenue. This
large pre-existing debt burden made it difficult for the Government to assume explicitly the cost
of the intervention early on in the crisis leading to a structure of FINSAC paper that accrued
interest resulting in both a postponement of the financial recognition of costs and a dramatic
increase in the cost of the intervention.
22 As of October 31, 1999, about 5.6 percent of deposits in number controlled more than 67 percent of deposits by
value.



24
45.   Impact of intervention on bank liquidity: The capitalization of interest on FINSAC
paper strangled banks' liquidity, even as bank balance sheets were cleaned up. Intervened banks
ended up having to fund a growing illiquid asset base through expensive inter-bank deposits and
money market transactions leading to negative operational cash-flows, which further weakened
them. These liquidity constraints were present even in the absence of new bank credit.
46.   Impact of illiquid banks on the BOJ's balance sheet: Illiquid banks turned to the BOJ
for fiquidity support through overdrafts, which the BOJ provided by resorting to reverse-
repurchase agreements to borrow money from the domestic markets23. However, given its
emphasis on a tight monetary policy, the BOJ was forced to undertake compensatory open
market operations to drain liquidity. When banks could not clear the overdrafts, FINSAC issued
additional paper to the BOJ to settle bank borrowings. The BOJ was, however, saddled with
expensive market borrowings. Therefore, the BOJ's balance sheet has taken on characteristics
similar to some of the intervened banks wherein low yielding and non-cash paying assets
(FINSAC paper) on the BOJ's balance sheet are being funded through high cost borrowings on
which cash interest is due. The Government's debt management program calls for correcting this
weakness on the BOJ's balance sheet.
47.   Positive effects of the crisis: There were also some positive effects of the crisis. Bank
balance sheets have been cleaned up. The BOJ reports that as of June 2000, commercial banks,
near banks, and building societies had less than half the ratio of NPLs to total loans as compared
to two years earlier, down to 12 percent, while provision for loan losses to NPLs increased from
51.3 in June 1998 to 102 percent as of June 2000. Better-managed international banks increased
their market share in the flight to quality after the crisis. As mentioned above, there has also
been a significant improvement of banking and insurance regulation and supervision. The legal
changes implemented strengthened the regulatory framework for early intervention providing
alternatives to liquidation that was the only possible choice under previous legislation. The
general thrust of these measures has been to provide the BOJ with additional powers to act
rapidly and effectively in cases of impending bank failure. In addition, over the last few years,
the BOJ has experienced a significant institutional strengthening, which has been manifested in a
broader and deeper pool of skilled staff, an enhanced capacity to process and analyze
information, the reorganization of its operations, increased systematic training and more
effective use of external consulting services supported by the IFIs.
IV. THE GOVERNMENT'S BANK RESTRUCTURING
& DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
A.   The Structure of the Financial Sector in Jamaica after FINSAC Interventions
48.   FINSAC's intervention in the financial sector and regulatory reforms subsequent to the
crisis have dramatically reduced the number of financial intermediaries in Jamaica and greatly
simplified the ownership structure (Table 1). Total financial sector assets as of June 2000 were
23 BOJ reported no outstanding overdrafts as of the end of July 2000, although the use of this facility fluctuates
widely intra-month.



25
J$257 billion (US$6.1 billion) with commercial banks representing 80.4 percent of total, building
societies 16.2 percent and near banks 3.4 percent. Currently there are 6 commercial banks, 11
merchant banks, and 5 building societies. NCB and BNS together represent about 75 percent of
total assets of commercial banks (Annex IV). The remaining 25 percent includes: Union Bank 16
percent; CIBC 6 percent; Citibank 3 percent; TCB Group (domestic) less than I percent. The
assets of the remaining seven life insurance companies totaled J$24 billion (US$570 million) at
year-end 1999. Of the large banks, BNS has the largest loan portfolio (Annex IV), while the
assets of NCB and Union Bank are primarily tied up in FINSAC paper. NCB and Union Bank
are also currently under Board Undertakings and Directions which specify conditions under
which any new loan origination may be made.
B.   The Government's Financial Sector Restructuring Strategy
49.   As discussed above, during the intervention and rehabilitation phases of the
Government's support to the financial sector, FINSAC acquired significant control of the
domestic financial system. In addition, since a large part of bank portfolios were concentrated in
real estate - either as assets financed through loans or as collateral, FINSAC has also become the
owner of numerous real estate assets such as hotels and residejitial property. The portfolio of
problem loans bought in the restructuring process is also an important part of FINSAC assets.
The divestment process is thus a crucial final component of the Government's financial
restructuring strategy.
50.   Divestment of Financial Institutions: At present, FINSAC has remaining equity stakes
in two major financial institutions that need to be resolved. The resolution of the financial sector
crisis from FINSAC's point of view involves sale of these institutions.
-  Union Bank: FINSAC has sold the 99 percent of the equity of Union Bank that it owned to
The Royal Bank of Trinidad & Tobago Holdings (RBTT Holdings). Total assets of UB as of
June 30, 2000 were about J$33 billion (about US$779 million), of which about J$22 billion
(about US$519 million and 67 percent of assets) were FINSAC bonds. As part of the
transaction, the Government has agreed to replace the FINSAC bonds in UB with liquid
Government securities that will pay interest at the same rate as Jamaican Treasury bonds.
* National Commercial Bank: NCB's two shareholders are the NCB Group and FINSAC
with 60 and 40 percent of equity respectively. FINSAC, in turn, also owns 45.4 percent of
NCB Group (Annex V). As of June 2000, NCB had J$78.3 billion in assets (about US$1.9
billion), of which FINSAC bonds represented J$42.2 billion (about US$1 billion and 54
percent of NCB's assets).24 FINSAC is in the process of obtaining all necessary approvals to
convert its holdings in NCB Group as well its holdings of preferred shares of NCB into
equity of NCB so that FINSAC acquires a controlling stake (over 75 percent of equity) of
NCB, which in turn will allow FINSAC to find a buyer for the institution. In order to achieve
this, the following steps have been taken: (i) agreement has been reached with the Board of
Directors of NCB on a proposal to convert FINSAC's disparate shareholdings in the bank
and the group to consolidated bank holdings: (ii) an extra-ordinary meeting of NCB's
shareholders has been held to inform and sensitize them to the proposed takeover of more
24 As of August 31, 2000, FIS bonds to NCB amount to J$4.9 billion and receive cash interest payments.



26
than 75 percent of NCB's equity by FINSAC; and (iii) approval from the Jamaican Supreme
Court has been obtained to hold a formal meeting of NCB's shareholders on November 8,
2000 to approve the proposal - referred to legally as the Schemes of Arrangements. If the
shareholders approve the Schemes of Arrangements, the final step in the process for FINSAC
to legally acquire more than 75 percent of the equity of NCB is a formalization of the
shareholders' approval through obtaining clearance of the Jamaican Supreme Court. This is
expected to occur within a few weeks after the shareholders' meeting. The Government does
not anticipate any problems in the process of FINSAC obtaining control of NCB. NCB has
also replaced its senior management. A new Managing Director (Chief Executive Officer),
General Manager - Information Technology (Chief Information Officer), and General
Manager - Finance, Planning & Risk Management (Chief Financial Officer) have been
appointed. Beginning in April 2001, the Government plans to service the FINSAC debt held
by NCB in cash. As soon as possible after obtaining control of NCB, FINSAC proposes to
take steps to dispose of its shareholding in NCB.
Life of Jamaica: LOJ is the largest insurance company in Jamaica with over half of
insurance industry assets. FINSAC owns 26.5 percent of the equity of LOJ. This insurance
company continues to have weaknesses in its balance sheet and illiquidity in some of the
pension funds it manages and requires additional injections of capital in the form of FINSAC
paper up to about J$2 billion. The Cabinet has approved FINSAC's proposal to provide this
additional capital to LOJ. FINSAC currently controls more than 75 percent of the voting
rights of LOJ due to its holdings of all of the preference shares of the company which have
acquired voting rights since the company has not paid any dividends on the preference shares
for the past two years. The Board of Directors of LOJ has agreed to call a shareholders'
meeting to authorize a proposal by which FINSAC will obtain more than 75 percent of the
equity of LOJ. At this meeting, which is currently expected to be held before the end of the
year, a simple majority in terms of voting rights is necessary for the approval of the proposal
to give FINSAC control of LOJ. Since FINSAC controls over 75 percent of the voting rights,
the Government does not anticipate any significant problems in the approval of the proposal.
Obtaining more than 75 percent of the equity of LOJ will allow FINSAC to take LOJ to the
point of sale.
51.   Asset Disposal (Portfolio of non-performing loans): FINSAC acquired a portfolio of
non-performing loans of J$74 billion (face value of J$33 billion along with accrued interest)
from intervened financial institutions 25. FINSAC has established a workout unit to manage this
portfolio and attempt recovery. By August 2000, this unit had recovered about J$3.9 billion.
FINSAC has also sub-contracted with the workout unit of NCB to manage about 11 percent of
the total amount of NPL's purchased. FINSAC hired an external consultant to provide a
diagnosis of the NPL portfolio as a first phase. The consultant's report was received in
September 2000 and of several possible disposal strategies outlined therein, FINSAC's Board
adopted a resolution supporting the sale of the portfolio in bulk as the best alternative. FINSAC
hired the same consulting company to advise it on the process of disposing of NPLs during the
second phase. The NPL package is likely to be sold to a third party at a base price with some
structure of sharing receipts beyond a threshold level. It is expected that the NPL portfolio will
be ready to be marketed to potential buyers during the first quarter of calendar year 2001.
25 J$13.5 billion of the face value of NPLs were acquired from NCB.



27
52.   Asset Disposal (Portfolio of other assets): FfNSAC also has a large portfolio of other
non-core assets acquired during the intervention process (hotels, commercial and residential real
estate, furniture & equipment, artwork, and motor vehicles). As of August 2000, J$ 11 billion of
these assets had been sold (of which about 10 percent are hotel sales in process).
53.   Continued Strengthening of the Regulatory and Supervisory Regime: An integral part
of the Government's financial sector restructuring strategy is to continue strengthening the
regulatory and supervisory regime. In this context, the Governnent has taken the following
specific actions:
(i) The Cabinet has approved tabling of legislation to Parliament empowering the BOJ to
have powers of intervention without prior approval of the Minister of Finance. The
BOJ is only required to advise the Minister at all stages of the intervention process. This
will improve the BOJ's independence and empower it to act in a timely manner in
resolving future problems. The BOJ will also be authorized to assess fines on regulated
entities.
(ii) The BOJ is committed to undertaking an independent assessment under the Basle
Core principles by the second quarter of 2001. It has also issued a revised "Ladder of
Enforcement" that clearly spells out sanctions that will be imposed upon the industry by
the supervisor.
(iii) In order to improve the coordination among supervisors of different financial
institutions, the Government has announced the formation of a Regulatory Policy
Committee and the Cabinet has approved tabling of amendments to relevant laws before
Parliament to permit information exchange between supervisors. The Regulatory Policy
Council will facilitate this sharing of information and will aid in the process of
harmonization of important regulations (risk-based capital adequacy, reporting
requirements, reserve requirements, crisis-intervention policies) to reduce the possibility
of regulatory arbitrage.
(iv) The Government has announced the formation of the Financial Services Commission
(FSC), which will be the single regulatory agency responsible for the non-bank financial
sector. The Government has also announced the formation of a preparatory body to
undertake necessary activities to ensure that the FSC begins operations on April 1, 2001.
(v) Cabinet approval has been obtained for a new Insurance Act, which will be tabled in
Parliarnent.
C.   The Government's Debt Management Strategy
Government's Strategy to Manage FINSAC Debt
54.   The viability of the Government's program of financial sector resolution calls for the
issuance of "performning" notes, i.e. notes that would not only have to accrue interest at a market
rate, but that would also have to provide liquidity, by paying interest in cash on a periodic basis,



28
and by being tradable in the market or, if designed to be held to maturity, by amortizing
periodically.  Recognizing the importance of providing liquidity to FINSAC notes, the
Government has committed itself to servicing all outstanding FINSAC debt (net of certain
adjustments described below) beginning April 1, 2001.
55.   The Government has reduced the stock of FINSAC debt by taking the following actions:
*  The Cabinet a  roved the write-off of FINSAC paper held by public sector entities (about
J$ 19.4 billion) on July 24, 2000. As of the date of Cabinet decision, interest on this amount
of debt has stopped accruing. This amount represents fiscal cost of the crisis already borne by
the Government in cash. Administrative actions to formalize the write-off are in process and
will be completed through a supplementary budget to be presented to Parliament before
March 31, 2001.
*  As of October 17, 2000, there was J$26.2 billion of FINSAC paper held by the BOJ as part
of its assets. On that day, the Cabinet approved the offset of J$13 billion of FINSAC paper
held by the BOJ against the existing deposits of the Government at the BOJ. The debt will
formally be removed from the books of the BOJ upon presentation of the supplementary
budget to Parliament before March 31, 2001.
*  BOJ and the MOF have also agreed on a strategy to restructure the balance of J$13.2 billion
of FINSAC paper at BOJ and the Cabinet approved this strategy also on October 17, 2000.
The MOF will issue to the BOJ an equivalent amount of special Treasury bills on which cash
interest will be paid. The rate of interest will be set periodically to ensure that the BOJ incurs
no cash losses.
e  The Government will use the proceeds of the sale of Union Bank to buy back FINSAC bonds
in UB.
56.   On the basis of this strategy, the Government expects to reduce the overall stock of
FINSAC debt that will have to be serviced in cash from about J$127 billion to about J$90 billion.
The Government will use proceeds from the proposed loans by the Bank, IDB, and CDB totaling
US$162.5 million27 (about J$7 billion) to buy back FINSAC bonds from UB and NCB. Loans
from international financial institutions will assist in restructuring about 7.5 percent of
outstanding FINSAC debt and improving its maturity profile.
Government's Strategy to Manage Overall Public Debt
57.   As of March 2000, the domestic (non-FINSAC) debt stock amounted to J$175 billion or
56.6 percent of the total debt outstanding. Locally Registered Stock, the Government's medium
to long-term debt instrument, was the largest component of domestic (non-FINSAC) debt with a
26 Most of this amount is held by the MOF. The amounts held by NIBJ and JDB are negligible. This amount
includes FINSAC paper issued to the MOF/NIBJ/JDB for both principal and interest.
27 First tranche disbursements of the IDB of US$75 million (out of a total approved loan amount of US$150
million), CDB of US$12.5 million (out of a total approved loan amount of US$25 million) and disbursement of the
Bank's proposed loan of US$75 million.



29
share of 72 percent of the total. The broad objectives of the Government's debt management
strategy over the medium term are to meet its annual borrowing requirements, minimize
borrowing and debt service costs, achieve a balanced maturity structure, and ensure continued or
wider access to markets, both domestic and overseas. The Government has been decreasing its
external debt from 142 percent of GDP at end FY1990 to 46 percent at end FY2000. No
significant increase in total non-FINSAC debt (external plus domestic combined) is anticipated
in FY2001. However, the Government plans to borrow J$28 billion less in FY2001 from the
domestic markets as compared to FY2000, in order to encourage a further reduction in domestic
interest rates. This will imply greater dependence on external borrowing and the Government
plans to approach international capital markets for approximately US$300 million annually from
commercial sources in the medium term. It has recently raised US$225 million from
international markets through a bond issue.
Evolution of the Government's Debt to GDP Ratio
58.   On the basis of the above strategy, the Government plans to reverse the adverse debt
dynamics and put its public debt on a declining path. As per the Government's program, in the
base case scenario, the total public debt (including FINSAC paper and excluding intra-public
sector debt) is projected to decline from about 131.2 percent of GDP as of March 2000 to about
94 percent of GDP by FY2005. In case more adverse macroeconomic conditions materialize, the
Government estimates that its debt may decline to only about 101 percent of GDP by FY2005. In
order to achieve this reduction in public debt, the Government proposes a substantial fiscal
effort, with a projected primary public sector balance of 14.1 percent in FY2001 trending down
to 11.1 percent in FY2005 in the base case scenario and from 13.9 percent of GDP to 11.1
percent of GDP in the alternative scenario.
V. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.   Overall Assistance Strategy
59.   Country Assistance Strategy (CAS): The previous CAS for Jamaica (report no. R-93-
41) was discussed by the Board on March 25, 1993. Concurrently with the proposed loan, a 2-
year CAS for Jamaica is being presented which has preventing reversal of recent gains in poverty
reduction and helping to lay the foundations for future growth as its immediate objectives. The
CAS identifies that the resolution of remaining financial sector problems is necessary for
restoring growth and thereby empiloyment opportunities. By allocating resources efficiently,
well-functioning financial systems play a key role in the process of economic growth. The
financial crisis has significantly impaired the Jamaican financial sector's ability to play that role.
In Jamaica, moreover, the financial sector itself accounts for a significant fraction of real GDP,
so a decline in value added originating in the financial sector has a major impact on overall
growth. The vision of the Government's strategy to restructure the financial sector is that this
will lead to greater competition, foster development of strong and well-capitalized financial
institutions, and reduce the vulnerability of the system to future crises. This, in conjunction with
a tightened fiscal stance and a resultant decline in interest rates, is expected to improve financial
intermediation and enable the private sector to draw on a higher share of the considerable 
domestic savings to fuel higher growth.



30
60.   Past Lending to Jamaica: In December 1998, the Bank's Country Assistance Note
(CAN) for Jamaica (CODE98-80) concluded that "...taken as a whole, the Bank's assistance
program over the past decade has had an unsatisfactory outcome". Total Bank commitments to
Jamaica since 1965 amounted to over US$1.3 billion for 62 projects. Fifty-one of these projects,
totaling about US$1 billion, have been evaluated by the OED. They rank low in all three
indicators--outcome, sustainability and institutional development impact--compared to averages
for both the LAC region and Bank-wide. Adjustment lending made up nearly 40 percent of the
total, and less than half of it had a satisfactory outcome. The CAN's assessment of the Bank's
past adjustment lending to Jamaica is that it has had modest impact and that its conditionality
was often too vague and unenforceable as it called for studies or preparatory work, rather than
actions. The macroeconomic framework prepared by Jamaica, and incorporated into the IMF
programs, had been assumed by the Bank to be a reliable foundation for the adjustment
programs. However, in general, the adjustment programs were not sufficient to correct fiscal
imbalances as they relied more on increased foreign borrowing than on fiscal adjustment.
61.   Bank technical assistance and investment lending to Jamaica have also had mixed
records. Two of three technical assistance projects accompanying adjustment programs were
rated unsatisfactory. Less than half (by value) of investment loans have been rated satisfactory.
Problems reflect to some extent the same constraints as for adjustment lending: over-ambitious
designs which did not reflect implementation capacity, and insufficient attention to risks in the
funding and management of projects. Shortages of counterpart funds have also hampered project
implementation, and the Government has pointed out that cuts in capital projects were often the
only way to meet mid-year adjustments to IMF fiscal targets.
62.   Lessons learned in the Bank's past activities in Jamaica: Based on the above record of
Bank activities in Jamaica, the CAN makes several specific recommendations regarding future
Bank involvement.
*  Given the serious problems in Jamaica's financial sector, one of the critical steps toward the
resumption of sustainable growth is to restructure and strengthen the financial sector.
*  Measures designed to support macroeconomic stability must be a significant element of any
future lending strategy.
*  A flexible lending approach allowing the Bank to disburse only as long as the overall reform
framework remains adequate is essential.
*  Bank lending should take place only in response to a truly shared vision of reform reflected
in up-front actions that would be difficult to reverse.
63.   Bank Strategy for Financial Sector Reform in Jamaica: The Bank has had ongoing
dialogue with the Jamaican authorities regarding the financial sector since the beginning of the
crisis. Over the last two years, a substantial amount of preparatory work was done for a possible
technical assistance loan. The Bank undertook analyses of the banking and insurance sectors and
identified areas in which FINSAC could potentially utilize technical assistance. In the event, the
Governnent chose to utilize a technical assistance grant from the IDB to finance certain
activities of FINSAC as well as assist in the process of formulating some of the legal/regulatory



31
reforms for the insurance sector. The collaboration between the Bank and the IDB on all issues-
relating to the financial sector has been excellent (see below).
64.   As agreed with the Government, the Bank's overall strategy in the financial sector will
focus on all three components of the Government's BRDP to resolve the financial sector crisis
and reduce the vulnerability of the financial sector to future crises: (i) restructuring of the
financial sector including sale of intervened financial institutions; (ii) re-configuration of the
domestic debt by converting currently illiquid paper in intervened financial institutions to liquid
paper and lengthening the maturity profile of the debt; and (iii) strengthening of the legal,
regulatory, and supervisory framework for the financial sector.
B.    Rationale for Bank Lending to the Financial Sector
65.   A confluence of circumstances provides the rationale for the Bank to provide assistance
to Jamaica at this stage. First, resolution of the financial sector crisis is essential if the Jamaican
economy is to achieve sustained economic growth in the future. The continued capitalization of
interest on FINSAC bonds is contributing to severe adverse debt dynamics, which if not resolved
urgently could lead to a fiscal crisis. Second, the capitalization of interest on FINSAC bonds has
created severe liquidity problems for banks, slowing the recovery of real levels of lending to the
private sector, and thereby negatively impacting prospects for growth. Third, the Government
has continued to strengthen its fiscal policy stance and has requested IMF staff to monitor its
program under an SMP. Fourth, the Government has indicated its commitment and vision for the
financial sector that involves a feasible program of up-front actions. These include divestment of
intervened institutions controlled by FINSAC and commitment to convert all outstanding
FINSAC debt into explicit Government liabilities and service it in cash. The feasibility of this
commitment has been demonstrated, under the assumptions of the Government's economic
program, in the macroeconomic projections underlying the SMP and the CAS.
C.    A Programmatic Approach to Lending to the Financial Sector
66.   It is important to recognize that restoration of solvency and soundness to the banking
system is a long term goal that goes beyond a single operation. Past Bank experience in other
countries (for example, in Mexico) has shown that it is more realistic to support a program of
reforms with a programmatic sector loan, involving a number of sequential operations that can
be approved based on the success of the previous ones28. This is especially relevant in the
Jamaican context, given the record of previous Bank adjustment operations. Therefore, the
Bank's strategy in the financial sector in Jamaica calls for a series of operations in a
programmatic context, each focusing on distinct policy measures and actions that, taken as a
whole, would contribute to the strengthening of the financial sector and supporting the
Government's BRDP. The proposed project is the first in a series of two proposed operations.
67.   Objectives of the overall program: The broad set of objectives for the overall medium-
term Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program is the following:
28 The Bank's most recent experience with a programmatic lending approach has been with the Bank Restructuring
Facility for Mexico (World Bank Report No. P7347 ME).



32
*  FINSAC to have substantially resolved all three remaining intervened financial institutions.
*  FINSAC to have disposed of entire portfolio of NPLs and other assets.
* Government to have taken over all FINSAC obligations and be servicing them in cash.
* Government to have taken steps to strengthen the legal, regulatory, and supervisory
framework for both banks and non-bank financial institutions.
68.   Benchmarks for the first operation: The specific actions that have been taken by the
Government and are being supported by the proposed operation are described in detail in Section
VI. Within a programmatic approach, the objective of the first project is to make significant
progress towards the ultimate achievement of the medium-term benchmarks set forth above. The
benchmarks for the first operation are broadly the following:
*  FINSAC has sold one intervened financial institution and made significant progress in
restructuring the other two.
* FINSAC has disposed of a significant fraction of its portfolio of other assets and has
developed a strategy, acceptable to the Bank, for disposing of its portfolio of NPLs.
* Government has completed restructuring of FINSAC debt and has undertaken to service all
remaining FINSAC obligations in cash beginning April 1, 2001.
* Government has made substantial progress in strengthening the legal, regulatory, and
supervisory framework for both banks and non-bank financial institutions.
69.   Proposed Government actions likely to be supported by a second operation: The
specific benchmarks for the second operation will be developed in the future in light of the
experience with the proposed operation and the prevailing macroeconomic scenario. However, in
broad terms the objectives of the second operation will be to support further progress towards the
medium term benchmarks set for the BRDP. The Bank will, most likely, support the
Government's plans that involve FINSAC resolving both the remaining intervened institutions
and selling substantial portions of its portfolios of NPLs and other assets; continued satisfactory
debt servicing of FINSAC obligations taken over by the Government; and further progress in
moving regulation and supervision of the financial sector in Jamaica towards international best
practice.
70.   Advantages of a programmatic approach: There are significant advantages of a
flexible lending instrument such as the single tranche loan under a programmatic approach. This
approach would provide both the Bank and the Government with the capability to adapt to
evolving situations instead of being tied down to a set of pre-determined actions that may prove
difficult to execute at a later date. Rather than risk delays and failure in the achievement of the
program's long term aims by locking the Government into an overly ambitious and politically
sensitive policy agenda, a single tranche operation under a programmatic approach is a lending
vehicle designed by the Bank specifically to protect the integrity of medium-term adjustment
operations. The use of a single tranche operation over the traditional multiple-tranche option



33
has, in the past in other countries, provided the Bank with greater agility in the disbursement of
the first loan, and enhanced efficiency and leverage in the formulation of conditionality under the
subsequent loan29.
71.  Impact of past experience on the proposed operation: The operation has been
designed to take into account the major recommendations of the CAN and the lessons learned
from the Bank's past experience in Jamaica. It is being structured explicitly taking into account
the capacity of the Government to take actions on various issues. The operation has also been
designed to take into account lessons learned from other Bank projects involving restructuring of
banking sectors - specifically the projects in Mexico and Argentina. The operation sets limited
and specific objectives in terms of actions that the Government has taken prior to Board
presentation. The Bank's analytical work has been done on the basis of sound information
regarding the extent of FINSAC liabilities and financial condition of the institutions.
Disbursements are being linked to specific policy actions and transactions.
D.   Coordination with the IMF and the IDB
72.   The Bank is working closely with the IMF and the IDB in order to ensure a coordinated
approach to support the Government's efforts in restructuring the financial sector. The Bank (and
the IDB) participated in IMF missions during the preparation of the SMP and provided inputs to
the structural benchmarks regarding the financial sector. The Bank and the IDB have worked
closely on all aspects of the proposed parallel financial sector operations of the two institutions.
The IDB has approved a two-tranche loan for US$150 million in September 2000. The CDB has
approved a two-tranche loan for US$25 million in October 2000. The actions being supported
by the IDB's loan are consistent with and complementary to those being supported by the Bank.
VI. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.   Loan Objectives and Description
73.   The Jamaican authorities have requested Bank support for the Government's Bank
Restructuring and Debt Management Program (BRDP) described above. The proposed US$75
million loan would be the first of two loans in support of this program. It is expected that a
follow up loan will be presented to the Board in 2001, to support the resolution of the rest of the
financial institutions under FINSAC's control. Disbursements under the proposed operation
would help the Government in restructuring and improving the profile of its debt. The
Government will use Bank proceeds to retire a portion of the outstanding stock of FINSAC debt.
The Bank's proposed loan would result in restructuring about 3.5 percent of FINSAC debt
outstanding (after write-offs and offsets) by replacing high-cost domestic debt with cheaper,
longer-maturity international debt. Bank resources would be additional to the fiscal resources
that the Government will have to mobilize to retire/service FINSAC debt. The Borrower would
be Jamaica with the Ministry of Finance and Planning being the Executing Agency. The
29 For example, see Report No. 19676. Mexico: Implementation Completion Report for the Second Contractual
Savings Development Program Loan No. 4343-ME, December 1999.



34
implementation of the bank restructuring/resolution program would be carried out by FINSAC -
with the support of the MOF.
74.   The proposed loan is expected to be disbursed in full in a single tranche upon
effectiveness, expected in December 2000, in support of up-front reforn measures that have
already been taken by the Jamaican authorities (Annex I). The loan closing date would be June
30, 2001.
B.    Commitments under the Proposed Loan
75.   Letter of Sector Development Policy. The authorities have submitted a Letter of Sector
Development Policy describing the Government's strategy for restructuring the financial sector,
strengthening supervision and regulation of the sector, and managing Jamaica's public debt, both
in the short and the long term (Annex II). The Letter re-iterates the commitment of the
Government to meet the structural benchmarks outlined in the SMP.
76.   The following actions have been taken prior to Board presentation:
(i) Union Bank: The Government has sold Union Bank.
(ii) National Commercial Bank: FINSAC has obtained approval of the Supreme Court of
Jamaica for a shareholders' meeting to be held on November 8, 2000 at which they will vote on a
Scheme of Arrangement through which FINSAC will obtain more than 75 percent of the equity
of NCB. The Governnent has committed to the Bank that it will take all legal and corporate
steps necessary to ensure that FINSAC obtains control of NCB. The senior management of NCB
has been changed with a new Managing Director (Chief Executive Officer), General Manager,
Information Technology (Chief Information Officer), and General Manager, Finance, Planning
and Risk Management (Chief Financial Officer) having been appointed. Beginning in April
2001, the Government has committed to service the FINSAC debt held by NCB in cash.
FINSAC has submitted to the Bank an acceptable plan to address NCB's liquidity needs during
FY200 1 and FY2002 and a strategy to manage NCB during the time in which the bank is under
FINSAC's control.
(iii) Life of Jamaica: FINSAC has provided the Bank with a legal opinion from an independent
counsel that it currently controls more than 75 percent of the voting rights of LOJ. It has also
obtained the approval of the Board of Directors of LOJ that a shareholders meeting will be held
at which FINSAC will be authorized to acquire more than 75 percent of the equity of LOJ. It is
expected that this meeting will be held before the end of the current calendar year. The
Government has committed to the Bank that it will take all legal and corporate steps that are
necessary to ensure that FINSAC obtains more than 75 percent of LOJ's equity. FINSAC has
provided the Bank with an acceptable strategy to manage LOJ during the time in which the firm
is under FINSAC's control.
(iv) Write-offtOffset of FINSAC paper held by public sector entities: The Jamnaican Cabinet
has approved the write-off of all the FINSAC paper held by MOF and other public sector
institutions (excluding the BOJ) amounting to J$19.4 billion. The Govermnent has also agreed
with the BOJ that about J$13 billion of FINSAC paper held by the BOJ will be off-set against



35
deposits of the Government held at the BOJ. The Government and the BOJ have agreed on a
satisfactory scheme to restructure the balance amount of J$ 13.2 billion of FINSAC bonds held at
the BOJ.
(v) Portfolio of Non-Performing Loans: FINSAC is in the process of disposing of the portfolio
of non-perfonning loans. It has hired a consulting firm to provide it with a diagnostic of the
portfolio. The consultant's report was received in September 2000 and FINSAC's Board adopted
a resolution supporting the sale of the portfolio in bulk. FINSAC has hired the same consultant
company to advise it on the process of disposing of NPLs as a second phase.
(vi) Portfolio of Other assets including real estate: FINSAC has disposed of non-core assets
(real-estate, art work etc.) amounting to J$11 billion as of August 31, 2000. FINSAC has
provided the Bank with an acceptable time bound plan to dispose of the rest of the non-core
assets.
(vii) Supervision and regulation of the financial sector: The Government has obtained
approval of the Cabinet to grant greater intervention powers to the BOJ, and amend bank secrecy
provisions to permit exchange of information between regulatory agencies. A new insurance bill
has been approved by the Cabinet before presentation to Parliament. The Government has
announced the formation of a Regulatory Policy Committee and unified Financial Services
Commission that will supervise the non-bank sector. The BOJ has issued the "Ladder of
Enforcement" to regulated entities and has agreed with the Bank that an independent assessment
of the Basle Core principles will be undertaken by the second quarter of 2001.
77.   Subsequent Bank Operations in Support of the Government's BRDP. A second loan
under the BRDP may be considered upon the authorities' request to support the resolution
transactions of the other financial institutions still in FINSAC's hands and to support the
continued strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework for the financial sector.
While necessary actions for a second loan will be firmed up based on the experience of the first
loan and the evolving macroeconomic and sectoral situation, an indicative list of follow-up
actions discussed with the Government have been identified in Annex I.
C.   Disbursements, Records and Auditing
78.   Loan disbursement would be made under simplified procedures for adjustment loans.
The Borrower would be required to open and maintain a Deposit Account in US dollars in the
BOJ. Upon effectiveness, the Borrower will submit a simplified withdrawal application against
which the Bank will disburse the entire loan proceeds in one tranche into the Deposit Account
for the Borrower's use. If after being deposited in the Deposit Account, the proceeds of the loan
are used for ineligible purposes (i.e. to finance items other than redemption of FINSAC bonds
(para. 73)), the Bank will require the Borrower to either: (a) deposit into the Deposit Account an
amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank, in
which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent amount of the loan.
79.   The Deposit Account shall be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and
such auditors have already been appointed. The Bank has approved the Terms of Reference of
the auditors and the short list proposed by the Government. The auditors shall submit a report not



36
later than 3 months from the date of disbursement of the loan verifying that Bank funds have -
been used to redeem FINSAC bonds. Receipt of a satisfactory audit report of the first operation
would be a condition of the subsequent operation.
D.   Impact, Benefits and Risks
80.   Social Impact The proposed loan would have little social impact in the short-run. In
the medium and longer runs, however, the measures supported by this operation would have
important social implications as they would assist in the creation of an environment conducive to
the resumption of prudent lending to the private sector, with the associated benefits in terms of
output growth and employment generation. The ultimate objective of the restructuring/resolution
process supported by the proposed operation is a better functioning financial sector, able to
withstand external shocks, allocate financial savings more efficiently, and better able to lend to
the private sector. Given the low level of new real lending in Jamaica as a result of the financial
crisis, it is hoped that new lending would spur economic growth and thereby create more job
opportunities, an important benefit in a country with a high level of unemployment. A banking
system less vulnerable to crises will be better able to sustain growth and, therefore, deal with the
poverty agenda described in the CAS. There are also some potential social risks to the proposed
loan that are discussed below.
81.   Environmental Impact  The bank restructuring program to be supported by the
proposed loan is not expected to have any environmental impact. The loan is ranked C for
environmental purposes.
82.   Benefits. The proposed first loan would have several benefits. First, it would contribute
to moving the resolution of the financial crisis forward by supporting the sale of one bank to a
foreign investor and making substantial progress towards moving two other institutions to the
point of sale. The Bank's loan would also support the provision of greater liquidity to the
banking system. Strong and well capitalized banks with adequate liquidity would be in better
position to resume prudent lending to the private sector, with the attendant beneficial effects on
growth, wider access, and employment. By contributing to the Government's financial
restructuring program, the loan would help the Government to make explicit the cost of solving
the bank problems and avoid additional and more costly delay. Second, the loan would support
the strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework for the financial sector in
Jamaica. This is expected to reduce the vulnerability of the financial system to future crises.
Third, it would support the Government's program of debt management by contributing to the
reduction of the stock of expensive domestic debt. This would modestly ease the Government's
fiscal burden and reduce the pressure on domestic interest rates. Fourth, it is expected that the
Bank's support will increase confidence of the domestic and foreign private sector regarding the
Government's commitment to resolving the financial sector crisis and thereby contribute to
greater economic activity. Finally, resolution of the financial sector crisis is key if Jamaica is to
put its economy back on a positive growth path. If the Government's program supported by the
proposed operation is successful, a major benefit would be resumption of economic growth and
its consequent positive impacts in Jamaica.



37
83.   Risks. Both the Government's program and the proposed operation face several risks
that are being recognized by the Bank, especially since it is not realistically possible for the
proposed operation to address all of these risks and mitigate them adequately. While the
operation is being designed so that the risks to the Bank are minimized, the Government's
program faces many challenges. The Bank stands ready to re-assess its approach to assisting
Jamaica, should macroeconomic and sectoral conditions warrant it.
84.   Macroeconomic risks. If interest rates do not decline as assumed in the Government's
macroeconomic program (as reflected in the SMP), the Government's debt service burden will
be higher than anticipated and the fiscal adjustment needed to achieve stabilization and reduction
of the stock of public debt will be even larger. Given the extremely high level of overall public
sector primary surplus (over 11 percent of GDP in the medium term) necessary even under the
Government's relatively favorable base case assumptions, the room for further maneuver by the
Government is limited. The Government has committed itself to mobilizing greater fiscal
resources and to approaching the international financial institutions for further assistance in the
event that unfavorable macroeconomic scenarios materialize.
85.   Social Risks. The extreme fiscal discipline required to make the proposed program
successful may not be sustainable and could create social tensions if economic growth does not
resume.
86.   Implementation risks.  It may be difficult for the Government to dispose of the
remaining financial institutions that it proposes to sell as part of the overall financial sector
restructuring program. This is a particular risk in the case of NCB, since it is over twice as large
as Union Bank and holds a substantial amount of FINSAC paper. FINSAC may also find it
difficult to manage intervened financial institutions for substantial periods of time if buyers are
not found soon. These risks could create problems for the Government's financial sector
restructuring strategy. Expected inflows from sale of assets could also be smaller than
anticipated. In this event, the debt service burden will correspondingly increase, placing greater
stress on Government finances.
87.   Regulatory risks. While banking sector and non-bank financial institutions' regulation
and supervision has been significantly strengthened, with more progress having been made in the
banking sector, both areas are still not yet up to international best practice and therefore, could
expose the financial system to risks. The Bank has addressed some of these issues in this
operation and intends to continue to address them in the second phase of its assistance to the
Government under the proposed programmatic approach.
88.   Other risks. The Government's fiscal planning for FY2001 calls for substantial
resources to be raised from privatization of state owned enterprises and international borrowings.
In the event that these resources are not mobilized, the Government may be forced to borrow
from domestic markets, increasing the pressure on interest rates and its debt service
commitments on existing public debt. External shocks to the economy would also adversely
affect the Government's debt management program. Further increases in oil prices, fall in
alumina/bauxite prices, increases in international interest rates, or a decrease in tourism receipts
are some of the external shocks that could negatively impact on the macroeconomic framework.



38
VII. RECOMMENDATION
89.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
November 2, 2000
Attachments



39
ANNEX I
JAMAICA: BANK RESTRUCTURING AND DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Issue           Objective              Actions taken by the Jamaican Government to  Actions planned to be taken by the
date                                       Government during FY2001/02
Macro stability   Maintain sound economic  -  Maintenance of sound macroeconomic  -  Continued maintenance of sound
policy framework          framework consistent with policy objectives  macroeconomic policy framework
and programs in the SMP and Letter of Sector    consistent with policy objectives and
Policy.                                    programs described in the SMP and
commitments made in the Letter of
Sector Policy.
-  Satisfactory implementation of the      -  Undertaking of periodic, scheduled
Government's macroeconomic adjustment      reviews of performance as agreed under
program as outlined in the SMP.            SMP. Satisfactory implementation of the
Government's program under SMP. If
-  Government has committed to undertake      macroeconomic performance is off-
periodic, scheduled reviews of performance as   track, appropriate measures to be agreed
agreed under the SMP.                      with the IMF to put it back on track.
Reduction of public sector -  Government has committed to ensure   -  Government's public debt reduction plan
debt                      reduction of public sector debt in Jamaican  consistent with the base case scenario in
dollar terms consistent with the base case  the SMP to be on track.
scenario of the SMP.
- Completion of assumption of FINSAC's
-  Government has committed to explicitly     liabilities as public debt and continued
assume all remaining FINSAC liabilities    satisfactory servicing in cash of the
outstanding as of April 2001 as part of    same.
domestic public debt making full interest
payments in cash.



40
Issue     0 C0000 T 0 Objective     ; T fActions taken by the Jamaican Government to  Actions pled to be taken by the
X_____________                date                                        Governtmeintduring FY200l/  
FINSAC Debt   Reduce debt and pay       -  Government has committed to ensure that    -  FINSAC liabilities to be as per
interest in cash on        FINSAC will not incur additional liabilities  Government's letter to the Bank dated
remaining stock            over and beyond those identified in the     August 31, 2000.
Government's letter to the Bank dated August -  Formalization of implementation of the
31, 2000.                                   write-offs/off-sets of FINSAC debt
-  Government has committed that Bank funds    through necessary legislative actions
will be used for reduction in stock of FINSAC  (supplementary budgets).
debt.                                   -  FINSAC to be applying all proceeds
-  Cabinet approval has been obtained for the  from recoveries of NPLs and non-core
write-off of FINSAC debt owed to the        assets, net of operating expenses, to
Ministry of Finance amounting to J$ 19.4   reduce its outstanding liabilities.
billion.
- Cabinet approval has been obtained for off-set
of J$13 billion of FINSAC debt held by the
BOJ against the sterilized deposits of the
government at BOJ.
- Cabinet approval has been obtained to
restructure J$13.2 billion of FINSAC debt
held by BOJ into cash interest paying
Government bonds. Rate of interest to be set
at a level to ensure that BOJ does not incur
cash losses in any fiscal year.
- Government has committed that FINSAC will
use all proceeds from recoveries of NPLs and
non-core assets, net of operating expenses, to
reduce its outstanding liabilities.



41
Issue           Objective               Actions taken by the Jamaican Government to  Actions planned to be taken by the
date                                       Government during FY2001/02
Restructure     Restructure/sell intervened -  Union Bank has been sold.           -  FINSAC to have acquired more than 75
banking sector   banks.                                                                percent equity of NCB.
-  The following steps in the process of FINSAC -  A rehabilitation and/or restructuring
acquiring an equity stake of more than 75% in    strategy for the bank to be developed by
NCB have been completed: (i) The Board of  the new management team focusing on
NCB has approved the Schemes of            issues such as improving shareholder
Arrangements (the Schemes) to restructure  value, staff rationalization, cost
NCB's equity; (ii) Shareholders have been  reductions, systems upgrading and
informed of the Schemes; (iii) An order from  product improvements.
the Jamaican Supreme Court directing NCB
shareholders to meet on November 8, 2000 to  -  NCB to be brought to the point of sale
consider, and vote on the Schemes has been  through the restructuring process with
obtained.                                  the ultimate objective of resolving and
selling NCB.
-  Government has committed to complete the
additional legal and corporate steps necessary
to ensure that FINSAC has more than 75%
equity of NCB.
New management has been appointed in
NCB including (i) Managing Director (CEO),
(ii) General Manager, Information
Technology (CIO), and (iii) General Manager,
Finance, Planning and Risk Management
(CFO).
A plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to address
NCB's potential liquidity needs prior to
conversion of FINSAC paper into cash-
yielding instruments and a strategy to manage
liquidity subsequent to the conversion has
been submitted.



42
Issue           Objective               Actions taken by the Jamaican Government to  Actions pla-ned to be taken by the
date                                       Government during FY2*1/02
-  A strategy, satisfactory to the Bank, to
manage NCB during the time in which NCB
is under FINSAC's or Government's control,
has been submitted.
- Government has committed to present a plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to restructure NCB
by March 31, 2001.
Divestment of   Early disposition of    -  A plan acceptable to the Bank, for      -  FINSAC will continue disposal of non-
FINSAC non-    maximum amount              disposition/administration of FINSAC non-   core assets with the objective of
core assets    feasible of non-core assets    core assets has been submitted.          completing sale of entire portfolio.
held by FINSAC.
Divestment of   Maximize expected       -  The diagnostic phase of NPL portfolio   -  FINSAC will continue selling NPLs with
FINSAC Non-   recovery of NPLs             analysis has been completed.                the objective of disposing of the entire
performing loan                                                                        portfolio.
portfolio                               -  Advisors have been hired to value and
develop a strategy for sale of the NPL
portfolio.
-  A plan acceptable to the Bank, for
disposition/administration of NPLs has been
submitted.
Insurance       Restructuring/re-       -  Legal opinion of independent counsel has  -  Take necessary actions to resolve LOJ in
Companies - Life capitalization of LOJ     been obtained to the effect that FINSAC     order to sell the entity.
of Jamaica                                 currently has more than 75 percent of the
voting rights of LOJ.
-  LOJ's Board of Directors has agreed that a
shareholders' meeting will be convened
wherein authorization will be given for
FINSAC to obtain more than 75 percent of the
equity of LOJ.



43
Issue           Objective              Actions taken by the Jamaican Government to  Actions planned to be taken by the
date                                       Government during FY2001/02
-  A plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to address
LOJ's potential liquidity needs prior to
conversion of FINSAC paper into cash-
yielding instruments and strategy to manage
liquidity subsequent to the conversion has
been submitted.
-  A plan, satisfactory to the Bank with a
strategy to manage LOJ during the time in
which LOJ is under FINSAC's or
Government's control has been submitted.
- Government has committed to ensure that all
necessary legal and corporate steps are taken
so that FINSAC obtains over 75% of the
shares of LOJ.
Legal/regulatory/ Continue strengthening    - Cabinet approval has been obtained to  -  BOJ to have obtained greater
supervisory    BOJ's supervisory and       enhance BOJ's intervention powers to deal  intervention powers.
issues in the   enforcement capabilities to    early with financially distressed institutions.
banking sector   ensure safe and sound                                            -  Independent assessment of Basle Core
banks in Jamaica. Ensure  -  BOJ has issued the "Supervisory Ladder of  principles to have been completed no
coordination of BOJ's      Enforcement" to take into account 1997    later than second quarter of 2001.
supervisory activities with    amendments.
other supervisory agencies                                        -  Revised capital adequacy norms to have
-  BOJ has agreed to undertake independent    been formally issued.
assessment of Basle Core principles no later
than second quarter of 2001.           -  Amendment of BOJ Act to facilitate
exchange of information among
-  Cabinet approval has been obtained to permit    supervisory agencies.
BOJ to share information on financial
institutions with other regulatory/supervisory  -  Continued strengthening of BOJ's
agencies.                                  supervisory capabilities.
- Regulatory Policy Council established.



44
Issue          Objective              Actions taken by the Jamaican Government to  Actions planned to be taken by the
date                                      Government dunng FY2001/02
-  Cabinet approval has been obtained to  -  Crisis intervention policy in place.
establish a Regulatory Policy Council, to
coordinate activities of bank and non-bank
supervisors.
-  Cabinet approval has been obtained for
development and implementation crisis
intervention policy.
-  Government has committed to make best
efforts to obtain Parliamentary approval of
above measures.
Legal/regulatory/ Strengthen regulation and  -  Cabinet approval has been obtained for the    -  Financial Services Commission
supervisory    supervision of non-bank    establishment of the Financial Services   established and functioning.
issues in non-   financial institutions.  Commission.
bank sector                                                                     -  New Insurance Act in place.
-  Cabinet approval has been obtained for the
new Insurance Act.                     -  Continued strengthening of non-bank
regulatory and supervisory capabilities.
-  Government has committed to make best
efforts to obtain legislative approval of above
measures.



45
ANY REFLY OR SUBSEQUENT RFERENCE                    MINISTRY OF FINACE AND PLANNING
SHOUlD BE ADDRESSED TO THE F!NAMCIAL                           30 NATIONAL HEROES CIRCLE
tli"llDRAl8liSE                                                          P.O. BOX 512
REFERE1GE NHUMBER QUTEP!-                                                          KINGSTON
Telephane No. 92-ZSSWO16                                                             JAIWIICA
October l9,2000
LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
Thc World Bank
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn;
1. The Govcrnmeat of Jamaica is undertaling a series of actions in order to contain and reverse the adverse debt
dynamics that arose from an unsustainably high ratio of debt to GDP, low rates of economic growth and high
rcal interest rates. The Govcmnment is divesting lINSAC's shares in the comTercial banks intcrvened by the
Government in the aftermath of Xhe 1996-97 banking crisis and selling the underperforming assets acquired in
the process. These actions are being taken in the context of a major fiscal cffort - aimed at generating a
primary surplus as hiigh as 14pcrcent of GDP and an overall deficit of no more than 5 percent of GDP on an
accrual basis in 2000/2001 -- combined with a continuous strengthening of the agencies responsible for
supervising hank and non-bank financial intermediaries in Jamaica.
2.  This Lettcr of Duvel opment Policy describes Jamaica's current economic conditions and its ongoing process of
financial sector reforms. In support of these initiaLives forming part of the Govemment's Bank Restructuring
and Debt Management Program, the Govenment has requested a loan from the WorldBank The Government
appreciates the Bank's intentioii to provide up to $ 150 million in programmatic support, of which the current
loan will provide $75 million. 'The Jamaican authorities may request, upon dcmonstration of satisfactory
progress in the implementation of the proposed program of actions, and consolidation of macroeconomic
adjustment, additional Bank support for another $75 million.
3.  This support is intended for the final resolution of the banking crisis and the improvement of financial
intermediation in Jamaica. Resumption of growth of real bank credit to the private sector will assist in the
recovery of output growth and employment.
4. The Government is confident that the broad set of macro-economic and fiancial sector rceforms being
implcmented will reslore the financial sector to health and reduce its vulnerability to future shocks, while
containing the overall fmancial cost of the crisis. At the sector level, the Governnent's bank restructuring
strategy is intended to achieve three objectivecs first, the completion of the restructuring/resolution/sale of



46
banks and othcr financial institutions that wcre intervened by the Govemment; second, selling the larne
volume ofnon-performing loans and real cstate acquired by the Govenrment's rcstructuring agency (FINSAC)
in the process. and, third stren thening and consolidating the legal regulatory, supervisory, and enforcement
framework for the safe and sound operation or the financial sector. T'he Government intends to achieve lhe
first objective through the sale, merger, or closure of all intervened banks and non-bank financial institutions,
depending on their viability. It is liklcly that foreign investors will be attracted to invest in Jamaica's fiancial
institutions. The second objective will bc attained through an aggrcssive program of sales of non-core assets
and NTPLs with the assistance of firms specialized in asset disposition, applying all the recoveries net of
operating cxpenses to reducing ITINSAC's debts. The third objective will be achieved through continuation of
efforts at forrnulation and approval of necessary lcgislation and regulations to move Jamaica's financial sector
regulation closer to intemational best practices.
1. Macroeconomic Framework
S.  Economic performance in the recent period of FY 1999 - FY 2000 was characterized mainly by weak output
performanec and high real interest rates. The output decline of /2 percent in BY 1999 reprents the third
consecutive year of contraction and output is estimated to remain constant in FY 2000. Real intercst rates
remain high and investment has not grown. Inflation rose from 6 percent in BY 1999 to about 81/2 percent in
FY 2000, owing largely to higher prices for oil imports. Unemployment is estimated to bave remaincdhigh at
about 15 E percent during the period, with some new entrants into the labor force being engaged in the
informal sector. Trhe real effective exchange rate for the Jamaica dollar-bascd on relative CPI indiccs-which
had appreciated significantly in the earlier years, depreciatcd by 4 percent in FY 2000.
6.  Significantefforts atfiscal consolidationwcundertaket duringlBY l999-FY2O00. Thepublicsectorprimary
surpluLs was raised by 61/2percentage points of GDP to 7 percent in FY 1999, mainly through strengthcned tax
administration and efficiency gains in the operation of the public enterprises. HTowever, the growing interest
bill on the large public sector debt more than offscq this gain, and the overall public sector deficit moved from
1I percent of GDP in FY 1998 to 12 percent of GDP in FY 1999. Furthcr consolidation efforts in BY 2000-
relying mainly on expenditure cuts and some revenue measures, raised the public sector primary surplus by
about 5 Y2 percentage points to 12 1/a percent of GDP. Rowever, the overall public sector deficit dropped by
only 3 pcrcentage points of GDP because of further increases in the interest bill. Consequently, the stock of
public debt rose from about 127 percent of GDP at cnd-FY 1998 to about 144 percent of GDP at end-FY 2000.
7.  Monetary policy has aimed at reducing inflation in a base-money targeting framrework. Despite a reduction in
the unreniunerated statutory cash reserve requirmment and a steady decline in the BOJ's repurchase rate-
monetary policy remained tight during FYI 999-FY2000. Base money is estimated to have decreased by an
averagc of 3 percent a year during the period.
8. The focus of structural reforms during FY 1999-FY 2000 was on the financial sector and trade. The
rationalization of the financial sector iiivolved the merger of four FINSAC-intervencd banks and several othcr
financial institutions into onc--the Union Bank, advances in the financial restructuring of the state-owned
National Commercial Bank (NCB) including solvency support through the provision of FINSAC securities;
and the sale of five of the six intcrvened insurance companies. Also, the supervision and regulation of
commercial and merchant baiks and building societies were strengthened. The process of tiadc liberalization
undcr the aegis of CARICOM was completed with the reduction of the rnaximum common extemal tariff on
non-agricultural products to 20 percent in January 1999.
9   The Govemrnent's program as outlined in thc IMFs Staff Monitored Progrum (SMP) targets stcady restoration
of real GDP growth, startingwith 1.5 percent in 2000/2001, and going up to 3- percent in the period 2004/5,
2



47
as well as a steady decline in the benchmark 10 day T-Bill rate from levcls closc to 20 percent in 1999/00 to
14 percent and 13 percent, respectively, at cnd 2000/01 and end 2001/02. UJnder this scenario, the debt to GDP
ratio is cxpected to decline from 144 percent of GDP in 1999100 to 123 percent in 2000/01 after the write-off
of MOF's holdings of I4SAC paper and netting-out of Govcrnment deposits at BOJ against FtNSAC paper
held by BOJ, and to about 94 percent of GDP in 2004/05. Under less favorable conditions of GDP growth and
reduction of interest rates, the debt to GDP ratio would dccline at a slower pace while still entailing sustainable
although less favorable debt dynamics. Under either scenario, sustainable debt dynamics are a precondition
for the resumption of growt*, recovery of public and private investment, reduction of uncrnployment and
poverty in Jamaica.
10. Focusing on the objective of reducing the debt over GDP ratio and improving the term structure of Jamaica's
public sector debt, will require a very disciplined approach to containing public sector expenditurcs and
improving tax collections in ordeer to achieve the fiscal targets set in the SMP. As part of this effor the
Government intends to apply all the resources obtained from the three intemational firanial institutions
supporting the program (IDB, CDB and the Bank) as well as those coming from e salc of all PSAC assets
and shares in intervened financial insti utions to fosier a more rapid decline in the public sector domestic debi
A clear aiTn of Government policy is a sustained reduction in the public debt to GDP ratio. Towards this end,
the Government is committed to cnsuring a reduction of public sector debt in Jamaican dollar terms consistent
with the base case scenario of the SMP.
11. The Governnecn's primary objective is to contain the past adverse debt dynamics, restore real credit to the
private sector and achieve healthier rates of economic growth. This will be achieved through the carefal
implementation of a comprehensive debt management strategy inivolving lower puiblic sector borrowing and
the service in cash of all FIINSAC debt in the context of a sustainable macroeconomic framework- aimed at
reducing intlation and real interest rates. Thc Government has committed to undertake periodic, scheduled
reviews of r-hc economic perfonnence under the SM?. A first review has been undertaken in Scptembcr 2000
and the IM} has foi.md the implementation of the Govelrnent's program tn be on track. In case of dcviation
from the proposed program outl]ied in the SWP, the Govenment is committed to take the necessary actions to
return to a sustainable Iong-term path.
2. Status of the Financial Sector and Resolution of the Crisis
12. The liberalization of the financial system that occurred in the dccade from the rnid-1 980s to the mid- 1990s,
was not accompanicd by a sufficiently robust prudential and supervisory infrastructure, and a wide rangc of
intricately related financial institutions emerged, with substantial lendingto connectedparties. Some financial
institutionsbeganto show signs of liquidityproblemsin l995, whichwere initially metthrough_reawtrresort
to the overdraft facility of the BOC. The Government addressed the financial sector problems through Lhe
creation of FNSAC, charging it with the responsibilities of intcrvention, rebhabil itation, and divestment. The
intervention phase of FINS AC's operation has been completed and substantial progress has been made on the
rehabilitation and divestment phases. FINSAC has restructured and disposed of some of therelatvely smaller
financial institutions and is now at a point where it needs to take this phase to its completion. The resolution
of the crisis has come at a very high fiscal cost of about 37 percent of GDP as of March 2000.
A.    The Government's Bank Restructuring and Debt Managemcnt Strategy
13. The Governmentrecognizes the need for a long-term, comprehensive solution to address Lhe increasing debt
burden associatcd withthe FINSAC liabilities andthe lack of liquidity facedby financial intermediarics. The
Governnent is undertaldng the following strategy to reduce FINSAC's debt:
3



48
(i) FINSAC's debt to the central Govemment (the Ministry of Finance and Planning) has been written off,
(ii) FINSAC's debt to public scctor entities (Bank of Jamaica, and other Government entities)
has been restructured or offset against those cntities' liabilities to the Goverment. This has been done in a
manner that does not compromise the financial soundness of these institutions;
(iii) Union Bank Jamaica (UTBJ) has been sold to RB17 IIoldings Ltd. Proceeds firom the sale have been
used to reduce the stock of FINSAC debt held by the Union Bank by an cquivalent amount. The balance of
thc FTNSAC paper at Union Bank will be restructurcd to cash paying Government securities.
(iv) Efforts to recover value on FJNSAC's non-core assets-including the salc of propcrty and the portfolio of
non-performing loans (NPLS) to a third party-arc being intensificd during 2000/01 and the proceeds will be
used towards a reduction in the FINS AC debt held by the private sector;
(v) The Government will use all proceeds from World Bank, TDB, and CDB loans supporting its financial
sector resolution strategy to reduce the stock of FINSAC debt during FY 2001-FY 2002;
(vi) All remaining FINSAC liabilitiecs outstanding as of April 1, 2001 will be assumcd explicitly by the
Government, and full debt service will be made on FINSAC paper in cash beginning that date. The
Government has provided the Banlc with a comprchensive list of PINSAC's liabilitics - including curcrnt,
committed and contingent claims onAtigust 31, 2000. The Govemmentintendsto ensurethatFINSAC will
not issue further debt beyond the amount estimated above.
14. Preliminary estimates indicate that this strategy would require additional cash interest payment by the ccntral
Government of about 3 percent of GD3P in FY 2002, trending downwards over the medium tenn to about 2
percent of GDP in FY 2005. It has been estirnated that at this level of effort, and taling into account the
reductions in the stock of dcbt through the measures outlined above to J$73.6 billion, the stock of FINTSAC
debt relative to GDP would dccline from 37 percent at end-FY 2000/2001 to 23 Y2 percent in FY 2001/2002
and 17 percent by end FY 2004/2005. Upon the assumption by the Government of FINSAC's debt, it is the
Govenmnent's intention to dissolve FINSAC in 2001.
B.    Union Bank
15. Union Bank Jamaica (UBJ) was crcated through thc Tnerger of four failed commercial banks, five merchant
banks, and three building societies. The bank has bcen downsized. and the management structure, information
technology and lending opcrations have becn strengthened. FINSAC owned 99 percent of the shares, and the
remaining one percent is widely distrbutcd. UBJ has been sold to RBTT Holdings Ltd-, the owner of the
second largcst bank in Trinidad & Tobago. The proceeds from the sale have becn used to buy back a poriion
of the FIN'SAC papcr which Union Bank Jamaica holds.
C.    National Commercial Bank
16. NCB has assets of around J$79 billion (US$ 1.9 billion) as of June 2000, which makes it more than two times
as large as Union Bank Jamaica. FINSAC owns 40 percent of the equity of the bank and 45.3 percent of the
equity of the bank's holding company (NCB Group). Since irntrvention, NCB has been downsized and its
operations and organizational structure strengthened.
17. A new management tcam has recently been put in place in NCB including, a new Managing Director, Generl
Manager-Finance Planning and Risk Management, and General Manager-Information Technology. The new
4



49
management is in the process of developing a new strategic plan for NB, which is expected to bc finalized in
the first quarter of 2001, The latter will form the basis for thc actions to bc undertaken by Management to
prepare NICB for its ruture privatizatiorn. The strategy will address issues of liqulidity management,
information techrology, cost reduction, customner scrvice, credit policies, and risk management. Payment of
cash interest on the FINSAC paper, which constitutes a large portion of NCB assets, will provide liquidity
starting in FY 2001 and will be a key element in restoring the bank-s franchisc value and bringing it to the
point of sale. The Govcrnment has no intention of retaining inajority owncrship of NCB. In tie meantime,
adequate provisions for assuring NCB's liquidity and solvency during the remainder of the current fiscal year
are in place.
18. FINSAC has been advised by its legal counsel on a key set of actions necessary prior to obtaining a controlling
stake (over 75% of equity) in the bank. As part of this process, the Suprcre Court has issued an order
directing NCB's shareholders to meet, consider, and vote on the proposal for the Schemc of Arrangemncrt on
November 8th. The Government is committed to ensuring that all lcgal and corporate actions are taken for
FINSAC to obtain this controlling share of NCB's equity. Subscquent to thr approval by shareholders and the
court, FIN-SAC and the Ministry of Finance will take thc actions neccssary to move NCB to the point of salce
To assist in this process FINSAC has retained Hong Kong and Shanghai Banlcng Corporation (HSBC) as an
advisor for NCB's future privatization.
D.    The Insurance Industry
19. FINSAC has intervcned in six insurance cornpanies and has largely resolved five of them. FINSAC owns
26.5% of the common stock of the sixth company, Life of Jamaica Ltd. (LOJ) In addition, FINSAC has JS I
billion in prefcrence shares. LOJ has approached FINSAC for assistance in the amount of J$ 1.9 billion to
rcstore solvency to the company. In exchange for this assistance, FINSAC will obtain over 75% of the
ordinary equity of LOJ. The Govemrment is committed to ensuring that all legal and corporate actions arc
taken for FLNS AC to obtain this controlling sharm of LOJ's equity. Thereafter, FLNSAC intends to initiate the
process of sale of its equity in LOT.
E.    Non-core Assets and Non Performing Loans
20. In addition to the bannks and insurance companies, FINSAC has othur noa-core assets consisting of real estate
in-vestments in hotels, commercial, industrial and residential properties, and non-performing loans (NPLs)
acquired from intervened banks and insurance companies. Since intervention, FrNSAC has restructured its
operations and established the capacity within two separate units to concentrate on the sale of the real estate
and the NIPLS. FINSAC will package the rernaining loans and sell them to an interational asset management
coInpany. A consulting firm has completed a diagnostic ofthc NPLs and has developed altemative disposition
strategies as the basis for an integrated marketing plan. Packaging the NPLs for sale and market distribution is
scheduled for January 2001. FINSAC expects to dispose of thu. substantial majority of its non-perfoi-ming
loans by June 2001. FINSAC has made substantial progress in the disposal of its portfolio of nor-corc assets
such as real estate and works of art. An action plan has been prepared which calls for the disposal of the
substantial majority of these assets by June 2001, using, the proceeds to retire outstanding debt-
3.   Strengthening of Legal, Regulatory, and Supervisory Framework
A.    Bank Suipervision
21. The Covernment is committedto ensuringthatall necessary legal andcorporate actions aretaken forFrN'SAC
to obtain this controlling share of LOJ's equity. The Government has taken continuing actions over the past
5



5s
few years to enhance the soundncss of the banking system through improvemenr of the legal and regulatory
framework and thc supervisory capabilities within thc Bankc of Jamaica (BOY). Specific actions inclade: (i)
lmplementation of the amendments to the legislation enacted in 1997 in order to enhance the supervisor's
powers to take ccrtain prompt corrective measures, including the power to rcquire "Board Undertakings", issue
"Directions" and "Cease and Desist Orders" which previously could only be done by the Minister of Finance:
(ii) tightened prudential liniits on connected leniding; (iii) introduction of Baslc capital requircments to be set
at 10% of n'sk-based assets (more conservative than the standard 8%); (iv) a broader, more exacting definition
of what constitutes "fit and proper" in respect to managers, directors and major shareholders of banks; and (v)
tightened investment limits and greater powers to allow for tae cxamination of accounts ofholding companies.
22. BOJ has undertaken a self-assessrnent of Jamaica's compliance with the Basel "Corc Principles" and has
committed to initiate an independent review of such principles during the second quartcr of 2001. From these
assessments BOJ intends to rapidly preparc an Action Plan to addrcss the areas where full compliance may still
be lacking at that point. In particular this assessment would review progrcss madc in the evaluation ofmarket
risk, consolidated supervision of fnancial conglomerates, and enhanced ability to supervise related party
transactions. Based on this assessment, the BO] will, as necessary take steps to strengthen regulations. BOJ
has issued "Money Launderirg Guidelines" to be followed by commercial banks, rnerchant banks, building
societies; cambios and bureau of exchanges (inclusivc of credit unions operating such facilities) and
compliance with them by the industy is being monitored by BOJ during the inspection process.
23. The supervisory authorities had in 1995 rcsponded to the dilution of managenentskills in the financial system
by introducing "Standards of Best Practices" to the industry in cight areas including the following: credit risk
mnanagement, focusing on cash flow analysis, asset and liability management, including liquidity, interest rate
and foreign exchange risk. The industy is in the process of adopting these standards which arc more in line
with intemational best practices.
24. In order to improve the supervisors' ability to dctect wacaesses early on in the financial cycle, the authoritics
have strengthened their supervisoryprocesses, including on- and off-site supervision. Quartcrlyperformance
targets have been developed for the banking system and a Financial Stability Monitoring Committee was
establishcd to analyzc the systemic risks in the system. The ongoing process for improving supervisory
practices includes the rccently updated "ladder of cnforcernent" (to include the 1997 amcndxnents) which has
been issLed in Octobcrofthis year. The SupervisoryLadderwll be continuously updated toreflectchanges in
legislation. In order to better enforec these and other provisions, the authorities are examining ways to grant
the BOJ authority to levy fines, according to a pre-established schedule, when ccrtain infractions have been
detected.
25. To further strengthcn the autonomy of the bank supcrvisor, the Cabinet has approved granting necessary
powers to the bank supervisor (BOX) to allow for timely intervention via temporary management. The
Govemment is committed to ensure that in case of future problems with financial institutions, a clear legal
framework will be in place to allocate losses to shareholders and uninsured depositors in intervnmed
institutions where deposits exceed insured limits. The Governmcnt will also act rapidly to revoke licenses
should that become necessary. Thc Government will table the necessary lcgislation before Parliarnent to that
effect and the Govermment is commnittcd to making its best cfforts to get the legislation approved. Thc
supervisory authorities will continue to improvc the transparency of the system of intervention which would
include issuance of the updated "ladder of intervention" so that the market would have a clear statement of
what actions may be taken by the regulators and whcn these actions are likely to be taken, as well as a clear
understanding by institutions of the consequences of failing to rectifyproblems expedidously. Recent actions
by BOJ have enhanced its credibility in enforcing measures to guarantee the safe and souind operation of
financial intermediaries in Jamaica.
6



51
26. An interagency crisis intervention policy, which addresses tne above issues and the individual and collective
roles of each of the regalators of the financial systc-m, was completed in August 2000 and Cabinet approval has
been obtained. In keeping with its rmandate to supervise all deposit taking institutions, the BOJ has also
recently becn given responsibility to oversee the operations of credit unions in Jamaica. The 130J will
strengthen its capability to handle this new responsibility with sUpport firom a technical assistance program to
be funded by thc Caribbean Development Bank (CDB).
27. To further enhance financial sector supenrision, the Governrncnt considers that the coordination of the
activities of the different supervisory agencies and thc timely sharing of information among them is essential
to reducc the risks associated with the activities of fnancial conglomerates. In this area the BOJ, IDIC
(Jamnaica Deposit Insurance Corporation), the FSC (a new non-bank supervisory entity-Financial Services
Comnmission) and the Ministry of Finance are proceeding to strengthen fornal inter-institutional mechanisrms,
througlh the establishment of a Regulatory Policy Comrnmittce for consultation and the systematic sharing of
relevant information, which will help to ensure the consistency of prudential norms, facilitate consolidated
supervision, niinirnize the risks of contagion, prevent regulatory arbitrage, and facilitate timcly discussion on
policy for the financial sector. The Regulatory Policy Commnittee will issue a semi-annual report to the
Ministcr on technical guidance provided to the respective regulatory bodies. Amendments to existing
legislation (BOJ Act) will bc required to allow the exchange of information among supervisors and the
GoverTnent is taking steps to formulate thc necessary legislation. Cabinet approval on the required
arnendments have been obtained and the Goverrnent will table the legislation before PaTliament
28. The Regulatory Policy ComTnittee will consider the following issues a priority; i) the harmonization of risk-
based capital adequacy requirements for dually licensed entities; ii) the review of regulation and supervision of
unit trusts, mutual funds, and similar products to ensure a level playing field and adequacy of investor
protection; and iii) the adequacy of reporting requirements in respect of financiaJ companies and the
development of specific rules relating to transactions within a financial group, dividends and other
distnbutions, and the ownership and management of the group.
29. An importanLt element of supervisory co-ordination is the finalization of a Memorandum of Understanding
amongsL the members of the Reguilatory Coammittee to address such issues as lead regulator and the
coordination of examinations for dually licensed entities. The Government has taken steps to formalize this
MOJ through tabling of a Ministry paper in Parliamcnt
30. OCne of the primary causes of the crisis of 1996/1997 was the commingling of financial and non-financial
activities within the same corporate group. The Government has recognizcd this by enacting legislation that
bcgins to deal with this potential problem such as tightcning of investmnent limits and restricdons on conmected
lending. Hlowever, significant work still needs to be conducted in this area to limit the risk of contagion form
non-banking businesses to the banks. T7he authorities are examining ways to scparate financial and non-
financial activities of banling groups on a phased basis. Furthermore, the autlorities are also committed to
strengthening legislation by requiring, merchantbanks to establish a separate affiliate or subsidiary to conduct
the business of broker or dealer in securities where such activities are assessed to be materially infringing on
the primacy of the deposit-taking banking busin ess.
B.    Non-Bank Supervision
3 1. in the context of strengthcning fmancial scctor reform, the Governsnent has announced th establishment of a
new non-bank supervisory authority, rcferred to as the FSC (Financial Services Commission), which will be
operational on April 1,2001. Cabinet approval ofthe necessary legislation has been obtained. This entitywill
7



52
be responsible for the, licensing, regulation and supervision of entities dealing in secaities, collectivc
investment funds (e.g. unit trusts and mutual funds); invcstment advisors, insurance industry (companies,
brokers, agents and sales persons) and private pcnsion funds. The Govemment understands the importance of
having an autonomous supervisory entity. Therefore, it will cnsure that the entity has adcquate enforcement
powers, including the power to levy fines, and intervention authority, comparable to that curretly enjoyed by
the Securities Commission. In thc interest of grcater transparency and accountability, public comment will bc
sought prior to the enactment of new rules, regulations, guidelines or amendments. Bees and commissions will
be set such that after an initial start-tp period the entity will become self-ftmding. Thc members of the
goveniing board of the FSC shall not simultancously serve on the Board ofDirectors of the Stock Exchange or
other self-regulatory organizations, or be members of the ownership, board or management of entities licensed
and regulated by the FSC.
32. Furthcrmnore, in order to ensure that the new entity achieves fuill effectivencss in the shortestpossible time, the
Govemment will seck to recruit a CEO with knowledge of local financial sector conditions and demonstrated
capacity to successfully manage the various stakeholders in the Jamaican financial sector. Thec Governmnent
would consider it advantageous if this individual also had cxperience in setting up or managing an integrated
supervisory authority. In the event that the individual does not have such experience a suitable high-level
consultant with experience in setting up and managing an integated supervisory authority will be rctained as a
direct advisor to the CFO. The Government will, whenever necessary, employ additional advisors with the
required technical expertise to act as advisors in other key positions in the new organization.
Securities Supervision
33. An important component of the program is to strengthen the super-vision of non-banking activities. The
Securitics Commission (SC) has committed to move forward their legislative agenda. This agenda includes
granting the SC the power to: i) introduce risk-based capital standards to engender invcstor protection; ii)
enhance disclosure practices for listed and other public companies; iii) improve regulation relawd to "fit and
proper" standards; and iv) create a level playing ficld for coUective investrnent fimds offered to public
investors in the form of unit trusts, mutual fimds or similar products. This would involve repeal or amendment
of the Unit Trust Act. The regulatory authorities also have committed to enhance staff skills to conduct market
surveillance.
Insurance Supervision
34. The Government will also improve insurmce supervision by developing a legal and regulatory framework and
building institutional capacity within the FSC. In doing so the Govermment will repeal and replace the
Insurance Act with a new Act that has already been draftcd to include measures to stTengthcn corporate
governance, the rulcmaking process and establish prompt corrective action. Regulations will be in effect with
regards to solvency requirements, investment Guidelines, market conduct rules and actuarial standards.
35. The FSC will begin to put in the necessary infiastructure to conduct effective supervision of the insurance
industry. This will include: i) devcloping a risk-focused approach toward examinations ii) enhancing the
registration and licensing process; and iii) improving the reporting of financial information and conducting
relevant analyses.
Private Pension Supervision
36. Efforts areunderway to refomrthcpension system inJarnaica. A GireenPaperwaspreparedinJanuary 1999
and industry comment was obtained. In order to implement the reforms recommended in the Green Paper and
8



53
to incorporate the views of thc public, a new Private Penasions Act is being drfted and will include topics such
as registation, licensing, innvestment limits, mininuTn solvency staindards and information disclosure. Tt is
also envisioned that certain amendments to thc Income Tax Act will need to be drafted. Prior to the
introduction of this legislation the Govemment will seekto build further consensu.s on this issueby mcans of
obtaining comment from Parliamcnt and the public on a more elaborated "white paper". The Govement is
also committed to strengthcn institutional capacity withir FSC by i) the design and preparation of policy and
procedural manuals; ii) the development of a proper information systems and supervisory reporting; and iii)
the development of a staff taining program with emphasis on analysis of pension plan investing, and fumding.
C.      Conclusion
37. Jamaica has rnade sigificant progress in addrcssing the issues resulting from the fmnancial crisis of the mid
1990s and in initiating structual reforms of the sector. As descnbed in this letter, the Govermment is
committed to making su.bstantial further progress in these areas. The policies to be implemented during the
next two years should strengthen the soundness of our financial sector. The Jamaican Govermment believes
that the World Bank's assistance will be beneficial to the success of the proposed program.
Sinc  ly yours,
ar Davies
Minister of Finance and Planning
9






55
ANNEX III
OVERVIEW OF THE SUPERVISORY FRAMEWORK IN JAMAICAI
1. Introduction: Weaknesses Prior to the Crisis
Institutional Weaknesses
Imprudent banking and financial practices were common in Jamaica prior to the financial crisis
of the mid-1990s, partly motivated by an inadequate regulatory and supervisory framework. The
findings of a study undertaken by the financial sector restructuring agency (FINSAC)2 - listed
below - regarding the key institutional weaknesses prior to the crisis provides a background to
understanding the regulatory weaknesses in the system.
Generalized poor management practices;
Lack of, or poor strategic planning;
Inappropriate organizational structures/ poor standards of corporate governance;
Inaccurate reporting, including illusory profits;
Under-capitalization of institutions, and of subsidiaries involved in real estate;
Inadequate credit/investment assessment and monitoring, conceding exceeding reliance
to collateral;
-High level of non-performing loans in addition to ever-greening of loans where their non-
performing status was masked by rolling over the loans;
Mismatch of assets and liabilities' maturity dates;
Excessive credit concentration with particular over-exposure to real estate lending or
acquisition;
. Connected transactions, with high and non-income earning levels of related party
exposure;
Lack of, or non-compliance with proper internal control procedures and effective risk
management principles;
Frequent actions solely in the interest of major shareholders and/or their associates;
Ineffective supervision of the management by boards of directors;
Failure of regulatory bodies to insist in compliance with accepted rules and standards;
High operating costs including excessive and inappropriate compensation packages; and,
In certain instances, complex group contagion, insider dealing, and material fraud. Banks
and insurance companies diversified away from core business leading to (i) potentially
profitable businesses being managed by unskilled personnel, (ii) poor and biased credit
decisions made at less than arm's length, and (iii) non-core businesses with inadequate
capital structures relying on high-interest loans.
Regulatory and Supervisory Weaknesses
The structural reforms of the early nineties that included the privatization of banks and
liberalization of financial and foreign exchange markets were not accompanied by improvements
' This Annex has been developed on the basis of previous work done by Inter-American Development Bank, a review of
the legal and regulatory framework, and discussions with representatives from the Bank of Jamaica, and market
participants.
For more details, see FINSAC's website: http://www.finsac.com



56
towards an adequate regulatory and supervisory framework for the financial sector. The_
supervisory authorities lacked sufficient powers of intervention, sanction, and enforcement.
Regulatory forbearance took place as technical supervisory recommendations were not executed
in a timely manner, which also created moral hazard by sending accommodative signals to the
market. As the authorities themselves have publicly stated, "the lack of legal power to intervene
prior to absolute insolvency proved to be a major block to timely and effective supervisory
action, resulting in a continuing over-reliance on moral suasion."3
Inconsistencies in regulations across financial sectors paved the way for regulatory arbitrage.
Financial groups were permitted, but while the banking regulator required the licensee's own
financial statements as well as group consolidated financial statements, they had no legal power
to adequately facilitate the tracing of inter-group transactions and, subject to the accuracy of
reporting, were not always able to detect and prevent abuse. Additionally, there was no
consolidated supervision by any of the financial system regulators. While the deposit-taking
entities under the supervision of the Bank of Jamaica (commercial banks and near banks -
merchant banks and building societies) became subject to increasingly stringent prudential
norms, other regulators did not replicate this approach.4 Reserve requirements were set
differently according to the class of institutions, not to the type and length of deposits; moreover,
interest paid by building societies had a special tax treatment.
Contagion was another source of financial distress for banks. Insurance companies, which had
the weakest regulation, were allowed to issue deposit-like policies by the insurance supervisor.
However, they were not required to set aside appropriate levels of reserves. The proceeds of
these policies with deposit-like features were invested in long-term investments (office buildings,
hotels, and other real estate developments), which yielded insignificant cash flow. However,
policyholders had been guaranteed fixed and continuous returns. This cash flow mismatch
between assets and liabilities caused liquidity problems for insurance firms and they tapped their
related banks for funds. Ignoring the statutory exposure limits and the requirements of the bank
supervisor, banks were pressured into providing liquidity to their insurance company parents and
affiliates and the banks themselves soon ran out of liquidity, triggering the crisis.
Prior to the 1992 reform, financial legislation lacked elementary provisions, such as a
comprehensive definition of deposits, fit and proper criteria for management, limits on lending to
related parties, limits on fixed assets, appropriate information requirements, proper loan loss
reserve requirements, and appropriate powers to take remedial action. Thus, prior to the reform,
not even the Minister had the power to intervene prior to actual or apprehended insolvency, and
then, revocation of the license was the only disciplinary measure available.
2. Developments in the Regulatory and Supervisory Regimes: Response to Problems
Jamaican authorities have shown significant progress in the redesign of financial legislation to
address the weaknesses outlined above. Two major legislative reforms took place in 1992 and
3Deputy Govemor of BOJ. LXX Meeting of the Governors of Central Banks of Latin America and Spain, San Juan de
Puerto Rico, May 31 - June 2, 2000.
4Near banks originally had a more lax regulation than commercial banks but were gradually improved. The BOJ has
supervisory oversight over these institutions and since 1999, over credit unions.



57
1997.5 Key financial regulations in Jamaica are now contained in the Banking Act, the Financial
Institutions Act, the Building Societies Act, and the Bank of Jamaica (Building Societies)
Regulations.
The 1992 Reform
This reform was aimed at synchronizing the provisions of the upgraded Banking Act and the new
Financial Institutions Act. The reform comprised changes in the following areas:
-  Increased powers of intervention. In addition to existing powers to revoke a license, the
Minister was granted powers to take remedial action in the case of actual or apprehended
insolvency, including requiring undertakings, giving directions, and issuing cease and
desist orders; ability to assume temporary management; and ability to present to the Court
a petition for the winding up or the reconstruction of a bank.
-  Fit and proper criteria. The BOJ must state that directors and major shareholders are fit
and proper for that purpose; that is to say, that they have not been convicted of an offence
involving dishonesty, are not undischarged bankrupts, or individuals whose employment
record gives the BOJ reason to believe that the person carried out an act involving
dishonesty or impropriety in the handling of banking business.
-  Definition of the word "bank" and revised definition of the word "deposits". Only
licensed banks could carry on banking business and take deposits.
-  Increased minimum  capital requirements. Minimum  capital figures experienced a
twentyfold increase for banks, to J$80 million (J$25 million for financial institutions).
-  Increased minimum to be reserved annually from net profits, from 10 percent to 15
percent; requirement of the BOJ approval for reduction of reserve fund; and prohibition to
the payment of dividends in certain circumstances (previous losses not written off,
required minimum reserves not met, etc.).
-  Establishment of limits for fixed assets (one time capital base), exposures to groups
(maximum forty percent of the capital base on a secured credit basis).
-  Establishment of a requirement for an appropriate loan loss reserve and the non-accrual of
interest after no payment for six months. However, the Minister was not empowered to
issue regulations related to loan loss reserves.
The 1992 upgrading of the Banking Act established new powers for the BOJ and the MOF. A
continuing requirement is for Bank of Jamaica to examine, at least once a year, every licensee to
determine whether the institution is in a sound financial position and to ensure that the statutory
requirements are being complied with. The results of these examinations are provided to the
Minister of Finance. The BOJ may order special audits, and may use an auditor other than the
licensee's auditor. The BOJ was granted power to vary the method of calculating the required
5 Also, in May 1998 a scheme for the protection of depositors was established by the Deposit Insurance Act and the
Jamaica Deposit Insurance Corporation (JDIC) was established to manage the protection scheme.



58
cash reserves and liquid assets and the information to be submitted to the BOJ by the supervised
entities was upgraded. These new information requirements included enhanced balance sheet and
profit and loss account, both solo and consolidated, and auditors' reports as well as information
about loans past due 6 months and over, contingent and prospective liabilities. In addition,
auditors were obliged to inform the BOJ of reasons for their resignation or unwillingness to be
re-appointed and banks were obliged to disclose to the BOJ the reasons why a licensee intended
to terminate the appointment of its existing auditor.
The Minister was given a wide range of sanctioning powers, in addition to revocation of the
license. If a licensee is or appears to be unable to meet its obligations, or when other problems
are in place (submission of false or misleading information, refusal to permit inspections,
contravention of a cease and desist order, etc.), the Minister may assume temporary management
of the institution, suspend or revoke the license, present the Court a petition for the winding up,
or initiate a reconstruction of the licensee.
Among the new and reinforced powers of the Minister are: requirement of ministerial approval
for acquisitions of shares, or any other arrangement, resulting in change of control of the
licensee, and to require the disposal of shares where acquired with no approval; power to obtain
information on the shareholders; powers to take remedial action in the case of actual or
apprehended insolvency (requiring an undertaking from the board of directors, giving directions
to a licensee, issuing of cease and desist orders, assuming temporary management, suspending or
revoking a license, etc.).
However, this reform fell short in solving certain issues, such as quality of information produced
by banks, reporting requirements and disclosure; connected party lending and other prudential
limits; risk-based capital criteria, including the imposition of higher capital for entities operating
within volatile areas of activity; exclusion of certain institutions from deposit-taking activities;
and, chiefly, did not improve the capabilities of supervisors to effectively supervise complex
financial groups. Neither was the supervisor given adequate powers to deal expeditiously with
problem situations.
A remarkable feature of the development of the Jamaican financial sector was the rapid
formation of conglomerates, comprised of one or more institutions of various classes. The
supervisory agencies were inadequately staffed and although the banking supervisor had long
practiced on- and off-site examinations, this was not a feature of insurance regulation;
furthermore, communication and co-operation between the supervisory agencies were
inadequate. Flow of information, systemic or institution specific, was insufficient and led to
duplication of work and incomplete or misleading information being given to the Minister and to
delays and gaps in overall financial system policy development6.
Reforms during 1992- 1997
The BOJ enhanced regulatory and organizational capacity under an IDB program. Thus, a
"Ladder of Enforcement" was issued, clearly pronouncing to the industry the sanctions and
supervisory actions that would be taken in response to assessed levels of problems within
6According to December 1996 M&A's report to the Task Force established by the Ministry of Finance and the BOJ to
review Jamaican legislative and supervisory framework.



59
licensees; eight "Standards of Best Practice", including internal controls and management of the
main risks in the banking business, were issued to the banking industry. In addition, the size of
the supervisory division was restructured and increased; a Work Out Unit, with responsibility for
identification and special monitoring of watch list entities was established; and the quality and
frequency of internal reports, for both on- and off-site was enhanced. The on-site examination
teams were strengthened and re-organized to start conducting simultaneous examinations of
financial groups comprising different types of banking licensees. The staff complement was
more than doubled during 1994 and 1995 and new appointments continued the following years;
internal and external training initiatives were expanded. Building societies were brought under
the BOJ umbrella in 1995. A Securities Commission was established to oversee securities trading
and activities to initiate the strengthening of the Office of the Superintendent of Insurance were
undertaken with support of the IDB.
The 1997 Reform and More Recent Changes
This reform empowered the Minister to take control of the shares and subordinated debt of a
banking licensee that has ceased to be viable with the purpose of restructuring or selling the
entity in the interest of depositors. The BOJ was empowered to take certain corrective measures
in respect of financial entities experiencing problems, such as -unless directed otherwise by the
Minister- to require board undertakings, give directions, and issue cease and desist orders, all of
which previously could only be done by the Minister. The external audit regime was enhanced
and the obligations of auditors were spelled out in greater detail in the presentation of findings
and their reportage to the supervisor of problems or significant issues uncovered during their
audit exercise; furthermore, since the reform the BOJ can also require special audits to be
conducted at the cost of the licensee, if deemed necessary. The information submitted to the
central bank improved, as well as introduced the requirement for senior bank management to
attest to true and fair representation of quarterly published unaudited balance sheets;
furthermore, the BOJ was given the power to examine the books of immediate and ultimate
holding companies of supervised financial institutions. Concurrently, efforts have been made by
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Jamaica to improve accounting practices and disclosure
requirements relating to the financial statements of banks and similar financial institutions.
Accounting standards have been brought more in line with US GAAP, particularly in the areas of
revaluation and recognition of unrealized profits, deferred expenses, and pension valuation
disclosures.
Since 1997, the BOJ has implemented additional supervisory mechanisms to enhance its
monitoring capabilities. These include the development of regulations on capital adequacy on a
risk basis and credit risk classification, provisioning and non accrual requirements; the
introduction of a program of quarterly performance targets encompassing capital, asset quality,
profitability, and liquidity; the development and implementation of testing instruments to
monitor compliance with the Money Laundering Act; and the establishment of an enhanced
electronic data interchange system that enables the efficient transmission of information from all
the licensed institutions to the BOJ. Credit unions were brought under the BOJ supervisory
umbrella in 1999.
Under the Quarterly Performance Targets Regime, individual entities agree key target
performance ratios with the central bank, and the banking system is monitored accordingly. This



60
is intended to bring greater uniformity to the assessment of financial indicators with the objective
of raising financial performance of all the players and the system as a whole. At the same time, a
Financial Stability Monitoring Comnmittee, comprising senior staff of the supervisory and
research divisions of the central bank, was established, to put in place a set of financial system
and macroeconomic indicators, which are reviewed on a regular basis.
3. Summary of Current Provisions in Financial Legislation
Licensing andfit and proper criteria
Licenses and acquisitions of shares entailing control over 20 percent or more of the licensees'
authorized share capital must be approved by the Minister. The assessment process involves the
application of fit and proper criteria in relation to shareholders, directors and management "by
vetting players at the entry gate." The application of rigorous fit and proper criteria will diminish
the risk of negligent or incompetent directors and management and will improve the standards of
corporate governance.
Capital requirements
Minimum paid up capital and capital adequacy requirements are at present more in line with
Basle standards though having more stringent definitions of Tier 1 and Tier 2 components. There
is also a concept of "capital base" that provides the basis for limits on credit and other risk
exposure (not explicitly for market risks, so far), fixed assets, and deposit taking capacities. In
addition, a minimum of 15 percent of net profits must be transferred each year to a statutory
reserve fund, until its balance is equivalent to 50 percent of the paid-up capital; thereafter, a
minimum amount of 10 percent must be transferred, until the reserve fund equals the paid-up
capital.
Banks' deposit-taking capacity is limited in relation to capital base: Commercial banks can hold
deposits worth 25 times its capital and other licensed deposit taking financial institutions 20
times its capital. Conversely, there is not now a similar provision in the building societies
regulations. Nonetheless building societies are subject to risk capital requirements. The Minister
can vary each of those ratios, subject to the affirmative resolution of the Parliament. In addition
minimum cash requirements and liquid assets are required for banks, financial institutions, and
building societies, in relation to prescribed liabilities.
Controls and provisions on lending
Credit risk exposure limits for banks -and similarly for Building Societies- include the following
prohibitions: (i) the acquisition, dealing in, or granting credit facilities on the securities of its
own (or holding company or subsidiary) shares; (ii) the grant of any unsecured credit facilities to
connected persons or to any company, or persons connected to such company, which holds 20
percent or more of the licensee's shares; (iii) the grant of credit facilities to any one person if the
credit facilities exceed in the aggregate 20 percent (40 percent for a group) of the licensee's
capital base, of which no more than 5 percent (10 percent for a group) may be unsecured. The
Minister can authorize a bank to exceed these limits after consultation with the BOJ.



61
The regulation requires a one-percent general loan loss provision on standard and potential
problem credits and specific provision against the estimated net loss (after consideration of
collateral values pursuant to up to date expert valuations) of each credit classified as substandard
(20 percent), doubtful (50 percent), and loss (100 percent). Additionally, a credit must be
classified as non-accrual when a payment is three months or more in arrears. The regulation also
establishes the conditions and criteria which would determine the timing and level of
classification of a credit. Where a loan is non-performing in excess of 12 months, the value of
collateral is further written down, regardless of valuation, and provisioning requirements
increased until it is fully provided for.
Limits on fixed assets and investments
Fixed assets and investment in companies are limited as well. The former is restricted to 100
percent of the capital base (in relation to asset cost); however the Minister can authorize a bank
to surpass that limit. In aggregate, investments in any company or undertaking are limited to 50
percent of the capital base and any such single shareholdings is limited to 10 percent of the
capital base.
Information and disclosure
Entities are also required to submit financial information to the BOJ, including monthly returns
showing information which includes data on contingent liabilities and past due loans; annual
statements of earnings and expenditure; and audited financial statements of the licensed
institution and its parent, subsidiaries, and affiliated companies. Additionally, each licensee is
required to publish in a daily newspaper (and also to exhibit in its office throughout the year) a
copy of its audited financial statements.
The BOJ is allowed by the law to publish information on the assets and liabilities of each bank,
Under this authorization, the BOJ publishes the quarterly unaudited balance sheets of all banks,
merchant banks, and, since December 1999, building societies; as well as aggregate system and
sub-sector financial indicators on a trend basis.
Anti Money-Laundering Measures
The BOJ has recently issued the "Guidance Notes on Money Laundering for Banks, Licensed
Financial Institutions, Building Societies, Cambios, and Bureaus de Change that intend to bring
to the attention of financial institutions the minimum standards required of an effective program
to detect and deter money laundering. By way of these Guidance Notes, BOJ emphasizes that the
anti-money laundering policies and procedures of financial institutions should be developed in
accordance with the law, the 40 Recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force, the 19
Recommendations of the Caribbean Financial Action Task Force, and the Guidance Notes
themselves, giving consideration to each institution's own internal procedures, practices, and
personnel structures.
These rules are applicable to every type of financial institution in Jamaica and, provided that
Jamaican anti-money laundering provisions are more severe than those applicable abroad, also to
branches or subsidiaries of Jamaican financial institutions operating overseas. Albeit the
Guidance Notes do not have by themselves the force of law, a court will give consideration to the



62
advice issued by the regulatory body that has jurisdiction over an entity that is charged with an
offence. In addition, BOJ will consider noncompliance with anti-money laundering laws and
regulations and with the Drug Offences Act, as well as failure to adhere to the Notes, as
constituting unsafe and unsound practices, which could, in turn, trigger undertakings, directions
or cease and desist orders.
Financial institutions are obliged, among other things, (i) to establish and implement programs,
policies, procedures and controls as may be necessary for the purpose of preventing and
detecting money laundering including appropriate staff training programs and the appointment of
compliance officers; (ii) to impede money-laundering activities; (iii) to establish, and review
annually, clearly defined policies to achieve such obstruction that should include certain
minimum standards; (iv) to adopt adequate and effective know-your-customer procedures; (v) to
keep records; and (vi) to report any suspicious transactions as well as all cash transactions above
US$50,000 for commercial banks, financial institutions and building societies (US$8,000 for
Cambios7).
These Guidance Notes represent an enhancement in money laundering prevention but
implementation, in terms of establishment of policies and procedures by financial institutions
will take time.
4. Pending Improvements in Bank Supervision
Although progress has been made on Jarnaican financial legislation, the challenge remains to
ensure effective implementations of the norms and regulations. More appropriate regulations are
now in place and the supervisory authorities enjoy a larger set of tools to earlier detect and
manage a crisis. There is still room for improvement in terms of (i) enforcement powers of the
supervisor that would need to be enlarged; (ii) coordination among supervisors of different
financial institutions; (iii) consolidated supervision; and (iv) refinement of capital provisions to
introduce specific market risk based requirements.
In order to get a comprehensive picture of the supervisory legal and regulatory framework of
Jamaica, an independent assessment on the Basle Core Principles for Effective Banking
Supervision is highly recommended. The independent assessment would verify the results of the
self-assessment carried out recently by the authorities, which depicts a supervisory system
largely compliant with the principles.
Powers vested in the supervisor
The new legislation continues to vest significant power in the Minister to grant exceptions to
legislation and to prudential requirements and to exercise final decisions on bank intervention
and exit. This discretion over the financial sector weakens the ability of the BOJ to supervise the
industry, because institutions are inclined to seek exceptions (or delays) as opposed to comply
with particular requirements of the supervisor. While, according to BOJ officials, the Minister
normally defers to and accepts the recommendations of the central bank in matters involving the
supervision of deposit-taking institutions, the possibility nevertheless remains that arbitrary
7 Cambios and Bureaus de Change are licenses foreign exchange dealers, mostly established in rural and tourist
areas.



63
action (or non-action) is the consequence of the role of the Minister. In the case of bank exits in
the very early stages of the crisis (relative to 2 entities finally intervened in late 1994 and mid
1996), the Minister's failure to act expeditiously on the recommendations of the BOJ has been
seen as an unfortunate feature of the overall banking sector developments.
To adopt timely corrective measures supervisors should have the power to intervene at an early
stage if the licensee's business is being conducted in a manner detrimental to depositors or other
creditors or is not being conducted in accordance with laws and regulations and to prevent
capital from falling below prudent levels. Albeit the Minister could retain the power of
revocation and closure, the supervisory authority should have the capacity to take immediate
control of a licensee, provided that certain grave circumstances are in place (negative capital,
poor management detrimental for depositors or other creditors, refusal to submit to inspection of
licensee's records or operations). The strengthening of BOJ's autonomy in terms of early
intervention in distressed licensed institutions would serve to enhance the transparency of the
system of intervention. This would include: (i) an early warning system in place to address the
problems prior to complete insolvency; (ii) power of the regulatory authority to intervene based
on a ladder of intervention, so that all players would have a clear statement of what actions may
be taken by the regulators and when these actions are likely to be taken; and (iii) a clear
understanding by the licensees of the consequences of failing to rectify problems expeditiously.
Bank of Jamaica has recently updated the Ladder of Enforcement to reflect the 1997 legislative
amendments.
The supervisor still does not have authority to directly impose fines (other than for failures to
comply with the liquidity requirements), which currently are imposed through the court system.
The BOJ has been in full support of having powers to assess fines in certain offences; however,
legal issues need to be resolved.
Coordination among supervisors of different financial institutions
Another main issue is whether the new design of the regulatory and supervisory model for the
financial system will achieve a sound financial system and minimize the risk of systemic crises.
Major challenges are the harmonization of chief regulations (risk-based capital adequacy,
reporting requirements, reserve requirements, crisis-intervention policies) to avoid and put an
end to regulatory arbitrage; the coordination among supervisors; and the application by the other
supervisors of the same strict supervisory standards applied by the central bank. The Regulatory
Policy Council is being created to coordinate the regulation and supervision of banks and other
financial institutions and non-bank financial entities under the authority of FSC. It should be
clearly spelled out in the law the status of the lead supervisor and the arrangements for
information sharing among the supervisory agencies. However, prior to the codification, a formal
Memorandum of Understanding between the new agency (FSC), the BOJ, and JDIC, which
would detail supervisory policy regarding lead regulator concept and crisis management issues,
should be agreed.
Consolidated supervision
Prudential regulations should be set on a consolidated basis in terms of regulatory capital and
credit risk exposure limits. Supervisors should be capable of assessing risk management at the
group and affiliate level. Given the complex group structures that exist in Jamaica, supervisory



64
policies need to be considerably strengthened in this area. This would involve strengthening the
supervisory authority to ensure that corporate affiliates and structures do not hinder effective
supervision, e.g. prohibit industrial groups and commercial banks in the same groups or require
the establishment of a separate financial group/holding company that isolates the industrial
enterprises from the rest of the group.
Refinement of capitalprovisions and market risk
At present there are no explicit capital requirements for market risk. Furthermore, the BCP self-
assessment noted the authorities as materially non-compliant in the evaluation of market risk.
Supervisors' ability to monitor and evaluate market risk should be improved, which includes
receiving timely and relevant information from the licensees. Particularly important is to issue
specific regulation introducing capital requirements for market risk and develop norms and
standards addressing market risk. The Caribbean Development Bank is addressing technical
assistance needed in this area.
5. Improvement in the Supervision and Regulation of Insurance Companies-IDB Project
Throughout fiscal 1999/2000, Insurance Regulatory Reform has continued to be a major work
stream through a two-year special project jointly funded by FINSAC and the IDB.
This project has been specifically geared towards the management of FINSAC's investment in
the insurance sector, the updating and strengthening of Jamaica's Insurance Act and Regulations,
the strengthening of supervisory personnel and expertise in that area, the evaluation of the
management of private pension funds in Jamaica, together with other reforms.
The project team is led by FINSAC's General Manager, Insurance Intervention & Rehabilitation.
The team works closely with the Office of the Superintendent of Insurance (OSI) to ensure their
training and support in the new methodologies.
The following deliverables have been successfully completed:
* Performance benchmarks (Early Warning Ratios) established for FINSAC-intervened
insurance companies.
*  Monthly reporting forms for life and general insurance companies formulated, showing key
data indicating the companies' overall financial health. All FINSAC-intervened insurance
companies now use these reporting forms.
*  Report completed on all life and general insurance companies, showing the trends in the
predictive ratios over a nine year completed period.
*  In December 1998, working with analysts from the OSI, the project team completed a joint
FINSAC/OSI examination of Island Life, using many of these newly developed benchmarks
and analyses. An examination of Life of Jamaica began on June 28, 1999. These were the
first examinations of life insurance companies in Jamaica. The examination report on Life of
Jamaica was presented to the Board of Life of Jamaica in January 2000. The examinations
focussed on the accuracy of accounting records, the suitability and consistency of accounting



65
policies and procedures, solvency of the company, and the verification that statutory
requirements were in compliance. Being the first on-site examination, a complete review of
all books maintained by the company was done.
* New organization charts for the OSI were completed, with many job descriptions finalized,
including educational, skills and abilities requirements. The structure also includes pension
supervision and job descriptions have been developed for the necessary positions.
* Staffing structure and budget for the OSI as a statutory body established for submission to
the Ministry of Finance.
* Prototypes for an automated insurance industry financial analysis program prepared.
* First drafts of new Investment Guidelines for insurance companies, and a new Insurance Act
prepared for circulation in the industry.
. Draft provisions of the proposed new Insurance Act sent out for comments from all
stakeholders and Caribbean law experts.
* Examination Manual and procedures finalized.
* Draft Accounting Standards for general and life insurance companies developed in
conjunction with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Jamaica, and issued to the
industry as exposure drafts.
* New solvency standards developed for life and general insurance companies. The Minimum
Assets Test for general insurance companies was submitted to the Jamaica Association of
General Insurance Companies (JAGIC) for comment. The Minimum Assets Test is initially
set at 100% of Required Assets for Test Purposes, and will vary in accordance with the
Office of the Superintendent of Insurance regulations from time to time. The Minimum
Continuing Capital and Surplus Requirement (MCCSR) for life insurance companies was
also circulated to the industry for comment.
* Arranged for an initial review of the private pension system in Jamaica by a pension
regulatory expert. Recommendations were submitted as comments to the Committee for
Pension Reform.
The IDB project is scheduled for completion in January 2001. Once the proposal for the new Act
and Regulations are with the Ministry of Finance & Planning, the Attorney General's Office, and
the Office of the Chief Parliamentary Counsel, these bodies will control the formulation of a bill
and the timing of the bill being presented to Parliament for its assent into law.
The IDB project plan contemplates the transfer of certain project staff to the Office of the
Superintendent of Insurance. However, this is contingent on Govermnent's finalization of its
proposals for the re-structuring the Office of the Superintendent of Insurance.



66
Table 1. Supervisory and Regulatory Reforms in the Jamaican Banking Sector
Key Regulatory & Supervisory    International Best Practice    Pre-Crisis Situation In Jamaica    Current Status In Jamaica
Issues
Preconditions for effective
banking supervision:
Market discipline              Adequate flow of information to    Less than optimal information to    Major improvement; not met
market participants; appropriate    the market when supervisor not  completely yet
incentives                     provided with accurate data by
licensees; likelihood of rumors
Safety net                     Appropriate level of systemic   Full guarantee                  Limited guarantee
protection-confidence; limited
guarantee
Supervisory powers             Operational independence and    Not legally independent; no
resources;                     minimum period of appointment    Not legally independent; no
minimum period of appointment
Sufficient enforcement powers;  Not sufficient powers for the  Largely improved; not met
supervisor, nor for the Minister  completely yet
Powers for effective resolution of   Actions to be taken by the Minister  No intervention powers; actions
problems in banks, including exit;                             subject to ministerial approval
Interagency cooperation and    No formal information sharing   No legal arrangements for
sharing of relevant information                                information sharing. Legislation
needed
Clear criteria for lead regulator  No lead regulator           No lead regulator
Licensing and structure:
Permissible activities         Clear definition of the scope of  Deposit taking activities defacto    Deposit taking activities reserved to
permitted activities, at a minimum   permitted to insurance companies   licensed banks
deposit taking activities reserved to
banks



67
Key Regulatory & Supervisory    International Best Practice        Pre-Crisis Situation In Jamaica    Current Status In Jamaica
Issues
Ownership structure              Financial strength of major       Opaque groups                     Structures of financial/mixed
shareholders; effective supervision                                groups to be clarified; new
not hampered by group structures;                                  legislation required
transparency
Fit and proper criteria          Stringent criteria applicable to  Certain requirements for owners   Requirements enhanced
owners, directors and senior     and managers
management. Accountability and
responsibility of managers and
directors
Transfer of shares               Controlling interests approved by    Minister's approval            Minister's approval; requirements
supervisors                                                        enhanced
Major investments                Approved by supervisors (to avoid   Limits on fixed assets and      Limits on fixed assets and more
undue risks and supervision      investments in enterprises        stringent limits on investment in
hindrance)                       established in the law            enterprises established in the law
Prudential regulations and
requirements
Risk-based capital adequacy:     Risk-based capital requirement    Deposit-base capital requirements   Risk-based and deposit-based
capital requirements
Main risks (credit, country, market,  Deposit-base, not risk-based capital  Only credit risk considered; market
interest rate, liquidity) taken into    requirements               risk not yet considered
account
Requirement on solo and          Only on solo basis                 Only on solo basis
consolidated basis
Credit risk management (CRM): (i)  Supervisors evaluate policies,  Supervisor evaluates policies,    Supervisor evaluates policies,
Credit-granting standards and credit practices, and procedures for  practices and procedures for     practices and procedures for
monitoring process.              granting and monitoring of current  granting and monitoring of credit   granting and monitoring of credit
portfolio                        portfolio                          portfolio



68
Key Regulatory & Supervisory    International Best Practice       Pre-Crisis Situation In Jamaica    Current Status In Jamaica
Issues
Credit bureau; access to other  No credit bureau; banks do not    No credit bureau; banks do not
intermediaries positions         know other banks' exposures      know other banks' exposures.
Proposal being made by Bankers
Association for establishment of
Credit Bureau
CRM: (ii) Asset valuation        Asses quality; adequacy of loan-    Not sufficiently prudent provision   Prudent provision requirement
loss reserves                   requirements
CRM: (iii) Concentration and large  Identify and set limits (consolidated  Prudent limits in place but solo  Prudent limits in place but solo
exposures                        basis).                          basis                            basis
CRM: (iv) Connected lending      Arm's length basis, effective    Same limits as for unconnected   More stringent limits than for
monitored and limited            parties                          unconnected parties in place but
(consolidated basis)                                              solo basis
CRM: (v) Country and transfer risk  Identify and monitor country risk    No requirements           No requirements
and transfer risk
Market risk management           Banks supervisors must determine   No provisions for market risk  No provisions for market risk.
that banks measure and control                                    Arrangements being made for
market risks; where appropriate, set                              enhancement in this area through
a capital cushion                                                 technical assistance from CDB
Internal controls                Overall prudent management in    Standards of best practice were  Enforceable "Standards of Best
accordance with policies and     being formulated for application by  Practice"
strategies established by board;  industry
know-your-customer (laundering)
Methods of ongoing supervision    Regular contact with bank       Initial strengthening and        Strengthening and re-organization
management and thorough          reorganization of staff.         of staff continue.
understanding of banks' operations                                Information improved
(Both on- and off-site)
Off-site surveillance            Prudential reports both solo and  Less-than-optimal information   Monitoring capabilities enhanced:
consolidated and from non-      available                         Quarterly Performance Targets
financial companies of the group                                  Regime, Financial Stability
I__ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ __   __   M onitoring  Committee.



69
Key Regulatory & Supervisory    International Best Practice    Pre-Crisis Situation In Jamaica    Current Status In Jamaica
Issues
On-site examinations; external  Means of validating information;    Clear guidelines re frequency and    On- and off-site examinations
auditors                       clear guidelines related to     scope of examinations            enhanced
frequency and scope of
examinations; policies and
procedures in place
Roles of auditors and supervisors    Less-than-optimal external audit    Requirements for auditors and audit
clearly differentiated         reports.                         reports were significantly improved
Consolidated supervision       Ability to review both banking and  Review only banking activity  Ability to review all group
non-banking activities, both                                    companies' activities
domestic and foreign.
Both (solo and consolidated)    Solo prudential requirements    Solo prudential requirements
prudential requirements
Information sharing among      Insufficient                    Improving
different supervisors
Information requirements
Accounting standards            Comparable information; based on   Profits were easily inflated by  Accounting standards improved,
internationally accepted accounting  uncollected income         more in line with international
principles and rules                                            standards and principles
Scope and frequency of reporting    Determined by supervisor; some    Scope and frequency stated in law    Determined by law and supervisor.
reports may be "event generate"    and determinable by supervisor,    Better quality reports
however questionable timeliness
and reliability



70
Key Regulatory & Supervisory    International Best Practice       1 Pre-Crisis Situation In Jamaica    Current Status In Jamaica
Issues
Confirmation of the accuracy of the  Responsibility of banks'       Managers were not perceived as    Managers sign the official
information submitted            management; assessed by external  taking sufficient responsibility for   statements. Audit reports improved.
auditors. Special reports could be    the information               BOJ can ask auditors for further
decided by supervisors                                              work. Drafted regulation that
would give the power to
supervisors to revoke the
appointment of auditors and
prevent appointment of non-
qualifying auditor
Disclosure                        Comprehensive and not misleading  Disclosed information was         Improved disclosure standards;
information regarding activities and  frequently inaccurate and     BOJ can require further disclosure
financial position of banks       misleading
Formal powers of supervisors
Corrective measures               Appropriate intervention to protect  Minister can assume temporary  Minister can assume temporary
depositors, creditors, and prevent    management, suspend or revoke a    management, suspend or revoke a
widespread contagion              license                           license or vest shares of licensee in
himself to facilitate sale or
restructuring
Graduated, and timely, supervisory   Minister can require undertakings,   BOJ can require undertakings, give
response (restrict activities, restrict  give directions, issue cease and  directions, and issue cease and
paybacks to shareholders, replace    desist orders and take temporary  desist orders
management, conservatorship) and   management
vigilance                                                           Minister can take temporary
Minister presents to the Court a  management, vest shares and
petition for the winding up or    present to the Court a petition for
initiates reconstruction         the winding up or initiate
reconstruction
Liquidation procedures            Ability to close or assist in the  BOJ assists in closure           BOJ assists in closure
closing



71
ANNEX IV
STRUCTURE AND EVOLUTION OF THE BANKING SYSTEM IN JAMAICA
Prior to the 1995-1996 crisis, the Jamaican financial sector was characterized by extremely rapid
growth in assets and a large number and variety of financial institutions including: commercial
banks, near banks (merchant banks, trust companies, and finance companies), building societies,
credit unions, and insurance companies. Although these institutions engaged in similar types of
activities, they were not equally well regulated or supervised. As a result of the crisis and the
subsequent Government response, the financial landscape has dramatically changed both in
terms of the number of institutions and types of businesses they are allowed to undertake. A
significant flight to quality from domestic to foreign-owned institutions also took place. In
addition, the large pressing needs of the Government because of fiscal constraints that were
worsened by the consequences of the financial crisis, have crowded out private sector credit with
adverse consequences for growth. Further, the composition of assets in banks' balance sheets
has been dominated by Government securities and FINSAC bonds, to the detriment of financial
intermediation in the system. Subsequent to intervention and restructuring of failed institutions,
system prudential indicators are improving particularly in terms of asset quality and solvency,
largely as a result of the purchase of NPLs and recapitalizations undertaken by FINSAC under its
rehabilitation and restructuring mandate.
1. Financial System Structure
The financial liberalization process of the mid-1980s led to substantial growth in assets of the
financial sector but was not complemented by a sufficiently robust prudential and regulatory
infrastructure (Annex III). The distinction between deposit-taking institutions (traditional
commercial banks) and other financial institutions was minimal because of the creation of
unregulated instruments that mimicked deposits at lower regulatory costs. The number of
institutions that were subject to lower reserve requirements and relatively less stringent
supervision increased as financial intermediaries searched for ways to access cheaper funds and
broaden their funding base, motivated by regulatory and tax arbitrage opportunities. This was
particularly the case of merchant banks that had lower reserve requirements than commercial
banks, and later of building societies, which, prior to supervision by the BOJ, were not subject to
any legal reserve requirements.
Commercial bank assets multiplied seven times between 1990-95, while merchant banks and
building societies' assets grew four and nine times, respectively (Table 1, p. 11). From 1981 to
1990, the number of merchant banks increased from 6 to 21. After reserve requirements were
raised on merchant banks, there was a continuation of the pattern of regulatory arbitrage through
building societies which, with no reserve requirements and weaker prudential standards at that
time, increased from 6 in 1990 to 32 on register in 1995, when supervisory responsibility for
these institutions was assigned to the BOJ. With the assessment and licensing procedures which
commenced in 1995, the number of societies reduced to 14 by December 1996 and further to 5



72
licensed societies currently. The number of insurance companies also increased mainly because
they remained poorly regulated. These companies raised funds through short-term deposits to
finance longer-term investment projects in the real estate and tourism sectors, thereby creating a
severe mismatch of assets and liabilities thus increasing their risks. As investment projects failed
to perform as projected and investor uncertainty led to increasing non-renewal of short term
funds, liquidity problems emerged and the insurance companies tapped mostly on their related
banks for funds, triggering the problems that surfaced in the banking sector.
Faced with systemic runs, the Government intervened in the system, fully protecting all
depositors, life insurance policyholders, and pension fund investors for their total assets. The
Government's response also included the introduction of changes towards leveling the
regulatory/supervisory playing field across institutions thereby reducing opportunities for
arbitrage, together with the creation of FINSAC to intervene, rehabilitate and divest troubled
financial institutions. In the process, the Government effectively became the owner of, or a
major investor in, most of the domestically owned financial sector. FINSAC's strategy for the
resolution of financial institutions in distress resulted in the merger of all intervened banks not
otherwise closed down, into Union Bank (see below) and in National Commercial Bank. This
merging process coupled with the regulatory changes substantially decreased the number of
institutions in the system. For instance, the number of commercial banks decreased from 11 in
1995 to 6 by June 1999. The trend has been more evident at near banks, which went from 23 in
1998 to 13 in 1999.
2. Commercial Bank Market Participation: Flight to Quality
Financial sectors in developing countries tend to be bank-dominated and Jamaica is no
exception. Commercial banks continue to have predominance with more than 70 percent of the
total assets of the Jamaican deposit-taking system.8 The main players are the two intervened
(domestic) commercial banks -NCB and Union Bank- and chiefly among foreign banks, the
Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS). The latter has particularly benefited from extensive flight to quality
resulting from the crisis.
Although after the crisis NCB still has the largest share of total assets (38 percent) as of June
2000, it has decreased from 42 percent in 1998. In contrast, foreign banks and, in particular,
BNS, have gained market share, thus strengthening their very important presence in the
commercial bank market. As of June 2000 BNS has the second largest share in total assets (37
percent), increasing since 1998 (Table 1). Prior to the crisis, the main lender in the market was
NCB, as evidenced by the large amount of FINSAC bonds in its balance sheet.9 Since then, BNS
has widened the gap in its now dominant loan market share of 39 percent in March 1998,
increasing to 58 percent by June 2000, while NCB's share's decreased from 37 percent to 23
percent during the same period.'0 This trend has resulted in a more concentrated loan market as
s Total assets of the system include commercial banks, near banks, and building societies.
9 The large share of FINSAC bonds in the balance sheet of NCB and Union Bank (currently more than 50%) was
partly due to the purchase of non-performing loans resulting from the credit boom of earlier years. For instance,
FINSAC acquired J$13.5 billion from NCB, which currently holds a (gross) portfolio of J$ 1.1 billion in June 2000
compared to J$20.6 billion at BNS.
'0 Citibank is also present in the market with a much lower participation (3-4 percent). Its lending rates are relatively
lower, but mostly to select customers. The CIBC also had a small participation of about 6-8 percent until June 1998,



73
measured by the Herfindahl Hirshmann Index (HHI) (Table 2), which as of June 2000, reached
4,011 compared to 3,003 at March 1998."
but since then, its loan market share dramatically increased (reaching between 10-11 percent after December 1999)
as part of a new business strategy. A recently appointed managing director introduced a cut in the prime-lending rate
by 40 basis points (announced in September 1999), following the lead started by the BNS and other banks.
"' The HHI is the sum of the squares of the respective shares and lies between 0 and 10000. According to the merger
guidelines of the US Department of Justice, a postmerger HHI of 1800 and over indicates a concentrated market, an
HHI between 1000 and 1800 moderately concentrated and an HHI below 1000, unconcentrated.



74
Table 1. Participation in Total Assets, Total Loans, and Total Deposits of Commercial Banks from March 1998 to March 2000
(%)
Commercial    0398   0698   0399  0699   1299  0600   0398   0698   0399   0699   1299   0600   0398   0698   0399   0699   1299  0600
Banks                       Total Assets                             Total (net) Loans                            Total Deposits
Domestic:             57     57     55      57     56     54     50      43     40     37     31     28      53     55     48      50     48     48
FINSAC-banks         56      57     55     57     56      54     49     42     38     36      30     27     52      54     47     50     48      47
NCB*                 42     44     40     40      39     38     37     32      27     26     25     23      41     44     36      37     36     36
Citizens**            6      -6     9                            2      3       4                            4      5      6
Eagle**               2      2      2                            1       1      1                            2      1       1
Island Victoria**     2      2      1                            3      3       2                            2      1       1
Workers S & L**       4      3      3                            6      3       4                            3      3      3
Union**                                    17     17     16                           10      5      4                            13     12     11
Non-FINSAC            0       0      0      0      0       0      1      1      1       1      1      1      0       1      0      0      0       0
Trafalgar***          0      0      0      0       0      0      1       1      1      1      1       1      0      1      0      0       0      0
Foreign:              43     43     45     43      44     46     50      57     60     63     69     72      47     45     52      50     52     52
Nova Scotia          33     34     35      33     34     37     39     46      47     49     52     58      37     36     41     38      40     41
Citibank              4      3      3      3       3      3      5      3       4      4      6      4       3      2      4      4       3      3
CIBC****              6      7      6      6       7      6      6       8      9     10     11     10|    7        7      7       8      9      8
Source: WB calculations based on data from the Bank of Jamaica.
* National Commercial Bank. FINSAC owns about 67 percent of NCB.
* * Merger of Eagle Commercial Bank, Island Victoria Bank, Workers Savings & Loan Bank, Island life Merchant, and Corporate Merchant into
Citizens Bank, which later changed nanes to Union Bank of Jamaica Limited, effective June 30, 1999.
** * Negligible market share.
**** Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.



75
Notwithstanding the flight to quality and the restructuring process taking place, the deposits
market was marginally less concentrated as of June 2000 with a HHI of 3,050 compared to
3,141 in March 1998. The significant flight to quality that followed the crisis led BNS to
increase its deposit market share from 37 to 41 percent from March 1998 to March 1999,
compared to a decline in the NCB's market share from 41 to 36 percent during the same period.
Table 2. Herfindahl Hirshmann Indexes
COMMERCIAL BANKS   March 1998   March 1999    June 1999       December 1999  June 2000
Total Assets         2965         2965         2734         2735           2858
FINSAC              1824        1695          1600         1521          1444
Foreign             1141        1270          1134         1214           1414
Net loans            3003         3074         3195         3488           4011
FINSAC              1420         767           677         626            530
Foreign             1582        2306          2517         2861          3480
Deposits             3141         3089         2893         2986           3050
FINSAC              1714         1343         1369         1296          1296
Foreign             1427         1746         1524         1690          1754
Source: World Bank calculations based on the BOJ data.
* Non-FINSAC domestic banks have a negligible market share.
3. Private Sector Credit: Shift in the Composition of Bank Assets
The pressing needs for the Government to finance its overall public sector deficit and service its
large debt has crowded out credit to the private sector. This shift reflects the increased demand
for credit by the Government due to its large fiscal needs, which were worsened by the crisis.
Since 1997, credit to the private sector has been depressed relative to the predominant credit to
the public sector and bank lending to the private sector has registered negative growth since the
onset of the crisis. Loans to the Government have increased substantially both at commercial and
near banks. In addition, the resolution of the crisis largely through the issuance of FINSAC
bonds resulted in a shift in the composition of bank assets from loans to Government securities.
Government demands for funds are large even though interest on FINSAC debt is being
capitalized. A large increase in credit to the public sector coupled with low GDP growth led
credit to private sector to decrease as a percentage of GDP from more than 20 percent in 1996 to
about 10 percent in 1999 (Figure 1). As of March 1999, the Governrment had already exhausted
M2, thus squeezing funds in the domestic market. This trend has prevailed as of March 2000,
although the rate of increase of public credit that slowed somewhat.
A breakdown of the loan portfolio of commercial banks indicates that by July 1999, Government
loans accounted for 'the largest annual increase among all types of commercial bank loans, with a
very rapid rate of growth of 25 percent (Table 3). The large growth likely resulted from the
Government's decision in Summer 1999 to forego the raising of funds at unacceptable rates in
the international markets and instead raised the required funds through the domestic market. The
decrease in the annual growth rate of the loan portfolios of near banks was partly reflective of the
Union Bank merger process effective April 1999. During 2000, particularly after the



76
Government was able to raise funds in the international markets early in the year, near bank
lending to the private sector (particularly to the manufacturing sector) has increased.'2
Figure 1. Main Sources of M2
50%
30%
I       10%
o  10%
1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
IM 22        Credit to Public Sector  Credit to Private Sector  NFA
Source: The BOJ.
NFA= Net foreign assets.
Figures as of March each year, as a percentage of previous December GDP.
The authorities expect that after the restructuring and sale process of NCB and Union Bank is
complete, the environment for increased credit to the private sector that could boost growth
would be enhanced. It is expected that post divestment, NCB and Union Bank -which currently
operate under supervisory constraints-will be in a position to return to their roles as large
players in the credit market.
As a result of the resolution of banks in distress since 1997, total bank assets are dominated by
FINSAC bonds (about 33% for commercial banks as of June 2000) and asset composition has
shifted from largely loans to significant holdings of Government securities. Loans and advances
still have a larger participation than the latter but dramatically decreased in importance from
1996 when they accounted for 40.1 percent, to reach 19 percent as of December 1999. The
reduction in the share of loans in total assets resulted partly from the transfer of approximately
J$30 billion (J$17.8 billion done in 1998) in non-performing loans (NPLs) to FINSAC. This was
accompanied by a shift in asset composition towards government securities, which moved from
12 percent of commercial bank assets in March 1998 to 16 percent in December 1999. This shift
has been more evident at BNS, the current market leader in lending, with (net) loans to total
assets ratio of 27 percent in December 1999, down from 34 percent in March 1998, while its
ratio of Government securities to total assets increased from 23 percent to 31 percent during the
same period.
A large increase in the BOJ advances to the banking sector was evidenced during 1999 (J$1.1
billion as of end-December 1999). This, when coupled with a 67 percent share of total
Government securities held by commercial banks reported by BNS in December 1999
(increasing from 45 percent in March 1998) suggests that the Government may be mobilizing
funds from BNS to channel liquidity through the system.
12 Government loans from near banks had an exceptionally large annual growth of 1,416 percent in July 1999. Total
near bank lending however is relatively small account for only about 6 percent of commercial bank lending.



77
Table 3. Shares and Rate of Growth of Loans by Type
Annual percentage change
Commercial banks            06/99     07/99      09/99      12/99     02/00     03/00
Net loans                            -15.7      -19.8     -14.7    -16.11      -14.3
Agriculture                           1.3      -4.7     -19.6    -19.90      -12.8
Manufacturing                      -32.4      -34.1     -25.2    -35.10      -29.2
Construction                        -22.7     -20.3     -20.1      -9.50     -22.6
Mining                             -64.0      -40.4     -48.3    -25.59      -24.3
Tourism                             -24.0     -28.3     -16.4    -14.44       -9.6
Transport                           -39.2     -40.8     -24.0    -17.07       -8.7
Consumer-oriented                   -10.4     -13.2      -9.8    -10.10      -11.1
Government Services                 25.2      -10.2       3.8      -2.68      -4.1
Other                              -50.2      -42.6     -47.0      -55.0     -34.1
Near banks
Net loans                 -58.3      -33.1      -25.7      -5.1     -26.0      -10.1
Agriculture              -64.4     -33.1       15.5      -6.7      -55.2     -55.8
Manufacturing            -72.9     -46.5      -25.7      96.9      113.0     200.0
Construction             -66.7     -45.7      -39.9     -26.7      -86.0     -83.1
Mining                   -85.2     -81.4    -72.88      -25.6       42.0       0.4
Tourism                  -55.6     -35.6      -23.8      146.9       1.0       7.6
Transport                -80.8     -77.8      -75.4     -71.9      -40.0     -41.1
Consumer-oriented        -48.5     -38.5      -30.8      -19.4     -29.9      -8.0
Government Services      -15.9    1,415.3    1,062.4    -32.4      -25.6     -22.5
Other                     -9.0     -21.3       -3.1     -20.9      -46.3     -49.0
Source: BOJ data.
In contrast, from March 1998 to December 1999 NCB experienced the opposite pattern with a
decreasing share of its holding of total Government securities in the commercial bank market
from 30 to 22 percent, but it remains dominant in the holdings of Government securities in US
dollars with 67 percent in December 1999, while BNS increased from no participation in 1998 to
19 percent in December 1999.
4. Asset Quality, Liquidity, Solvency, and Profitability
The prudential indicators of asset quality, liquidity, solvency and profitability of the financial
system have improved since the crisis (Table 4). This has been partly due to FINSAC's
interventions and partly due to improvements in regulation and supervision
Asset quality. The level of NPLs at commercial banks declined sharply and in June 1999 was
less than half its level a year earlier, mostly because of the purchase of NPLs undertaken by
FINSAC. NPLs at near banks fell steadily 79%, while at building societies the rate of decline
was 49%, during the same period. The declining patterns continued as of June 2000. In terms of
the ratio of NPL to total loans, it declined from 28 percent in June 1998 to 13 percent in June
2000 for commercial banks. Despite the decline in this ratio, it remains higher than the



78
international standard of 8 percent. 3 However, the supervisory authorities expect this ratio to
continue its declining trend because of tighter controls implemented by the system in response to
more stringent supervisory requirements and guidelines as well as improvements in risk
management techniques resulting from the introduction of stricter supervisory norms by the BOJ.
In line with the favorable trends in the ratio of NPL to total loans, the ratio of provisions for loan
loss (PLL) to NPL increased. For commercial banks, this ratio went from 62 percent in June
1998 to 114.4 percent in June 2000. Therefore, banks are currently fully provisioned with de
facto compliance with the BOJ's recently announced more stringent provisioning rules.
Provisioning also improved at near banks and building societies. Despite the positive trends in
NPLs and the PLL, there is a risk that the high interest rates in the system are attracting the
higher risk customers that may eventually default. The NPL reported by some banks may thus
not reflect the overall risks involved, which could potentially undermine the improvements in the
ratio of PLL to NPL, unless adequate provisions are created accordingly. The interest rates,
however, are on a declining trend, which together with enhanced/tightened credit systems and
controls, mitigate such risks.
Liquidity. BOJ data show that liquidity ratios of commercial banks have improved from 46.1%
in June 1999 to 49.9 percent in June 2000. However, the LARs in the system are somewhat
misleading because of the large presence of FINSAC (illiquid) notes in the balance sheet of
financial institutions (comprising 25 percent of total assets for the system as a whole, as of June
2000). FINSAC bonds issued in respect of capital injections in the rehabilitation and
restructuring of entities, can be counted as liquid assets for regulatory purposes since May
1998.14,15 As a result, liquidity problems in the banking system remain the focal point of the
Government, which created a Cash Management Working group in January 1999 to deal with
these problems by monitoring FINSAC institutions on a daily basis. This is a centralized
working group that comprises representatives of the BOJ, MOF, FINSAC, and the Accountant
General.
Solvency. As of June 2000, the degree of solvency in the system as a whole has sharply
improved. For commercial and near banks, both the ratio of capital base to total assets and the
capital to risk-adjusted ratio are above the respective 6 percent and 10 percent minimum ratios,16
mostly as a result of the large capitalization process undertaken by FINSAC in intervened
institutions.
Profitability. As of June 2000, profitability has improved, as measured by the ratio of pre-tax
profit margin, from a loss of 18.9 percent in June 1998 for commercial banks, to profit ratios that
averaged 14.6 as of June 2000. The return on assets of commercial banks has swung from
" The number of institutions with a ratio of NPL/total loans greater than 10 percent steadily decreased from 31
percent in December 1996 to 15 percent in July 1999.
4 Provided the privatization of NCB and Union Bank results in the payment of interests on their large share of
FINSAC notes, this issue would be negated.
15 The process of capitalization at intervened institutions that enable them to fulfill liquidity requirements, however,
has helped profitability to the extent that banks avoid large penalty rates charged at the BOJ for overdraft facilities
provided for that concept.
16 Capital base includes paid-up capital, reserve fund, retained earnings reserves, share premium, less impairment by
losses. In computing the estimated capital to risk-adjusted ratio investments in subsidiaries are deducted from capital
base.



79
negative 0.8 percent in June 1998 to a positive 0.6 percent by June 2000, with similar trends for
the rest of the system. Profits, however, are calculated on an accrual basis and thus reflect the
accrual of interest payments on FINSAC notes in the balance sheets of financial institutions.
Table 4. Quarterly Prudential Indicators: December 1997 to June 2000 (%)
Commercial Banks            Near Banks             Building Societies
0698   0699   0600   0698    0699    0600    0698   0699    0600
Rateofassetgrowth*          13.2   19.0    12.5   -2.3    -35.9    -17.1    22.4    -5.9         1.3
Rateofdepositgrowth         10.3    9.6     11.9    2.0    -33.2      -1.9  -16.6    -0.7        0.8
Rate of loan growth        -26.2   -6.0    -4.4  -18.4    -54.3        6.2   -0.5    -8.2    -4.8
Rate of capital base growth   -65.7  675.4   4.9  -83.2  1,079.8    -45.5   -88.8    -9.4   189.7
Capital solvency
Capital base/total assets*  1.3    8.4      11.2    1.9    34.4       22.6    13.1      3.0     8.7
Estimated risk asset ratio  0.9   17.5       7.6   -8.8      36.4     35.5     1.7      2.9    13.9
Asset quality
NPL/Total Loans            27.9   13.8    13.3   53.8        26.9     12.7   17.1       9.5     9.2
PLL/Total Loans            17.2    9.5      15.2   22.1      14.6      6.4    3.1       2.9     5.9
PLL/NPL                    61.6   69.0    114.4   41.0      54.2      50.3    18.3    30.9    64.2
NPL/Total Assets            7.9    2.9       2.5   18.5       6.3      3.5     6.6      3.6     3.3
Rate of growth of NPL**    -3.0  -57.6      -1.2    5.9    -79.1    -54.4   56.9   -49.0    -5.3
# of inst. above 10 %***     34     18       10
Liquidity
Average CRR                 25.2     17     14.0   16.6      18.1      14.0    3.9      4.6      1.0
Average LAR                 53.5   46.1    49.9   45.4       64.3    126.4   20.4    23.5    21.4
Profitability
Pre-taxprofitmargin       -18.9   13.8    19.6   11.7        16.7     23.9    -5.6      7.9    15.0
(quarterly)
Return on average assets   -0.8    0.6       0.8    0.8       1.8      2.7   -0.3      0.4      0.7
(quarterly)
Income assets/expense      74.7   89.3    96.0   62.7    119.7    129.5   87.5    93.3   101.6
liabilities
Number of (system) banks      18      5        2
reporting losses
Memo item:
FINSAC paper/Total          15.8   26.0    33.4    7.3       11.4        0      1.8     2.0      3.6
Assets
Source: Financial Institutions Supervisory Division, Bank of Jamaica. NPL: Non-Performing Loans; PLL:
Provisions for loan losses; CRR: Cash Reserve Ratio; LAR: Liquid Asset Ratio.
* Total Assets net of Contingent Liabilities and Provisions for Losses. **Reductions in NPL and PLL resulted
mostly from further purchase of NPL by FINSAC. ***Data for the system.






81
ANNEX V
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS UNDER RESOLUTION BY FINSAC
Since January 1997, FINSAC, in concert with the BOJ, executed intervention of troubled
financial institutions and acquired a large ownership in more than 30 major entities in the
financial system. These institutions were restructured through mergers, sales, and
disposal/transfer of their assets, or withdrawal of their licenses and other interventions. After the
intervention phase was complete, FINSAC consolidated intervened banks into Union Bank and
National Commercial Bank. The remaining intervened institutions are mostly insurance
companies, some of which were also merged before their disposal. Table 1 summarizes these
steps and the associated cost to FINSAC, as of August 2000. The figures represent the cost for
each fiscal year, as of the effective date in the FINSAC bond issued.17 The total cost of J$89
billion represents the principal of FINSAC notes issued plus cash advances as of August 2000
and therefore, it does not coincide with the total FINSAC liabilities of J$127 billion that also
include: capitalized interest and pending commitments estimated as of September 2000, plus
MOF funds provided for the establishment of FINSAC.
Table 1. Summary of Interventions by FINSAC, Mergers, and Licenses Revoked
(Amounts in J$ millions)
Institution    Nature of Intervention                     FY1998   FYI999   FY2000   FY2001
Union Bank and merged institutions:
Union Bank    Merger of Citizens Bank, Citizens Merchant                         8,453.7
Bank, Eagle Commercial Bank, Island Victoria
(UB)           Bank, Corporate Merchant Bank, and part of
the business and selected assets of Workers
Bank (June 1999). Ordinary shares (99%),
acquisition of NPLs, and coverage of BOJ
overdraft. Sold: November, 2000.
Citizens Bank    Ordinary (85%) and preferred shares and      2,700      47.7                  19.5
NPLs. Merged into UB.
Caldon         Depositors transferred to Citizens in March              121.7
Merchant Bank   1998. During September 1998, the court
appointed a liquidator and issued a winding up
order.
Fidelity Finance  Depositors transferred to Citizens (March              89.1
and Merchant    1998). License surrendered. FINSAC bonds to
Bank           NIBJ (J$14 million) and JDB (J$45 million).
Horizon Group   Ordinary (100 %) and preferred shares. NPLs   4,010     1,400      132.2
and under-performing loans of Merchant Bank
bought at a nominal price. Assets and liabilities
transferred to Citizens (March 1998).
17 Sometimes the actual date of issuance of FINSAC bonds differs from the effective date identified in the bonds due
to technical reasons. In such cases, the bonds are issued at a later date but carry the interest accrued from the
effective date



82
Institution    Nature of Intervention                       FY1998   FY1999   FY2000   FY2001
Intercontinental   Depositors transferred to Citizens, November           100.4
Merchant Bank   1998. License surrendered.
Eagle Group    Loan  and  liquidity  support, purchase  of     2,590        19.8                133.9
insurance    company,   merchant   bank,
commerciai bank, and building society for a
nominal price, acquisition of shares in four
hotels. Merged into UB (except for insurance
company-Crown Eagle).
Island Victoria   Purchased  for nominal price  by  Eagle                 817.4
Bank           Commercial Bank (July 1998), 100 percent
share. NPLs purchased. Merged into UB.
Island Life    Purchase of total loan portfolio. Restrictions             181.6
Merchant       imposed on license and later merged into UB.
Zero-coupon preference shares to cover asset
gap on transfer to UB.
Corporate      MOF vested the shares and subordinated debt                          1,392.5
Merchant       (July 1998). FINSAC issued promissory notes
to cover part of the asset gap of J$2.5 billion
for its merger into UB.
Corporate  Ins.  Loans to facilitate balance outstanding to UB;                       30.4
Brokers        settlement of outstanding payment to staff; loan
for balance outstanding premiums to general
insurance companies.
Workers        Loan for overdraft support and placed under    7,522.4     1,000    1,620.4
Savings & Loan  temporary management.  Later, MOF vested
Bank           the shares and subordinated debt in itself (July
1998). Merged into UB.
NCB and related institutions (deposits transferred):
NCB Jamaica   Ordinary and preferred shares (45.4 percent                19,500
Ltd.           share in NCB group and 40 percent share in
NCB); acquisition of NPLs and two hotels.
Pending resolution.
Buck Securities   Depositors  transferred  to  NCB   during                38.8
Merchant       September 1998. License surrendered.
Caribbean trust   Depositors  transferred  to  NCB   during                23.9
and Merchant    September 1998. License surrendered.
Insurance Companies:
Crown Eagle    Coverage of BOJ advances, accounted as a   14,384.3          7.7      914.1
Life           FINSAC bond to NIBJ. Additional cashlLRS to
cover asset gap from the 1999 transfer of
policies to BNS (interest sensitive liabilities)
and Guarding Holdings Limited of Trinidad
(individual life and pension).
Dyoll          Ordinary  (26.5%)  and  preferred  shares.        200        454      311.9
Group/Dyoll    Promissory note (cash) to transfer policyholder
Life           liabilities to Crown Eagle in December 1998.



83
Institution    Nature of Intervention                     FY1998   FY1999   FY2000   FY2001
Jamaica Mutual  Ordinary shares in NCB  group, liquidity    8,447.8   2,347.5   5,122.8
Life           support and loan to settle debt to NCB for J$8
billion and mutual 2000 bonds for about J$348
million. Portfolios sold to BNS (with FINSAC
notes and Guardian assets). FINSAC purchased
shares in five hotels.
Island Life    Ordinary (26.5 percent) and preferred shares.   300                 792.5
Insurance      Sold its shares in Island Life merchant (later
merged with Citizens) to FINSAC. Insurance
Co. sold to Barbados Mutual.
Life of Jamaica   Acquisition of shares 26.5 percent; shares in    2,076.8         657.8
Citizens and CIBC Pending resolution.
Other intervened institutions in operation:
Victoria Mutual  NPLs, purchase and lease back of building.               900
Building Soc.    Currently operating.
Billy Craig    Ordinary and preferred shares, 49 percent                  148
Merchant       holdings (June 1998). Remaining shares owned
by Dehring Bunting and Golding Ltd (DB&G).
Changed names to DB&G in June 25, 1999.
Capital injection of J$231.8 February 1999.
Total FINSAC principal (cash plus bonds)                   42,231.3  27,197.6  19,428.3      153.4
As of August, 00*:           J$89,010.6 million
Memo item:
FIS current liabilities to NCB     J$4,756.2 million
Source: Economic and Social Survey Jamaica 1998 and FINSAC
*About 35 percent was provided in cash from MOF and advances from BOJ.
Other Licenses Revoked: (i) Capital Assurance Building Society: Merged into Eagle Permanent Building Society.
Deposits transferred to UB; (ii) Citifinance: Transferred its business to Citimerchant bank. License surrendered on
June 2, 1999; (iii) Barclays Finance corporation: License revoked on June 22, 1998; (iv) West India Company of
Merchant Bankers: Depositors transferred to BNS on October, 1998. License surrendered.
As a result of the strategies described in Table 1, FINSAC intervened institutions can be
classified into four groups: (1) Union Bank, (2) NCB, (3) insurance companies and chiefly
among them, Life of Jamaica, and (4) other smaller institutions most of which are in the process
of liquidation/winding down. These four groups are discussed in more detail next.
1. Union Bank
Union Bank is the result of the merger of the ("good bank" portion of the) businesses and assets
of Island Victoria Bank (IVB), Citizens Bank Limited, Citizens Merchant Bank, Eagle
Commercial Bank (Eagle), Corporate Merchant Bank, and (part of the business and selected
assets of) Workers Bank. Prior to this, the assets, liabilities and operations of a number of the
failed merchant banks were merged into the operations of Citizens Bank Limited. The legal
merger became effective April 23, 1999 and the name of Citizens Bank was changed to Union
Bank of Jamaica Limited by a vote at the Annual General Meeting on June 29, 1999. FINSAC
had gained control of the merged banks, and the groups of companies with which they were
associated with the provision of financial assistance, as described in Table 1. The decision to



84
merge their operations followed consultants' diagnostic reviews, which indicated that none of the
banks was individually capable of survival in the prevailing and foreseeable economic
environment. A merger to create a single larger profitable bank was recommended.
The first step was the formation of a holding company, Union Bank of Jamaica Holding
Company, charged with effecting the merger. It was also recommended that an independent
management team be given the responsibility of carrying out the transition under FINSAC's
supervision into a single viable entity over an eighteen to twenty four month period, for which an
overseas team was hired.
Rehabilitation
TransAmerica Financial Services (TFS), a United States bank management and consulting firm
with extensive experience in the restructuring and rehabilitation of banks, was the chosen
contractor to undertake the merge and manage the resulting institution. The TFS team assumed
the management of Union Bank in January 1999.18 The restructuring process has involved a
substantial reduction in the number of branches from the pre-merger level of 42 down to 23,
while staff was reduced from 1,425 to 800. Union Bank is under a voluntary cease and desist
order and therefore makes no fresh loans.
Divestment
FINSAC sold its 99% share of Union Bank's equity Royal Bank of Trinidad Tobago Holdings in
November 2000.
2. National Commercial Bank
FINSAC executed the intervention of NCB to avoid the imnminent collapse of the bank in 1997.
Between January and March 1998, NCB lost J$2.7 billion of core deposits, of which J$1.8
billion were savings accounts. These deposits have never been recovered from the system.
FINSAC's financial assistance package for NCB totaling J$19.5 billion, together with a
structured turn-around plan for the bank's rehabilitation, was finalized early in FY1999. It
included the purchase without recourse of the NPLs of NCB and NCB Trust & Merchant Bank
Limited. NCB's NPLs amounted to J$13.5 billion out of J$33 billion of NPLs bought by
FINSAC at face value.
The financial assistance also included the injection of J$4.67 billion into NCB Group and NCB
through FINSAC's acquisition of Preference Shares in exchange for FINSAC notes, and J$1.33
billion in ordinary and zero coupon preference shares in NCB (See Table 2). The capital
injection increased NCB's capital base to approximately J$6.7 billion. It has also replaced senior
management in the bank.
Is Their mandate under the agreement included: Consolidation of the financial entities; Conversion of all operations
to a single Year 2000 compliant IT platform; Stabilization of the loan portfolio; Reduction of operating costs
through rationalization; Preparation and implementation of a strategic plan for the bank; Restoration and promotion
of customer and employee confidence.



85
Ownership
NCB's two shareholders are the NCB Group and FINSAC with 60 and 40 percent of equity
respectively, the latter acquired in February 1998. FINSAC, in turn, also owns 45.4% of NCB
Group -arising from the intervention of Mutual Life of Jamaica. As of June, 2000, NCB had
J$78.3 billion in assets (about US$1.9 billion and 38% of banking system assets), of which
FINSAC bonds represented J$42.2 billion (about US$1 billion and 54% of NCB's assets).'9'20
Since the group holds 60% ownership in NCB, the total FINSAC ownership in NCB is
effectively 67%, which is short of the over 75% share needed to give FINSAC controlling
ownership in order to take the bank to the point of sale.
FINSAC designed a plan (in consultation with NCB) that allows for the conversion of its
holdings in NCB Group. In order to achieve this, FINSAC has taken the following steps: (i)
reached agreement with the Board of Directors of NCB regarding its proposal for conversion of
its disparate holdings in the bank and the Group to consolidated bank holdings; (ii) held an extra-
ordinary meeting of NCB's shareholders informing them of the proposed takeover of control by
FINSAC; (iii) obtained approval from the courts to hold a formal meeting of NCB's shareholders
on November 8, 2000 to approve the proposal - referred to legally as the Schemes of
Arrangements. Subsequent to the approval by NCB's shareholders FINSAC needs to clear the
Schemes with the Courts so that it can obtain more than 75% share in NCB.
Restructuring for its privatization
FINSAC has been monitoring NCB's progress under several agreed rehabilitation plans the first
of which was internally prepared by NCB and later complemented by: (i) conditionality factors
involved in the financial assistance agreement with FINSAC, (ii) Turnaround Plans prepared by
McKinsey, and, (iii) the recent Strategic Plan in the Investment Memorandum prepared by Hong
Kong Shanghai Bank Inc. Corporation (HSBC) as part of its role as advisors for the sale of the
bank. In the restructuring process, the branch network has being rationalized from 69 in 1997 to
49 by March 2000 with additional reductions pending, with staff counts already down from
3,110 to 2,614. A consultant hired by the Bank has also undertaken an evaluation of NCB and a
proposal to maximize the value in the resolution of the bank has been made to the authorities on
this basis.21 However, the final restructuring plan for NCB will be developed and implemented
after the 75% plus ownership is acquired and after the new management comes in. A new Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Information Officer, and Chief Financial Officer have been appointed.
Beginning in April 2001, the Government plans to service the FINSAC debt held by NCB in
cash.
19 As of August 31, 2000 FINSAC bonds (including commitments) accounted for J$44.3 billion.
20 Total FIS bonds currently represent J$5.4 billion and receive cash interest payments. NCB holds J$4.9 billion of
FIS bonds.
21 The restructuring proposal benchmarked the performance of NCB to that of BNS, its main competitor in Jamaica.
On the basis of this analysis, the report was presented to the Government on strategic options for restructuring NCB.



86
Table 2. FIS and FINSAC Intervention on NCB22
Aspects of Intervention       Financial Impact                    Remarks
(J$ million)
(a) Subscription for 167 million                 167  Payment of dividend permissible only to the
new ordinary shares (of J$ I each)   (February 1998)  extent that capital to assets and capital
in NCB                                                adequacy rations of 8% and 12%
respectively are maintained.
(b) Subscription for 1,163 million             1,163  Preference shares, both zero coupon and
zero coupon preference shares (of   (February 1998)    12.5% non-cumulative, are deemed to
J$ I each) in NCB                                     constitute Tier I capital. Coupon reverts to
T-Bill rate after September 30, 2002.
(c) Subscription for 3,670 million             3,670  Preference dividend paid in any year where
non-cumulative 12.5% preference   (October 1998)      dividends on ordinary shares are paid.
shares (of J$ 1 each) in NCB
(d) Subscription for 2,000 million             1,000  One quarter of post tax profits (after
non-cumulative 12.5% preference   (October 1998)      requisite capital levels) to be used for
shares (of J$0.5 each) in NCBG                        redemption of preference shares in NCB
(e) Purchase of NPLs from NCB                 13,500  All rights to loan collateral ceded to
and NCB Trust & Merchant Bank   (September 1997-      FINSAC who took all such portfolios on a
with a total face value of J$13,500   February 1998)  non-recourse basis.
(f) Transfer of deposit liabilities of         5,237  FIS Bonds are negotiable and guaranteed by
the Century Group (J$5,040) and                       the GOJ. They are issued in Jamaican
Partner Merchant Bank (J$ 197.2)                      dollar (Series B) and US$ (Series A)
assumed by NCB. (FIS)                                 denominations. The former pay interest at
6-month TB+I, while the latter bear interest
at 9.625% per annum. These bonds are
regarded as liquid assets for regulatory
purposes. Interest is paid in cash, semi-
annually. Maturity is 6 years from the issue
date.
(g) Promissory note (non-interest                450  The note matures in 2007. FIS may convert
bearing) for redeemable                               the shares into ordinary shares in NCBG. In
convertible zero-coupon preference                    this event, the shares will be converted at
shares in NCB. (FIS)                                  the price at which ordinary shares in NCBG
last traded on the Jamaican Stock Exchange
prior to the date of the notice by which the
conversion right is exercise.
Source: FINSAC documents.
3. Insurance Companies in the Restructuring/Resolution Process23
The Insurance Intervention & Rehabilitation department is responsible for the restructuring,
monitoring and rehabilitation of FINSAC-intervened insurance companies. The companies are
22 As a result of intervention, FINSAC appointed six members to the Board of Directors of NCB Group.
23 This section corresponds to the "Intervention & Rehabilitation Insurance" section in FINSAC Annual Report
2000.



87
Crown Eagle Life Insurance Company Limited (Crown Eagle), Dyoll Life Limited (Dyoll Life),
the Jamaica Mutual Life Assurance Society (Mutual Life), Island Life Insurance Company
Limited (Island Life), and Life of Jamaica Limited (LOJ).
FINSAC originally intervened in the insurance sector in fiscal year 1997/98 through the purchase
of common and preferred shares and/or issuance of subordinated loans in all five insurance
companies. In 1998/99 it became evident that further intervention would need to take place in
Crown Eagle, Dyoll Life and Mutual Life. These companies were coming under increasing
liquidity pressure from policyholders encashing their interest-sensitive policies.
Crown Eagle, Dyoll Life and Mutual Life
The rehabilitation and divestment strategy has resulted in a stronger and more profitable
insurance industry. Over 200,000 policyholders with insurance coverage of over $91 Billion
have been protected under FINSAC's efforts to resolve the problems of Mutual Life, Crown
Eagle and Dyoll Life.
4. Interest-sensitive policies
Lump-sum interest-sensitive policies were characterized by minimal life insurance coverage and
a large investment premium. Primarily investment vehicles, they were usually funded by a single
lump-sum deposit. The interest paid on these policies was unrelated to the performance of any
asset held by the insurance company.
The link to insurance came through a small amount of the deposit going into insurance coverage.
In many cases the actuarial valuation of the insurance component was worth less than 1% of the
investment component. For example, in the case of Mutual Life, out of a total lump-sum
portfolio liability of approximately J$2,145 million only J$1.5 Million or 0.07% represented the
liability of the insurance coverage for its 6,513 lump-sum policyholders.
In more than 90% of lump-sum interest-sensitive policies, the policyholder's life was insured for
J$60,000 or less compared to average coverage of approximately J$250,000 in the savings-type
interest sensitive policies.
In February 1999, a Judicial Manager -chartered accountant and FINSAC consultant-, was
appointed by the Supreme Court to take responsibility for these policies. The appointment of the
Judicial Manager allowed a court injunction, originally granted in December 1998, to be lifted.
The injunction had prevented any activity from taking place with these types of policies. The
lifting of the injunction created a more stable framework for the development and speedy
implementation of a solution to the problem posed by these policies. The Judicial Manager's role
was to examine the interest-sensitive portfolios of the companies, and to determine the best way
of solving the problem and report on his findings to the Court. On April 29, 1999, the Judicial
Manager filed a report with the Supreme Court regarding the lump-sum, interest-sensitive
policies, following which the Court ruled that the FINSAC-pioneered scheme to pay out lump-
sum, interest sensitive policies of Crown Eagle, Mutual Life and Dyoll Life was the best deal
possible for policyholders. A copy of the report was filed with the Superintendent of Insurance



88
and another was made available for public scrutiny. Once this Court Order was received, the -
decision of the Court was binding on all persons.
The details of the scheme that FINSAC entered into with the Bank of Nova Scotia Jamaica
Limited (BNS) and Scotiabank Jamaica Trust & Merchant Bank Limited (Scotia Trust) for the
divestment of the interest-sensitive policies are set out below:
* The liability for paying out proceeds of lump-sum type interest-sensitive policies was
assumed by BNS and Scotia Trust, who received in return Local Registered Stock of
sufficient value to back the liability represented by these policies. Policyholders would
receive a savings account at BNS for their investment portion - up to a J$200,000 maximum.
* Policyholders with arnounts over J$200,000 would be given a transferable Certificate of
Participation issued by Scotia Trust, for the amounts over J$200,000.
* This Certificate in turn would be backed by a five-year term instrument issued by the
Government of Jamaica with Scotia Trust as trustees. Interest is payable semi-annually to
these policyholders, but no withdrawal of principal is permitted during the five years.
* Policyholders over 65 years old as at March 31, 1999 receive interest monthly. This scheme
gave approximately 75% of interest-sensitive policyholders immediate access to all of their
funds.
After implementation of this scheme, FINSAC secured the agreement of at least one financial
institution to negotiate the Certificates of Participation issued by Scotia Trust, thus allowing
holders of these instruments the option of obtaining immediately a discounted cash value for
their Certificates.
In June 1999, the final tranche of Bank of Nova Scotia transfers was completed24. Some policies
were not transferred, however, due to some policyholders' decision not to sign the agreements
transferring these policies. The insurance portion and cash values up to $200,000 will now be
assumed by Guardian Life Limited, the Jamaican subsidiary formed to assume the insurance
portfolio acquired by Guardian Holdings Limited. Cash values in excess of $200,000 will be
assumed by Union Bank, with certificates similar to the BNS issue being given to the
policyholders.
Table 3 represents the details of the Bank of Nova Scotia transfers representing 52% of the
policyholders and 90% of the total liability.
24 Some of the payments to BNS resulting from the transfer have taken place in 2000 after asset valuations were
completed. The funds were transferred from the MOF, which provided cash or issued LRS, the latter of which is
therefore already reflected as part of the Government (non-FfNSAC) debt.



89
Table 3. Bank of Nova Scotia Transfers
Fund Balance Size              No. of Policies       Liability J$ million
Less than or equal to $20,000  1,457                    11.2
Between $20,000 and $200,000   1,127                    90.3
Greater than $200,000          1,514                 2,419.5
TOTAL                          4,098                 2,521.0
5. Traditional policies and pension funds
At the same time the negotiations were taking place with BNS, FINSAC offered the remaining
Dyoll Life, Mutual Life and Crown Eagle portfolios for sale. These consisted of traditional life
policies and pension funds. Offers for purchase were received from eight companies: Barbados
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Blue Cross of Jamaica, Colonial Life Insurance Company
(Trinidad) Ltd., First Life Insurance Company Ltd., Guardian Holdings Ltd., Life of Barbados
Ltd., Maritime Life (Caribbean) Ltd., and Prime Life Assurance Company Ltd. Subsequently,
Life of Barbados Ltd. and Barbados Mutual Life Assurance Society decided to bid for the
portfolios as a joint venture.
Following acceptance of the Memoranda of Understanding by FINSAC, bidders were informed
of the bid process, and the related requirements and the deadlines governing the process. They
could submit bids for all or part of the portfolios and could make their bids contingent on a
successful tender for other segments of the business. This approach allowed FINSAC to award
the portfolios to one company or a combination of companies.
Bidders were not allowed to tender for the portfolio of just one of the failed companies, given a
policy decision to combine like portfolios across the three companies and offer only the lines of
business for sale.
Final bids were awarded points based on how well they measured up against a set of previously
established criteria, with bidders with the highest point standing emerging as the winners.
6. Valuation
An important aspect of the process -was the actuarial valuation of the portfolios. The valuation
was conducted in three stages: group business - health and life; the pension business and the
individual life business. At the end of each actuarial evaluation, a report was sent to the bidders
and they were required to submit a bid for that particular portfolio. The valuation was based on
the policy and experience data provided by the three insurance companies as of December 31,
1998. The first challenge of the valuation process is that there was no standard accounting or
actuarial practice governing the insurance industry. However, the decision was taken to use the
Policy Premium Method (PPM) for the valuation, and the related Minimum Continuing Capital
and Surplus Requirements (MCCSR) to ascertain the required capital for the portfolio and to
evaluate the financial strength of the bidding companies. The decision to use this methodology



90
was based primarily on two factors: (i) these methods were likely requirements of the upcoming
Insurance Act, and (ii) some companies already used these methods in Jamaica and Barbados.
FINSAC technical personnel evaluated the offers received as well as the financial state of the
bidding companies in order to determine whether they were capable of financing the acquisition
of the portfolios without suffering financial damage in the process. Another major criterion was
"fit and proper" considerations for management and directors.
Based on this analysis, FINSAC made recommendations to Cabinet, which were accepted, and
on May 19, 1999, it was announced that Guardian Holdings Limited of Trinidad had won the bid
for the individual life and pension portfolios, and that First Life Insurance Company Limited of
Jamaica had won the bid for the group life and health portfolios. The total price was J$ 1.3 billion
(US$32.5 million).25
In order to shorten the transfer process, an application was successfully made to the Supreme
Court for the Judicial Manager to be appointed over this portion of the business for all three
companies. At a final hearing on July 29, 1999, the Supreme Court approved the Agreements for
Sale, and ordered the transfer of business. First Life and Guardian Life assumed management of
the portfolios on August 1, 1999. The pace with which this divestment has taken place is
unprecedented.
ife of Jamaica
In June 1999, FINSAC acquired real estate and other assets from the investment funds of Life of
Jamaica (LOJ). Also as part of the transaction, FINSAC further consolidated its ownership of
Citizens Bank (now Union Bank) by acquiring a block of Citizens Bank shares held by the funds.
The total price of the transaction was J$658 million.
The properties, which were owned by the pooled investment pension fund and the segregated
policyholder funds, were sold as a part of the exercise to realign the portfolios managed by LOJ.
The objective of the realignment was to provide liquidity to the funds and to reduce the levels of
internal (inter-fund) debt.
LOJ continues to have weaknesses in its balance sheet and illiquidity in some of the pension
funds it manages and requires additional injection of capital in the form of FINSAC paper up to
about J$1.9 billion. The Jamaican Cabinet has approved FINSAC's proposal to provide this
additional capital to LOJ. FINSAC will obtain a controlling share of equity of the company
(over 75%) in return for its additional capital injection currently expected to take place by the
end of 2000. This will allow FINSAC to dispose of LOJ.
25 As of October 2000, an independent actuarial valuation is still pending for the life and pension portfolios of
Crown Eagle transferred to Guardian life. This may result in further asset gaps that have to be paid to Guardian
beyond recent transfers. However, FINSAC expects to transfer two hotels currently in its books (Boscavel and Terra
Nova) to Guardian instead of issuing additional FINSAC bonds. This is currently in negotiations.



91
Island Life
In August 1999, after several months of extensive discussions between the parties, the Barbados
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Island Life Insurance Company and FINSAC signed a Letter of
Intent under which both Barbados Mutual and FINSAC would inject additional capital into
Island Life. As a result of this injection, Barbados Mutual acquired a 64% interest in Island Life,
while FINSAC maintained its approximately 26% stake. Other shareholders retained a 10% stake
in the company. A Shareholders Meeting was held on November 25, 1999, where the transaction
was approved. Details of the transaction are set out below:
*  Island Life increased its issued share capital to J$622,122,448 from J$231,918,336 by issuing
new ordinary and preference shares.
*  Barbados Mutual injected J$260 million in capital and issued 46,080,000 ordinary shares
representing 64% of the issued ordinary share capital of Island Life.
*  FINSAC injected approximately J$340 million in capital and issued 16,124,082 additional
ordinary shares, to keep its stake in the company at 26%. It also received 84,721,000
perpetual non-cumulative preference shares, yielding a dividend rate of 12.5%.
.  FINSAC assisted Island Life in restructuring its asset base by acquiring the Island Life
Centre from the company at book value, which is assessed to be J$430 million, based on a
valuation done in October 1998.
* FINSAC would pay for this by transferring real estate worth approximately J$ 150 million to
Island Life, and by issuing J$200 million in FINSAC notes, with the remainder of the
purchase price being met by the transfer of negotiable Government of Jarnaica securities
from FINSAC to Island Life.
7. Smaller Intervened Institutions in the Final Stages of Resolution/Liquidation
These institutions belong to two groups:
*  Intervened institutions that will be wound down and closed: These institutions no longer
maintain operations with the public. Many of the institutions in liquidation were part of the
merger into Citizens that later became Union Bank (See Table 1). The 10 remaining
institutions in liquidation are: Buck Securities Merchant Bankers, Caldor Finance Merchant
Bank, Caribbean Trust and Merchant Bank, Corporate insurance brokers, Eagle Permanent
Building Society (winding down), Fidelity Finance Merchant Bank, Horizon Venture Capital,
Intercontinental Merchant Bank, Jamaica Mutual Life Assurance (winding down), and NCB
Trust & Merchant Bank.
*  Two other restructured institutions that are back in operations: FINSAC has a 49 percent
share in the ownership of Billy Craig Finance & Merchant Bank operating as Dehring
Bunting & Goding, which owns the remaining shares. Additional liquidity assistance was
provided recently and FfNSAC purchased further shares to maintain its 49 percent
ownership. FINSAC reports that assistance to this institution is now finalized. The second
institution is Victoria Mutual Building Society. FINSAC owns property in this institution



92
that is back in operations. FINSAC retains the right to nominate, remove and replace not-
more than two persons as member of the Board of Directors.



93
ANNEX VI
FINSAC FINANCES: CASH FLOW AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT
At present, FINSAC debt holders are Union Bank; National Commercial Bank; insurance
companies pending further capitalization and resolution (chiefly among them, Life of Jamaica);
other smaller institutions (merchant banks, building societies) already restructured and back in
operation; the Bank of Jamaica; and the Ministry of Finance (MOF/NIBJ/JDB).
1. Magnitude of FINSAC's Liabilities
The total liabilities of FINSAC are estimated at J$127 billion (about US$3 billion, or 43.9% of
GDP) at end-August 2000.26 The total in Table 1 includes the principal of the debt (See Annex V
for details on the principal); accrued interests already capitalized minus bonds redeemed; start-up
funds required for FINSAC in 1997 (J$1.4 billion) provided by MOF; and, estimated pending
commitments as of June 2000.
Table 1. Total FINSAC Liabilities
FINSAC liabilities                          Billions of J$
Principal (cash plus FINSAC bonds)                            89.0
Interest accrued and capitalized minus bonds redeemed         37.6
Start-up capital for FINSAC                                    1.4
Net Pending commitments27                                     -1.1
Total liabilities as of August 31, 200028                    126.9
Most FINSAC bonds capitalize interest semi-annually at an average rate of 6-month T-Bill+l
percent. About 0.3 percent of the total pay interest in cash. If no reductions in the stock of
FINSAC debt were to take place during FY2001, and interest were to be capitalized during this
period, the stock of FINSAC debt would increase to roughly about J$137 billion by March 31,
2001. This figure differs from the original estimates included in the IMF's SMP of J$124 billion
by March 31, 2001. The reasoning behind the larger estimate arises from recent events not
known at the time of preparation of the SMP. The main items are about J$8 billion in MOF debt
resulting mostly from MOF's issuance of LRS and the provision of cash to cover an asset gap in
the deal with BNS and Guardian for the resolution of three insurance companies-chiefly among
them Mutual Life (See Annex V). As of September 2000, FINSAC reports that, excluding
contingent liabilities, it only expects to issue about J$2 billion in fresh bonds to complete the
capitalization of LOJ and J$1.2 billion mostly to complete previous commitments for other
insurance companies.
26 Includes FIS liabilities for J$5.4 billion.
27 Includes J$4.6 billion to be redeemed from UB before its sale. However, as of September 2000, this item was still
a negotiation point between FINSAC and RBTT. All calculations assume this reduction. It does not include
contingent liabilities.
28 Total excludes interest accrued but not yet capitalized.



94
2. Current Structure of FINSAC Debt
While some bonds were issued in US dollars (about 4 percent), the bulk is in Jamaican dollars, at
various maturities ranging from 3-15 years, mostly at floating interest rates. The total FINSAC
debt can be classified in the following five categories, with structures described in Table 2:
Table 2. Structure of FINSAC Liabilities
(In J$ billions; estimated stocks as of August 31, 2000)
Type of liability              Amount   Comments
BOJ'                             25.88      For about 79% of this debt: Maturity: in 2007-08 Interest
rate: fixed at 10%; debt capitalizes semi-annually.
For the remainder: Maturity in 2003. Interest rate: about half
at 6-month T-Bill+0.5 and the rest at 6-month T-Bill+3.25.
Debt capitalizes semi-annually.
MOF/NIBJ/JDB                     19.4       MOF: zero-coupon bonds.
NIBJ/JDB. Maturity: in 2008. Interest rate: 4 % fixed. Debt
capitalizes semi-annually.
Union Bank of Jamaica            23.94      Maturity: most in 2004-06 with about 16 percent of the total
maturing in 2014. Interest rate: average of 6-month T-
Bill+1, has been capitalizing semi-annually. About J$1.L
billion was issued in US$ at 9% interest rate to cover short-
position in the bank.
National Commercial Bank        44.07       About 60% of the total matures in 2012-13 and most of the
remaining maturing between 2004-06. Interest rate: Average
6-month T-Bill +1, capitalizes semi-annually but could start
paying in cash in FY01/02. About J$3.4 billion was issued
in US$ to cover short position and accrues at 9%.
Others:2                         9.38       Mutual 200 bonds (about 348 million): Maturity: 2002,
Interest rate: 6-months T-Bill+l, currently paying interest in
cash semi-annually (July/January).
Most of the Remainder: LOJ (about 31 % of total); maturity:
2007-09; Mutual Life (15% of debt), Maturity: 2012;
Victoria Mutual (17% of debt, about half issued in US$),
Maturity: 2005; Eagle Merchant Bank (14% of debt),
Maturity: 2004. Interest rate for all: 6-months T-Bill +1.
Total issued                    122.67
Net Pending commitments:         -1.1      (estimates as of September 2000)
FIS debt                          5.4       About J$4 billion in Series B bonds in J$, of which J$3.6 bn
are due to NCB. Series A bonds are in US$, mostly to NCB.
Total Debt                      126.87
Source: FINSAC. BOJ: Bank of Jamaica; MOF: Ministry of Finance; NIBJ: National Investment Bank of Jamaica;
JDB: Jamaica development bank.
I Cabinet approval was obtained on October 17, 2000 for restructuring J$26.2 billion of FINSAC paper at the BOJ.
The difference of J$300 million between the two figures is due interest accrued between September 1, 2000 and the
date of Cabinet approval.
2 Includes Insurance companies (mostly LOJ) plus remaining building societies and Merchant Banks.
Includes the reduction of J$4.6 billion from UB. It does not include contingent liabilities.



95
The total FINSAC debt already issued as of August 31, 2000 thus includes:
*  Notes issued for the capitalization/restructuring and sale of Union Bank amounting to J$23.9
billion (including J$132.9 million in pending commitments minus the J$4.6 billion bond to
be redeemed before its sale will result in J$19.5 billion), of which 5% is in US$ at a fixed
interest rate of 9%. Most of UB notes mature between 2004-06, except for about J$3.5 billion
that mature in 2014. They capitalized interest at a rate of 6-month T-Bill+l with no payments
in cash.
.  Notes issued for the capitalization/restructuring and resolution of National Commercial
Bank, amounting to J$44.1 billion (J$255 million in pending commitments).29 Notes issued
by FINSAC in this category capitalize interest periodically at an average of T-Bill+l, with
about 60 percent of the total maturing between 2012-13 and most of the remaining maturing
between 2005-06. About J$3.4 billion was issued in US and accrues at fixed interest rates of
9 percent. Additional notes are expected to be issued to NCB for the capitalization of interest
rates until it is restructure/resolve and its notes start paying interest in cash on April 1, 2001.
* Notes issued by FINSAC in order to complete the resolution of insurance companies and
other financial institutions under FINSAC's purview amounting to J$9.4 billion (plus J$2
billion pending capitalization of LOJ and J$959 million in pending commitments). About
J$348 million of this debt pays interest in cash, having maturity in 2002. The main debt
holder in this category is LOJ with about 30 percent of the total and maturity between 2007-
09, followed by, Mutual Life with about 17 percent and maturity in 2012; Victoria Mutual
Building Society with 16 percent (issued in US$) and maturity in 2005; and, Eagle Merchant
bank with about 13 percent and maturity in 2004. The authorities estimate that FINSAC will
need to issue new notes for about J$1.9 billion linked to the resolution of LOJ, the largest
insurance company, which was intervened in June 1999 (Annex V).
*  Notes issued by FINSAC to BOJ in connection with the provision of liquidity to bank in
distress through overdraft facilities, amounting to J$25.88 billion. About 81 percent of the
debt accrues at fixed interest rates of 10 percent, another 10 percent at T-Bill+3.25, and the
remainder at T-Bill +0.5.
* Notes issue to MOF/NIBJ/JDB to cover cash advances and Local Registered Stocks issued in
connection with the resolution of intervened financial institutions for J$19.4. About 48
percent has been paid in cash. The notes issued to MOF do not accrue interest. Notes to
NIBJ/JDB capitalize interest at a-4 percent fixed rate, the latter of which matures in 2008.
3. Government's Strategy to Manage FINSAC Debt
Recognizing the importance of providing liquidity to FINSAC notes for the restructuring of the
financial sector, the Government has committed itself, as described in the SMP, to servicing all
outstanding FINSAC debt (net of certain adjustments described below) beginning April 1, 2001.
The strategy to reduce the stock of FINSAC debt by taking the set of actions described below
will result in the issuance of cash-paying notes starting in April 2001 mostly for notes held by
29 See Annex V for a list of NCB's intervention by FIS and FINSAC.



96
Union Bank, National Commercial Bank, and Life of Jamaica. The maturity, amortization
profile, and interest rate conditions for the new notes are to be determined, possibly case by case,
with a view to achieving successful resolutions.
The Government has taken the following actions to manage FINSAC's debt and complete the
restructuring of the financial sector:
(i) Write-off/Offset of FINSAC paper held by public sector entities: The Jamaican cabinet
has approved the write-off of all the FINSAC paper held by MOF and other public sector
institutions (excluding the BOJ) amounting to J$19.4 billion.30 This amount represents fiscal cost
of the crisis already borne by the Government in cash, since these transfers from the MOF to
FINSAC, came out of budgetary allocations, and the rest was issued as LRS and thus, is already
accounted as part of the Government's domestic debt. The corresponding administrative actions
to formalize the write-off are currently in process. The Government has off-set J$13 billion of
FINSAC paper held by the BOJ against deposits of the Governnent at the BOJ. The Government
has agreed with the BOJ that it will issue special bonds for the balance of approximately J$13.2
billion of FINSAC paper held by the BOJ.
(ii) Portfolio of Non-Performing Loans: FINSAC has advanced in the process of disposal of
the portfolio of non-performing loans. FINSAC has hired an external consultant to advise it on
the process of disposing of NPLs as a package to a third party at a base price with some structure
of sharing receipts beyond a threshold level. The consultant's diagnostic was received in
September 2000. The next phase of work in actual packaging of the NPL portfolio for sale will
be completed by December 2000.
(iii) Portfolio of other assets including real estate: FINSAC has disposed of non-core assets
(real-estate, art work etc.) amounting to J$ 1I billion as of August, 2000. It has also developed a
time bound plan to dispose of the rest of the non-core assets.
(iv) Union Bank: The Government has sold Union Bank on November 2000. The sale of UB
will require the Government to issue new debt to replace about J$19.5 billion of FINSAC paper
on UB's books as of August 2000, including net commitments. The Government will use the
proceeds to the sale of Union Bank to buy-back FINSAC bonds in UB.
(v) National Commercial Bank: FINSAC will obtain control of NCB (over 75% shareholding)
to enable its resolution. Based on estimates as of August, 2000 about J$44.37 billion of FINSAC
paper at NCB will be serviced in cash beginning April 1, 2001.
(vi) Life of Jamaica: The Board of Directors of LOJ has agreed to call a shareholders' meeting
to authorize a proposal by which FINSAC will acquire control of LOJ (over 75% shareholding).
At this meeting, which is currently expected to be held before the end of the year, a simple
majority in terms of voting rights is necessary for the approval of the proposal to give FINSAC
control of LOJ. Since FINSAC controls over 75 percent of the voting rights, the Government
does not anticipate any significant problems in the approval of the proposal. Obtaining more than
75 percent of the equity of LOJ will allow FINSAC to take LOJ to the point of sale. About J$5
30 Most of this amount is held by the MOF. The amounts held by NIBJ and JDB are negligible. This amount
includes FINSAC paper issued to the MOF/NIBJ/JDB for both principal and interest.



97
billion (including the J$1.9 billion required for capitalization) of FINSAC paper at LOJ will be
serviced in cash beginning April 1, 200 1.
On the basis of this strategy, the Government expects to reduce the overall stock of FINSAC
debt from about J$127 billion to about J$90 billion. The Government will use proceeds from the
proposed loans by the Bank, IDB, and CDB totaling US$162.5 million3" (about J$7 billion) to
buy-back FINSAC bonds as well as service FINSAC debt. Loans from international financial
institutions will assist in restructuring about 7.5 percent of outstanding FINSAC debt and
improving its maturity profile.
4. FINSAC's Cash Flow Constraints
The main sources of cash income for FINSAC are the receipts from the sale/recovery of non-
performing loans and other assets and transfers from the Government. The outflows are interest
payments on FINSAC debt (currently only 0.3 percent of total bonds) and administrative
expenses.
FINSAC's sources of cash income
Asset Disposal: FINSAC acquired a portfolio of NPLs with a face value of J$33 billion. The
total purchase of the principal along with at least three months of accrued interest was for J$74
billion. FINSAC has established a workout unit to manage this portfolio and attempt recovery.
By August 2000, this unit had recovered J$3.9 billion. FINSAC has also sub-contracted with the
workout unit of NCB to manage about 11 percent of this portfolio. In addition, it developed a
plan for the divestment of these assets over the next 15 months (June 2000-September 2001).
FINSAC also has a large portfolio of other non-core assets acquired during the intervention
process (hotels, commercial and residential real estate, furniture & equipment, artwork, and
motor vehicles). As of August 2000, J$ 11 billion of these assets had been sold (of which 10% are
hotel sales in process). FINSAC has provided the Bank with a detailed plan for disposal of the
rest of these assets.
Transfers from the Government. The Government has provided about J$9 billion in cash and
J$10 billion in LRS to cover FINSAC cash flow to start operations, redeem FINSAC bonds,
provide (cash) liquidity support, cover transfer of liabilities, and to a lesser extent, recapitalize
financial institutions.
FINSAC's cash outflows: As of August 2000, FINSAC's main cash outflows are for general and
administrative expenses and to service a small portion of the debt. The former accounted for
J$433 million in FY2000 and J$355 million in FY1 999.
Once the strategy to reduce FINSAC's debt is implemented, i.e. interest is paid in cash, as per
the SMP, FINSAC's cash outflows would be dominated by debt servicing. The profile of
FINSAC notes is likely to change according to the terms and conditions of the new notes that the
Government/FINSAC will be issuing to replace existing FINSAC notes as of April 2001. As
3' First tranche disbursements of the IDB (US$75 million) and CDB (US$12.5 million) and disbursement of the
Bank's first operation of US$ 75 million.



98
outflows would vastly exceed inflows, this implies a need for the Government to implement a
skillfill program to manage its debt in order to smooth out the amortization profile of its
liabilities and to adequately meet its debt refinancing needs.
The Government restructuring strategy, as described in the SMP, estimates cash interest
payments starting in March 2001 (based on the stock as of March 2000) according to a base-case
and downside scenario. The latter is based on more conservative assumptions about interest rates
and GDP growth. The medium term projections 2000/01-2004/05 are presented in Table 3a.
Table 3a. Medium Term Interest Payments on FINSAC Debt, as Projected in the SMP
Interest payments (%  of 1999/00   2000/01    2001/02    2002/03   2003/04   2004/05
GDP)
Baseline scenario      0.0%      0.0%       3.2%       2.6%      2.3%      1.9%
Downside scenario      0.0%      0.0%       3.7%       3.2%      2.8%      2.4%
Source: SMP
An IMF mission visited Jamaica during September 8-15, 2000 for an informal review of the
macroeconomic developments prior presentation to the Board of this operation. The IMF reports
that the Jamaica's adjustment program -that the authorities have asked the IMF to help monitor
under the SMP- is broadly on track. The IMF mission together with the Bank's appraisal
mission updated data on FINSAC liabilities which has resulted in a modification of the
projections in interest payments for FY2001-FY2005, based on data as of August 31, 2000.
Estimates of total FINSAC debt from J$107 billion (as of March 2000) to J$127 billion resulted
mostly from: (i) about J$8 billion in FINSAC debt owed to MOF due to the issuance of LRS or
provision of cash to cover asset gaps for the resolution of three insurance companies (mainly
Mutual Life with J$7.4 billion), (ii) J$2.3 billion in additional realized costs for the restructuring
of Union Bank related to an overdraft facility provided by BOJ, (iii) J$1 billion in additional
capitalization of LOJ, (iv) interest accrued and capitalized from March to August; and (v) other,
relatively small, additional commitments. Taking into consideration these changes, revised
projections on interest payments are detailed in Table 3b.
Table 3b. Medium Term Interest Payments on FINSAC Debt, as per Revised Projections
Interest payments    1999/00  2000/01    2001/02     2002/03     2003/04    2004/05
(% of GDP)
Baseline scenario    0.0%     0.0%       3.9%        3.2%        2.7%       2.3%
Of which: private 0.0%        0.0%       3.4%        2.7%        2.3%       2.0%
sector
Downside scenario   0.0%      0.0%       4.2%        3.6%        3.1%       2.7%
Of which: private 0.0%        0.0%       3.7%        3.1%        2.7%       2.4%
sector
Source: Preliminary estimates as per informal review of the SMP and WB appraisal mission on September 2000.



99
ANNEX VII
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As of 10/12/2000
Closed Projects  56
Active Projects                                                                                                                            Difference Between
Last PSR                                                                    Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating                       Original Amount in US$ Millions         Disbursements '
Project ID      Project Name                           Development  Implementation    Fiscal Year      IBRD   IDA      GE      Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig. Frm Rev'd
Objectives    Progress
P007485         PRIVATIE NVESTMENT AND EXPORT              S             S             1994              35    0        0       0           9.3        9          0
DEVELOPMENT
P007490         PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION                S             S             1997             284    0        0       0          22.8      17.1       6.9
P007479         REFORM OF SECONDARY EDUCATION              S             S             1993               32   0        0       0           5.1       4.9         0
P039029         SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND                     S             S             1997              20    0        0       0           1.4      -0.1        1.4
P038700         JAMAICA STUDENT LOAN                       S             S             1997             28.5    0       0       0           6.1       4.2         0
P007489         TAXADMINISTRATIONREFORM                    S             S             1994             13.2   0        0       0           1.1       1.1       1.1
Total           157.1    0      0        0          45.7     36.2        9.4
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Loans/Credits Summary in USD    As of September 20, 2000
Original Principal                    1,326,000,000            0    1,326,000,000
Cancellations                           90,019,937             0       90,019,937
Disbursed                            1,190,264,129             0   1,190,264,129
Undisbursed                             45,715,934             0       45,715,934
Repaid                                 823,919,334             0      823,919,334
Due                                    364,767,931             0      364,767,931
Exchange Adjustment                    -11,886,058             0      -11,886,058
Borrowver's Obligation                 352,881,871             0      352,881,871
Sold 3rd Party                           1,576,864             0        1,576,864
Repaid 3rd Party                         1,576,864             0        1,576,864
Due3rd Party                                    0              0               0
Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 08/31/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                                  Disbursed
FY Approval     Company                                                                Loan         Equity    Quasi   Partic   Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1995         Jamaica Energy Partners Old Harbour Diesel Project                        16.82          0        0      37.84   16.82      0         0        37.84
Total Portfolio:                                            16.82          0         0     37.84   16.82       0         0       37.84






101
ANNEX VIII
Jamaica at a glance
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Amerrica   middle.        l-
Jamaica   & Carib.  income       Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                       2.6       509     2,094                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  2,330     3,840     1,200
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      6.6     1,955     2,513                      T
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Populalion (%)                                        1.0       1.6       1.1
Labor force (9)                -                      1.5       2.5       1.2     GNP                             Gross
per               - *-H primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (I% of population below national poverty line)  16.9
Urban populaton (% of total population)               50         75       43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      71         70       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              25         31       33
Child manutribon (St of children under 5)              1 0        8        1 5              Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)      83        75       86
Illiteracy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                     14        12       16
Gross primaryenrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation)    100        113      114         - Jamaica
Male                                               100                  114             Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              99                  116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989       1998      1999-
Economic ratioa
GDP (USS billions)                           2.4      4.1       7.1       7.2
Gross domestic investment/GOP               19.2     28.5      29.0      296                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP           49.8    47.2       47.2      46 7
Gross domestic savingslGDP                  18.4     19.0      21.9      20.6
Gross national savings/GDP                  13.3    16.4       26.0      25,1
Current account balance/GDP                 -5.8    -7.2       -3.0      -4.5     Dmt
Interest payrnents/GDP                       4.4      4.2       2.4       2,7     Domestic                    Investment
Total extemal debt/GDP                      71.7    111.1      58.6      58,8     Savings
Total external debt service/exports         23.8    29.6       15 .0     17.1
Present vWalue of external debtVGDP            .       ..      53 5
Present value of extemal debt/exports                         106.5
Indebtedness
1979-89  198e1-99    1998     1999   199-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 1.2      0.6    -0.5        0.0       2.5           -Jamaica
GNP per capita                     -0.6      0.6      0.1      -1.8       1,7    |           Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       4.0      0.1      7.9      -1.1       4.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999     Grwth finvestmaanGDP (')
(% of GDP at m.p.)
Agriculture                                  7.2      6.9       7.1       6.9    10
Industry                                    40.3    42.7       29.8      27.7
Manufacturing                             16.4    19.6        13.9     12.4      3               '-' 
Services                                    52.5     50.4      51.6      49.6    -;o           s                     s
Private consumption                         62.3    67.0       60.4      62.3    -15
General government consumption              19,3    14.1       18.6      17.4              _     GDt    -.GDP
Imports of goods and services               50.6     56.7      55.2      56.0
1979-89  1989-99      1998     1999       rowt of exports an importph
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  0.3      3.0       0.2       1.7    40
Industry                                     0.8    -0.2       -1.4      -0.1    30
Manufacturing                              1.7    -1.8        -3.9     -0.9    20
Services                                     1.5      0.9       0.1      -0.1    10.
Private consumption                          3.5    -0.4       -7.7       3.2     0
General government consumption               5.2    -1.3       11.0      -6.8     0
Gross domestic investment                   -1.1      4.6     -11.0       2.1     2
Imports of goods and services                7.7      0.0      -4.8       1.4    1       - Exports   --.-Imports
Gross national product                       0.7      1.5       0.9      -1.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



102
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Intation (%)
Domestic pricesI
(% change)                                                                          80T
Consumer pnces                               28.7    23.8         8.1       6.3
Implicit GDP deflator                        16.6    12.6         6.8       7.9    40
Govemment finance                                                                  20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0       I     ,
Current revenue                                       31.8       28.0      30.3            94   95   96   97    QB   99
Current budget balance                                 5.6       -4.7      -2.4    1          -GDP deflator   OCP
Overall surplus/deficit                                1.2       -7         -4d3
TRADE
1979     1989      1998      1999    [ Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ rnrllions)
Total exports (fob)                                  t000       1,551     1,535     3.500
Alumina                                              475        588       672     3,000
Bauxite                                              111         83        48     2,500
Manufactures                                          69         43        44     2,000
Total imports (cido                                   1,874     2,561     2,719     1,500
Food                                                 160        280      328      1,900,                               96
Fuel and energy                                      274        293      429       soo
Capital goods                                 ..    565         516      472         c
Export price index (1995=100)                          101        96        98            93  94  95 96  97  98
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                              85       112       116                   gEsports      aimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    118           85       85
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USimil1979  1989  19S8      11        Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                   1,165    1,941      3,353    3,366      0
Imports of goods and services               1,198    2,291      3,925    4,037        , 
Resource balance                              -32     -350       -572     -671                        Ik*    * 
-2
Net income                                   -187    -271        -283     -353      3
Net current transfers                          80      323       638       698        I
Current account balance                      -139     -298       -217     -326
Financing items (net)                         -20      136       203       448      6
Changes in net reserves                       159      161         14     -122    .71
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS rillions)         ..        ..      700       801
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              1.8      5.7       36.9      40.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(USS millions)                               1979     1989      1998      1999                 of 1999 debt (USS mIll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        1,705    4,560      4,026     4,039
IBRD                                        127      650       410       355                            A 35
IDA                                           0        0         0         0                G: 633          C: 86
Total debt service                            302      643       537       614
IBRD                                         15      109        99       106
IDA                                           a        0         0         0                                     D: 560
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             -13      122        92                  F   1     0    5     4
Official creditors                          110       75       -144       -8        F 1,054
Private creditors                           -39      -11       217       -73
Foreign direct investment                   -26       57       369
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0                                         E: 1,326
World Bank program
Commitments                                  60       75         0         0      A - 18RD                    E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                19       52        31        25      B-IDA    D-Othermultlateral  F-Pnvate
Principal repayments                          5       54        72        78      C- IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                     15       -2        -41      -53
Interest payments                            11       55        28        28
Net transfers                                 4      -57        -68      -81
Development Economics                                                                                                10/31/00



103
ANNEX IX
Key Economic Indicators - Base Case Scenario
------- -- Actual ----------  Estimate --------- Projected  ---------
Indicator              1995/96  1996197  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00 2000/01  2001/02  2002/03 2003/04
National accounts (as io 01 Cur)
Gross domestic product (factor cost)     100      100      100     100      100      100      100     100    100
Agriculture                             9.1      8.4     8.0      8.0      8.2     8.3      8.3      8.5    8.6
Industry                               38.8    36.8    35.4    33.7    32.8    33.0    32.4    32.3   32.1
Services                               52.1    54.8    56.6    58.4    58.9    58.7    59.2    59.2   59.4
Total Consumption                        79.6    80.5    81.8    79.0    79,7    79.8    77.8    76.8   74.3
Gross domestic investment                31.8    32.3    32.4    29.0    29.6    30.0    30.5    31.0   32.4
Government investment                   5.4      5.9     5.6      2.9      3.0     3.2      2.7      4.0    4.4
Private investment                     26.4    26.4    26.8    26.1    26.6    26.8    27.7    26.9   28.1
(includes increase in stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                          56.1    48.7    43.5    47.2    46.7    49.0    49.0    49.8   50.6
Imports (GNFS)                           67.4    61.5    57.7    55.2    56.0    58.8    57.3    57.5   57.3
Gross domestic savings                   25.0    24.3    22.7    21.9    20.6    20.2    22.2    23.2   25.7
Gross national savings'                  30.0    30.7    27.7    26.0    25.1    25.2    25.1    25.6   27.9
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                  5,239    5,864    6,653    7,109    7,210    7,376    7,761    8,161   8,574
(US$ million at current prices)
GDP per capita (US$ at current prices)  2,077    2,310    2,605    2,760    2,775    2,815    2,938    3,066   3,198
Real annual growth rates (%/o, calculated from 1986 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  0.7    -1.4    -2.1    -0.5       0.0      1.5     2.5      2.8    3.2
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1986 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  -0.3    -2.0    -2.7    -1.4    -0.9       0.6     1.7      2.0    2.5
Total consumption                       3.9    -0.9    -1.1    -4.7        0.0     0.5      0.7      1.3   -0.7
Private consumption                     3.3    -3.9    -3.8    -8.5        2.3      1.5     2.1      1.7   -0.9
Balance of Payments (USS milllons)
Exports (GNFS)b                        3,435    3,369    3,399    3,353    3,366    3,615    3,804    4,060   4,339
Merchandise FOB                      1,802    1,689    1,703    1,551    1,535    1,658    1,733    1,869  2,014
Imports (GNFS)b                       3,807    3,888    4,080    3,925    4,037    4,337    4,450    4,696   4,916
Merchandise FOB                     2,703    2,710    2,850    2,661    2,719    2,958    3,004    3,177   3,324
Resource balance                       -372    -519    -681    -572    -671    -722    -645    -635   -577
Net current transfers                   584      658     611      638      698      780     738      748    757
Current account balance                -123      -93    -386    -217    -326    -352    -415    -434   -392
Current account balance as % of GDP     -2.3    -1.6    -5.8    -3.0    -4.5    -4.8    -5.4    -5.3   -4.6
Net private foreign direct investment    88      104      169     309      249      365     319      350    367
Long-term loans (net)                  -137       20      149     106      -81      262     232    -156       44
Official                               -79    -175    -249    -144         23       38      11      -30    -24
Private                                -57      195     398      251    -104       224     221    -127       68
Other capital(net,incl. erort&omimiom)  219      121      14    -213       281       15      25       25      25
Change in reservesd                     -47    -152       53       14    -122    -290    -161        215    -44
Memorandum itemns
Resource balance (% of GDP)              -7.1    -8.8   -10.2    -8.0    -9.3    -9.8    -8.3    -7.8   -6.7
Real annual growth rates ( YR86 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)               13.7    -6.9    -2.3    -7.2    -3.8        3.9      3.3      5.2    5.2
Primary                                13.7    -5.3      2.0   -10.6      0.1      5.7      3.1      4.6    4.7
Manufactures                           0.9   -13.3   -14.9    -4.2        4.7      6.4      6.2      5.8    5.2
Merchandise imports (CIF)               23.6     0.4      4.5    -1.4    -2.9       4.9      2.8      4.4    2.2
(Continued)



104
Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
----------  Actual ----------  Estimate ---------  Projected  ---------
Indicator                1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01  2001/02  2002/03 2003/04
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues (incl. grants)           31.4     28.6     27.7     28.0     30.3     32.7     30.5      30.2   29.8
Current expenditures                     24.1      29.5     30.8     32.7     32.6     31.2     26.8      25.2   24.2
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  7.3    -0.9     -3.1     -4.7     -2.4       1.5      3.7      5.0     5.6
Capital expenditure                        6.1      6.2      5.5      2.9      2.9      3.2      2.7       4.0     4.4
Foreign financing                         -2.0     -2.2      1.2      1.2     -1.8      2.7       2.9     -2.0     0.4
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                    28.6     31.9     30.0     30.4     32.1     32.2     32.3      32.3    32.3
GrowthofM2(%)                             24.4     31.8      2.5     11.9     16.4      8.8      10.0      9.0    8.1
Private sector credit growth             197.7    23.4    -84.0    -68.3    -80.0    -75.9      77.4      19.9    40.7
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR86 =100)
Merchandiseexportpriceindex              169.0   170.1    175.7    172.5    177.5    184.5    186.7    191.4   196.0
Merchandise import price index           141.4    141.9    131.2    119.5    130.7    157.9    156.6    158.6  162.0
Merchandisetermsoftradeindex             119.5    119.9    133.9    144.3    135.8    116.9    119.3    120.7  121.0
Real exchange rate indext                 1.08     1.35     1.45     1.48     1.42     1.42      1.42     1.42    1.42
Consumer price index (%change)            21.7     21.5      9.1      8.1      6.3      7.7       6.8      6.3    5.5
GDP deflator (% change)                   25.2     17.7     10.5      6.8      7.9      6.8       6.6      5.8    4.9
a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources; negative denotes increase.
e. Budgetary central government.
f An increase in the index denotes appreciation.



105
ANNEX X
Key Exposure Indicators - Base Case Scenario
----------  Actual ----------  Estimate  ---------  Projected  -----
Indicator              1995/96  1996/97  1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01  2001/02  2002/03  2003/04
Total debt outstanding                 4,262    3,981    3,913    4,026    4,039    4,480    4,721    4,575    4,632
(TDO) (US$m)'
of which:
Public and Publicly Guaranteed (PPG)    3,640    3,285    3,039    3,216    3,165    3,411    3,625    3,451    3,478
ShortTerm and Private Non-Guaranteed    622     695      874      810      875    1,069    1,096    1,124    1,153
Net disbursements (US$m)'               -122     -149       93        1      -70      245      215     -173       29
Total debt service (TDS; US$m)'         673      674      641       537      652      666      720    1,157      703
Debt and debt service indicators (%)
TDO/XGNFS b                          124.1    118.1    115.1    120.1    120.0    123.9    124.1    112.7    106.7
TDO/GDP c                             91.7     63.8     59.8     58.6      58.8     62.0     62.0     56.9     54.4
PPG DOD/GDP b,c                       78.3     52.6    46.5      46.8     46.0      47.2     47.6     42.9     40.9
TDS/XGNFS                             19.6    20.0      18.9      16.0     19.4     18.4     18.9    28.5      16.2
PPGDS/XGNFS                           18.5     18.8     17.4      14.4     17.9     15.7     16.4    26.1      13.9
Concessional/TDO                      31.5     31.3     27.7     26.3     24.3      22.7     20.1     17.1     16.3
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                     20.8     19.1     17.9     20.6      12.5     13.7     12.9      7.6     13.4
Preferred creditor DS/public DS(%)    50.8    44.3      42.0     40.2     32,1      38.0     37.5     22.3     37.9
IBRDDS/XGNFS                           3.8      3.6      3.1       3.0      2.2      2.1      2.1      2.0      1.9
IBRD DOD (US$m) d                      595      515      431      410      383      422      476      476       472
Share ofIBRD portfolio(%)              0.5      0.5      0.4      0.4       0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3
IDA DOD (US$m)                           0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0
IFC Commitments (US$m)
Loans                                 22.0      0.0     45.0       0.0      0.0               ...
Equity and quasi-equity f              2.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      ...      ...
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                42.2     38.4      0.0      0.0       0.0      ...      ...      ...
Note: All debt and debt service data relate to external debt only
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-term capital.
b. "XGNFS' denotes exports of goods and non-factor services.
"TDO" comprises PPG, Private Non-Guaranteed, and Short Term debt.
"DOD" denotes Debt Outstanding and Disbursed
c. External debt converted at end-period exchange rate.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
e. World Bank fiscal year.
f Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



