Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23336
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(FSLT-70360)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$75 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR A
Bank Restructuring & Debt Management Program Adjustment Loan
12/21/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 31, 2001)
Currency Unit - Jamaican Dollar
US$ 1.00 = 45.79 Jamaican Dollars
FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOJ                      Bank of Jamaica (Jamaica's Central Bank)
BRDP                      Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program
CAN                      Country Assistance Note
CAS                       Country Assistance Strategy
FINSAC                    Financial Sector Adjustment Company Limited
FIS                       Financial Institutions Services
FSC                      Financial Services Commission
FY                        Fiscal Year
GDP                       Gross Domestic Product
1DB                      Inter-American Development Bank
IFI                      International Finance Institution
IMF                       International Monetary Fund
LOJ                       Life of Jamaica
LRS                      Locally Registered Stock (Treasury bonds)
MOF                      Ministry of Finance & Planning
MOU                      Memorandum of Understanding
NCB                       National Commercial Bank
NPLs                     Non Performing Loans
RBTT                     Royal Bank of Trinidad & Tobago
SMP                       Staff Monitored Program
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:    Fernando Montes-Negret
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Yira Mascar6



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
Bank Restructuring & Debt Management
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting lmplementation and Outcome                                9
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  14
9. Partner Comments                                                                 15
10. Additional Informnation                                                        21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              29
Annex 8. Financial Sector Adjustnent Loan: Policy Reform Program                   30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P071112                                       Project Name: Bank Restructuring & Debt
Management
Team Leader: Yira J. Mascaro                              TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Bank Restructuring & Debt Management           L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70360
Country/Department: JAMAICA                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: FF - Financial Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/05/2000                              Effective: 12/19/2000          12/19/2000
Appraisal:  09/06/2000                                MTR:
Approval:  11/30/2000                              Closing: 06/30/2001          06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  JAMAICA/MISTRY OF FINANCE AND BANK OF JAMAICA
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         David de Ferranti
Country Manager:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:      Fernando Montes-Negret                     Fernando Montes-Negret
Team Leader at ICR:   Yira Mascar6                              Subrahmanya Pulle Srinivas
ICR Primary Author:   Yira Mascar6
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The purpose of this loan was to assist the Jamaican Government to implement its Bank Restructuring and Debt
Management program (BRDP), aimed at completing the resolution of the financial crisis that started in the
mid-1990s and putting the large public sector debt on a declining and thus, sustainable path.
Context: Since the mid-1990s, Jamaica faced a systemic financial crisis with solvency and liquidity problems in



virtually the entire domestically owned banking and insurance sectors. As described in the President's Report of
the loan (Report No. P7397 JM), the weaknesses leading to the crisis are linked to an inadequate prudential and
regulatory infrastructure coupled with poor enforcement, which enabled risky investment and lending operations
by a large number and variety of new financial institutions. In particular, insurance companies raised funds
through deposit-like instruments disguised as insurance premium, investing in real estate, stocks, and securities.
As the Govermnent's macroeconomic policy led to high interest rates and the prevailing real-estate bubble burst,
insurance companies faced liquidity problems and tapped mostly their related banks for funds. This transmitted
problems to banks, triggering the crisis. Facing systemic insolvency, the Government placed a universal guarantee
on deposits, provided liquidity to weak banks through extensive overdraft facilities from the central bank (Bank of
Jamaica, or BOJ), and established a failure resolution agency -The Financial Sector Adjustment Company
(FINSAC)- to intervene, rehabilitate, and divest troubled financial institutions. The Government also started a
process of strengthening the regulatory and supervisory framework, aimed at reducing the vulnerability of the
financial system to future crises.
Although the Government contained the crisis, the stabilization of the financial sector came at a substantial cost.
Being cash constrained, FINSAC issued non-tradable, Government guaranteed bonds on which interest was
capitalized, to replace the bad assets it took over from more than 20 intervened institutions. The ensuing rapid
growth of FINSAC debt worsened as interest rates continued to rise, leading to a stock of debt of J$143 billion as of
March 2001 (about 44 percent of GDP). This added to an already large pre-crisis public debt burden of more than
100 percent of GDP, leading to an unsustainable debt path.
The Government recognized the urgent need to resolve the crisis and contain the adverse debt dynamics in order to
restart economic growth -with GDP stagnant or declining throughout most of the last decade, and thus help in
reducing poverty. Although costly and difficult to achieve, cash interest payments on FINSAC bonds became a
central component of the Government's strategy to complete the resolution of the crisis. By restoring liquidity to
the financial system and enabling the disposal of the Government's stakes in a large share of the system, a
financial, as opposed to an accounting, resolution of the crisis was attempted. The Government approached the
Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), for funds that
would support this strategy. With the support of these International Financial Institutions (IFI's) loans to retire a
portion of FINSAC's debt, the Government expected to improve the profile of its debt, by replacing high-cost
short-term domestic debt with cheaper, longer-maturity, international (dollar-denominated) debt. The Government
provided the macroeconomic underpinning for these efforts through a Staff Monitored Program (SMP) with the
IMIF that went into effect in April 2000 (IMF Document No. EBS/00/152) for a two-year period. In the SMP, the
Government committed itself to tight fiscal policies to generate large primary surpluses of 11-13 percent of GDP
for the next 5 years that would enable it to service its debt.
The broad medium-term goals of the Government's BRDP are: (a) FINSAC to resolve the three financial
institutions in which it had majority equity stakes; (b) FINSAC to dispose of the entire portfolio of non-performing
loans (NPLs) and other assets acquired in its intervention and rehabilitation stage; (c) Government to take over all
outstanding FINSAC obligations and service them in cash; and (d) Government to strengthen the legal, regulatory,
and supervisory frarnework for both banks and non-bank financial institutions. It was anticipated in the BRDP that
these objectives would be achieved in a phased manner.
Objectives of the first phase of the BRDP: The BRDP loan supported the following specific actions taken by the
Governnent prior to Board presentation: (i) FINSAC sold Union Bank (UB) and made significant progress in
restructuring the other two remaining intervened institutions -National Commercial Bank (NCB) and Life of
Jamaica (LOJ), the largest domestic commercial bank and the largest insurance company, respectively; (ii)
FINSAC developed a strategy for disposing of its portfolio of NPLs and disposed of a significant fraction of its
portfolio of other assets; (iii) the Government committed to restructure FINSAC debt and service all remaining
FINSAC obligations in cash beginning April 1, 2001; and (iv) it made substantial progress in strengthening the
legal, regulatory, and supervisory framework for both banks and non-bank institutions.
Assessment: The BRDP loan was timely and appropriately designed with clear objectives fit for a single tranche
- 2 -



operation, with up-front actions and disbursement in full upon effectiveness. The objectives were fully consistent
with the Government's policy agenda, as outlined in the budget presentation to Parliament in March 2000 and laid
out in the widely disseminated SMP. In addition, the BRDP loan was the central component of the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), and the Bank's Executive Directors discussed both together on November 30, 2000.
The objectives of the loan were therefore fully aligned with those of the CAS. The Government's program was also
supported by an IDB two-tranche loan for US$150 million approved on September 2000 with the first tranche
disbursed shortly thereafter, and by a CDB US$25 million loan also approved in September 2000.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Loan objectives remained unchanged.
3.3 Original Components:
This BRDP loan was designed as the first of a series of single-tranche adjustment operations under a progranmmatic
approach supporting the first phase of the Government's program. The components included specific actions and
commitments in the following areas:
Resolution of financial institutions: A key component of the Government's overall program is the sale/resolution
of the three major intervened institutions. The main sale transaction supported by the loan was that of UB -far
advanced during the preparation of the loan, which required a signed sale contract for UB prior to Board
presentation. Although the sale of NCB and LOJ was recognized as being crucial, it was envisaged that these
would take much longer to materialize due to the prior time-bound legal steps necessary to enable FINSAC to sell
both institutions, and the large size of NCB (about 35 percent of financial system assets). Therefore, the loan
supported critical initial steps necessary in order to achieve the ultimate objective of sale. These included
FINSAC's rehabilitation of NCB and LOJ, and the advance in taking legal steps leading to the acquisition of a
majority equity stake in these institutions (see annex 8). FINSAC agreed to install sound management in the two
institutions and design a plan, acceptable to the Bank, to address liquidity needs until their resolution was
finalized.
Restructuring of the public debt linked to the financial crisis: The Government was to write-off/offset FINSAC
paper held by the public sector, mostly the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and restructure FINSAC's liabilities with
third parties (UB, NCB, LOJ, and others, mostly already resolved insurance companies). Further to these efforts,
the Government committed to convert all outstanding debt into negotiable Government bonds (Local Registered
Stock or LRS) and committed to service this debt in cash effective April 1, 2001.
Asset Disposal- Portfolio of Non-performing Loans: FINSAC had established a workout unit to manage the NPL
portfolio of J$74 billion (face value of J$33 billion along with accrued interest) it had acquired from intervened
financial institutions, and attempted recovery. The loan supported continuing progress in the disposal of NPLs
through the diagnosis of the portfolio and the adoption of a strategy for its full disposal.
Asset Disposal- Portfolio of Other Assets: Since a large part of intervened bank portfolios was concentrated in
real estate - either as assets financed through loans or as collateral, FINSAC also became the owner of numerous
real estate assets (such as hotels, commercial and residential real estate, furniture & equipment, artwork, and motor
vehicles) and other non-core assets. The loan supported FINSAC's efforts in continuing the disposal of these
assets, under a plan acceptable to the Bank.
Strengthening of Regulation and Supervision of the Financial Sector: The loan supported the Government's
continuing efforts to strengthen the regulatory, legal, and supervisory framework of the financial sector by: (i)
enhancing the BOJ's intervention powers; (ii) amending bank secrecy laws to permit exchange of information
between regulatory agencies; (iii) promoting the issuance of a Ladder of Enforcement to BOJ's supervised
institutions; (iv) establishing the Financial Services Commission (FSC) to supervise the non-banking sector in a
integrated fashion; (v) obtaining Cabinet approval for a new Insurance Bill for presentation to Parliament; and (vi)
creating a Regulatory Policy Committee to coordinate regulation and supervision between the BOJ and the FSC.
- 3 -



The BOJ also agreed to undertake an independent assessment of the Basle Core Principles by the second quarter of
2001.
Commitment to manage Jamaica's public debt: In its Letter of Sector Development Policy, the Government
reaffirmed its commitment to manage its public debt in the short-, and medium-term and meet the structural
benchmarks outlined in the SMP.
Assessment: The design of the first phase of the BRDP loan was sound with respect to, (i) the specific transactions
needed; (ii) the relevant steps required to further strengthen the institutional framework and thereby reduce the
vulnerability of the system to future crises; (iii) the emphasis on providing liquidity to banks, after undertaking
major restructuring/sale to restore sound private sector lending that could lead to increased economic growth; (iv)
the support to sustained efforts to recover/sell the portfolios of NPLs and other assets to complete the resolution of
the crisis, and (v), the focus on attempting to reverse the adverse debt dynamics that had curtailed the Government
ability to handle the crisis and restore growth.
3.4 Revised Components:
The loan components remained unchanged.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was Satisfactory based on: (i) consistency of objectives with both the Government's medium-term
goals and the Bank's CAS; (ii) incorporation of lessons learned from previous experience in Jamaica: the timing of
the operation ensured strong Government's ownership and commitment to the adjustment program; (iii) design as
a single tranche loan with up-front actions for effectiveness: this design took into account several risks involved,
while providing flexibility within a programmatic approach to address changing circumstances in future
operations; and (iv) rapid assessment of the high rewards of the operation despite the risks: the program
recognized that the cost of not supporting the Government was high, both regarding the Government's ability to
attain its program and in terms of the Bank's role in helping Jamaica achieve its program goals.
Quality Assurance Group (QAG): A QAG assessment carried out in August 2001 rated the quality at entry of
this operation, as well as the eight quality dimensions to be Satisfactory and the Bank Input and Processes to be
Highly Satisfactory. The panel viewed the program as likely to meet its development objectives, despite the
considerable risks involved. However, it expressed some concerns on the sustainability of the operation as the
financing made available was limited relative to the large need of funds, which would constrain the country's
ability to maneuver in the event of further domestic or extemal shocks. Still, the panel agreed that on balance, not
providing any support would probably have been worse. The QAG report classified the operation as high-risk/high
reward, commending several aspects of the loan including: (a) the large degree of collaboration with the IMF at the
operational level in designing the macroeconomic elements of the program and with the IDB on sector aspects; (b)
adequate timing, by providing support after a hiatus of three years in Bank lending, once Government's ownership
of the reform was demonstrably high; (c) extensive assessment of underlying risks and thus, adequate choice of
lending mechanism through a series of single-tranche loans under a programmatic approach, particularly given the
Bank's past experience in the country; (d) active involvement of Regional and Sector Directors and the Chief
Economist, besides what they assessed as a highly skilled task manager and team reflected in the quality of this
complex operation; and (e) promptness in the processing of the loan and excellent use of resources once the
decision was made to proceed with the operation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the implementation experience of this first BRDP loan has been Satisfactory. The loan supported actions
taken prior to Board presentation, achieving its objective of enabling the implementation of the first phase of the
Government's program. The Government reached concrete goals in all the major areas specified in the loan with
actions that are hard to reverse -including the sale of UB and LOJ, the passing of new legislation and the
strengthening/establishment of new financial regulatory entities. However, it is still early to fully assess the success
-4 -



of the reforms in meeting its longer-term objectives, such as enhancing the system's capacity to prevent or
withstand future crisis, restarting lending and hence contributing to restoring growth, or to judge the sustainability
of these reforms. Nevertheless, as articulated in the Government's medium-term BRDP, the completed actions
supported by the loan cover a large portion of the process of resolving the financial sector crisis (see section 4.2).
However, three specific areas faced unexpected difficulties (see sections 4.2 and 5.2), of which the delay in the sale
of UB, has been resolved. The second area is the restructuring of the FINSAC paper at the BOJ, which still
remains to be completed as per the Cabinet resolution issued in this regard. The third, relating to the evolution of
the public debt remains the major risk faced by the Government's BRDP and the Bank's programmatic series of
loans in support of the program. In addition, although the Government had made a strong start in implementing
the SMW, which IMF staff determined to be "broadly on track in 2000/01," these assessments were made before the
events of September 11th in the US. Since then, the Government approached the Bank for emergency lending to
address the major shock to its macroeconomic plan from these events (see Report No. P7493-JM) and the IMF to
prepare a revised SMP accordingly.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Following the structure of the BRDP loan as a single-tranche adjustment lending operation, the actions were
completed prior to Board presentation. As a condition of effectiveness, the Borrower was required to take the key
actions described in section 3.3. Evidence of the Borrower's compliance with all of the loan conditions is provided
in Annex 8 of this report. The outputs by components are:
Resolution of financial institutions:
Union Bank- FINSAC sold its 99 percent share in the equity of UB to RBTT Financial Holdings Limited.
National Commercial Bank-At the time of preparation of the loan, FINSAC owned 67 percent of the equity of
NCB, short of the over 75 percent share needed to give FINSAC controlling ownership to advance in the process of
selling the bank. Prior to the Board presentation of the loan, FINSAC increased its stake in NCB to more than 75
percent obtaining control of the bank, going beyond required actions stipulated in the loan (see Annex 8). FINSAC
also filled all senior management positions and designed strategies to address NCB's liquidity needs and to
manage the bank during the time it is under FINSAC's control. The Government has repeatedly stated that it has
no intention of having the responsibility of managing a commercial bank beyond the minimum time necessary to
dispose of FINSAC's equity in NCB, reflecting its commitment to dispose of this large bank as soon as possible.
Accordingly, the Government recently submitted to Cabinet an offer by an intemational investor to buy FINSAC's
75 percent stake in NCB, following FINSAC's technical recommendation. The recent restructuring of the bank and
the Government's commitment to provide liquidity through cash payments on LRS replacing FINSAC bonds have
been crucial in this process. If approved, the sale is expected to be finalized by March, 2002. This would be a key
step towards the final resolution of the crisis.
Life of Jamaica- Prior to presentation of the loan to the Board, the board of directors of LOJ had agreed to call a
shareholders' meeting to authorize a proposal by which FINSAC was to obtain more than 75 percent of the equity
of LOJ. FINSAC acquired this majority ownership in November 2000, prior to Board presentation. In addition,
during the first quarter of 2001, the Government redeemed J$1 billion of FINSAC bonds at LOJ to address this
institution's liquidity needs and ensure its readiness to be sold. On November 15th, 2001, FINSAC sold its 76
percent equity stake in LOJ to Barbados Mutual Life Insurance Company, which took over effective that date.
Restructuring of the public debt arising from the resolution of the financial crisis:
The Government took over all of FINSAC/FIS liabilities as of March 31, 2000 and after writing-off/offsetting
public sector and BOJ debt, and redeeming a portion of FINSAC debt with third parties, it converted all debt
outstanding into LRS and is servicing this debt in cash. FIS or the Financial Institution Services is an institution
originally created to deal with the first bank failures before the crisis took systemic dimensions, which issued its
own debt (accounting for about 2 percent of GDP) serviced in cash, to finance the payout of depositors -mostly
held by NCB. For the resolution of FINSAC's debt with BOJ (J$28.52 billion as of March 31, 2001), Cabinet
- 5 -



approved the offset of J$13 billion of this debt against the Government's sterilized deposits held at BOJ and the
issuance of Government securities to cover the outstanding balance, although this has experimented some delays
(see section 5.2). Cabinet also approved the write-off of the debt with public sector entities (about J$ 19.4 billion,
mostly held by the MOF). The Government has since redeemed a portion of FINSAC's liabilities with the private
sector, using the proceeds from the privatization of the electricity company, the sale of UB, and the loans from the
Bank, IDB, and CDB.
In replacing FINSAC/FIS bonds with LRS, the Government managed to reduce interest costs and lengthen the
maturity of the bonds, improving the profile of its debt. The LRS pay an interest rate of T-Bill instead of an
average interest rate of T-Bill +1 on FINSAC/FIS bonds, while US denominated bonds were replaced with bonds at
their original fixed rates. The LRS that replaced FINSAC/FIS bonds also have longer maturity. For instance,
before replacement, 83 percent of UB's debt had maturity date of 2006 or before, while a 100 percent of the
replacing LRS would mature between 2006-2016 (Figure 1). This, however, had its costs in terms of a lower sale
price for UB than originally envisaged and required a longer negotiation process (see section 5.2). The
Government's strong negotiating position to ensure a reduction in the profile of FINSAC's debt at UB sought to set
the standard for negotiations on the maturity and interest rate structure of the LRS replacing FINSAC/FIS debt at
NCB, which accounts for 50 percent of the bank's assets. As a result, the Government recently designed the swap
of bonds at NCB (effective April 1, 2001) following a structure consistent with the Government's goal of improving
its debt management. This will have a sizeable impact due to the larger size of NCB.
Figure 1:Maturity Structure of Government Bonds at UB
80% /,
600/]
40°
20Q% _     _      _      _     __
0%
<2006  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  >201 1
0 FINSAC bonds (pror)  * Replacing LRS
Asset Disposal- Portfolio of Non-performing Loans:
FINSAC hired a consulting firm to assess the alternatives for disposing of NPLs and obtained a preliminary
diagnosis of the status of this portfolio. Based on the consulting firm's report, FINSAC's board supported the sale
of the entire NPL portfolio in bulk. Meanwhile, FINSAC's workout unit has continued its efforts, recovering about
J$5.7 billion by August 2001 (with a remaining unpaid NPL portfolio of about J$ 17.5 billion), under a strong
recovery strategy despite constrains (see section 5.2). These efforts have helped the Government provide a signal to
the market that could reduce future moral hazard (avoiding the perception of lenient debt collection practices),
'while reducing somewhat the large fiscal cost of the crisis. Despite delays due to civil unrest in Jamaica in the
summer of 2001 and the events of September 11, 2001 in the US that adversely affected the interest of potential
buyers, the Government has recently submitted to Cabinet an offer by an international investor to buy the entire
NPL portfolio, which entails an up-front payment of US$23 million to FINSAC under an agreement to share future
proceeds according to the following schedule of percentages (based on increments of US$50 million): 15 percent of
the first US$50 million recovered, 25 percent of the second, 35 percent on the next, 45 percent on the next, and 50
percent of the remainder. The offer is based on cash flow projections for the next 3-4 years where the buyer expects
to collect approximately US$200 million in gross proceeds, about half of which would be paid to FINSAC. This
projections are in line with FINSAC's, although under a more aggressive recovery strategy. If approved, the sale
would materialize in the first quarter of 2002, subject to completion of their due diligence.
- 6 -



Asset Disposal- Portfolio of Other Assets:
By August 2001, FINSAC had sold J$ 11 billion of other assets including the seven hotels it had acquired. FINSAC
still retains a significant portion of the commercial (office and retail) properties and it is making strong efforts to
dispose of these properties, while planning to sell them as a package to potential investors. FINSAC expects to
dispose of most of its remaining portfolio of commercial real estate assets (about J$2.4 billion) by early 2002.
Strengthening of Regulation and Supervision of the Financial Sector:
The Government's efforts to strengthen regulation and supervision of both bank and non-bank financial
intermediaries are expected to reduce the risk of another financial crisis in Jamaica, which should lead to more
sustainable growth and thereby achieve gains in poverty reduction going forward. Such efforts have been
continuing since 1997. As outlined in section 3.3 (see also annex 8), legislation empowering the BOJ to intervene
in distressed financial institutions without the Finance Minister's approval was drafted under the loan. Cabinet
approval was obtained to amend bank secrecy provisions to permit exchange of information between regulatory
agencies. The BOJ issued a "Ladder of Enforcement" to supervised entities clarifying steps in the intervention
process. The BOJ also undertook a self-assessment of its compliance with the Basle Core Principles in 2000,
followed by an independent assessment in 2001 by a team led by the IMF. The results from the self-assessment
were concordant with those of the independent assessment. Both recognized compliance with most principles, thus
reaffirming the ch'osen strategy of the Govermnent to address remaining weaknesses to strengthen regulation and
supervision currently being implemented. Necessary legislative measures have been approved and capacity
building of the BOJ is proceeding. Regarding the non-banking sector, the authorities recently created the FSC with
regulatory and supervisory powers over all non-bank financial institutions (insurance, pensions, and securities).
They also revamped the poor legal, regulatory, and supervisory framework of insurance companies that had partly
contributed to the crisis, first through technical assistance from the IDB and later continued through ongoing
technical assistance from the CDB. Among the legislative changes, the new Insurance Act recently approved by
Parliament and the Senate is judged to be in line with international best practices. The relevant regulations are
expected to be ready for tabling in Parliament in early January. These will not require a debate and will therefore
become effective as soon as they are gazetted. The Government is also engaged in improving pensions and
securities regulations. In addition, the authorities established a Regulatory Policy Council to harmonize regulation
and supervision between the FSC and the BOJ, with meetings already held.
Commitment to manage Jamaica's overall public debt:
As part of the loan, the Government committed itself to ensure that its overall public sector debt in Jamaican dollar
terms would be consistent with the base case scenario of the SMP. The objective of this commitment was to ensure
that the growth in Jamaica's overall public sector debt was initially arrested and that subsequently, it would
decline. As of March 31, 2001, the total non-financial public sector debt of the Government (excluding BOJ and
net of non-financial public sector holdings of FINSAC paper, LRS, and other securities) amounted to J$448 billion
(137 percent of GDP). Domestic debt (including FINSAC debt) amounted to J$287 billion (87 percent of GDP),
while external debt accounted for the remaining (50 percent of GDP). However, as discussed in detail in the IMF's
latest Article IV Consultation Report and Review of the SMP published in early June 2001, this level of overall
debt is 22 percentage points of GDP higher than anticipated in the SMP, although certain actions that were delayed
as of March 2001, have since taken place reducing this difference (see section 5).
FINSAC/FIS debt- Managing this component of the total public debt is crucial. As noted in section 4.3, the
Government wrote-off FINSAC's debt with the public sector and is committed to offset FINSAC's debt with the
BOJ, and took over outstanding FINSAC/FIS bonds through their conversion into LRS. These actions and the use
of IFI's loan and privatization proceeds to redeem part of FINSAC/FIS debt with the private sector are expected to
reduce the stock of public sector debt, as depicted in Figure 2, from 137 percent of GDP in March 2001 (including
FINSAC debt) to 132 percent in March 2002 (see section 5.2). Further, as illustrated in Figure 1, the maturity
structure of the debt has been significantly lengthened in the conversion process. Replacing illiquid FINSAC bonds
with LRS also improved the liquidity to the financial sector, thus enabling the restart of lending and growth. This
- 7 -



has become evident with the recent timid spark in lending and the resumption of GDP growth estimated at around
1 percent in 2000/01 after four years of stagnation.
Figure 2: Public Sector Debt 1996/97-2001/02 (percent of GDP)
160 -
140 -
120 -_____________
80-
60-
40
20
0O.
1996/97  1997/98  1998/99   1999/00  2000/01  2001/02
*2001/02 figures as projected in the revised SMP.
Non-FINSAC/FIS public debt- The Government has been restructuring this debt and improving its profile. It is
increasing the share of fixed rate debt in the domestic market, which was less than 15 percent in FY2000/0 1 and is
expected to increase to 60 percent in the medium term. It also continued to reorganize the stock of domestic debt
towards longer-term instruments by replacing maturing T-Bills and other short-term debt securities with
longer-term instruments. From FY1999/00 to FY2000/01, the stock of outstainding T-Bills declined 27 percent and
the maturity profile of new LRS lengthened (74 percent of new LRS had maturities of 5 years and over, compared
with 44 percent of new LRS in the previous FY). The auction of the first 10-year LRS assisted in this process. As a
result, at end FY2000/01, 25 percent of the new debt issued had a maturity of 10 years and over compared with 9
percent at the end of FY1999/00. Furthermore, the Government's strategy to replace higher cost domestic debt
with relatively lower cost foreign debt is reflected in the increase in the share of extemal debt from around 44
percent of GDP as of March 2000 to 50 percent of GDP as of March 2001 (although this strategy has obvious
limits). This includes the inflows from IFIs for the restructuring the financial sector that are long-term funds at
relatively low rates.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable because this is an adjustment operation.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable because this is an adjustment operation.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the loan is high, particularly considering the far-reaching changes
achieved in the regulatory and supervisory framework that resulted in a strengthened capability of the BOJ to
regulate, supervise, and intervene its supervised fimancial institutions, while the BOJ and the Government have
taken steps to address weakness identified by the assessments of the Basle Core Principles. In addition, the FSC
started to function as the new integrated regulator and supervisor for non-bank institutions (insurance, securities,
and pensions) and its operational capacity is being strengthened. The recently established Regulatory Policy
Council together with the BOJ and the FSC are harmonizing regulation and supervision, as part of the
Government's strategy to reduce future opportunities for regulatory arbitrage (which had contributed to the crisis).
These reforms, along with the sale of UB and the restructuring of NCB, have improved the environment for
renewed bank lending through a more competitive, stronger, and liquid financial sector. This should be conducive
to enhanced economic growth. The sale of LOJ completes the overhauling of the insurance sector with a more
competitive sector (with international participants) focused in its core business, and under tighter regulation and
supervision rules.
-8-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Coordination with other IFIs- Strong coordination efforts with the lI4F and the IDB ensured a coherent approach
to support the Government's efforts in achieving its BRDP goals. The Bank's participation in the IMF Article IV
and SMP assessment missions allowed its more conservative views on the evolution of interest rates and GDP
growth projections to be openly discussed. These views were incorporated into the SMP and the Bank's CAS, as an
alternative scenario. Revised monetary and fiscal policies required to achieve sustainability under this alternative
scenario were also included. Unfortunately, even this scenario proved to be more optimistic than the actual
macroeconomic situation faced by the Government ex-post, owing at least partially to the Government's defense of
the exchange rate through use of the interest rate mechanism. There was strong coordination with the IDB in the
preparation of their parallel fnancial sector loan, and as a result, the process moved at a faster pace and the
Government was able to get a larger pool of funds to address its liquidity needs. The IDB loan approved in
September 2000 had two tranches of US$75 million each, with the first tranche (comparable to the Bank's first
loan) disbursed shortly thereafter. The design of the loan different from the Bank's programmatic, single tranche
loans contributed to the choice of parallel financing versus a pure cofinancing effort. A US$25 million loan of the
CDB was also approved in September 2000.
Macroeconomic shocks- The main risk facing the program is the possibility of macroeconomic slippage due to
unforeseen circumstances such as September 11 th events in the US, or even less costly events such as the violence
in July, or the passing of Hurricane Michelle through Jamaica. Indeed, as in any banking sector operation, there is
the threat that global economic instability and/or recession in the US could have negative implications for the
Government's overall BRDP. This is particularly true in Jamaica because of the need to maintain strict fiscal policy
and the country's experience of negative per capita GDP growth for much of the last 25 years. The Government
has been able to weather several risks of lesser magnitude with commendable discipline, with an overall primary
surplus of 12 percent of GDP in FY2000/01, despite a shortfall in revenues. The revised SMP targets are taking
into account the recent shocks and entail tighter measures to which the Government has expressed its commitment.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The outstanding commitment of the Government in implementing its BRDP has been crucial for the success of the
loan. This began with the widespread publication of the SNP, stressing the Government's commitment to structural
benchmarks that were also included in its macroeconomic program presented to Parliament in March 2000. This
provided a positive signal both to the domestic and foreign markets that the Government had decided to endure
tight discipline to achieve the final resolution of the crisis, despite its large costs. In addition, by divesting financial
institutions to foreign investors, the Govermuent brought into the country fresh capital, technology, capacity, and
increased competition that would help increase lending and thus boost economic growth. Such investments were
also expected to improve market's confidence. However, three aspects affected the program, two more generally
under the Government's control -debt management and the handling of FINSAC's debt at BOJ-, while a third
aspect responded to mixed factors, some outside the control of the Government. These issues are described next,
including also two additional relevant factors that could affect the program as well.
Delays in the sale of UB- Prior to Board presentation, the Government provided the Bank with a sale agreement
signed by both the buyer and the seller as evidence of the sale. Despite the fact that there were certain
preconditions stipulated in the terms of the contract, the Bank considered the signed contract as adequate evidence
of the sale. However, the final transfer of ownership of UB from FINSAC to RBTT was delayed until March 2001.
This was mainly because of the difference in interest rates on LRS already in the market and those being offered to
RBTT in exchange for FINSAC bonds. Following the signing of the sale contract -and after recommendations
from its intemational advisors in the sale process- RBTT argued that in case it had to access the market for
liquidity it would have to take a haircut on the price of the LRS that replaced FINSAC bonds. While the signed
sale contract gave no room for negotiation of the interest rates on LRS, a final decision on the maturity structure of
LRS had not yet been made, which enabled RBTT to use the liquidity argument to reopen negotiations. Also, as
-9-



the negotiation process approached March 2001, the Government perceived the buyer had increased its bargaining
power from the explicit commitment to sell UB before March 31, 2001 as benchmarked in the SMP. Given that a
signed sale contract was received prior to Board presentation, the UB sale was recorded in the loan document as a
completed operation.
Negotiations went on for several months, with RBTT pressing hard for very short-term maturity paper to ease its
potential liquidity needs -which would have instead jeopardized the Government's concerted efforts at improving
the maturity profile of its debt. Negotiations were resolved leading to a final sale agreement in March 2001 that
preserved the maturity originally proposed, which together with the lower interest rate on the replacing LRS
enabled the Government to substantially improve the servicing profile of its debt. The Government accepted a
lower sale price for the bank and provided a letter indicating its willingness to cash LRS to meet UB liquidity
needs upon receipt of a three months notice. Also, during the negotiation process, UB had an overdraft, which
RBTT refused to take over with the purchase of the bank. The MOF cleared the overdraft by mobilizing deposits
from one of its agencies to the bank. Since March 2001, RBTT has been fully in charge of UB -although
effectively involved in its management since December. The bank is in the process of upgrading its information
systems, staff capacity and skills, and has restarted fresh lending.
Restructuring of FINSAC debt at BOJ: As of August 2000, this debt was J$25.9 billion. However, Cabinet
approval for restructuring this debt was obtained at a later date (October 17, 2000) and thus, the amount of bonds
to be restructured included accrued interest for a total of J$26.2 billion (or J$28.5 billion as of March 2001). The
approval supported the prior agreement provided to the Bank and signed by both the Government and the BOJ
indicating that J$ 13 billion of the FINSAC paper would be offset against deposits of the Government held at the
BOJ. For the balance, the Government agreed to issue special LRS to the BOJ. The settlement of this issue has
been delayed, as the Government and the BOJ still have to agree on the interest rate to be paid on these bonds, due
to its effects on the cash flow position of the BOJ. However, the authorities have reaffirmed their commitment to
carry out their earlier Cabinet decision. This is being taken into account in the preparation of the second loan.
Debt Management: Public sector debt stabilized at around 137 percent of GDP by end-FY2000/01. The larger
than projected level of debt reflects (i) the assumption of previously off-balance sheet liabilities in the privatization
process, and lower than anticipated sale proceeds-or revenue received at a later date than initially projected; (ii)
valuation effects resulting in part from the larger than expected depreciation of the Jamaican dollar; (iii) previously
unforeseen non-FINSAC debt that has been assumed and/or guaranteed by the Government; (iv) higher than
expected capitalized interest on FINSAC securities; and (iv) the accounting treatment of FINSAC bonds held by
the BOJ.
As explained in the 2001 IMF's Article IV and evaluation of the SMP, which adjusted the original SMP estimates,
the difference between the projected and actual debt stocks with respect to GDP, under comparable basis, was about
22 percentage points. Although very high, a large portion of this difference is attributed to factors that have since
been addressed. Around 1 percentage point was explained by lower growth and by the larger overall deficit of the
nonfinancial public sector than earlier projected. The remaining difference reflects:
*      Outstanding FINSAC liabilities (4 percent of GDP): These liabilities were expected to be redeemed by
March 2001 using the proceeds of the sale of the power company (JPSco), or written-off as part of the liquidation
of several F[NSAC-controlled institutions or against outstanding assets. The redemption has been proceeding after
March and hence were not reflected in a lower outstanding balance as of that date. The outstanding FINSAC debt
as of March 2001 also includes J$4.3 billion of debt held at firns in liquidation to be transferred to FIS. This
amount is expected to be written off once the legal liquidation process is formally completed. Also, the SMP had
assuned proceeds from the sale of LOJ to be received by March 2001 and used to redeem additional bonds. The
sale of LOJ took place in December 2001 and thus, the proceeds that will be used to further reduce the stock of
bonds were not reflected in March 2001, as originally envisaged.
*      Financial sector restructuring (4.8 percent of GDP): As a result of higher than anticipated interest rates,
the stock of debt increased due to additional capitalized interest on FINSAC securities. Also, the process of
restructuring and privatization of FINSAC-controlled institutions led to the inclusion as debt of several items that
were previously off-balance sheet contingencies. Finally, as noted above, the sale of UB was delayed and the final
- 10-



terms were less favorable than originally envisaged.
*      Valuation adjustments (4.5 percent of GDP): The real depreciation of the Jamaican dollar (which was
assumed to remain constant in real terms under the SMP) implied a larger debt stock -measured in Jamaican
dollars, both for the extemal debt and for the U.S. dollar-denominated domestic debt. In addition, the stock of
domestic debt increased more than the financing received, as domestic securities are sold using an auction system
with coupons below market rate. The result is the nominal debt recorded (at par) is above actual receipts, which
reflect the discounted price paid.
*      Guaranteeing of additional non-FINSAC debt (2.9 percent of GDP): The Government guaranteed debt of
a sugar company, the University of the West Indies, a US$125 million loan to the Bauxite Alumina Trading
Company, as well as other previously deferred obligations.
*      The accounting treatment of the FINSAC securities held by the BOJ (4.7 percent of GDP): As noted
above, Cabinet approval was obtained by the Government to exchange a portion of FINSAC bonds held by the BOJ
for an equivalent amount of special LRS yielding below market rates. This arrangement differs from the
assumption prevailing at the time of the preparation of the SMP that envisioned the writing-off of the entire stock
of bonds against non-interest bearing liabilities of the BOJ with the central Government. As a result, the related
reduction in debt stock projections in the SMP did not materialize as originally planned.
Sale of NCB, NPLs, and other assets- Despite the Government's commitment to keep its majority stake in NCB
for the shortest time possible, the less than optimal structure of NCB's balance sheet has made the sale more
difficult to materialize. However, based on FINSAC's technical recommendation, the Government recently
submitted to Cabinet an offer by an international investor to buy FINSAC's share in NCB, which could result in the
sale of the bank by March 2002. If delays arise in the negotiation process, the Government would have to manage
NCB for a longer period of time with unfavorable consequences for the resolution of the crisis.
Regarding NPLs, recovery efforts have been constrained by the fact that, as in several developing countries where
about 20 percent of the borrowers in number hold 80 percent of the loans by amount, the individual loans in the
NPL portfolio managed by FINSAC are likely to be held by the most powerful and politically influential borrowers.
This may have led the Government to engage in the ongoing strategy of selling the NPLs in bulk, since FINSAC
being a public sector entity may be perceived as having the same political constraints as the Government in
recovering these loans. The Government still faces the risk of another failed attempt to sale both the portfolio of
NPLs and other assets, as it was the case of the NPL portfolio in July due to the violence -with worsening
perspectives since September 11th that restricted the willingness of US investors. However, the Government has
since submitted to Cabinet an offer by an international investor to buy the entire NPL portfolio that if approved, is
expected to be finalized by early 2002.
Implementation of Regulation and Supervision: Although the Government has undertaken a major overhaul of
regulation and supervision of both bank and non-bank financial intermediaries, several of these changes
-particularly on the non-bank side- are in its earlier stages and the challenge remains to implement them
effectively. This challenge is ameliorated by the careful design of new laws, increased regulatory powers and
improved regulations, which are also enhanced by several technical assistance efforts from the US Federal Reserve,
the IMF, and other assistance through the 1DB and CDB technical assistance component of their loans.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
FINSAC (under the supervision of the MOF, the main implementing agency), exhibited a large degree of
cooperation and expertise both in the preparation of the loan as in undertaking its duties in the implementation of
the program. FINSAC's management, in coordination with the Government, carefully designed its strategy to
increase ownership at both LOJ and NCB leading to successful negotiations, despite heavy political pressures. This
led to compliance with legal requirements in proceeding towards the resolution of these two institutions beyond
those required in the loan agreement. In addition, FINSAC's management exhibited outstanding negotiating skills
with RBTT in the long and difficult sale process. RBTT first expressed an interest in UB in the second quarter of
2000, but took over the bank only in March 2001. The same level of skill proved useful in the sale of LOJ, as in the
- 1 1 -



ongoing process of selling of NCB. Finally, the adaptability of FINSAC has become evident in the process of sale
of the NPLs, repackaging this portfolio shortly after the failed attempt to sell recently.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Not applicable.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Since the first phase of the BRDP loan is part of a medium-tenn macroeconomic program of the Govermnent, it is
too early to fully assess the success of the program in meeting its broad goals and judge its long-term sustainability.
However, several of the important steps achieved thus far, such as the sale of UB, the sale of LOJ, and many of the
banking reforrns undertaken under the BRDP, are harder to reverse. These actions provide a degree of confidence
regarding the commitment of the Government and their willingness to find alternatives to deal with risks as they
arise. Furthermore, the Government's strategy provides a signal to the financial sector that a new framework is in
place with stricter and better rules of the game, enforced in a timelier manner. These actions also lay the ground
for a healthier financial system that exhibits enhanced competition with the entrance of international players.
Therefore, the sustainability of the loan's specific objectives is likely. Securing the broader objectives of the
Government's BRDP is subject to several risks however, and thus, it can only be judged over the medium run when
the final resolution of the crisis is achieved and, growth is fully restored. The large debt will have to be paid over a
long time horizon with a high cost to tax payers -total debt service obligations in FY2001/02 are estimated to
account for 62 percent of total expenditures- and GDP growth would be crucial in these efforts. The main risks
involved are summarized next.
*      The most important risk arises from the need to maintain the macroeconomic stability the Government
has achieved thus far in broad compliance with their program spelled out in the SMP. This has been driven by the
generation of very large primary surpluses at 12 percent of GDP during FY2000/01, and a reduction in the interest
rate path that has enabled the Govermnent to service the large stock of debt. However, this has already been a
difficult task worsened by the violence manifested in July although not directly related to the fiscal measures),
which have added to pressures on Government to increase expenditures. Further pressures emerged with the events
of September I 1th in the United States that have major negative implications on revenues from tourism and other
sectors of the Jamaican economy that are crucial for restarting economic growth. The request for emergency
assistance from the bank, recently presented to the Board, is expected to address this risk and help the economy
continue moving towards a more favorable growth path.
*      A second important risk that remains is the constraint on the Government's ability to dispose of NCB, the
largest intervened bank (see section 5.1). If these risks were to materialize, the Government would not be able to
finalize the resolution of the crisis as expected, although this risk is ameliorated by the ongoing negotiation process
expected to materialize by March 2002.
*      The third major risk going forward is institutional. As noted in section 5.2, the Government has a major
role in monitoring the implementation of recently enacted regulation, particularly regarding the effective
performance of the FSC. In addition, the Government has to continue its efforts to provide an environment
conducive to renewed prudent lending. In these regards, the Government, as well as banking sector participants
have recognized the importance of a centralized credit registry for the future growth and development of the
financial sector. Since such institution currently does not exist in Jamaica, the Government has started taking steps
for its establishment.
*      A fourth risk is related to the disposal of the remaining portfolio of assets acquired by FINSAC. The
Government announced that it plans to close down FINSAC (expected to take place by early 2002) to signal the
end of the resolution of the crisis. The laudable commitment of the Government in disposing of intervened
institutions and a portion of the assets through FINSAC has hinged upon a strong political and technical support.
The proposal to transfer the remaining assets to FIS, upon closure of FINSAC, requires the same level of
conmmitment and support at FIS as prevailed at FINSAC. The close working relationship that has prevailed
- 12-



between the two organizations since FIS has been dealing with the resolution of firms in the process of liquidation
is expected to contribute to the success of the transition. In addition, if the proposal to sale the entire NPL proposal
being presented to Cabinet portfolio does not materialize when FINSAC is closed, FIS will also require a similar
capacity than that prevailing at FINSAC to sell this portfolio, together with that of other assets.
*      A final risk is the vulnerability underlying the restoration of growth and sustainability of the interest rate
path to enable the continuity of the Govemment's debt management program. Provided that Jamaica has been on a
knife-edge in handling the difficult macroeconomic situation and that it has already faced disturbing events,
additional domestic or extemal unexpected events will only heighten the high risk of the implementation of the
program. In contrast, the recent decline in intemational interest rates improves the profile of intemational debt
held by the Govermment.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in the implementation of the first phase of the BRDP was Highly Satisfactory. The response of
the Bank to the Govermment's request was done in a strategic, yet timely fashion. It started with the heavy
involvement of the team in the joint diagnostic (with the IMF) of the problems and the design of the financial
sector component of the SMP. Bank staff also displayed significant awareness of the political realities of the
situation in Jamaica, also considering the prior Bank loan implementation experience with the country as reflected
in the 1998 Country Assistance Note (CAN) and previous loans to Jamaica. The team tailored the loan to be
programmatic, with actions to be taken prior to disbursement (and prior to Board presentation) seeking to
minimize the risks of the operation. It kept management informed on a regular basis and sought their guidance on
complex aspects of the program to strike a balance between both the Government's and the Bank's objectives. In
addition, attending to the concem smaller states have expressed to the Bank in the past regarding the capacity and
seniority of staff they typically have to deal with, a specially crafted team was put together while senior sector
management (including the Sector Director and Sector Manager) led the appraisal mission. This enhanced the
dialogue with the Govemment, particularly on the choice and design of the lending instrument. As a result, the
transactions to be supported by the first loan were carefully selected to ensure that several serious steps were taken
towards the resolution of the crisis, but without risking a delay that would have jeopardized the success of the
BRDP due to its large cash needs. The team also collaborated with the country unit (CMU) staff, particularly in the
context of the concomnitant preparation of the CAS, which was crucial for the success of this operation. In addition,
the team coordinated closely with the IMF and the IDB in the preparation process, which resulted in a broader
assessment of tighter macroeconomic scenarios with consideration of measures required for its sustainability (see
section 5. 1).
7.2 Supervision:
Given the structure as a single-tranche adjustment operation in which the agreed policy actions were implemented
prior to Board presentation, there was limited scope for further supervision. However, being the first of a set of
programmatic loans, supervision of the loan took place together with the preparation of the second loan under the
BRDP, currently in process. As a result, the Bank has remained engaged with the authorities in following up
implemented actions and ensuring effectiveness of commitments, which have helped in the design of the second
loan. The Bank's performance in this process has been Satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank's performance has been Highly Satisfactory.
Borrower
- 13 -



7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in the identification and preparation of the project was Highly Satisfactory. The Bank had
extensive interaction with the main institutions involved (MOF, FINSAC, BOJ) throughout the process, which
reflected the high degree of ownership of the program. The counterpart had selected an exceptionally qualified core
team with MOF in the lead, which maintained a coordinated inter-institutional reform, bank resolution and debt
management program.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The implementation performance of the borrower is Satisfactory. The Government took all the actions supported by
this loan prior to Board presentation. Although there were certain delays in actions to which the Govermnent had
committed, these have since been resolved to the satisfaction of the Bank. As regards the commitment to
sustainable debt management, the Government faces significant challenges and continues to be committed to
address them as necessary to maintain its broad compliance with the SMP. These issues form the basis of the
Bank's emergency lending operation presented to the Board on December 20th, 2001 and the second loan currently
being prepared. In the wake of September 11th events in the US, the Government and IMF have reviewed and
agreed on revised SMP indicators for FY2001/02, including fiscal deficit and primary surplus targets. Agreement
has also been reached between the Government and IMF to negotiate an SMP program for FY2002/03.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Access to data was superior throughout all the stages of the loan preparation process and the MOF, BOJ, and
FINSAC all provided extended background on intricate aspects of the crisis and the restructuring process, which
were crucial for the design of the operation and the drafting of the MOP. Also, except for the delay in the final
completion of the sale of UB and in handling FINSAC's debt at the BOJ, as well as the difficult process of dealing
with a large stock of public sector debt, all the necessary actions were undertaken on time, sometimes in advance.
The latter was the case of the increase in ownership of NCB and LOJ prior to Board presentation (See section 4).
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance was Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The principal lessons leamed from the implementation experience of the BRDP loan as the first phase of the
Bank's support to the Jamaican Government in resolving the crisis are:
i)     Importance of Client Commitment to Reform: The successful implementation of the first phase of the
Government's BRDP follows from a strong ownership of the program and commendable conmmitment of the client.
The client clearly spelled out the components of its strategy early on to its internal and external constituencies. It
also published the SMP. The Government's excellent cooperation with Bank staff also helped the team in their
efforts to change the prior loan implementation experience of the country at the Bank, despite the program being
subject to major risks. This high level of commitment and ownership of the Government made it more favorable
for the Bank to provide support, particularly since the cost of no action was deemed high. The satisfactory
implementation of the program thus far proved these efforts rewarding, which has led to the progress in the
preparation of a second loan as part of this programmatic phased approach. However, there is little doubt that this
has been a high risk/ high reward operation and many difficulties are likely to arise.
ii)    The importance of selecting an appropriate lending instrument: The choice of at least two
single-tranche programmatic loans has been key to the restoration of operational relationship with Jamaica and in
ensuring the successful performance of the loan. The arguments of flexibility, promptness, and feasibility of
compliance with attainable short-term objectives provided to the authorities in the preparation phase, have worked
to the advantages of both parties in moving closer to the BRDP medium-term goals. The choice of instrument
enabled taking into account lessons from past Bank experience with Jamaica, coupled with recent experience in
other projects involving restructuring of banking sectors after similar crisis processes such as Mexico's. Through
this approach, the Bank reduced the risk of delay and failure in the achievement of the program's medium term
- 14 -



aims by locking the client into an overly ambitious, politically sensitive, and risky agenda with excessive
conditionality. Had the loan chosen a one loan/two-tranches approach, first, the room to adjust required
transactions would have been scarce, which would have made necessary adjustments in the terms of the loan with
the consequent reputational risks for the country; and second, a much longer time would have been required for
preparation of the loan given the broad institutional aspects of the reform of regulation and supervision. The latter
was particularly the case of non-banking intermediaries, given that at the time the loan was being prepared,
FINSAC had intervened and was monitoring closely most of the non-banking sector. This provided some assurance
that the completion and implementation of these refonns could come at a needed slower pace (and hence, left for
the second loan), without compromising the success of the program. The added flexibility has also proven to be
necessary for the preparation of the second phase of the loan program, particularly in light of the delays
surrounding the sale of UB, the violence in July, as well as the ability to deal with the impact of unfortunate events
of September  11th in the US. In addition, the choice of a single tranche first loan enabled the design of specific
transactions to be achieved prior to Board presentation, which sped the disbursement process. The latter has also
provided the Bank with leverage in the design of the second loan to ensure that significant steps are taken in the
finalization of the crisis resolution process.
iii) Close collaboration with other IFIs and with the country staff: Given that the risks involved were very
high, having an inter-institutional effort proved useful. The Bank was able to stress the likelihood of less than
favorable scenarios as alternatives in the Government's program included in the SMP due to its involvement in the
financial sector aspects of that process. In addition, the Bank leveraged from the work of the IDB regarding
sectoral aspects of non-financial regulation and supervision. The close collaboration with the CMU staff and
country economist was also crucial for the success of the loan.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
BANK RESTRUCTURING AND DEBT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM ADJUSTMENT
LOAN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Loan No. 7036 JM)
I. BACKGROUND
During the decade of the mid 1980s to mid 1990s Jamaica made considerable progress in
stabilizing the economy and undertook many needed structural adjustment programmes. The
liberalization of the financial system that occurred however was not accompanied by a sufficiently
robust prudential and supervisory infrastructure. At the same time, the earlier fiscal consolidation
was reversed, as public sector domestic borrowing increased significantly, with central
government's efforts to eliminate the losses of the central bank and public sector wage
settlements, which outpaced inflation. Despite these developments, inflationary pressures were
reduced and relative stability was maintained in the foreign exchange market.
The rapid expansion in the financial sector between 1991 and 1997 exposed significant problems
within the banking and insurance industries as evidenced by capital shortages and asset quality
problems at several financial institutions. These problems arose in part from weak management
practices, the interrelated relationships between affiliated banks, building societies and insurance
companies.
- 15-



To address these challenges the Jamaican authorities designed and embarked on a number of
initiatives to deal with the adverse debt dynamics and implement significant reforrns in the
financial sector. As part of the initiatives the support of multilaterals namely the World Bank, The
International American Development Bank (IADB) and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)
was sought, this led to the Bank Restructuring & Debt Management Program.
II. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
The main u ide 1ing  _jectives of the Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Loan Program
were (i) to addrt ss he increasing debt burden associated with the FINSAC liabilities and the lack
of liquidity faced Ly financial intermediaries and (ii) provide for the resolution of the banking
crisis and the improvement of financial intermediation in Jamaica.
More specifically, the salient components, included a Bank Restructuring Program and a Debt
Management Program:
In the area of Bank Restructuring, the program was intended to achieve three (3) broad
objectives:
(i)   The completion of the resolution of banks and other financial institutions that were
intervened by the Government;
(ii)   Selling the large volume of non-performing loans and real estate acquired by the
Government's restructuring agency (FINSAC): and
(iii)  Strengthening and consolidating the legal, regulatory, supervisory and enforcement
framework for the safe and sound operation of the financial sector.
In the area of Debt Management, the strategy was intended to achieve the following objectives:
(i)    Write off FINSAC's debt to the Central Government
(ii)   Restructure FINSAC's debt to public sector entities (Bank of Jamaica, and other
Government entities) and having FINSAC's debt offset against those entities liabilities to the
Government.
(iii)   Reduce the stock of FINSAC debt by using loan proceeds received from the IBRD, IADB
and CDB.
(iv)   Restructure FINSAC paper at Union Bank to cash paying Government Securities.
(v)   The assumption by government of all remaining FINSAC liabilities, which are outstanding
as of April 1, 2000, and the beginning of full debt service payments in cash for FINSAC paper.
- 16-



(vi)   Maintain an economic and financial framnework, within the context of an IMF Staff
Monitored Program (SMP) to consolidate the recent macroeconomic gains and strengthen the
conditions for the resumption of growth over the medium term.
III. BANK SUPPORT: A PROGRAMMATIC LENDING APPROACH
Overall, the project supported a centrally directed and demand driven approach, which has
become characteristic of all World Bank projects administered in the 1 990s'.
Identification & Preparation: Pursuing a Staff Monitored Programme as agreed by the IMF
provided a solid macroeconomic underpinning in the formulation of the project and in obtaining a
clear understanding on its main sub-components. Consequently, the Government of Jamaica was
able to work closely together with the Bank in preparing the Project design.
Close consultations and coordination were also held with the IADB and CDB, which provided
parallel financing through a similar loan.  This resulted in the smooth preparation of the
programme.
Appraisal: The Bank was involved in the appraisal process and suitable expertise was provided,
during consultations. The appraisal and project design were largely sound. The implementation
plan was detailed and contained concrete performance indicators.
Supervision: The Bank's supervision was adequate. Mid term supervision missions by the Bank
were conducted and this involved having consultations with the entities responsible for executing
various aspects of the programs and receiving status updates/progress reports and/or clarification
on certain issues. The team demonstrated its interest in Jamaica's legislative process when
members of the mission in conducting their review/ supervision accepted the invitation of
attending a Sitting of the Joint Select Committee of Parliament, which was discussing the bills
relating to amendment of the necessary pieces of legislation.
IV. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
(i)    Completion of the restructuring/resolution/sale of banks and other financial institutions
intervened by the Government
Remarkable progress has been made in restructuring/resolving and selling financial
institutions intervened by Government. The Merger of four intervened banks and
other financial institutions into the new Union Bank was completed and the sale of the
bank to Royal Bank of Trinidad and Tobago was also completed. National
Commercial Bank (NCB) was restructured and a new Management team was
appointed. This restructuring facilitated FINSAC taking control of 76% of the bank.
- 17-



In the insurance sector the FINSAC intervened institutions were sold.
(ii)   Sale of FINSAC's portfolio of real estate and non-performing loans
Despite the failure to attain the estimated/projected targets for complete sale of real
estate properties i.e. residential and commercial, significant progress was made in the
area. For the non-performing loan portfolio, FINSAC has been having discussions
with prospective buyers. However delays have been experienced because of the events
of September 11, 2001 in the US.
A plan was also designed and approved by the Board of FINSAC for the complete
disposition and administration of its non-core assets. Although FINSAC is making its
best efforts to sell the remaining non-core assets there has been a decline in investors'
interest in the wake of the events of September 11, 2001.
(iii)   Consolidation and strengthening of the reaulatory framework of the financial sector
Under this sub-component, which provided for the reduction of the vulnerability of the
sector to future crises, the targets were achieved.
-      iThe legislative framework was strengthened with the enactment of amendments to the
Securities Act, the Unit Trust Act and the Bank of Jamaica Act to facilitate the exchange of
information among regulators. The Financial Services Commission Act was also passed and the
new non-bank (non-deposit taking) supervisory authority established. Concerning the operations
of the Commission, the Board, CEO and the Chiefs of Insurance, Securities, Director of
Corporate Services and Examinations were appointed. The appointment of the Chief of Pensions
has been deferred until the pensions legislation is approved and assented. An organizational
structure has been developed.
*    The new Insurance Act was also enacted. The draft regulations have been prepared, have
been discussed with the industry and will take effect as soon as they have been gazetted.
-     The independent Assessment of the Bank of Jamaica's compliance with Basle Core
Principles was done. As a result an action plan was drafted detailing plans for the implementation
of the recommendations.
The Bank of Jamaica updated the Supervisory Ladder of Enforcement.
The Regulatory Policy Council was established and meetings held.
-     A new Financial Sector Crisis Intervention Policy Matrix was developed and approved by
Cabinet. The Honourable Minister of Finance tabled a Ministry Paper in the Houses of Parliament
in this regard.
-     Research was conducted to inform proposals to provide for enhanced legislative
- 18 -



framework for complex financial groups/mixed conglomerates. Cabinet approval has been given
to amend legislation that will allow the Bank of Jamaica to intervene in troubled institutions and
enhance the BOJ's regulatory authority over complex groups of companies.with deposit-taking
institutions.
(iv)   GOJ making regular cash payments as agreed on remaining FINSAC debt held by private
sector
Cash payments in excess of $13.7B were made in respect of both FINSAC and FIS
liabilities to private sector holders, from the Ministry of Finance resources, proceeds
from the sale of assets, FINSAC internal resources and proceeds received from
multilaterals under the loan.
(v)   Dealing with FINSAC liabilities
Considerable progress was made in this area as:
*     The Ministry of Finance assumed FINSAC liabilities and issued government securities in
excess of JA$ 1 0OBillion to financial institutions.
*     Adjustments were made by public sector entities to set off their debts to the Ministry
against those owed to them by FINSAC.
*     Approval was received for Government to use its $13Bn in the sterilized funds at the
Central Bank to set off FINSAC liabilities, and issue government securities to cover the
outstanding balance.
*     Loan proceeds received from the IBRD, IADB and CDB, were used to reduce the stock
of FINSAC debt.
*     Stabilization of public debt to GDP ratio was achieved.
(vi)   Staff Monitored Programme
Jamaica continued to meet the targets as established. The International Monetary
Fund (IMF) carried out reviews on the agreed Staff Monitored Programme (SMP).
V. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
The Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program was affected by:
*     The nature of the legislative process.
- 19-



Owing to the far reaching implications and the significant reforms to be undertaken, a
Special Joint Select Committee of Parliament was appointed to discuss the issues
and hear the concerns of stakeholders. The passage of the amendments to the Securities Act,
Unit Trusts Act, Bank of Jamaica Act and Financial Services Commission Act were relatively
swift because they were small to moderate in size. The Insurance Bill however, is very lengthy
and contemplated significant reforms. This created much debate, which led to the prolonged
sitting of meetings of the Joint Select Cornmittee. It was finally approved by the Lower house
on November 27, 2001 and by the Senate on December 7, 2001.
*     A slight increase in the debt stock or a larger than projected public sector debt stock
*     The publication of information as it relates to the disposition of intervened entities
and non-core assets.
a     The events of September 11, 2001, the disturbance in West Kingston and the
damage done to the agricultural sector by flood rains.
VI. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
The Government is committed to its medium-term economic programme which is being
monitored by the IMF under the Staff Monitored Programme. This programme has laid the
foundation for faster growth and a reduction in inflation, which will create the shift required in the
public sector balance from a deficit to a surplus.
While further improvements are needed substantial progress has been achieved in other
important areas.
In this regard the Government of Jamaica has requested the Bank's assistance of a follow-on
project to ensure sustainability of the reforms.
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
Overall, the Bank's performance in all stages of the project cycle was satisfactory.
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
The Government of Jamaica is of the view that the major objectives of the Bank Restructuring
and Debt Management Program have been achieved.. The legislative framework providing for
improved supervision has been strengthened and FINSAC's liabilities to Central Government has
been written down and reduced. Overall, measures have been implemented to facilitate
improvements in the country's macroeconomic picture and restore stability to the financial sector.
- 20 -



IX. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
The implementation exercise of the project, has brought to the fore the following lesson:
*     Sensitive information as it relate to expected timeframe for the disposal of assets should
never be publicized. This has the potential of creating delays and negatively affecting the
bargaining power of the seller.
*     A properly designed and managed programme can be executed successfully.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
ilndicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR                 ActuallLatest Estimate
Not applicable because this is an adjustment
operation
Output Indicators:
___it  __________Indicator/Matri              Projected in last PSR                 ActuaULatest Estimate
Not applicable because this is an adjustment
operatio
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million    US$ million
Not applicable because this is an adjustment operation
Total Baseline Cost                                 0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs             0.00           0.00
Total Financing Required             0.00           0.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other'        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
-23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
;   f ~Procurement Method I       
Expenditure Category          ICB         ProNCB u    t MOthero 2          N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contractecl staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to Ji)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
0  0 ;0 ;;00t0;: t0t00 t 0;      f  ::0:0t;0t  0ti00;    ;t 0 tPercentage of Appraisal
Component               AppIraisalfEstimate           Actual/Latest Estimate      P |          App
Bank      Govt.      CoF.       Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable because this is an adjustment operation.
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Perfonnance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
7/2000                      3   1 Sr. Financial Economist, I
Financial Economist, 1 Financial
Sector Specialist Consultant
8/2000                      4   1 Sr. Financial Economist, 1
Financial Economist, 1 Sector
Manager, 1 Country Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
9/2000                      5   1 Sr. Financial Economist, 1
Financial Economist, 1
Sector Manager, 1 Country
Economist, 1 Banking
Supervisor
*This mission was led by the
Sector Director. The Credit
Risk department also sent a
Senior Economist/Regional
Credit Manager to join the
mission.
Supervision
8/2001                       4   1 Sr. Financial Economist, 1       S             S
Financial Economist, 1
Country Economist*
*the 8/01 mission was
combined supervision, ICR,
and preparation for Second
Bank Restructuring and Debt
Management Program Loan
ICR
see supervision
mission
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle  [                Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               27.2                       124.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                    11.5                        53.4
Supervision                              12.7                        36.3
ICR                                       3.1                         7.7
Total                                    54.5                       221.9
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LII Macro policies                        OH  *SUOM  ON  O NA
Ol Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Institutional Development               O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
LII Environmental                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
OI Poverty Reduction               O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
[II Gender                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
LII Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OI Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OI Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS 0 U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS   O U   O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agencyperformance                   OHS OS  O U  O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
President's Report no. P7397 JM, November 2, 2000.
Jamaica Country Assistance Strategy, Report no. 21187, November 2, 2000.
Jamaica: Staff Report for the 1999 Article IV Consultation, IMF Staff Country Report no. 00/08, January 27,
2000.
Jamaica: 2001 Article IV Consultation and Review of Staff-Monitored Programn, IMF Country Report no. 01/83,
June 14, 2001.
Jamaica: Country Assistance Note, Report no. 19356.
- 29 -



Additional Annex 8. Financial Sector Adjustment Loan: Policy Reform Program
Objective                 Policy Actions
Maintain sound economic    ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
policy framework          - In the Letter of Sector Development Policy (LSDP), the Government
committed to maintain a sound macroeconomic framework consistent
with the policy objectives and programs described therein and in the
SMP effective June, 2000. The Government also committed to undertake
periodic, scheduled reviews of perfornance as agreed under the SMP
(para. 11).
- In September 2000, IMF staff undertook a review of the SMP
reporting that the Government program was "broadly on track".
PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
- Both the Bank and the IMF (the latter most recently in its periodic
review of September 2001) have judged the macroeconomic framework
to be sound. However, these assessments were done prior to the events of
September 11, 2001 in the US. These events have had a major negative
imnpact on the economy of Jamaica. The Bank and the IMF have been
working on re-assessing the macroeconomic framework, and the IIMF
has since prepared a revised SMP in which the Government comits to
tighter fiscal measures to keep the macro framework on track.
Reduction of public sector   ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
debt                      - In LSDP, para. 10, the Government committed to ensure reduction of
public sector debt in Jamaican dollar terms consistent with the base case
scenario of the SMP.
- In LSDP, para. 13 (vi), the Government committed to explicitly
assume all remaining FINSAC liabilities outstanding as of April 2001
as part of domestic public debt making full interest payments in cash.
PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
- Public debt has not been reduced in line with commnitments due to
reasons outlined in section 4.2 of this document.
- Government has assumed all FINSAC liabilities and is servicing
them in cash.
Reduce debt and pay interest ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
in cash on remaining stock   - In the LSDP, para. 13 (vi) Government confirmed its commitment to
ensure that FINSAC will not incur additional liabilities over and beyond
those identified in previous letter to the Bank dated August 31, 2000.
- In the LSDP, para. 13 (v), Government committed that Bank funds
will be used for a reduction in the stock of FINSAC debt.
- Cabinet Decision No. 25/00 dated July 24, 2000 approved the
write-off of FINSAC debt owed to the Ministry of Finance amounting to
J$19.4 billion.
- Cabinet Decision No. 37/00 approved the off-set of J$13 billion of
FINSAC debt held by the BOJ against the sterilized deposits of the
government at BOJ.
- Cabinet Decision No. 37/00 approved the restructuring of J$13.2
billion of FINSAC debt held by BOJ into cash interest paying
Government bonds.
- 30 -



- In the LSDP, para 13 (iv), Government committed FINSAC's use of
all proceeds from recoveries of NPLs and non-core assets, net of
operating expenses, to reduce its outstanding liabilities.
PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
- Government has used Bank funds for reduction in the stock of
FINSAC debt in Union Bank and NCB.
- FINSAC debt owed to the Ministry of Finance amounting to J$19.4
billion has been written off.
- FINSAC has been using all proceeds from recoveries of NPLs and
non-core assets, net of operating expenses, to reduce its outstanding
liabilities.
Restructure/sell intervened   ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
banks.                    - Government provided signed sale agreement of Union Bank between
FINSAC and RBTT dated November 1, 2000.
- The following steps in the process of FINSAC acquiring an equity
stake of more than 75% in NCB were completed: (i) The Minutes of
NCB's Board Meeting held on September 5, 2000, approved the Schemes
of Arrangements to restructure NCB's equity; (ii) The Minutes also report
that shareholders have been informed of the Schemes; (iii) On October 3,
2000, the Jamaican Supreme Court, Suit No. E413 of 2000, directed NCB
shareholders to meet on November 8, 2000 to consider, and vote on the
Schemes, which were subsequently approved.
- Government has committed to complete the additional legal and
corporate steps necessary to ensure that FINSAC has more than 75%
equity of NCB.
- In a letter dated October 10, 2000, NCB advised FINSAC of new
management appointments including (i) Managing Director (CEO), (ii)
General Manager, Infonnation Technology (CIO), and (iii) General
Manager, Finance, Planning and Risk Management (CFO).
- FINSAC provided a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to address NCB's
potential liquidity needs prior to conversion of FINSAC paper into
cash-yielding instruments and a strategy to manage liquidity subsequent
to the conversion.
- On October 20, 2000, FINSAC submitted a strategy, satisfactory to the
Bank, to manage NCB during the time in which NCB is under FINSAC's
or Govemment's control.
- In the LSDP, Govemment committed to present a plan, satisfactory to
the Bank, to restructure NCB by March 31, 2001.
PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
- RBTT took over day-to-day management of Union Bank in mid-March
2001. All of FINSAC shares in RBTT have sold to RBTT.
- FINSAC owns over 75 percent of the equity of NCB. The Government
has submitted to Cabinet a sale offer from an intemational investor to buy
the bank, which if approved, is expected to materialize by March 1, 2002.
Early disposition of maximum ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
amount feasible of non-core  - The FINSAC Board approved a plan acceptable to the Bank, for
assets held by FINSAC.    disposition/administration of FINSAC non-core assets as reflected in the
Minutes of the Board held on August 31, 2000.
- 31 -



PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
- FINSAC is making best efforts to sell the remaining non-core assets in
its possession. However, this process is proving difficult, especially after
the events of September 11, 2001 in the US. The events caused a decline
in investor interest.
Maximize expected recovery  ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
of NPLs                   - A copy of Ocwen's report on the diagnostic phase of NPL portfolio
analysis was provided to the Bank prior to Board presentation.
- On October 10, FINSAC provided the Bank with terms of reference
for Ocwen, the firm hired to value and develop a strategy for sale of the
NPL portfolio.
- The FINSAC Meeting held on August 31, 2000 approved the plan
acceptable to the Bank, for disposition/administration of NPLs.
PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
- NPLs have been packaged and readied for sale. However, the sale
process was delayed particularly after the events of September 11, 2001 in
the US that caused a decline in investor interest. By late December 2001,
the Government has submitted to Cabinet a sale offer from an
intemational investor to buy the entire portfolio under a share profits
arrangement through a period of 2-3 years.
Restructuring/re-capitalization ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
of LOJ                    - On September 15, 2000, the legal opinion of independent counsel was
obtained to the effect that FINSAC had more than 75 percent of the
voting rights of LOJ.
- On November 1, 2000 the LOJ Board gave notice that a shareholders'
meeting was to be convened on November 28, 2000 wherein authorization
would have been given for FINSAC to obtain more than 75 percent of the
equity of LOJ. FINSAC provided confirmation that said meeting was
held whereby FINSAC acquired more than 75 percent of the equity of
LOJ.
- The agreement signed on October 26, 2000 between FINSAC and LOJ
stipulated a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to address LOJ's potential
liquidity needs prior to conversion of FINSAC paper into cash-yielding
instruments and, included a strategy to manage liquidity subsequent to the
conversion has been submitted.
- On October 12, 2000 a Memo from FINSAC outlines the operating
strategy, satisfactory to the Bank to manage LOJ during the time in which
LOJ is under FINSAC's or Government's control.
- Government undertook all necessary legal and corporate steps that
enabled FINSAC to obtain over 75% of the shares of LOJ, as reflected in
the agreement between LOJ and FINSAC signed on October 26, 2000.
PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
- FINSAC has sold 76 percent of the equity of LOJ to Barbados Mutual
Life Insurance Company.
Continue strengthening BOJ's ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
supervisory and enforcement - Cabinet approval was obtained in Cabinet Decision No. 38/00 dated
capabilities to ensure safe and October 23, 2000: to enhance BOJ's intervention powers to deal early
- 32 -



sound banks in Jamaica.   with financially distressed institutions; to approve the BOJ's "Supervisory
Ensure coordination of BOJ's Ladder of Enforcement" taking into account 1997 amendments; and
supervisory activities with   create a Regulatory Policy Council, to coordinate activities of bank and
other supervisory agencies   non-bank supervisors; to develop and implement a crisis intervention
policy; and to pernit BOJ to share information on financial institutions
with other regulatory/supervisory agencies.
- On October 9, 2000 BOJ commnitted to undertake an independent
assessment of Basle Core principles no later than second quarter of 2001.
- In LSDP, para. 4, Government commnitted to make best efforts to
obtain Parliamentary approval of above measures.
PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
- All actions approved by Cabinet have since been approved into law by
Parliament and are being implemented.
- BOJ undertook an independent assessment of its compliance with the
Basle Core principles in the second quarter of 2001. The assessment
concluded that Jamaica was largely compliant with the BCPs. Areas of
weakness that were identified are being addressed.
Strengthen regulation and    ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
supervision of non-bank   - Cabinet Decision No. 12/00 dated April 3, 2000 approved the
financial institutions.   establishment of the Financial Services Commission.
- Cabinet Decision No. 24/00 dated July 17, 2000 approved the new
Insurance Act.
- In LSDP, para. 4, Government committed to make best efforts to
obtain legislative approval of above measures.
PROGRESS SINCE EFFECTIVENESS
- The Financial Services Cornmission has been established and is
operating. Most senior positions have been filled and capacity building
is ongoing.
- The new Insurance Act was approved by Parliament (November 27,
2001) and the Senate (December 7th). The regulations are expected to
be ready for tabling in Parliament in early January. This will not
require a debate and will therefore become effective as soon as they are
gazetted.
- 33 -



