Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7036-JM
Loan Agreement
(Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program Adjustment Loan)
between
JAMAICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 6, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7036-JM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 6, 2000, between JAMAICA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
October 19, 2000 (the Policy Letter), describing a program of actions and 
policies designed to achieve adjustment of the Borrower’s financial 
sector (hereinafter called the program), which program consists of 
actions and policies that have already been taken and adopted by the 
Borrower as described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the first phase of 
the program) and actions and policies that the Borrower intends to take 
and adopt in the near future as a second phase of the program; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has 
decided to provide assistance to the Borrower in support of the first 
phase of the program by making the loan provided for in Article II of 
this Agreement (the Loan) in a single tranche as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 
1, 1999, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:
“ ‘Project’ means the first phase of the program, referred 
to 
in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan 
is made”;
(b)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of 
the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of 
the Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions.”;
(c)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(d)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and 
the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably 
request, on the execution of the first phase of the program 
referred 
to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under 
the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan.”; and 
(e)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified 
above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Bank of Jamaica” means the Borrower’s central bank, as 
defined in the Borrower’s Bank of Jamaica Act;
(b)
“Basle Core Principles” means international standards for 
banking supervision and regulation as adopted by the Bank of 
International Settlements in Basle, Switzerland;
(c)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) 
“Financial Sector Crisis Intervention Policy Matrix” means 
guidelines to be followed by Jamaican financial regulators in financial 
crisis management;
(e)
“FINSAC” means Financial Sector Adjustment Company Limited;
(f)
“J$” means Jamaican Dollars, the lawful currency of the 
Borrower;
(g)
“NCB” means National Commercial Bank Limited;
(h)
“NPL” means defaulted loans from Jamaican financial 
institutions acquired by FINSAC;
(i)
“Regulatory Policy Council” means the Borrower’s Committee 
Page  3
to be created for purposes of improving the coordination among 
supervisors of different financial institutions;
(j)
“Schemes of Arrangements” is a statutory process, requiring 
NCB’s and the Jamaican Supreme Court’s approval, pursuant to which FINSAC 
has undertaken to acquire more than 75% of NCB’s equity;
(k)
“SMP” means the Staff Monitored Program agreed between the 
Borrower and the International Monetary Fund in July 2000; and
(l)
“Supervisory Ladder of Enforcement” means the set of 
guidelines that the Bank of Jamaica follows in its banking intervention 
activities, as set forth in the “Guide to Intervention by Bank of Jamaica 
in Conduct of Supervised Financial Institutions”, issued by Bank of 
Jamaica in October 2000.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount 
equal to seventy five
million Dollars ($75,000,000), as such amount may 
be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and 
(c) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
amount of seventy-four million two hundred fifty thousand Dollars 
($74,250,000) from the Loan Account in support of the First Phase 
Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank a 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in 
the Bank of Jamaica, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from the Loan Account (except 
that set forth in Section 2.04 of this Agreement) shall be deposited by 
the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at 
any time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to make a 
payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount 
equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank 
upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in 
an amount equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. The 
Borrower agrees that, on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay 
to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent 
(0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to, but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter.
Page  4
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of 
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; 
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
from 
a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable 
to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment 
of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, 
as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that, unless 
otherwise notified by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions 
and of the Conversion Guidelines.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on 
any proposed action to be taken which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the first phase of the Program, or any action 
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than three (3) months from the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
Page  5
requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the 
macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the 
objectives of the program.
Section 4.02. The date March 6, 2001 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the Borrower 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Attention: Financial Secretary
30 National Heroes Circle
P.O. Box 512 
Kingston 4, Jamaica
Facsimile:
876-924-9291
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
JAMAICA
Page  6
By /s/ Omar Davies
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which 
any national or international financing institution or agency other than 
the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or 
which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank 
by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112             -
Alcoholic beverages
121             -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, 
tobacco refuse
122             -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes)
525             -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked
or worked
718          718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897          897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
Page  7
wares (including set gems)
971             -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of 
this paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, 
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of 
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; or (b) on account of any payment to persons or 
entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower, or a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower  having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the 
Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable 
on each Principal Payment Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of 
the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower 
on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; and (b) by the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 1 and September 1
4.17%
Beginning on March 1, 2006 through 
March 1, 2017
4.17%
On September 1, 2017
4.09%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall 
repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance 
with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date 
shall be repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of 
Page  8
such withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which 
shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum 
of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates 
falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn 
and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date 
of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal
Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph 3, if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing 
system under which invoices are issued on or after the respective 
Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such subparagraph shall no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing 
system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Schedule, upon a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the 
withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on 
any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall 
be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 3
First Phase of the Program
1.
Borrower’s commitment to utilize an amount in Jamaican Dollars 
equivalent to $75,000,000 for FINSAC’s debt reduction. 
2.
Borrower’s commitment to undertake periodic, scheduled reviews of 
performance as agreed under the SMP.
3.
Satisfactory implementation of the Borrower’s macroeconomic 
adjustment program as outlined in the SMP.  
4.
Borrower’s commitment to ensure reduction of public sector debt in 
Jamaican Dollars under terms consistent with the base case scenario of 
the SMP.
5.
Borrower’s commitment to explicitly assume all remaining FINSAC 
liabilities outstanding as of April 2001 as part of domestic public debt 
and to make full interest payments in cash.
6.
Borrower’s commitment to ensure that FINSAC will not incur 
additional liabilities over and beyond those identified in the Borrower’s 
Page  9
letter to the Bank dated August 31, 2000.
7.
FINSAC’s debt owed to the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and 
Planning amounting to J$19.4 billion written off.
8.
FINSAC’s debt owed to the Bank of Jamaica amounting to J$13 billion 
off-set against sterilized deposits of the Borrower at the Bank of 
Jamaica.
9.
Restructuring, satisfactory to the Bank, of the remaining J$13.2 
billion of FINSAC’S debt held by Bank of Jamaica.
10.
Commitment of  FINSAC to use all proceeds from recoveries of NPLs 
and non-core assets, net of operating expenses, to reduce its outstanding 
liabilities.
11.
Sale of Union Bank’s shares held by  FINSAC.
12.
Completion of the following steps in the process of FINSAC 
acquiring more than 75% of NCB equity:
(i)
Approval by NCB’s Board of the Schemes of 
Arrangements;
(ii)
NCB shareholders’ meeting held to inform the 
shareholders of the Schemes of Arrangements; and
(iii)
An order from the Jamaican Supreme Court directing 
NCB 
shareholders to meet, consider and vote on the 
Schemes of 
Arrangements.
13.
Borrower’s commitment to complete additional legal and corporate 
steps necessary to ensure that FINSAC has over 75% equity of NCB.
14.
Appointment  of new and effective management in NCB, including a 
General Manager for Finance, Planning and Risk Management; a Managing 
Director; and a General Manager for Information Technology.
15.
Completion of a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to address NCB’s 
potential liquidity needs prior to conversion of FINSAC paper into cash 
yielding instruments and a strategy to manage liquidity subsequent to the 
conversion.
16.
Completion of a strategy from FINSAC, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
manage NCB during the time in which NCB is under FINSAC’s or the 
Borrowers’s control.
17.
FINSAC’s commitment to present a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
restructure NCB by March 31, 2001.
18.
Approval by FINSAC’s board of a plan, acceptable to the Bank, for 
disposition and administration of FINSAC’s non core assets.
19.
Completion by FINSAC of the diagnostic phase of NPL portfolio 
analysis.
20.
Hiring by FINSAC of advisors to value and develop a strategy for 
sale of the NPL portfolio.
21.
Approval by FINSAC’s board of a plan, acceptable to the Bank, for 
disposition and administration of NPLs.
22.
Completion of the following steps in the process of FINSAC 
acquiring more than 75% of Life of Jamaica’s equity:
(i)
issuance of legal opinion, by no later than September 
15, 2000, from independent counsel stating that 
Page  10
FINSAC 
has more than 75% of Life of Jamaica’s voting 
rights;
(ii)
Agreement, by no later than November 8,  2000, 
between 
FINSAC and Life of Jamaica’s board of directors 
for the 
purposes of convening a meeting of Life of 
Jamaica’s 
shareholders to authorize the 
acquisition by FINSAC of 
more than 75% of the shares of 
Life of Jamaica; and
(iii)
Borrower’s commitment to ensure that FINSAC will 
obtain, more than 75% of Life of Jamaica’s shares.
23.
Completion of a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to address Life of 
Jamaica’s potential liquidity needs prior to conversion of FINSAC paper 
into cash-yielding instruments and strategy to manage liquidity 
subsequent to the conversion.
24.
Completion of a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, with a strategy to 
manage Life of Jamaica during the time in which Life of Jamaica is under 
FINSAC’s or the Borrower’s control.
25.
Borrower’s Cabinet approval to enhance the Bank of Jamaica’s 
intervention powers to deal early with financially distressed 
institutions.
26.
Updating by Bank of Jamaica of the Supervisory Ladder of 
Enforcement.
27.
Commitment by Bank of Jamaica to undertake an independent 
assessment of Basle Core Principles, by an institution acceptable to the 
Bank, no later than second quarter of 2001.
28.
Borrower’s Cabinet approval to permit Bank of Jamaica to share 
information on financial institutions with other regulatory and 
supervisory agencies.
29.
Borrower’s Cabinet approval to establish the Regulatory Policy 
Council.
30.
Borrower’s Cabinet approval of the Financial Sector Crisis 
Intervention Policy Matrix.
31.
Borrower’s Cabinet approval of the Bill to be submitted to the 
Borrower’s Parliament for the establishment of the Financial Services 
Commission, which will have, inter alia, regulatory and supervisory 
powers in matters related to securities, insurance and pensions in 
Jamaica.
32.
Borrower’s Cabinet approval of the Bill to be submitted to the 
Borrower’s Parliament for a new insurance act which will regulate, inter 
alia, activities of insurance companies operating in Jamaica. 
