Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2482-PA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR A
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 7, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                   ¢ 126
0 1.00                    US$0.008
0 1,000                   US$7.94
0 1,000,000               US$7,937
GLOSSARY OF PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
BNF    - National Development Bank
CB     -  Central Bank
FAO    - United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
FG     - Livestock Fund
IDB    -  Inter-American Development Bank
UNDP   - United Nations Development Programme
USAID  - United States Agency for International Development
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare (ha)                         10,000 m   =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      2         =      0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )        =      0.39 square miles  =  100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                 =      2.20 pounds
I liter (1)                     '      0.26 gallons
1,000 kg  =  1 metric ton       =     0.98 long ton
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
BORROWER:             Republic of Paraguay
BENEFICIARIES:        Government would on-lend the Bank loan proceeds to:
(a) Livestock Fund (FG) (livestock credit); (b) National
Development Bank (BNF) (agricultural credit); and
(c) Municipality of Asuncion (wholesale market).
Other project implementing agencies would be:
Ministry of Agriculture (extension and agricultural
census); Institute for Rural Welfare (land titling);
and Ministry of Public Works and Communications (rural
roads).
LOAN AMOUNT:          US$25.0 million equivalent
LOAN TERMS:           Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of graLce, at
7% per annum.
RELENDING TERMS:    Government would relend at 0.5% above the Bank's interest
rate for 17 years, including four years grace. The BNF
subloans would bear a rate of interest of 13% per annum
with an amortization period of up to 10 years i ncluding
three years grace; the FG subloans would be inclexed and
bear an interest rate of 6%, and have an amortiLzation
period of up to 12 years, with four years grace. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION;       The project seeks to:  (i) support on-farm development
on 940 ranches and small livestock farms through the
provision of credit (through FG); (ii) consolidate
development of 16 land settlement schemes in Eastern
Paraguay (in the regions of Caaguazu and Mallorquin) by
providing credit (through BNF) to 3,000 small imixed-farm,
and constructing rural roads; and (iii) improvie the food
crop marketing system by completing the wholesale market
in Asuncion. The project also includes technical
assistance for the above components and for undertaking
an agricultural census, including the establishment of
a permanent system for gathering agricultural statistics.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank acuthorization.



- ii -
PROJECT RISKS:       The realization of the project's expected benefits
will depend on the successful implementation of tech-
nical assistance at all levels. For the livestock
component, there is the risk that unusually drastic
deterioration of beef prices may deter ranchers from
seeking investment credit at the levels assumed under
the project. The settlement development component also
depends on the timely provision of rural roads.
ESTIMATED COSTS:    Investment Category                 Local  Foreign   Total
----(US$ Million)-----
Livestock Credit                    10.5    10.6      21.1
Small Mixed-Farm
(Land Settlement) Development    7.0       8.5     15.5
Wholesale Market                     0.4     0.5       0.9
Administrative Support               0.2     0.3       0.5
Technical Assistance                 0.1     1.3       1.4
Agricultural Census                  1.8      1.0      2.8
Contingencies                        5.6     4.0       9.6
TOTAL                             25.6    26.2      51.8
FINANCING PLAN:                                         Amount       % of Total
(US$ Million)
Bank                                25.0            48
Sub-borrowers                        7.6            15
Government and Institutions         18.0            35
UNDP                                 1.2             2
TOTAL                            51.8           100
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:                        1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
------------(US$ Million)-----------
Annual              5.3     8.7      7.8     2.9      0.3
Cumulative          5.3    14.0    21.8    24.7    25.0
ECONOMIC RATE
OF RETURN:         Weighted average of all components is 19%.
APPRAISAL REPORT:   Report No. 2272-PA, dated March 6,1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR A
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on the proposed
loan to lthe Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$25.0 million to
assist in financing the Livestock and Agricultural Development Project. The
loan wouLd have a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace, with interest
at 7% per annum. Parts of the proceeds of the loan would be relent to the
Livestoclk Fund (FG), the National Development Bank (BNF) and the Municipality
of Asuncion, on the same terms as the Bank loan to the Government, except
that the interest rate would be 0.5% above the Bank's interest rate and the
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Paraguay in October 1978 and the up-
dating economic report, covering short- and medium-term developments, will
be distributed to the Executive Directors shortly. The following discussion
is based on the findings of this mission.  An economic report recording in
more detail the mission's findings will be issued by the end of the fiscal
year. The last economic report, "Economic Memorandum on Paraguay" (1582-PA),
was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1977.
Economic Performance
3.         Paraguay is endowed with vast areas of unutilized lands well-suited
for agriculture or livestock, and has substantial hydroelectric potential.
Despite these natural resources, progress has been held back by weak public
institutions in the development area, remoteness from foreign markets,
scattered population, and a weak transport network. The private sector still
consists; mainly of small traditional firms, and the role of the public sector
in the economy is limited. For many decades, per capita income and employment
grew slowly and emigration served as an outlet for unemployed ancd under-
employed manpower. More recently, however, the economy has been growing
rapidly and many Paraguayans who had emigrated to neighboring cotntries have
returned, responding to the expanded employment opportunities associated with
the construction of the Itaipu dam. Furthermore, the expansion of the agri-
cultural frontier has encouraged the immigration of farmers from abroad.
Nevertheless, the country's population density remains very low in relation
to agricultural land.
4.        The economic potential of the country began to be more fully
realized during the 1970's with the rapid expansion of land under cultivation
and the beginning of the exploitation of the enormous hydroelectric potential



- 2 -
of the stretch of the Parana River along the country's border with Brazil
and Argentina. A rise in external demand and favorable prices were instru-
mental in accelerating agricultural growth. The effective supply response
of Paraguayan agriculture has been assisted by improvements in transport and
implementation of a comprehensive set of programs designed to increase and
diversify agricultural exports. The agricultural growth of recent years has
brought about an improvement in the real incomes of the rural population,
which comprises about three-fifths of the total. A significant share of
production of tobacco, cotton, and soybeans, which account for most of the
recent expansion, is grown by small farmers who have received land under the
Government and privately sponsored colonization programs. Roughly 25% of
agricultural workers have benefitted from these land settlement efforts.
Moreover, recently, rural wages have increased sharply in some areas where
demand for agricultural labor has exceeded supply. Thus, the benefits of
agricultural progress have been fairly widely shared. This has reduced
rural-urban migration. Per capita income grew at 5.2% per annum during
1972-78 compared to the 1.2% averaged during the previous 30 years. Growth
in per capita incomes has been accompanied by other improvements in the
standard of living as life expectancy and literacy have increased, and infant
mortality has declined. Nutritional levels are comparable to those found in
countries with higher per capita incomes. Furthermore, in recent years, the
Government has started to carry out a series of programs aimed at extending
social and other back-up services, financial support, and technical assistance
to existing and new land settlements. These programs should help in spreading
the benefits of growth even more effectively among the poorer segments of the
population.
5.        Exploitation of the country's hydropower potential has been facil-
itated by treaties signed with Brazil and Argentina to form two binational
authorities for the construction and operation of two or more hydroelectric
plants aggregating at least 17,000 MW. Construction of the Itaipu dam with
Brazil, the largest ever built, has begun and is on schedule. Paraguay's
economy is now in the midst of a rapid transformation spurred mainly by
agricultural expansion and construction activity on the Itaipu dam. The
rapid growth of agriculture has continued unabated in 1977-78, and, together
with the reactivation of agroindustrial activity in the wood and beef sectors,
has resulted in acceleration of the GDP growth rate to over 9% in 1977-78
(as compared to 6% in 1975-76). These developments have been accompanied by
increased foreign capital inflows, a notable expansion of investment levels,
and an acceleration of economic growth.
6.        Growth has been accompanied by relative price stability.  The rate
of inflation which reached 22% in 1974 decelerated to 8% in 1975 and 6% in
1976 because of austere monetary and fiscal policies as well as the tapering
off of price increases for imports and exports. The rapid increase in the
money supply generated by large capital inflows associated with the con-
struction of Itaipu dam and buoyant domestic demand resulted in a moderately
higher inflation rate of 7.9% in 1977 and about 12% in 1978. While con-
tractionary fiscal policies have helped in easing inflationary pressures,
these policies alone can be an effective instrument for this purpose given



- 3 -
the relat:ively small role of the Central Government in the economy and the
effects of the expansive forces, including the effects of foreign inflation.
Moreover, undue reliance on such a policy could jeopardize the implementation
of important development projects and social services. In the circumstances,
the authorities are relying on the openness of the Paraguayan economy, which
enables imnports to act as an effective regulating mechanism to domestic demand
pressures. However, there is little that a small, price taking country like
Paraguay can do to insulate itself from the effects of foreign inflation.
7.        The buoyant economy and measures introduced to improve the effi-
ciency of tax administration have reversed the declining trend in the ratio
of Central Government revenues to GDP during 1974-76, raising the ratio from
9.0% in 1976 to over 10% in 1978. The Government continued to maintain a
tight rein on expenditures, which have remained at about the same proportion
of GDP during the last five years. Thus, Central Government savings increased
during 1977/78. Several large projects initiated during 1974-76 were com-
pleted so that public sector investment declined from its peak of 6.4% of GDP
in 1976 to about 4.5% in 1978. Net external financing exceeded the reduced
financing requirements allowing the Government to reduce its debt outstanding
to the monetary authorities.
8.        Despite substantially higher imports in 1977 (US$360 miLlion, up
from US$236 million in 1976 mainly as a result of capital goods), Paraguay's
registered trade deficit increased from US$56 million in 1976 to only US$81
million in 1977, owing entirely to rapid expansion of agriculturaL exports.
The trade deficit is estimated to have widened further in 1978, as imports
continued to grow at a rapid pace and the country suffered a 40% loss of the
soybean crop due to bad weather. Although trading partner data suggest that
these registered figures may be underestimated by as much as 50%, there is no
question that increased public and private capital inflows, mainly associated
with the construction of the hydroelectric project, have more than offset the
current account deficit and added to the level of reserves. Foreign exchange
reserves have thus increased from US$150 million at the end of 1976 to about
US$440 mLllion by December 1978.
Economic Prospects
9.        Given the availability of still abundant land resources, a favor-
able investment climate, a relatively favorable price outlook for major
agricultural exports and the construction of the hydroelectric projects,
Paraguay's prospects as regards the balance of payments and growth over the
foreseeable future are good.
10.       The country's development strategy aims at sustaining the growth
momentum of agriculture and agroindustry, giving high priority to land settle-
ment and to the provision of transport infrastructure to facilitate the flow
of goods to domestic and foreign markets. The Government is carrying out a
program to assist farm settlers in increasing their productivity, and is
expanding credit for agriculture and agroindustries. In the case of small
farmers, the emphasis is on the consolidation of existing colonization



- 4 -
schemes and the establishment of some additional ones. Through foreign
private investment and credit programs, the Government hopes to encourage
the concurrent development of industries, particularly those with high
value-added and dependent on domestic primary production.
11.       The authorities are aware that the on-going boom in private invest-
ment and the prospect of continued high rates of GDP growth will call for
greater public investment in supporting infrastructure as well as increased
expenditure for education, health, rural development and other development-
related services. The needed acceleration of public capital formation will
require new tax measures, pending substantial transfers from power export
earnings to the Central Government, to ensure the generation of the necessary
additional internal resources. At the same time, higher current expenditures
in the public sector will be required to improve effectiveness and broaden
the scope of public action in the social sectors.
12.       The level and pattern of public investment that could be achieved
during the next five years will also depend on the technical and administra-
tive capacity of the public sector to prepare and implement projects.
Although improvements have been made in the planning mechanism in recent
years, a bigger public sector investment program would require a large number
of well-prepared projects. There is a need, therefore, for upgrading the
technical aspects of project identification and preparation, and for devoting
increased attention to enhancing the administrative capacity of public sector
institutions. A broader investment effort will require streamlining and
decentralizing the decision-making process. Moreover, salaries of scarce
professional staff need to be adjusted upwards to compete effectively with
the increased demands of the private sector and the binational power companies
for their services. Given the institutional difficulties and the urgent need
for greater public investment to support higher levels of private economic
activity, substantial external technical assistance will be needed to bolster
the institution-building process.
13.       With the expected acreage expansion and continued construction of
the hydroelectric projects, the economy could grow at an average annual rate
of about 10% during 1979-83. Because of agricultural growth and favorable
international prospects for cotton and soybeans, real exports are projected
to grow at 13% a year during this period. Imports, mainly of intermediate
and capital goods, are projected to grow at 12% per year. The above trade
projections combined with steadily increasing net factor payments on public
and private account would result in a widening of the current account deficit
from an average of US$270 million during 1977-78 to an annual average of
US$400 million in 1979-83. Private sector borrowing and capital inflow
related to construction of the hydroelectric projects, are expected to provide
a substantial part of the gross capital requirements and the rest would be
borrowed on the public account. Public sector borrowing is projected to rise
from an average of US$150 million during 1979-81 to US$280 million in 1982-83
because of the declining Itaipu related capital flows. Bilateral and
multilateral agencies are projected to supply a smaller share of external



- 5 -
capital requirements than they had historically. Private financial insti-
tutions and supplier's credits can be expected to provide the rest. Given
the projected export performance, Paraguay is expected to maintain its
current low debt service ratio.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
14.       Paraguay has received US$179.1 million (net of cancellations) of
Bank loans and IDA credits. Of this amount, US$129.3 million has been in
the form of 14 Bank loans, and US$49.8 million for eight IDA credits. As of
December :31, 1978, the Bank and IDA held US$169.1 million, including US$96.0
million undisbursed. The amount held by the Bank and IDA as of December 31,
1978, was equivalent to about 20% of Paraguay's external debt, with a blend of
about 29% IDA and 71% IBRD. The service on this debt amounted to 7% of total
debt service in 1977 representing about 1% of exports of goods and nonfactor
services. On a sectoral basis, Bank and IDA assistance to Paraguay has been
40% for agriculture, 37% for transportation, 11% for education, 6% for industry,
4% for water supply, and 2% for preinvestment studies in various sectors.
Execution of these projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory.
15.       IFC has had one operation in Paraguay.  In 1974, it financed a
wood processing project. Its participation, a US$5.4 million operation with
FINAP, S.A., consisted of a US$4.0 million loan, an equity participation
of US$1.0 million, and a contingent loan for the financing of cost: overruns
of US$0.4 million. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits
and the IFC investment as of December 31, 1978, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
16.       Bank Group lending to Paraguay in FY78 consisted of a US$6.0 mil-
lion loan for a rural water supply project and a US$33.0 million loan for
a fifth highway project. The proposed livestock and agricultural development
project is the only operation envisioned for this fiscal year. A sixth high-
way project is currently being appraised. In addition, work is urnderway on
projects in: ports and inland waterways, rural development, area develop-
ment (involving watershed protection and agricultural development), pre-
investments and industrial and regional development.
17.       In lending to Paraguay, the Bank Group tries to assist the Govern-
ment in achieving four major objectives, which are interdependent and com-
plementary. One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely
than before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty.  A second goal is to help Paraguay expand output, includi.ng exports,
by supporting projects that directly or indirectly make large contributions
to production and employment. A third objective is to support programs that
will bring about improvements in the management of the economy and, parti-
cularly, that will help to strengthen public institutions and financial
intermediaries. A fourth goal is to transfer sufficient external resources
to complement Paraguay's domestic savings and provide the necessary funds



- 6 -
for maintaining an adequate level of economic and social investments in a
framework of sound domestic finances.
18.       While the last objective primarily influences the magnitude of
the Bank Group's program in Paraguay, the other three jointly determine its
composition. Naturally, many operations serve more than one of the ends
listed and may, moreover, support more specific Government objectives. Thus,
Bank Group assistance for education, rural development and rural water supply
is designed to help ease the rural poverty problem and to improve the living
standards of the lowest 40% of the income distribution scale. Similarly, Bank
Group lending for industry, agricultural development and livestock is aimed at
increasing the value added of agricultural products destined for export and at
expanding marketing outlets, particularly for small farmers. Lastly, loans in
the transport sector are designed to help improve institutional structures and
policies of the sector, which play a vital role in supporting the production
activities of the agricultural and industrial sectors. As agriculture consti-
tutes the backbone of the Paraguayan economy, these operations are designed
to support either directly or indirectly the development of that sector,
by underpinning in particular the Government's efforts aimed at extending
social and other backup services, financial support and technical assistance
to existing and new agricultural settlements. Furthermore, in view of the
increasing development potential of the southeastern region, as a result of
the expanding agricultural frontier and the impact of the construction of the
large hydroelectric projects, and the need to assure maximum possible results,
the Bank strategy for Paraguay is to place increased emphasis on projects in
that region.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Output and Potential
19.       Agriculture is the most important activity in the Paraguayan economy,
contributing about 33% of GDP, and some 95% of the country's total exports,
and over half of total employment. Its growth performance (close to 7% per
annum since 1973) has been the result of effective response of producers to
favorable external demand and prices, the country's favorable investment
climate, and the increasing--though still limited--availability of infrastruc-
ture. However, the country has barely tapped its agricultural potential. Out
of a total land area of 40 million ha, only 4% is estimated to be utilized for
crop production and 38% for ranching, while some 22% of the area is considered
to be suitable for crop production and 73% for ranching. Substantial increases
in production, exports, employment and incomes can be achieved through acreage
expansion and intensification of the current extensive farming system.
20.       Beef production, based on a cattle population of about 2.2 million
heads in the Chaco area and about 3.3 million heads in Eastern Paraguay,
accounts for about half of the livestock subsector's output and is followed
in importance by pork, milk, eggs, and poultry. Although most of the beef



-7-
production is carried out in a low cost/low productivity system mainly on
large specialized ranches, a small part, probably less than 25% of the beef
output, originates from mixed livestock-crop operations located almost
entirely in Eastern Paraguay. In the Chaco and Eastern Paraguay, extensive
livestock operations are likely to prevail for the foreseeable future, since
a large portion of the land is either unsuited for cultivation, or if suited,
yields aLt present a higher rate of return in livestock and forestry production.
21.       Production of crops, with cassava, soybeans, corn, cotton, tobacco
and sugarcane, fruits and vegetables being the most important, is essentially
limited to Eastern Paraguay, concentrated in the central Departments east of
the capital. The recent increase in production has come about mainly from an
expansion of cropped areas, largely in new public and private settlements
north, east and south of the central region. Further development: of the
subsector is expected to follow along the same general line, but accelerated
by the demand and income generation arising from the hydroelectric power
projects along the Parana and the construction of the road connecting Ciudad
Presidente Stroessner with Encarnacion and associated feeder roads (the
completion of this link would be undertaken under the sixth highiway project
currently under consideration). The extent and speed of such further expan-
sion would depend largely upon the availability of investment capital and
the public sector's ability to provide adequate infrastructure and technical
services that are necessary to ensure the permanent transition from sub-
sistence to commercial agriculture. The latter would be of particular
importance for the colonization process to benefit small farmers.
Institutional Framework
22.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is responsible for policy
formulation and supervision and review of supporting services for the sector.
The Ministry's most important areas of concern are agricultural extension
(through the Agricultural Extension Service), marketing, agricultural sta-
tistics and land reform. Various autonomous entities are responsible for
carryin,g out specific agricultural programs and activities. The! National
University of Asuncion provides most of the agricultural education and re-
search, while the Institute for Rural Welfare is responsible for carrying out
land tenure, land reform and colonization programs. The Livestock Fund (FG),
the National Development Bank (BNF), and the Small Farmer Credit: Agency are
responsible for providing agricultural credit. The efforts of FG (an entity
with full legal personality under the jurisdiction of the Central Bank) to
reach the smaller livestock farmers are constrained by its inability to
provide them with suitable technical assistance services. Regarding BNF
(a Government-owned autonomous entity under the authority of the Ministry of
Finance), Paraguay's main source of institutional agricultural credit, its
ability to plan and execute development programs has been constrained by
institutional weaknesses, which are being addressed to through two recent
Bank operations (including an overall financial and institutional rehabili-
tation plan). The Small Farmer Credit Agency, a Department of the Ministry
of Agriculture, is providing credit to members of farmers' association who
are not eligible for institutional credit; these operations are supported



- 8 -
by USAID. Supplementary technical services to the livestock subsector are
provided by the National Service for the Control of Foot and Mouth Disease,
and the National Program for Livestock Research. Lastly, the National Council
for Social Progress is responsible for the overall coordination of the policies
of the agencies participating in the execution of rural development projects.
Overall, the capacity of the agricultural services is limited in comparison
to the requirements for the full realization of the country's agricultural
potential. While considerable progress has been made in strengthening the
agricultural credit institutions in the framework of previous and on-going
Bank/IDA projects, efforts to upgrade the effectiveness of technical services
are being made with the support of IDB and USAID. The Bank is currently
undertaking a review of the agricultural services at the field level, as well
as of the mechanisms for planning agricultural investments. In addition, the
rapid development that the sector has experienced over the last two decades
is not being adequately captured by the existing agricultural statistics,
as they are based on the census of 1956. An updated agricultural census,
followed by the establishment of a permanent system for gathering annual
agricultural statistics, to be supported by the proposed project, would
provide the Government and the external agencies concerned with more accurate
information, which would help define policy options, programs and investment
priorities.
Land Tenure
23.       There are about 165,000 farms, of which 55% are operated by their
owners, 10% are operated under some form of tenancy arrangement and 35% are
occupied by squatters. The Government's land settlement program has reduced
significantly the portion of squatters and increased correspondingly the
share of owners. Land distribution is uneven reflecting, on one hand, the
pronounced differences between natural endowment in Eastern Paraguay and the
Chaco and, on the other, the differences between infrastructural development
in the central region and in the peripherical Departments. Some 4% of all
farms are larger than 100 ha and 61% are smaller than 10 ha. About 60% of
the farms under 10 ha are located in the "minifundia" zone south of Asuncion,
covering less than 4% of the country, and two-thirds of the units over 100 ha
are located in the Chaco. These larger farms are devoted mainly to extensive
livestock ranching or forestry because of poor natural resources and/or lack
of market accessibility resulting from poor infrastructure. On the other
hand, the bulk of the Government's land settlement program is being carried
out in the best agriculturally endowed areas of the country.
24.       In 1962, the Government established the Institute for Rural Welfare
to deal with all aspects of the land tenure, reform and settlement. The
Institute has organized public colonies and sponsored private ones, settling
about 3,000 people per year, mostly out of the "minifundia" areas south of
Asuncion. The land settlement program has concentrated on settling the
largest number of families at the lowest possible cost, basing development
largely on the self-reliance of the settlers. As a result of scarce agricul-
tural services, financial support, and infrastructure, farm development in
these settlements has been slow and the standard of living of many settlers



is barely above that of the "minifundia" dwellers. Since the early seventies,
the Government has devoted increased attention to the consolidation of exist-
ing settlements and rural development-type projects in new settlement areas,
through the provision of agricultural credit, extension and settleiment infra-
structure. As a result, much of the recent increase in agricultural produc-
tion has come fi)m farmers who have benefitted from the Government's land
settlement program.
Agricultural Marketing and Prices
25.       In general, the market for agricultural products in Paraguay is free
of restrictive Government regulations, and prices are largely established in
the market. In the absence of any significant concentration among market
agents, competition is strong except for isolated areas with poor infrastruc-
ture. Wheat is the sole product for which the Government guarantees a price.
Given the open economy, the market is influenced by market conditions abroad,
particularly in Argentina and Brazil, and domestic prices generally follow
the movement of world prices.
26.       Following the closure of the EEC market to meat imports in 1974,
and the subsequent decline in international prices in 1974/75, on the one
hand, and the strong domestic demand for beef resulting from the increased
level of economic activity in the country, on the other, livestock marketing
in Paragucy has been undergoing some noticeable shifts. The proportion of
beef production being exported declined to about 20% in 1976, compared to
about 35% in the early seventies. There have been, however, further changes
recently, pointing to a recovery in the proportion of beef production exported.
While the increase in international beef prices pushed up the volume of beef
exports by about 38% in 1977, despite strong internal demand, there was a drop
in the dormestic slaughtering levels, induced partly by the retention of cattle
by producers in anticipation of further increases in the already high domestic
prices, and partly by increased exports of a large number of high quality live
cattle to Brazil. It is, in these circumstances, difficult to forecast the
likely future distribution of the beef production of Paraguay between the
domestic and export markets. However, the expansion of the domestic market,
the good emerging prospects for exports, especially to Brazil, and the present
and expected price increases in the domestic and export markets are providing
a strong incentive to Paraguayan producers to invest on livestock, as reflected
in the impressive pipeline of loan applications pending with FG.
27.       Corresponding to the shifts in the market orientation of the live-
stock production, there has been a decline in the number of operating meat
packing plants (from 10 to two) and their importance in setting beef prices
for the domestic market, which is relatively free. On the other hand, small
municipal slaughterhouses (70) play an increasingly significant role in
the industry, assisted by their low processing costs and a USAID-supported
improvement program, in meeting the domestic demand.  The prospects for the
meat packing plants are expected to improve in step with efforts to penetrate
new export markets and to increase exports generally.



- 10 -
28.       Regarding agricultural production, there is a strong export demand
for soybeans, cotton, tobacco, and maize. Production of vegetables and crops
for domestic consumption has also increased slightly in recent years and meets
the growing demand of the d6omestic mar,et. Since 1968, agricultural commodity
prices have increased steadily in nominal terms. During the 1971-74 period,
The input/output price relationship turned against agriculture, but a subse-
quent price increase has helped stimulate output, particularly that of export
products.
29.       Farmers sell their products mainly to intermediaries and, to a lesser
extent, through cooperatives to wholesalers. Intermediaries, usually merchants
or truckers, purchase the farm products within their localities and frequently
use secondary agents to help them contact farmers in their area. They are
mostly small-scale operators with limited operating capital and handling and
processing know-how, and generally rudimentary storage facilities. A few
cooperatives and groups of farmers, organized relatively recently to obtain
agricultural services and to improve marketing, have succeeded in selling their
produce directly to wholesalers, exporters or even retailers. Improvements
are required in agricultural marketing to ensure better access of farmers'
products to local and foreign markets. Ongoing (for grains) and planned
(for fruits and vegetables) operations supported by IDB are designed to help
improve the marketing operations in the countryside (through the provision of
silos, marketing infrastructure and information, etc.). The planned establish-
ment of wholesale markets in the country's major consumption centers should
facilitate the access mainly of producers of fruits and vegetables in areas
surrounding these centers. These programs should help improve the producers'
awareness of market conditions, their access to markets, and avoid distress
sales (i.e., sales made when prices are at their lowest level in order to
cope with urgent cash payments) through better storage and marketing arrange-
ments.
Bank Strategy
30.       The proposed project would be the eighth Bank/IDA-.supported project
in Paraguay. These operations comprise a general-purpose agricultural project
in 1951, followed by four livestock projects and finally by two rural develop-
ment projects. The Fourth Livestock Project and the first rural development
project (Small Farmer Credit and Rural Deveopment Project) both of 1974, are
almost fully implemented. Bank/IDA assistance initially concentrated on sup-
porting livestock development with the primary objective of increasing beef
production and exports, and building up FG as a viable livestock credit
institution. Beginning in 1973, the Bank/IDA widened the scope of its live-
stock projects by including smaller livestock operations and supported the
Government's settlement consolidation program (one ongoing livestock project
and two rural development projects) to assist in tapping the unused land
resources in Eastern Paraguay, meeting the fast growing internal demand for
agricultural products, strengthening financial and technical services in
agriculture, and incorporating the lower income strata of the rural popula-
tion into the production process. The lending program is in line with
Government's policy and is focussed on some of the sector's principal needs.



- 11 -
It constitutes a suitably balanced effort to meet the economic and social
objectives and needs of the sector and is complemented by Government actions
supported by other lending institutions, mainly the IDB and USAID, and the
Governments of Japan anid the Federal Republic of Germany, in the fields of
agricultural marketing, research, extension, agricultural statistics, and
specific commodity programs. Experience in implementing livestock and rural
development projects in Paraguay underlines the importance of improving:
(i) herd management for raising productivity in the livestock subsector
(as indicated in the Project Performance Audit Report for the Thirdl Livestock
Credit Project - Secretary's Report No. M78-248 of March 28, 1978)j, and
(ii) the capacity of the technical and financial services for agriculture,
including transport infrastructure, for successfully tapping the agricultural
development potential in Eastern Paraguay and meeting the social needs of the
lower income groups in the rural population.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The Government of Paraguay has requested a Bank loan to help finance
credit for on-farm development to livestock and crop producers, construction
of feeder roads and completion of the municipal wholesale market in Asuncion.
The project was identified by a FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program mission,
which visited Paraguay in October 1977, and project preparation was carried
out by two subsequent Cooperative Program missions which visited Paraguay in
February/March 1978. The project was appraised by a Bank mission, which was
in the field in June/July 1978. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report -
Paraguay Livestock and Agricultural Development Project," (Report No. 2272-PA,
dated March 6, 1979) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
A Loan and Project Summary is placed at the front of this report. Attached as
Annex III is a Supplementary Project Data Sheet. Negotiations took place in
Washington, D.C. in February 1979. The Paraguayan delegation was led by
Dr. Cesar Romeo Acosta, President of the Central Bank of Paraguay.
Project Objectives and Description
32.       The project aims at helping the Government to overcome some of the
most critical constraints affecting agriculture noted above. The project
would support the Government in its efforts to develop the agricultural
sector, in particular to strengthen the country's export capacity:, intensify
the natural resource utilization, improve the incomes of smaller farmers
and provide additional employment (in cotton and soybeans). More specific-
ally, the proposed loan seeks to extend financial support, key infrastructure,
technical assistance and back-up services to farmers through the provision of
the investments noted below.
33.       Livestock Development.  This component is designed to increase both
production and productivity in about 940 ranches and livestock farms (100
large ranches, 400 medium-size ranches and 440 small livestock farms).



- 12 -
Although the project would continue the development approach adopted by FG
under the four previous Bank/IDA-financed livestock projects on a country-
wide basis, there would be a greater emphasis on lending to medium-size
breeding/fattening ranches and small beef/dairy farms in Eastern Paraguay,
and, intensifying herd and ranch management. The small livestock farmers, who
have not received much Government support so far (and whose income level is
similar to that of the credit beneficiaries under the small-mixed farm compo-
nent) would be located in the vicinity of Asuncion and of FG's three regional
offices in Eastern Paraguay. Main on-farm/ranch investments to be financed
would thus include pasture improvement (including land clearing), fencing,
watering and stock handling facilities, and breeding stock. This project
component would aim at securing better nutrition for cattle and building
sufficient paddocks and stock handling facilities to allow better herd con-
trol. Priority would be given to the development of those farms/ranches
that require only supplementary investments to increase the productivity of
earlier investments in basic infrastructure and which already have adequate
management or agreed to hire such. To that effect, high priority would be
given to providing technical assistance to beneficiaries. This component
also includes a program designed to provide water supply on farms and ranches,
with emphasis on FG assisted units, including the financing by FG of drilling
equipment for suitable contractors.
34.       Small Mixed-Farm Development.  This component would be a follow-up
of the ongoing Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project (Credit
509-PA) and involve the financing of on-farm development through a credit
program for 3,000 small mixed-farms in 16 public and private colonies situated
in the areas of Caaguazu and Mallorquin in Eastern Paraguay, including the
three colonies served under the Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development
Project. The area has been selected because it presents a good potential
for spreading the positive results achieved under the previous rural devel-
opment project to contiguous colonies, while at the same time continuing to
strengthen the first three colonies; an effective institutional set-up is
already in place in the field, which should enable the area to be covered
by the various agricultural services quite rapidly. The project area would
include a total of 240,000 ha and about 14,000 small farms. Typical on-farm
investments would be land clearing, destumping, construction of simple on-
farm storage facilities, wells, draft oxen, related farm machinery, hand
tools, cattle and incremental working capital. Extension services provided
by the Ministry of Agriculture to the area in question would be strengthened
and improved under the project.  To facilitate the supply of credit and
technical assistance, and permit better input supply and produce marketing,
the project would expand and improve the rural road network in the project
area by constructing about 120 km and improving about 120 km of rural roads,
and maintaining about 500 km of rural roads per year during a four-year
period.
35.       Completion of Wholesale Market.  The existing market system in
Asuncion for fruits and vegetables operates through six district retail mar-
kets. There is no specialized wholesale market. One of the retail markets,
Mercado 4, which accounts for over 85% of the total retail market, also



- 13 -
handles most of the wholesale trade. However, over the last few years,
this market has gone through a process of rapid and uncontrolled expansion.
Vendors have spread out from the market and taken up places on several blocks
of adjacent sidewalks and streets. Many retailers and wholesalers (90% of the
wholesalers are located outside the official premises of Mercado 4) have had
to pay high rent; to private shop owners. Around Mercado 4, traff:ic has
become congested, sales conditions are often unhygienic and unsatisfactory.
*           The Municipality of Asuncion has initiated a successful rehabilitation pro-
gram designed to streamline its operations. Retail street vendors have been
relocated into new facilities either in Mercado 4 or in private loits under
municipal control, and thus many of the sidewalks and streets have been
cleared. Mercado 4 is also providing credit and vocational training to the
retailers to improve their operations. In 1973, the Municipality started the
construction of a wholesale market on the outskirts of the city with limited
consideration of institutional and financial implications. Due to lack of
funds, six large buildings for wholesale operations, as well as soime ancillary
facilities, remain unfinished. The project would include the completion of
the construction of priority sections of the new wholesale market to which
all the wholesale operations presently taking place in Mercado 4 would be
transferred. The priority sections would involve the completion of two mar-
ket halls, an administrative and service building, and ancillary facilities.
36.       Technical Assistance, Administrative Support and Agricultural
Census. The project would provide technical assistance to the beneficiaries
and to institutions serving the project and the sector. For the livestock
component!, technical assistance would include: (i) 24 man-months of con-
sultant services and logistical support to improve resource management,
intensify land use and increase the application of modern inputs and farming/
ranching practices; (ii) relevant trial work in animal production; (iii) 16
man-months of scholarships to enhance the capabilities of FG staff to deal
with technical and livestock credit management matters; and (iv) three man-
years of consultant services for the Livestock Extension Unit, including
acquisition of transport for the consultant and provision of about 150 flight
hours of small aircraft services for the unit. For the small mixed-farm
development component, the technical assistance would include (i) three
man-years of services of an extension advisor for the Agricultural Extension
Service and three man-years of services of a credit advisors for BNF;
(ii) acquisition of transport and equipment for the advisors; and (iii) rele-
vant trial work on existing farms. For the wholesale market component, the
technical assistance to be provided as part of the project would include:
(i) 30 man-months of services of wholesale market experts; (ii) four man-
months of short-term marketing consultant services; (iii) transport and
equipment for the consultants; (iv) eight man-months of overseas training
the staff of the project unit for the wholesale market; and (v) visits abroad
of wholesalers and other wholesale market users to study the functioning of
wholesale markets. Since the costs of the technical assistance program
would be financed on a 50/50 basis between UNDP and the Bank, with the Bank
as executing agency, the signing of the relevant UNDP Project Document by the
Government, UNDP and the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness for the
loan (Sec:tion 6.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). Administrative support to the
implementing agencies would be required for adequate implementation of the



- 14 -
project without diverting resources from other activities carried out by these
agencies. Thus the project would include: (i) vehicles for FG, BNF, and the
Institute for Rural Welfare; (ii) salaries of seven additional extension
agents for the Agricultural Extension Service and staff of the project unit
for the wholesale market; and (iii) incremental salary for a Paraguayan chief
engineer for the rural roads.
37.       The Technical Assistance component also includes support to the
Ministry of Agriculture (through the provision of consultants and equipment)
Eo undertake an agricultural census and establish a permanent system for
collecting agricultural statistics. The aim would be to bring up to date
the sector's statistical base by carrying out an agricultural census in 1980
and establishing a system of annual updating surveys linked to the more
comprehensive new base. It would be a condition of disbursement for the
census that a special UNDP Project Document between the Government, UNDP and
the FAO (which would act as executing agency) has, based on a work program
satisfactory to the Bank, been signed (paragraph 4(e) of Schedule I of the
Loan Agreement).
Implementation and Management
38.       Livestock Development.  FG would provide financial and technical
assistance to ranches and to develop small livestock farms. To that effect,
FG's present staff would be strengthened as a result of in-service training
by short-term consultants and scholarships abroad and by more efficient
organization of field operations. A Livestock Extension Unit would be estab-
lished to provide, in coordination with services available from the Ministry
of Agriculture to the livestock sector, adequate extension services to small
producers; the unit would comprise an internationally recruited livestock
extension specialist, and six livestock production specialists (Section 2.02
of the Central Bank (CB) Project Agreement). The establishment of the Live-
stock Extension Unit within FG, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, would be a condition of disbursement for the livestock component (para-
graph 4(d) of Schedule I of the Loan Agreement). In order to facilitate the
execution of this component, assurances have been obtained that FG would
station sufficient field technicians in its field stations and provide its
field staff with adequate facilities and resources (Sections 2.03 and 2.04 of
the CB Project Agreement).
39.       Small Mixed-Farm Development.  The implementation of the on-farm
development part of this component would involve the field offices of BNF,
the Agricultural Extension Service and the Institute for Rural Welfare in the
regions of Caaguazu and Mallorquin. BNF would carry out the lending program,
the Agricultural Extension Service would provide technical services to farmers,
and the Institute for Rural Welfare would be responsible for land titling.
Since field staff of these three institutions would have to work together
closely, the coordinating committees established under the Small Farmer Credit
and Rural Development Project would be maintained in Caaguazu and in Mallorquin
(Section 2.01(b)(ii)) of the BNF Project Agreement). These committees are
chaired by the respective BNF branch managers and include the senior regional



- 15 -
officers of the Agricultural Extension Service and the Institute for Rural
Welfare. While existing staff in the project area of the latter is sufficient
for the titling needs of the project (500 titles per annum), assurances have
been obtained that the numbers of BNF, Agricultural Extension Service, and
Institute for Rural Welfare field staff would be brought up to levels adequate
to attend to the growing demand for credit and extension, and that this staff
would be provided with adequate facilities and resources to operate effi-
ciently (Sections 2.02(a) and 2.03 of the BNF Project Agreement and Section
3.07 of the Loan Agreement). Also, to overcome BNF's record of temporary
shortages of funds, due to the seasonal character of its lending, the Govern-
ment has undertaken to establish and maintain, no later than July 31, 1979,
a special line of credit, to finance BNF's cyclical shortages of funds, which
would be repayed during the months of excess liquidity (Section 3.05 of the
CB Project Agreement).
40.       The Ministry of Public Works and Communications, through its General
Directorate of Roads, would be responsible for road construction, improvement
and maintenance. While most works would be carried out by local contractors,
improvement, maintenance and some construction works would be performed by
the Directorate on force account. For this purpose, the Ministry of Public
Works and Communications would receive additional equipment and employ con-
sultants for engineering, design and supervision (who would have qualifica-
tions and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank) and a
qualified chief engineer (Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement).  Prior to the
initiation of these works, but in any case before September 30, 1979, the
Government would furnish to the Bank for approval a complete work program,
including relevant final alignment and design (Section 3.05 (a) and (b) of
the Loan Agreement). Assurances have been obtained that the Ministry would
ensure the proper maintenance of the project roads once the project has been
completed (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement).
41.       Completion of Wholesale Market.  A project unit (Directorate for
the Wholesale Market of Asuncion) would be established to supervise the
completion of the wholesale market; later on this unit would be transformed
into an entity, financially administratively independent, in charge of the
operation of the wholesale market. The project unit would be headed by a
director, acceptable to the Bank, include sufficient staff, and supported by
internationally recruited wholesale market consultants (Schedule 2 of the
Municipalidad Project Agreement). The establishment of the project: unit, in
a way satisfactory to the Bank, including the employment of its director,
would be a condition of disbursement for this component (Paragraph 4(b) of
Schedule I of the Loan Agreement). Final designs for the market are being
undertaken by engineering/architectural consultants with financing from the
Preinvestment Studies Project (Credit 587-PA), and assurances have been
obtained that no construction work would start prior to the approval of
these designs by the Bank (Section 2.05(a)(ii) of the Municipality Project
Agreement). The Government would hire engineering/architectural consultants,



- 16 -
with qualifications and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Bank, to supervise construction of the market (Section 2.02 of the
Municipality Project Agreement). An assessment made of the social effects
related to the transfer of wholesale activities from Mercado 4 to the new
market showed that the direct unemployment that might result from the opera-
tion of the new facilities would be of manageable proportions and that the
Municipality had suitable credit and training plans to handle them. The Bank
would receive by December 31, 1980 a plan covering (i) the transfer of whole-
sale activities from Mercado 4 to the wholesale market; and (ii) the market's
detailed organizational and financial arrangements; this plan would be put in
effect, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, as soon as the constructioa of
the market has been completed (Section 2.08 of the Municipality Project
Agreement). In addition, the Municipality is expected to receive technical
assistance for institutional strengthening from IDB (mainly in the fields of
organization and accounting).
Project Costs and Financing
42.       Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
US$51.8 million (including taxes and duties amounting to about US$2.7 mil-
lion), of which US$26.2 million, or 51%, represent the foreign exchange costs.
Equipment required for the road construction and the completion of the whole-
sale market is exempt from applicable taxes and duties. Project costs have
been estimated on the basis of June 1978 prices, and a price contingency
amounting to US$9.3 million, or 22% of the baseline costs (US$42.2 million),
has been added. The price contingency is based on a phasing of investments
over a four-year period. Physical contingencies of 15%, amounting to US$0.3
million, have been included in the civil works costs for completing the roads
and the wholesale market. Specialist services are estimated at an average of
US$4,800 per man-month.
43.       The proposed Bank loan of US$25.0 million (representing about half
of total project costs) would finance, together with a UNDP contribution of
US$1.2 million, the foreign exchange cost. Project beneficiaries would
finance US$7.6 million, and the Government and participating agencies (FG,
BNF and Municipality of Asuncion) would finance the remaining costs (US$18.0
million). FG finances are basically sound and the institution would be able
to contribute its share to the project without difficulties. BNF's financial
rehabilitation plan agreed under the ongoing Industrial Credit Project (Loan
1419-PA), together with the above-mentioned arrangements regarding its liquidity,
should enable BNF to provide its counterpart financing for the project. Like-
wise, the Municipality's financial position is favorable, and is expected
to improve further over the next few years. Thus the Municipality should be
in a position to provide counterpart funds required for major civil works such
as the completion of the wholesale market.
Relending Arrangements and Cost Recovery
44.       The Bank loan would be made to the Government at the lending rate
of 7% p.a. for a term of 17 years, including four years of grace. The Govern-
ment would assume the foreign exchange risk and would on-lend the proceeds



- 17 -
of the loan to the participating institutions - BNF, FG, and Municipality of
Asuncion - on terms similar to those of the IBRD loan except that the interest
rate would be 0.5% above the Bank lending rate. FG and BNF would make sub-
loans to project beneficiaries.  Lending terms and conditions between Govern-
ment and participating institutions, and participating institutions and
project benefic:aries would be set in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements within
the general terms and conditions agreed with the Bank (Section 3.01(d) of the
Loan Agreetment). Their execution, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a con-
dition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the Loan Agreement).
45.       Livestock Development.  FG would provide banking and technical
services and appraise subloan applications on the basis of detailed investment
programs, including comprehensive farm/ranch development plans, income and
expenditure estimates, cash flow projections, and financial rate of return
calculations. A subloan exceeding US$100,000 equivalent by itself or together
with any subloan to the same beneficiary during any five-year period would
require prior Bank approval (Section 2.09 of the CB Project Agreement). Sub-
loan approval would be subject to verification by the Technical Director of FG
of the technical and environmental soundness of the investment projects, and
to the availability of adequate management in large and medium- size ranches
(which might require the hiring of consultants by these ranches) (Schedule 2,
Part A(1) of the CB Project Agreement). Small farmers and/or cooperatives
would contribute 10% toward investment costs, while other sub-borrowers would
contribute 25%. Subloans for on-farm investments would be for periods of up
to 12 years, including up to four years of grace. FG would decide subloan
terms on the basis of farmer repayment capacity determined from cash flow
projections. (Complementary loans - those financed mainly through repayment
of Bank supported subloans - would be granted at an interest rate which would
(i) cover at least the administrative costs of FG corresponding to this type
of operation and (ii) ensure the maintenance of value of the outstanding
principal amounts lent).   The amount to be used for the purchase of breeding
stock should not exceed 50% of total on-farm investment costs. The subloan
to contractors for the purchase of drilling rigs for water supply would be
for a period of up to six years, including up to one year of grace. FG would
charge a minimum interest rate of 6% per annum, which will be positive in real
terms since the outstanding balance of the loans will be fully adjusted
annually on the basis of the general consumer price index as issued by CB
(Schedule 2 Part A(3) of the CB Project Agreement). Prior to granting a
subloan for drilling equipment, FG would prepare a work program for drilling
services based on demand, followed by the preparation of a contract, both to
be satisfactory to the Bank, with the contractor (Section 2.14 of the CB
Project Agreement).
46.       Credit for Mixed-Farm Development.  BNF would finance, according to
its present policy for small farmers, up to 90% of investment costs. Subloans
would hav,e a maturity of not more than 10 years, including a three-year grace
period. Subloans would yield a minimum of 13% in nominal terms, including
interest and commission. This rate was introduced in the Second Rural Develop-
ment Project (Loan 1418-PA) to allow BNF to generate reasonable profits. The



- 18 -
rate of inflation, as measured by the consumer price index, has increased from
6.7% in 1975 to an estimated 12% in 1978 and is not expected to rise further
in 1979; the proposed 13% interest rate would therefore imply a modest
positive real interest rate for the small farmers. However, the Government,
BNF and the Bank have agreed to review from time to time, and if necessary
revise, the lending terms in order to ensure appropriate on-lending rates.
Specifically, if the average cost of living shall have increased by a rate
equal to or higher than the on-lending rate (presently 13% per annum) in
any six consecutive months (compared with the same time period of the
previous year), the Government, BNF and the Bank shall attempt to reach
agreement on a new interest rate. If by the expiration of 90 days from the
initiation of such review no agreement on the new on-lending rate has been
reached, BNF shall discontinue making commitments under the loan until an
agreement has been reached (Schedule 1(3)(a) of the BNF Project Agreement).
47.       Producers' benefits for both livestock producers and mixed farmers
were analyzed for five farm models. Producers' financial rates of return on
investments derived from the analysis of the different models range from 15%
to 20% for livestock producers and from 32% to 40% for small mixed-farmers.
The financial rates of return indicate that it would be highly profitable to
farmers to undertake the investment envisaged in the models. The estimated
financial returns for the different types of investment are in line with the
actual demand of funds for investment for livestock and crop production.
48.       Wholesale Market.  The investment in the completion of the wholesale
market is estimated to yield a financial rate of return of 11% on investments
and 13% on equity calculated on the basis of 1978 prices for investments and
operating cost and a fee schedule for using the market facilities. The
Municipality of Asuncion has agreed to recover at least operational and
maintenance expenditurues and the investment costs to be incurred under the
project, through a system of charges for the wholesale market, acceptable
to the Bank, which would be implemented at the commencement of the market
operations (Section 2.08(a)(ii) of the Municipality Project Agreement). The
resulting charges are likely to be lower than existing rental fees being paid
at present by wholesalers. A survey undertaken among prospective wholesalers
has underscored their favorable disposition to undertake the transfer to the
new facilities.
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
49.       The investment items to be financed through project subloans for
over 3,900 project sub-borrowers throughout Paraguay over a four-year invest-
ment period are varied and not suitable for bulk procurement through inter-
national competitive bidding. Goods and services required for such works
would be obtained through local, well established commercial channels.
Suppliers of imported items, including breeding stock, are adequately repre-
sented in Paraguay, and competition is good and services reasonable. The
purchase of the drilling equipment would be made on the basis of international
shopping. The majority of civil works for the road construction (road improve-
ment, maintenance and most of construction) would be carried out on force



- 19 -
account. Some works related to road construction (e.g. bridges, culverts)
would be entrusted to contractors, who would be selected on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank, Contracts
for the purchase of road construction and maintenance equipment, vehicles
(except for about 10 vehicles for the Fondo Ganadero which would be pro-
cured gradually and therefore on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank), and for the construction of the wholesale
market would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
The goods, except vehicles, required for the technical assistance and agri-
cultural census component would be procured through local competitive bidding.
50.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed over a four and a
half year period as follows: (i) 62% of subloan amounts disbursed by FG and
BNF: (ii) 33% of civil works for the road subcomponent; (iii) 58% of the
construction costs involved in the completion of wholesale market; (iv) 100%
of foreign exchange cost for vehicles and equipment, except those included
in the technical assistance component; (v) 100% of total expenditures for:
(a) the services of the consulting engineers/architects for the construction
of the wholesale market; and (b) the salary supplement for the chief engineer
for road construction; (vi) 50% of total expenditures for: (a) the services
of the engineering consultants for the design of the roads and the subsequent
supervision of their construction and maintenance; and (b) the services of
the consultants, as well as the purchase of related vehicles and equipment,
for the technical assistance component; and (vii) 100% of foreign expenditures
for vehicles, data processing equipment and related materials, and consultancy
services for implementing the agricultural census. Disbursements would be
made against standard documentation except for the FG and BNF credit compo-
nents and civil works for the roads by force account, which would be made
against statements of expenditures; the relevant documentation would be re-
tained by each institution for review by project supervision missiLons.
Under force account, statements of expenditures would be supported by monthly
certificates issued by the General Directorate of Roads of work performed
duly approved by the engineering consultants.
Benefits and Risks
51.       The economic rates of return are estimated to be 15% for the
livestock development component; 29% for the small mixed-farm development
component: (this calculation, in addition to producers' on-farm expenditures
which resulted in financial rates of return of 32 to 40%, includes all project
expenditures for infrastructure and Government technical assistance services,
even though non project participants may benefit from these expenditures);
and 20% for the completion of the wholesale market. The average economic
rate of return, based on the summation of the costs of the project components
and related quantified benefits, is estimated at 19%. Sensitivity tests show
that the project's economic viability would remain satisfactory under all the
assumptions tested (the most unfavorable assumption being a combination of
10% reduction in benefits and 10% increase in investment and operating costs)
would yield a rate of return of 14%.



- 20 -
52.       The proposed project would help Paraguay better utilize its agricul-
tural resources to increase agricultural production, productivity, income
and employment, as well as foreign exchange earnings. It would also expand
Paraguay's "agricultural frontier" by land clearing, pasture establishment
and destumping. The incremental annual production at full development would
correspond to about US$17 million, and the incremental herd value generated
by the livestock component would correspond to about US$22 million. The value
of incremental exports is estimated at US$12 million, of which soybean would
account for 33%, cotton for 28% and beef for 39%. The project's agricultural
investments would create full-time permanent employment for about 2,000 people
and generate at the farm level an estimated 250,000 man-days of part-time
jobs. It would also raise the living standards of about 5,000 low-income
rural families, 3,440 of which would be small livestock and mixed farmers who
are the recipients of the project's credit program, while the rest would be
indirect beneficiaries. In addition, widespread impact would be expected in
terms of demonstrating to non-participating farmers the benefits of intensi-
fied land use, including better herd management and improved farming practices.
Over 60% of the loan allotted to agricultural development would be for
beneficiaries with a family income of $1,000. The fiscal benefits of the
livestock and small mixed-farm development components would include incre-
mental income to the Government from sales and export taxes on cattle, cotton
and soybean, estimated to reach US$1.0 million per year at full development.
53.       The economic rate of return for the wholesale market component does
not include benefits that are difficult to quantify that accrue to consumers,
producers and the community of Asuncion at large (e.g. reduced congestion in
the area surrounding the market where wholesaling is currently taking place,
improved hygienic conditions), effects on producers (higher farmgate prices
are expected to lead to increases in of production), etc. A significant
portion of the quantifiable benefits (less spoilage and lower transportation
costs) will accrue to the users (wholesalers and truckers), and will be
captured through rental fees and entrance/parking charges, yielding 11% to
the Municipality. Although firm calculations are impossible, it is most
probable that the surplus between the 20% economic and the 11% financial rates
of return will be spread widely among producers, intermediaries and consumers.
Through greater competition and introduction of improved marketing practices,
the direct benefits of this operation are expected to spread to the producers
and consumers quite rapidly.
54.       Although there is a strong demand for subloans by the ranching
sector, the economic justification for such investment, especially for
traditional ranches in the Chaco, would depend mainly on raising herd pro-
ductivity, which, in turn, would require considerably improved ranch and herd
management. Experience has shown that ranchers have a certain reluctance to
adopt such management practices. Conditioning the subloans on the avail-
ability of adequate management and the improved arrangements for technical



- 21 -
assistance are, however, expected to reduce this risk to an acceptable level.
For the livestock and the small mixed-farm development components, the ex-
pected agricultural benefits depend heavily on four products (beef, cotton,
soybean and milk). Adverse price developments for these commodities could
significantly reduce the projected financial and economic benefits. Except
for unusually d astic price deterioration, the economic and financial viabil-
ity of investments in crop production would remain satisfactory. Investments
in beef production, especially in ranching in the Chaco would, however,
become financially marginal. Given recent and expected developments in the
beef market, this price risk would appear low and acceptable. For the small
mixed-farnn development component, it is of critical importance that credit,
technical assistance (including extension services to the farmers), titles
and rural roads be provided on a timely fashion. However, the fact that the
relevant institutions are already operating in the area, in connection with
the Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project, and as such have gained
valuable experience in project execution and in inter-agency coordination,
bodes wel'L for the implementation of this component. The establishment of
a specialized wholesale market would be new for Paraguay and no experience
exists in the country for managing such an institution; the comprehensive
technical assistance provided under the project for organizing and managing
the market should reduce the risk of unsatisfactory implementation of this
component.
Monitoring and Evaluation
55.       For the livestock development component project monitoring would
be carried out by FG's existing specialized unit which, since July 1978, has
been receiving in-service training by a specialist consultant (under the
Fourth Livestock Project).  The unit would prepare annual monitoring reports
for the livestock component starting with the year after the system became
operational. The reports would be made available to the Government, the FG
Board and the Bank.  Assurances have been obtained that FG would furnish the
annual mconitoring reports within four months following the end of each project
year (Section 2.12(b)(iii) of the CB Project Agreement). For the small mixed-
farm development component, the Office for the Implementation of Rural Devel-
opment Projects of the National Council for Social Progress would be respon-
sible for project monitoring. The monitoring would be based on a socio-
economic survey to be carried out in 1979 by the Council in the project area
under the Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project, which would
serve as a baseline survey and be followed up by the regular monitoring of
key performance and objective indicators of the project component. It has
been agreed that the Council would submit annual monitoring reports to the
Government and the Bank within four months following the end of each project
year (Section 3.05(d) of the Loan Agreement). Similarly, the Municipality of
Asuncion will maintain records to monitor the progress of project execution
and operation of the wholesale market component, and shall regularly furnish
to the Bank the relevant reports (Section 2.05(b)(iii) of the Municipality
Project Agreement).



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and the Central Bank,
BNF and the Municipality of Asuncion, respectively, and the Report and
Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
57.       Special conditions of the loan are being listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement) would be the signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satis-
factory to the Bank, for this project between the Government and the Central
Bank, BNF and the Municipality of Asuncion, respectively, and the signing of
the UNDP Project Document by the Government, UNDP and the Bank.
58.       The establishment of the Livestock Extension Unit for FG, the
project unit for the wholesale market (as well as the appointment of its
director), and the signing of a Project Document based on a work program
satisfactory to the Bank, whereby FAO shall act as executing agency for UNDP,
would be conditions of disbursement for the livestock, wholesale market and
agricultural census components, respectively.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                                            By:  I. P.M. Cargill
March 7, 1979



- 23 -                                              A:NNEX I
TAiL.!3A                                       Pqop  1 3f
PARAGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
URlNCI GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PARAGUAY                                              IL
LAND AA (THOUSAND SQ. KY,)                                                   - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            406.8                                                   SAME         SAME     NErT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     159.7                                 MDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lk    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 230.0        360.0     760.0           1066.7      867.2      1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      87.0        140.0     153.0           911.1      578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         1.7         2.2        2.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.8         35.7      37.4            57.9        46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. EN.                        4.0          6.0       6.6            25.6        50.8        27.6
PER SQ. KN. AGRICULTURAL LAND     12.0         14.0      16.9            77.6        93.3       116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         45.9  f      46.4      44.7 LE         42.0        42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                         50.2 /f     50.4       51.3 La         52.2       53.5         56.0
65 IRS. AND ABOVE                   3.9 /f       3.2       4.0 La          3.7         3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROUTH RATE (PERCENT)
tOTAL                              2.2 /h       2.6 /h    2.7 .h          2.7         2.5         1.6
ltiNx                              2.7          2.8       3.7             4.3         4.7         3.4
CRtDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     44.7         41.8      39.8            35.8        37.8        27.0
CR-DE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      14.7        10.8       8.9             9.1        10.8         9.9
GRCISS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.2       3.0             2.6         2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         ..       20.3
tlSERS (PERCENT OF MAtRIED WOMtEN)    ..         ..      10.0            15.1        20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
IER CAPITA (1970-100)             94.3        100.0      94.3           102.1       107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
t:ALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREFENTS)                  112.0        121.0     118.0           103.9       105.3       110.4
l'ROTEINS (GRAHS PER DAY)         76.0         74.0      74.5            60.3        63.0        77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       40.0 /j      41.0      38.9            26.7        21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITYT RATE     5.6          6.9       3.2 /i          8.7         8.0         1.9
RHALTH
LIFE EPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.4          59.0      61.9            62.6        57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PE1
THOUSAND)                           90.7         93.8      84.0            56.9        53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
IOTAL                              6.0         11.0      13.0            60.7        56.8        67.7
URBAN                               ..         22.0      25.0            78.0        79.0        83.5
RURAL                               ..          5.0       5.0            34.9        31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCEIIT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         6.0      10.0            61.1        30.9        70.3
URISA                               ..         16.0      28.0            80.3        45.4        90.7
RIRAL                               ..           ..        ..            25.4        16.1        38.3
POPULATION PE  PHYSICIAN               ..      2340.0 L  2120.0          1899.3      2706.8      1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      2310.0   2090.0           1220.1      1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            430.0        620.0     610.0 LE        422.3       493.9       275.4
URBAN                                *-       240.0        ..           258.2       229.6       129.9
iURAL OM                                     5830.0        ..          2281.6      2947.9       965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..        ..             25.6       22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.5 lf        ..       5.5 La           5.2        5.2         3.9
IJRBAN                             5.3 /f        .,       5.1 L             ..        5.0
RURAL                              5.7IL         ..       5.8aa             ..        5.4
AVEXAGE NtMER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.6 I        ..       2.4              2.0        2.0         0.9
JRBAN                               2.6 L        ..       1.7              2.1        1.5         0.8
RURAL                               ..           ..       3.1              2.7        2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECIRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
FOTAL                             13.0 lf       '-       17.5 La         51.2        64.1        59.2
JRBAN                             33.2lf         ..      41.5 IR         77.3        67.8        78.0
RMRAL                               1-21L        *-       1.2             12.8       34.1        12.5



- 24-                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PARAGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERINCE GROUPS (ADJMSTED AVERAGES
PARAGUAY                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION Le   GROUP Id    GROUP Le
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0        109.0     106.0            103.5        99.8         97.6
FEKALE               90.0        104.0      102.0            102.9       93.3         8/.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  11.0         17.0      20.0             37.2        33.8        47.8
FEKALE                11.0        17.0       20.0             37.9       29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  7.0           6.0       5.0 LI          14.7        12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            28.0         32.0      28.0             32.8        34.9         25.4
SECONDARY                           8.0          9.0      10.0             17.8        22.2        24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        74.0 /f      79.0      81.0./&          74.9        71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          7.0       7.0             26.9        12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         83.0         71.0      68.0            173.5       104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         20.0      21.0             69.4        28.1        97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        44.0      37.0             72.8        45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..             4.3         4.6         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       590.0        700.0     810.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   21.7         21.4      22.5             21.4        25.7        17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              55.0         53.0      49.0             37.8        46.2        38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.0         19.2        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.5         3i.7      31.9             30.8        33.8        33.7
MALE                                 51.7         50.0      49.6             47.2        48.1        50.8
FEMALE                               13.9         13.5       14.3            13.2        17.3        12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.7         1.6        1.5             1.7         1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        30.0         ..            28.9        23.6        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          62.0        ..             57.7       52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          4.0        ..              3.2        4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..        ..             10.7        13.1        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            251.9       191.9
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..            200.6       193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     239.0            403.1      319.8        448.8
RURAL                                ..           ..     171.0            258.0      197.7        313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      21.0             24.8       19.8         23.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      68.0             65.2       35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a        adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
.a, les of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
'ndicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    6bless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1133 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper
Middle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1962;  Is  1972;  /h  Due to emigration of Paraguayans to
neighboring countries (Argentina and Brazil), population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;
/i  1961-63;   /I  1971;   1k  Coverage of data unknown;  /1  Provisional or estimated.



- 25 -                                                               ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
-FINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
tiig   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of oountries a-nng the indicators depends on availaDility of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data.
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excrete disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty at,'
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclssion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. be)                                                                 Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population  (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                           urban, and rural) divided by their respectLve number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most: recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops,     :tures, market and kitchen gardens or to                    habilitation  centers.  Hospitals are estabLishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                               at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally oustodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$f  - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                    cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by sane conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                 sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and t977 data.                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                       from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average sin  ofhueod(esn   e   oshold) - total, urban, and rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                             the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitiors of house-
Urban poPulation (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                  ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclud.e non-permanent structures and
Per  so. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Contentional dwellings with elertrincty its living quarters as percentage
only,                                                                                     of total, urban , and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total aind female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal ado-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent 3ince some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for sort recent estimate.                       above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Compated as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                            vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross rep-d-ctia  ornt  - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are gonerally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
specific fertility  rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondaryl - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual somber of                          or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning progra.m.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by combers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                          sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adolt literary rate (percent) - Literate adclts (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITIOt                                                                      CONSUtlPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970=100) - Inden number of per                     Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food comodities.                                        seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                   vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  AvaiLable supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thousand cf population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets wan in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since eost countries
quirements wero estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
=al activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generd
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing If per-                    public per thousand population; eocludeu unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at household level.                                                        tries and in years when registration of rV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                    Newspaper circulation  (per thousand populat:Lon) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of Eond per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above. -Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appears at least four tmes a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per yea-  - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admission,s to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of arimal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                       units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita proctin supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply ct food               EMPLOYMENT
derived from aoimals and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - Econonically active persons, including armed
Clild (ager 1-4) mortality rare (per thoo.a.d) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces and ueneployed but escluding houoewivos, scodoots, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in thid  age group.                               tion.  in various countries are sot comparable.
Femae (ercnt)- Fema.le labor force an percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture (perent)  -  Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life eope-tancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                          as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, sale, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live hinhts.                                                 c0-00 Iabur force as pereostages of their respective populotio-s.
Access to safe voter (percent of Population) - total, urban, ad rurl -                      These are ILOs adjusted participation rates reflecting ace-von
Numher of People (total, urban, and tona) with reasona.ble access to                      srvrue- of the pop,1.io-o  nod ionf time trend.
safe outer supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                  Eto.onic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaninated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor foce i  age group  f 15-64
and sanitary uells) as percentages of their respective populations.
Is as urbhn area a public fountain or standpost located not sore                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 oeters from a house may be corsidered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  Is rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 4C percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do nor have to                      of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to ec-reta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                   Estimated absolute poverty imooe level (U5$ Per capita) - urban and rura, -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by escerta                        Absolutc poverty inco=e level is that in.come level below which a minima:
disposal as I prcentages of theur respective populations.  Excreta                        nutritionally adequate diet plus essentLal nor-food requirements is n-.
disposal nay  Includo the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-bcr0e systems                    Fstimuted relative poverty income level (UiS opr capita) - urban and rucal -
or tle use of pit privies- and similar i-suallatios.                                     Relative poverty income level is that ilncome level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population dividnd by number of practisi.g                       per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qu,alified from a medical school at university level.                      Estimated population below Poverty income Level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                             Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing n.u and fomale graduate nurses, pra-tical nurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nu-ues.
Economic and Social Data Division



- 26 -
ANNEX S
ECONOMIC DEVELOPNENT DATA                                                        ragE 4 of I
(Amunts in millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual               Est.                      ProAected                   1970-    1974-    1978-
1974       1977                            1979       1980       1983           1974      1978       1983            1974     1977    1983
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Constant  1977  Prices                                 Average Annual Growth Rates            As Percent of GUY
Gross Domestic Product                 1656.5    2092.2           2298.6          2561.0    2848.5    3654.5              6.4       8.5        9.7          102.3   100.0   100.3
.-,.:s fros  Terms of Trade (+)         -37.0         -             -21.4          -19.8       -22.0      -11.3                                              -2.3       -       - .3
Gross Donmeetic Income                 1619.5    2082;2           2277.2          2541.2    2826.5    3643.2              6.5       8.9        9.9           100.0   100.0   100.0
Import (incl.NFS)*                      350.1       683.2           701.5          789.7       879.0    1082.9            9.8      19.0        9.1           21.6    32.7    29.7
Exports       (import capacitv)*       -280.6    -444.6           -435.3          -513.6    -590.9    -830.5              1.5      11.6       13.8          -17.3   -21.3   -22.8
Resource Gap                             69.5       238.6           2.6,2         276.1        288.1      252.5                                                4.3    11.4       6.9
Consumption Expenditures               1366.1    1814.4            1985.8         2187.5    2424.5    3133.5              5.9       9.8        9.5           84.4    86.7    56.0
Inve-tm,nt      " (tncl. stocks)        322.9       516.4          557.6           629.8       690.1      762.3          16.8      12.5       6.5            19.9    24.7    20.9
Domestic Savings                        253.4       277.8           291.4          353.7       402.0      509.9          16.7       3.5       11.8            15.6    13.3    14.0
National Savings                        244.5       263.0           283.8           327.7      368.1      452.9          16.7       3.8        9.8            15.1    12.3    12.4
IERCdANDISE TRADE                                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                   As Percent of Total
Imports
Food                                   14.4        12.7            10.4           10.4        10.8       14.5          23.0      -7.8      6.9              5.6      2.2       1.1
Other consumer goods                   33.6        48.1            64.2            76.7       91.9      148.6          24.5      17.6    18.3              13.1       8.4    11.7
Intermediate goods                     32.3       49.9            59.8            73.5        89.1      139.4          14.2      16.6    18.5              12.6      8.7      11.0
Foels and lubricants                   41.9        42.6           47.1            57.4        67.9       96.5          61.2       3.0    15.4              16.4       7.5      7.6
Capital goods                          49.2       102.2          123.3           150.0       175.9      234.9          28.2      25.8    13.8              19.2    17.9    18.4
Unregistered imports                   84.7       316.6          309.8           372.2       439.7      639.6          61.0      38.2    15.6              33.1    55.4    50.2
Total merchandise imports             256.1       572.0          614.6           740.2       875.3     1273.5          35.2      24.4     15.7            100.0   100.0   100.0
Exports
Wood                                   24.7        19.9            19.5           22.7        29.1       53.6           18.6    -5.8    22.3               12.0      5.0       5.0
Beef                                   40.5        28.1            25.8           34.6        40.5       56.7           22.6   -10.7      17.1             19.7       7.0     5.2
Soybeans                               20.4        58.8           41.5            61.5        72.8      141.0           90.5    19.4    27.7                9.9    14.6    13.0
Cotton                                 16.5        80.5          105.7           137.6       180.2      313.1           42.3    59.1    24.2                8.0    20.0    28.9
Other comsodities                      67.7        91.6          101.4           118.8       138.7      219.8           24.5    10.6    16.7               32.9    22.8    20.3
Unregistered exports                   36.1       123.0          118.3           148.2       181.5      297.8          133.0    34.0    20.2               17.5    30.6    27.5
Total merchandise exports (fob)   205.9          401.9           412.2           523.4       642.7    1082.1            33.2     19.0    21.3             101.0   100.0   100.0
Herchandise Trade Indices                                        Average 1977 -   100
Etxport Price Index                    76.2      100.0           101.2           109.1       116.0      141.4                     7.4      6.9
Import Price lodex                     88.3      101.0           106.2           113.3       120.3      143.3                     3.8      6.2
Terms of Trade Index                   86.3       100.0           95.3            96.3        96.4       98.7
Exports Volume Index                   51.2       100.0          102.6           130.2       159.9      269.2
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                          Annual Data at 1977 Prices and Exchange Rates                          Average Annual Growth Rates            As Percent of Total
Agricoltore                           580.4       713.7          777.7           847.7       924.0    1185.6             5.8      7.6      8.8             35.0    34.1    32.4
Industry and Miming                   345.7      482.8           495.1           564.4      637.8       818.1            8.4      9.4    10.6              20.9    23.1    22.4
Services                              730.4      895.7          1025.8          1148.9    1286.7    1651.0               6.0      8.9      9.9             44.1    42.8    45.2
Total                                1656.5    2092.2           2298.6          2561.0    2848.5    3654.5               6.4      8.5      9.7            1O0.0   100.0   100.0
Actual               Est.                      Projected                                                       As Percent of GDP
PUBLIC FPNANCE (ctrrent Prices)         1974        1977           1978            1979        1980       1983
(Central Administration)
Current Receipts                      128.4       209.4          261.9           291.0       343.3      524.6                                               9.6    10.0    10.0
Current Expenditures                  103.0       148.4          174.6           216.4       251.3      365.9                                               7.7       7.1      7.0
Budgetary Savings                      25.4       61.0            87.3            74.6        92.0      158.7                                               1.9       2.9      3.0
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                                                                           DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR                      1979-83
(As 7 Total Current Expend.)                                                                                          INVESTMENT PROGRAM                 uS$ millions      7% of Total
Goods and Services                       22.7        22.6            21.5           22.5                   25.0        Infrastructure                       589.5               33.2
iages and Salaries                       43.2        45.6           43.3            46.0                   48.0       Productive Sectors                    750.2               42.3
Transfer Payments                        19.6        24.5            22.7            23.0                  17.0        Social Sectors                       270.4               15.3
Other                                    14.5         7.3            12.4             8.5                  10.0        General Services                     162.9                9.2
Total Ctrrent Expenditures              100.0       100.0          100.0           100.0                  100.0        Total Expenditure                   1773.0              100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                          1974-78                    1978-83                                       FINANCING
Average ICOR                                 2.6                        2.5                                            Public Sector Savings             1006.3              56.7
Import Elasticity                            2.2                        1.0                                           External Financing                  766.7              43.3
Marginal Dnotsric savingo Rate               0.06                       0.16                                           Isternal Borring                     -                  -
Marginal National Savings Rate               0.07                       0.12                                           Total Financing                   1773.0             100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                                             Economically Active Population                                                          Employment Shares
OUTPUT PER WORKER                                                         Proj.         1962-74         1974-76         1976-80                     (in percentages)
1962       1974       1976        1980       Growth Rate   Growth Rate   Growth Rate            1962       1974        1976       1980
Agriculturc                           321,333   425,633   451,554   514,170               2.4             3.0             2.6            56.1       52.1       52.4        53.0
Industry                              107,588   162,974   168,474   195,461               3.5             1.6             3.8            18.8       20.0       20.5        22.0
Services                              143966   227.617   242,884   268.1.4                3.9             3.3             2.6            25.1       27.9        27.1       25.0
Total                                 572,887   816,224   862,912   978,705               3.0             2.8             3.2           100.0      100.0        100.0     101.0
Includes unrogistered merchandise.
A- Includes financial in-estment in agriculture and industry.
sot applicable                                      e  staff estimate
..ot available                                      -  nil or negligible
not available separately                          --  less than half the
bst included in total                                  smallest uoit shows



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
imT97tP  jeted 
SU*IMY BALNCE OP PA    rsEN)
Exports (incl. NF8)                238.8          287.6          444.6             462.4             582.2          711.4         1191.0
te0jorts (incl. NIB)               309.1          459.6          683.2             745.2             895.2         1058.2         1533.0
Resource Balance (X-M)             -70.3         -172.0         -238.6            -282.8            -313.0         -346.R         -362.0
Net Factor Payments                -12.7          -15.1          -15.6             -32.2             -34.0           45.7          -68.3
Current Transfers (net)              6.9           24.2           23.1               4.0               4.4            4.8            6.4
Balance on Current Accounts        -76.1         -162.9         -231.1            -3117             -342.5         -387.7         -444.0
Private Medium and
Long Term Capital                 53.7                          7e.0              16.3              99.2          114.1          158.7
Net Capital from binational
Entities                           1.5                         149.0             240.0             180.0          200.0           85.0
Public MALT Loans
PbDisbursements                     24.7           58.7          106.6             133.3             129.3          147.9          296.9
-RepaYments                        10.5           11.7           16.1              52.5              46.9          141.4          230.5
Net Disbursements                   14.2           47.0           90.5              80.8              82.4          106.3           66.4
Short Term Capital Flows
and Errors and Omissions          47.7           18.0           25.5              34.0               -              -              -
Change in Net Reserves             -41.0          -50.1         -108.9            -130.0             -19.1          -32.9          -30.2
(- = increase)
GRANT AND WAN COMMITMENTS                                                           DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                            1974           1976           1977
official Grants & Grant-like                                                      Public Debt Out. & Disbursed                     149.3          221.5          317.1
Public M&LT Loans                                                                   Interest on Public Debt                          5.5            7.3           10.0
IBRD                              24.5           12.0           38.0              Repayments on Public Debt                       10.5           11.8           16.1
IDA                               11.0            4.0            -                Total Public Debt Service                       16.0           19.1           26.1
IDB                               11.5            2.3           11.0
Govermnents                        6.6           11.0           17.0            Burden on Export Earnings (7)
Suppliers                         16.3           10.1           13.4              Public Debt Service                              6.7            6.6            5.9
PFnancial Institutioyns           27.0            3.7           16.0
Total Public M&LT Loanis            96.9           43.1           95.4            Term Structure of Public Debt Commitments
Average Interest (%)                             6.1            6.5            6.8
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1977            Average Maturity (years)                        23.1           18.4           16.7
EXTERNAL DEBT                   Disbursed only                    Percent             Average Grace (years)                            4.6            4.2            4.1
World Bank                          28.0                           8.8              Grant Elment (7.)                               28.5           23.3           18.9
IDA                                 33.8                          10.7
IDB                                 21.4                           6.8            IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed                        15.0           21.7           28.0
Governments                        123.3                          38.9             "   as % Public Debt O&D                         10.0            9.8            8.8
Suppliers                           28.4                           8.9                 as % Public Debt Service                      9.3           10.8            9.7
Financial Institutions              82.1                          25.9
Total Public M&LT Debt               317.0                         100.0            IDA Debt Out. & Dishuesad                         25.5           28.7           33.8
as 7. Public Debt 04D                         17.1           12.9           10.7
as % Public Debt Service                       1.9            2.1            1.6
not applicable                              e  staff estimate
..ot available                              - nil or negligible
not available separately                   --  less than half the
but included in total                          smallest unit shown



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (December 31, 1978)
---   (US$ million)-------
Loan or                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower         Purpose                Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Six loans and four credits fully disbursed                    21.8   25.7 1/       -
347           1972    Paraguay   Secondary Education            -    5.1        0.4
1037           1974    Paraguay   Livestock IV                10.0       -       0.5
509           1974    Paraguay   Small Farmer Credit and
Rural Development           -   11.0        2.9
1059           1974    Paraguay   Highways IV                 14.5      -        4.4
587           1975    Paraguay   Preinvestment Studies          -    4.0        3.4
1252           1976    Paraguay   Vocational Training          4.0       -       2.7
1346           1976    Paraguay   Rural Education              8.0      -        8.0
667           1976    Paraguay   Rural Education                -    4.0        3.3
1418           1977    Paraguay   Rural Development II        22.0      -       22.0
1419           1977    Paraguay   Industrial Credit           10.0      -        9.4
1502           1977    Paraguay   Rural Water Supply           6.0      -        6.0
1529           1978    Paraguay   Highways V                  33.0      -       33.0
Total (net of cancellations)                  129.3   49.8
of which has been repaid                      8.0    1.0
Total now outstanding                         121.3   48.8
Amount sold                        1.3
of which has been repaid         0.3          1.0
Total now held by Bank/IDA                    120.3   48.8
Total undisbursed                                                96.0
1/   Includes exchange adjustment.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - October 31, 1978
Type of                  (Amount in US$ million)
Year      Obligor             Business                  Loan    Equity    Total
1974    FINAP, S.A.       1?-.id Procesq'.nq             4.4      1.0       5.4
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                          4.4       1.0      5.4
Total undisbursed



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Credit 347-PA First Education Project, US$5.1 million, December 22, 1972;
(Date of Effectiveness:  October 30, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979).
Project implementation is proceeding in a satisfactory manner.
Of the nine project institutions, seven are completed and the remaining two
are almost completed. All completed schools are fully equipped and furnished,
and the equipment for the remaining two schools is being purchased. Imple-
mentation of the technical assistance component was satisfactorily completed
in March 1978. Total project cost is expected to exceed the appraisal estimate
by about 16%, but no difficulty in provision of the required counterpart funds
is foreseen. The whole project is expected to be completed by the original
closing date of December 31, 1979.
Loan 1037-PA   Fourth Livestock Project, US$10.0 million, September 6, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness:  February 21, 1975; Closing_Date:
February 28, 1979).
Disbursements of the loan proceeds are in line with appraisal
projections, but project induced production, productivity increases and
ranchers' income are likely to remain substantially below appraisal expecta-
tions due to a prolonged period of unfavorable beef prices and prevalence of
extensive herd and ranch management practices. Over the last year, progress
was made in improving technical services to ranchers and in debt collection
(increasing the recovery rate from 76% in 1976 to 85% in 1977). A consultant
to train the executing agency's staff in project monitoring and subloan eval-
uation has been hired.
Credit 509-PA Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project, US$11.0
million, September 6, 1974; (Date of Effectiveness: April 14,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979).
The project credit component is proceeding satisfactorily with
medium- and long-term lending in line with appraisal estimates as of
September 30, 1978. Lending of short-term funds, after the transfer of
US$1,000,000 from Category 4 (short term) to Category 3 (medium and long term)
of Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement is now completed. Land titling also
continues to be satisfactory, with about 2,000 titles distributed. Efforts
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
to help strengthen BNF's Agricultural and Livestock Department are continuing.
The 18 schools planned are now constructed, furnished, staffed and fully oper-
ating.  The three health centers constructed under the project have been
supplied with medical equipment and are fully operational; and the three
community centers have been built and have been handed over to the Ministry
of Agriculture for administration.  Earth road construction is now 85% com-
pleted (40 km) and all-weather road construction is 22% completed (8 km).
Loan 1059-E'A   Fourth Highway Prolect, US$14.5 million, December 12, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979).
Work on one project road (Mbocayaty-Colonia Independencia) was
completed in July 1978 or about ten months behind schedule; progress of works
on the other project road (Encarnacion-Pirapo) is about 64% against the sched-
uled 100%; completion is now scheduled for December 1979 or about one and a
half years behind schedule. Delays were caused by poor management and insuffi-
cient equipment; corrective measures were taken. The consulting firm engaged
for assisting in highway maintenance and for preparing a study on mtaintenance
needs has completed its task. The latter study was the basis for the subse-
quent highway loan (Fifth Highway Project - Loan 1529-PA).
Credit 587-PA Preinvestment Studies Project, US$4.0 million, October 17, 1975;
(Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980).
Although the entire amount of the credit is now virtually
committed, progress on the institution building side is still slow.  The
Government is attempting to simplify the formalities involved in processing
sub-projec:ts, and although the execution of the latter is now speedier, this
aspect will require continued attention during the disbursement phase.
Loan 1252--T-PA Vocational Training Project, US$4.0 million, May 13, 1976;
(Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980).
Project implementation is on schedule. Construction of four
of the six institutions has started. The designs for the other two are being
prepared. Furniture contracts for two institutions and all equipment contracts
have been signed. The technical assistance program is satisfactory and running
smoothly. Project cost estimates are within appraisal estimates, so far.
Loan 1346/      Third Education Project, US$4.0 million Credit and US$8.0
Credit 667-PA  million Loan, December 22, 1976; (Date of Effectiveness:
March 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981).
Project implementation is about six months behind schedule due
to initial lack of counterpart funds. However, under a revised imnplementation
schedule the project is expected to be completed by the present cLosing date



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
of June 30, 1981. About 10 associated rural primary schools are completed.
Construction of 43 new rural primary schools as well as of five lower secon-
dary schools has been contracted. Satisfactory progress has been made in
contracting technical assistance specialists and in implementing the textbook
production and in-service teacher training programs. With regard to total
project cost, at this time no cost overrun is foreseen.
Loan 1418-PA   Second Rural Development Project, US$22.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981).
Lending under the project has reached US$1,350,000, or about
47% of appraisal estimates. Land titling is also progressing slowly, with
600 titles distributed, or 50% of appraisal estimates. Engineering consultants
for roads and community centers have started work. Construction is expected
to start in March 1979. Engineering for health centers and posts has started
and construction will begin shortly. A new project coordinator has been
appointed, and the deputy project coordinator is now operating from the
project area. Also, the project document for the supporting UNDP-financed
program of technical assistance, for which the Bank will act as executing
agency, has been signed and a chief technical adviser is already operating in
the project areas, and an agronomist has been recruited and will be in the
project area shortly. Cofinancing arrangements with the Federal Republic of
Germany are being finalized.
Loan 1419-PA   Industrial Credit Project, US$10.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982).
The loan was declared effective on January 17, 1978. One of
the main objectives of the Project were BNF's financial and institutional
rehabilitation. Satisfactory progress has been made towards meeting this
objective, with BNF obtaining operating profits (V 155 million in 1977 and
¢ 159 in 1978) for the first time since 1972. This was achieved in part due
to a reduction in operating costs, a higher financial spread, and a capital
contribution of V 1.3 billion that the Government made under the Loan. BNF's
debt recovery efforts, however, have not yet been sufficietly effective in
decreasing the level of arrears. To accelerate the institutional improvements,
on the other hand, the UNDP-financed technical assistance program has been
expanded by incorporating experts in agricultural programming, portfolio
management and electronic data processing systems. Regarding the financing
of industrial projects under the Loan, BNF has submitted to the Bank more than
30 subprojects with small-scale enterprises accounting for most of them.
Disbursements, however, were running somewhat behind schedule (US$0.4 million
by December 31, 1978). Since BNF has already met most of the conditions
for releasing the second tranche (US$6.0 million) under the operation, an
additional US$2.0 million have just been made available to finance subprojects.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1502-PA   Rural Water Supply Project, US$6.0 million, December 16, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: February 16, 1978; Closing Date:
.June 30, 1982).
The project is delayed six months due to longer than forecasted
time to fulfill effectiveness conditions (approval by the Paraguayan Congress
of the Legal Documents and signature of the agreement for technicaL assistance
between PAHO and SENASA, the executing agency), but implementation is proceeding
at a good pace. The Loan became effective on July 13, 1978, and engineering,
including bidding documents, for 43% of project communities, is completed.
Loan 1529-PA   Fifth Highway Project, US$33.0 million, March 17, 1'78;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5. 1978; Closing Date:
June 30. 1983).
Effectiveness of the Loan Agreement had been delayed by Govern-
ment legal procedures to approve the cofinancng documents. The Borrower has
initiated steps for contracting the two civil works elements and some technical
assistance components, and for procurement of road maintenance equipment.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: About nine months
(b)  Preparation by:  Government and FAO-IBRD Cooperative Program
(livestock and land settlement components), and Government, FAO
and Bank (wholesale market component)
(c) First presentation to the Bank: October 1977
(d) First Bank mission: October 1977
(e) Appraisal mission departure: July 1978
(f) Negotiations: February 1979
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
The draft UNDP Project Document for the project's technical assis-
tance component has been reviewed and agreed in principle, by the Government,
UNDP and the Bank. Consulting engineers/architects for the designs for the
wholesale market are being hired with funding under the Preinvestment Studies
Project (Credit 587-PA).
Section III - Special Conditions of the Bank Loan
(a) Special conditions of effectiveness would be the signing of
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, between
the Government and BNF, Central Bank and the Municipality of
Asuncion, respectively, and the signing of the UNDP Project
Document by the Government, UNDP and the Bank (paragraph 57).
(b) The establishment of the Livestock Extension Unit for FG and
the project unit (including the appointment of its director) for
the wholesale market, and the approval of the work program for the
census by the Bank (as well as the signing of the relevant UNDP
Project Document by the Government, UNDP and the Bank) would be
conditions of disbursement for the livestock, wholesale market and
agricultural census components, respectively (paragraph 58).



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c)  l'he Municipality of Asuncion, with the support of the technical
assistance program, would furnish to the Bank, by December 31,
1980, a plan for the overall operation of the wholesale market.
After having taken the Bank's comments on the plan into account,
the plan would be put in effect, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank, as soon as the construction of the market has been
completed (paragraph 41).
(d)  Prior to granting a subloan for drilling equipment, FG would
prepare a work program followed by the preparation of a contract,
acceptable to the Bank, with the contractor (paragraph 45).
(e)  A livestock subloan from FG exceeding US$100,000 equivalent by
itself, or together with any subloan to the same beneficiary,
during any five-year period would require prior Bank approval;
and the Livestock Extension Unit, as a condition for sub:Loan
approval, may require large ranchers to hire consultants to
improve management practices (paragraph 45).
(f)  To overcome BNF's temporary shortages of funds due to the
seasonal character of its lending, the Government has under-
taken to establish and maintain, not later than July 31, 1979,
within the Central Bank, a special line of credit to finance
BNF's cyclical shortages of funds (BNF would repay the CB
loans during the months of excess liquidity) (paragraph 39).
(g) If the rate of inflation warrants it, BNF has undertaken to
modify, in agreement with the Bank, the interest rate charged
to sub-borrowers of the small mixed-farm development coumponent
(paragraph 46).






.1                                       8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RD 13/
Li                      7
>                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k -



