Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No22 72-PA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 6, 1979
Projects Department
Latín America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00        =   9 126
« 1.00        =   US$ 0.008
« 1,000       =   US$ 7.94
« 1,000,000   =   US$ 7,936.51
Weights and Measures
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BNF          -  National Development Bank
CAH          -  Small Farmer Credit Agency
CNPS         -  National Council for Social Progress
CB           -  Central Bank
DAMA         -  Project Unit for the Wholesale Market
DGV          - General Directorate of Roads
FG           -  Livestock Fund
IBR          -  Institute for Rural Welfare
IDB          -  Inter-American Development Bank
MAG          - Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MOPC         -  Ministry of Public Works and Communication
OIRD/CNPS    -  Office for the Implementation of Rural Development
Projects of the CNPS
PRONIEGA     -  National Program for Livestock Research and Extension
SEAG         -  National Agrícultural and Livestock Extension Service
SENASA       -  National Service for Environmental Health
SENACSA      -  National Animal Health Service
SNPP         -  National Vocational Training Service
UNDP         -  United Nations Development Programme
Government of Paraguay Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ...............................                     1
A.   Agriculture in the Economy .......................                    1
B.   General Characteristics ..........................                    1
C.   Agricultural Marketing and Prices ....             ............       5
D.   Agricultural Services ............................                    7
E.   Government's Agricultural Development Strategy  ...                   9
II.   PERFORMANCE OF PREVIOUS BANK/IDA FINANCED-PROJECTS   ....                   9
III.    AGRICULTURAL CREDIT ...................................                   12
IV.   THE PROJECT .....            ......................................        16
A. Introduction                      . . . .......   16
B.   Brief Description              ................................      16
C.   Detailed Features .          ............... ................        17
D.   Project Cost .......         ..............................          24
E.   Fínancing            ........................................        24
F.   Procurement ........         ..............................          26
G.   Disbursements .......          .............................         26
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................                    28
A.   Project Administration .....          ......................         28
B.   On-Lending Procedures and Conditions ..........          ...         32
C.   Accounts and Audits .           .............................        33
D.   Monitoring and Evaluation             . .        ...........         34
E.   Progress Reporting ...............................                   34
VI.    TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS ................................                   34
VII.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES ......................                   36
A.   Production .......................................                   36
B.   Marketing ........................................                   37
C.   Prices ..........          .................................         39
This project was appraised in June/July 1978 by a mission consisting of
Messrs. K.H. Ochs, A.H. Uhlig, and F. Miyanaga (Bank), M. Hassid (FAO/CP),
A.O. Ballantyne and J.P. Kahla (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without Worid Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VIII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .................................             39
A.   Sub-Borrowers' Benefits and Financial
Rates of Return ....................                     39
B.  1-roject Cash Flow ..................................        42
IX.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .......................................        4?
A.   Economic Benefits ..................................        42
B.   Economic Rate of Return ............................    44
C.   Project Risks ......................................    45
D.   Impact on Environment ............................          46
X.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ..    46
ANNEXES
1.   Tables
1    -    Balance Sheet of FG (As at December 31) .... ......        49
2    -    Income and Expenditure Accounts of FG
(Years Ending December 31) .......................         50
3    -    Balance Sheet of BNF (As at December 31) .........          51
4    -    Income and Expenditure Accounts of BNF
(Year Ending December 31) ........................         52
5    -    BNF Component - Project Area .....................         53
6    -    Model I:  6,000 ha Breeding/Fattening Ranch in the
Chaco Area - Investment and Operating Costs   ......       54
7    -    Model I:  6,000 ha Breeding/Fattening Ranch in the
Chaco Area - Herd Projection ....       .................  55
8    -    Model I:  6,000 ha Breeding/Fattening Ranch in the
Chaco Area - Financial Analysis ....      ..............   56
9    -    Model II:  800 ha Breeding/Fattening Ranch in Eastern
Paraguay - Investment and Operating Costs   ......       57
10    -    Model II:  800 ha Breeding/Fattening Ranch in Eastern
Paraguay - Herd Projection ....      .................   58
11    -    Model II:  800 ha Breeding/Fattening Ranch in Eastern
Paraguay - Financial Analysis ....      ..............   59
12    -    Model III: 50-ha Beef/Dairy Farm in Eastern Paraguay -
Investment and Operating Costs ....      ...............   60
13    -    Model III: 50-ha Beef/Dairy Farm in Eastern Paraguay -
Herd Projection ..................................         61
14    -    Model III:  50-ha Beef/Dairy Farm - Financial Analysis   62
15    -    Cost of One Drilling - Rig Unit for the Purchase by
Contractor  .....................................        63
16    -    Model IV:  20-ha Mixed Farm - Investment and
Operating Costs ................................         64
17    -    Model IV:  20-ha Mixed Farm - Quantity and Value
of Production ..................................         65



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
18   -   Model IV:  20-ha Mixed Farm - Herd Projection  .....     66
19   -   Model IV:  20-ha Mixed Farm - Fínancial Analysis ..      67
20   -   Model V:  10-ha Farm - Investment and Operating Costs   68
21   -   Model V:  10-ha Farm - Quantity and Value of Production  69
22   -   Model V:  10-ha Farm - Financial Analysis .........      70
23   -   Feeder Roads Component - Name and Length of Roads
to be Constructed and Improved ..    ................  71
24   -   Feeder Roads Component - Design Standards for
Construction and Improvement of Feeder Roads  ....   73
25   -   Feeder Roads Component - Equipment Procurement  ....     74
26   -   Feeder Roads Component - Civil Works Cost Estimates
and Project Financing .................. .........   75
27   -   Investment Cost of the Completion of
Wholesale Market ................................    76
28   -   Cost of Administrative Support ....................      77
29   -   Technical Assistance Costs ........................      78
30   -   Project Cost Phasing .............. .. ..............    79
31    -   Financing Plan ....................................     80
32   -   Financial Performance of the Municipality
of Asuncion            ..........  81
33   -   Financial Analysis of Wholesale Market Component ..      82
34   -   Project Cash Flow for FG and BNF ..................      83
35   -   Economic Analysis    .................................   84
2.  List of Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File     85
MAPS
IBRD Nos. 13792 - Location of Project Area and Rainfall
13857 - Location of Caaguazu
13858 - Location of Mallorquin






PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agriculture in the Economy
1.01      Agriculture dominates the Paraguayan economy and is likely to
continue to do so for the foreseeable future, basically because of the
country's sizeable agricultural potential, its lack of most other natural
resources except hydroelectric power, the limited size of the domestic market,
and its landlocked position.
1.02      Agriculture's contribution to employment and GDP has remained fairly
constant over the last decade. Two-thirds of the total population of 2.9 mil-
lion are classified as rural and about half find a livelihood in agriculture,
including livestock and forestry. About 65% of the rural population are
estimated to have a per capita income below the poverty level.  In 1977 the
agricultural sector contributed about 33% to GDP of which 18% originated in
the crop subsector, 11% in liívestock and 4% in forestry. Wíth the exception
of wheat, some dairy products, tobacco and potatoes, Paraguay is self-sufficient
in agricultural products. In the aggregate, the sector meets some 80% of the
domestic demand and provides, in addition, about 95% of the country's total
merchandise exports.
1.03      Between 1973 and 1977, the agricultural GDP at constant market
prices has been growing at an average annual rate of about 7%. The average
annual growth of the crop subsector was about 9%, mainly on account on the
expansion of cotton and soybeans. The corresponding rates for livestock and
forestry are 5% and 7%, respectively. Within agriculture, crops account for
53% of the sector product; livestock, for 35%; and forestry for 12%.
B. General Characteristics
Area and Land Use
1.04      With an area of 406,750 km  (Map No. 13792) and a population of some
2.9 million at the end o2 1977, Paraguay has an average population density
of only about 7.1 per km . In 1972, only an estimated 4% of the area was
utilized for crop production and 38% for ranching, while 56% was covered by
forest and bushland and some 2% was urban or wasteland. However, the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) estimates 22% of Paraguay's land as suited
to crop production and about 73% to ranching. Thus, there is a substantial
potential for expanding crop and livestock production.



-2-
Main Agricultural Regions
1.05      The Paraguay River divides the country into two distinct regions:
the flat and poorly drained Western Region, or Chaco, with high temperatures
and relatively low and variable rainfall (about 700 mm per year), and the
more humid Eastern Paraguay, with generally well distributed rainfall of
about 1,500 mm per year and flat to rolling topography. The Chaco, subje t
to recurrent droughts and comprising about 60% of the country (247,000 km ),
is sparsely populated and covered with semi-arid tropical forest and rangeland,
which, under present conditions, has little alternative use to extensive cattle
raising. I1 contrast, Eastern Paraguay, covering about 40% of the country
(160,000 km ), contains about 90% of the total population, produces almost all
the crops and timber, and supports about 60% of the national cattle herd. It
also contains almost all of the 7-8 million ha of unexploited lands which are
considered suitable for crop production.
Land Tenure
1.06      Land distribution in Paraguay is uneven and reflects the pronounced
differences in the natural endowment and land use of Eastern and Western
Paraguay and the incipient infrastructure development in the peripherical
regions of the country. Of the about 165,000 farms (160,000 in Eastern
Paraguay and 5,000 in Chaco), an estimated 4% have more than 100 ha and 61%
less than 10 ha. Some 60% of the farms under 10 ha are located south of
Asuncion in the "minifundia" zone, which covers less than 4% of the country.
About two-thirds of the larger holdings are located in the Chaco and one-third
in the Eastern Region. Most are devoted to forestry or extensive ranching
because of poor natural endowment and/or lack of market accessibility resulting
from poor infrastructure.
1.07      To cope wíth the problem of "minifundismo" (farms of about 5 ha or
less) and to extend the agricultural frontier, the Government enacted an
Agrarian Statute in 1962 and established in 1963 the Institute for Rural
Welfare (IBR) as an autonomous agency under MAG to deal with all aspects of
land tenure, land reform and settlement. The Agrarian Statute makes provision
for: (a) the expropriation of portions of holdings exceeding 10,000 ha in
Eastern Paraguay and 20,000 ha in the Chaco on which the value of permanent
improvements is less than 50% of the land value, (b) the prevention of further
fragmentation of "minifundia" farms and their amalgamation into viable units,
(c) colonization on both public and private land, and (d) regularization of
leasing and share-cropping arrangements and of the position of land occupants
without land titles ("squatters"). ILBR has concentrated on legalizing the
position of "squatters" and on establishing colonies for settlers coming
mainly from overcrowded `minifundia" areas and for Paraguayans returning from
Argentina and Brazil. Since its creation, IBR has established 250 publicly
sponsored colonies in the more fertile areas of Eastern Paraguay, involving
the settlement of over 40,000 families on potentially viable farm units on
over 2.8 million ha, primarily on unused state land, but also on private
land purchased (about 600,000 ha) or expropriated (about 30,000 ha) by IBR.
During the same period, another 17,000 families were settled on 0.7 million ha
under private colonization schemes approved by IBR. As a result of these



-3-
programs and IBR's titling activities, the number of farms under 10 ha has
decreased by 13% since 1963, and 65% of all farmers had titles to their land
in 1974 as compared to 43% in 1961.
Lívestock Subsector
1.08      Beef Production.  Existing cattle population had been estimated at
5.5 million head for 1977/78, and slaughterings range between 0.6 and 0.7
million head per year. Beef production in 1977 was about 90,000 tons, of
which about 70% was consumed internally. Low beef prices prevailing since
1974 may have led to a decrease in stock numbers to a level below 5.5 million.
1.09      Rangeland covers about 15.6 million ha, of which 60% are in the
Chaco and 40% in Eastern Paraguay. In Eastern Paraguay there are an estimated
3.3 million (stocking rate of 1.9 ha/head) head of cattle and in the Chaco,
2.2 million (4.3 ha/head). Ranch sizes vary significantly. While only
1% of all ranches have more than 750 cattle per ranch and control about
55% of the country's cattle population, 90% have less than 50 head and own
only about 25% of the country's cattle. About three-quarters of the livestock
producers owning more than 20 head of cattle are also engaged in crop farming.
1.10      Beef production is carried out almost exclusively as an extensive,
low cost/low productivity system based on producing steers and cull cows on
natural rangeland with minimum investments. Since 1963, however, increased
financial assistance has strengthened the industry by providing credit for
ranch improvement. Traditionally, most ranches combine breeding and fattening,
but in recent years an increasing number of feeder steers is being sold to the
higher rainfall areas in Eastern Paraguay for finishing.
1.11      Livestock productivity is low, mainly because of extensive manage-
ment methods and poor nutrition, particularly in the Chaco where pastures
are subject to droughts. As a result, heifers are usually not mated before
the age of 3.0 to 3.5 years, steers are marketed at 3.5 to 4.5 years at an
average liveweight of only about 400 kg, average extraction rates are not more
than about 15%, and weaning rates range as low as 35 to 50%. While low
weaning rates in Eastern Paraguay are largely attributed to low intake of
minerals, the low rates in the Chaco seem to be due mainly to poor management
and the presence of screw-worms, causing hígh calf mortaiity. However, with
good soil and good management, a few ranchers reach weaning rates of up to
70%, which proves that output can be increased substantially.
1.12      Apart from brucellosis, there are no serious animal health problems.
Other main cattle diseases are internal and external parasites, rabies, foot-
and-mouth disease, anthrax, blackleg, and tuberculosis. As a result of a
nationwide foot-and-mouth disease campaign carried out since 1970, outbreaks
of the disease have been rare. While commercial ranchers usually apply adequate
treatments, the bulk of the smaller lívestock owners provide virtually no
veterinary care to their herds. Government is therefore planning to combine
the foot-and-mouth disease campaign with a vaccination program for brucellosis,
tuberculosis and rabies (para 1.33).



- 4 -
1.13      The genetic potential of Paraguayan cattle is adequate for exten-
sive grazing operations but it can be improved by crossing the local criollo
breed with Zebu-type cattle (basically Nellore and Brahman). With good manage-
ment, this practíce has resulted in signíficantly increased carcass weights
and reduced slaughter age.
1.14      Dairy Production.  Milk production, which was around 85,000 tons in
1970, reached 124,000 tons in 1976. It is heavily relying on purchased feed
concentrates. Dairying is being expanded around Ciudad Presidente Stroessner
and Encarnacion for fresh milk and the Chaco for cheese production. Milk is
produced mainly on farms of less than 50 ha and about 70% of dairy farms have
less than 25 milk cows. Pure-bred dairy cows (usually Holstein-Friesian)
produce about 2,000 liters of milk per year, while criollo cows yield around
350 liters per year and cross-breds 800 to 1,200 liters.
1.15      Despite relatively good prices for milk, production is growing
slowly and is not keeping pace with domestic demand, mainly because of the
high cost of concentrate feed and poor management. Rowever, the Mennoníte
colonies in the Chaco have developed a cheap milk production system based on
'Buffel" grass pasture, hay and silage, using little or no concentrate feed.
1.16      Pig Production.  With few exceptions, pig production is carried out
by small farmers as a subsidiary activity. In 1976, close to 1 million pigs
were slaughtered and pork production reached 80,000 tons of carcass weight.
Pigs are generally marketed at 100 to 150 kg liveweight reflecting a consumer
preference for lard. Semí-extensive raising methods prevail since concentrate
feed is costly.
1.17      Poultry Production.  About 20% of poultry production is accounted
for by commercial enterprises, with 10,000 to 20,000 birds each. Total annual
production, which was around 2,200 tons in 1972, increased to 2,800 tons in
1976 and egg production rose from 3.4 million in 1972 to 4.4 million in 1976.
Main producing areas are Mennonite and Japanese colonies and poultry farns
around Asuncion.
Crop Subsector
1.18      Crop production is concentrated in the central part of Eastern
Paraguay which provides about half of the country's crop output. Other
important crop producing areas are Itapua, Concepcion-San Pedro and Alto
Parana. The use of fertilizers and insecticides is still low despite substan-
tial increases during the last 10 years. It is estimated that only about 10%
of the farmers apply about 10,000 tons of fertilizers annually, mainly for
vegetables and, to a much less extent, for tobacco and soybeans.
1.19      Annual crops account for about two-thirds of the cultivated area,
the remainder being shared between permanent crops and improved pastures.
Commodities which have had the most dynamic growth between 1972 and 1976,
were soybeans (180% increase in quantity), cotton (160%), tobacco (70%),
maize (50%) and rice (26%).  The output of other crops remained more or
less at the same level. Production of major agricultural products in
1976 was as follows ('000 tons):



Soybeans           280           Sweet Potatoes         187
Cotton             105           Cassava                867
Maize              344           Wheat                   25
Rice                52           Sugarcane            1,440
C. Agricultural Marketing and Prices
1.20      In general, the market for agricultural products in Paraguay is
free of restrictive Governnent regulations, and prices are largely establíshed
in the miarket. In the absence of any significant concentration among market
agents, competition is strong except for isolated areas with poor infrastruc-
ture. Wheat is the sole product for which the Government guarantees a price.
Given the open economy, the market is influenced by market conditions abroad,
particularly in Argentina and Brazil, and domestic prices generally follow the
movement of world prices.
Marketing of Livestock Products
1.21      There is free movement of livestock from the producers to the
abattoirs or meat packing plants as Government controls are limited to
sanitary inspection of slaughtering facilities and to tax collection. The
only existing regulation is the quota for beef exports (200,000 cattle per
year), but it has not been relevant in the last three years because of
the low export volumes.
1.22      The marketing system for beef is reasonably adequate.  Existing
problems limiting its effectiveness relate mainly to difficult transportation
conditions (especially from the Chaco to Asuncion) and to an inadequate
price information system. To increase market transparency, and to facilitate
the development of specialized breeding and fattening operations, two cattle
auction markets were established in Asuncion, which account for about 25%
of all sales of feeder and breeding cattle in the country. At these markets,
animal health is controlled and cattle are graded for quality.
1.23      Roughly half of all slaughter cattle is sold through independent
cattle dealers and about one-third directly to abattoirs or meat packing
plants. Another 15% is sold to agents of the packing plants and the rest
represents on-farm consumption. Cattle for export are slaughtered in two
meat packing plants and those for domestic consumption in about 70 municipal
abattoirs and some private slaughtering facilities (belonging to groups of
farmers or cooperatives), which together process about 80% of total meat
production. At present, only two out of the 10 existing meat packing plants
are operating, partly because of the low international demand and prices and,
partly as a result of an apparently increasíng and unrecorded export of live
cattle to Brazil. As of 1977, MAG required all slaughtering facilities to
meet minimum hygienic standards and, as a result, 60 of the municipal abattoirs
were temporarily closed. The Municipal Development Institute, with the finan-
cial support of USAID, is assisting in their rehabilitation.



-6-
1.24      The marketing system for pigs, poultry and dairy products is little
developed, largely because of the small quantities which enter commercial
channels.  Although milk production grew considerably (para 1.14), the increase
was not sufficient to satisfy local demand, and around 3,000 tons of powdered
milk have been imported annually over the past years. There are two dairy
plants in Asuncion with a daily capacity of 30,000 liters that are working
at only 20 to 25% of capacity because of competition from the raw milk market-
ing system and from milk powder imports, and as a result of a narrow domestic
market for processed milk and organizational as well as technical problems in
the plants.
Marketing_~f Crops
1.25      Farmers sell their products mainly to intermediaries and, to a
lesser extent, through cooperatives to wholesalers. Intermediaries, usually
merchants or truckers, purchase farm products within their localities and
frequently use secondary agents to contact farmers in their area. They
are mostly small-scale operators with limited operating capital and handling
and processíng know-how and generally with only rudimentary storage facílities.
A few cooperatives and groups of farmers, organized relatively recently to
obtain agricultural services and to improve marketing, have succeeded in
selling their produce directly to wholesalers, exporters or retailers. The
extent of such vertical integration is still limited but the planned estab-
lishment of specialized wholesale markets in the country's major consumption
centers (Asuncion, Ciudad Pres. Stroessner and Encarnacion) is expected to
facilitate the access mainly of producers of fruits and vegetables in areas
surrounding these centers.
1.26      There is a strong export demand for soybeans, cotton, tobacco, and
maize. Soybean exports increased from 12,000 m tons in 1971 to 241,000 m tons
in 1977, and cotton fiber exports increased from 2,900 m tons in 1971 to 58,800
tons in 1977. Tobacco and maize exports amounted to 27,500 m tons and 12,000
m tons in 1976, respectively. Production of vegetables and crops for domestic
consumption has also increased slightly in recent years and meets the growing
domestic demand.
Food Supply System for Asuncion
1.27      The existing marketing system for supplying Asuncion with agricul-
tural produce, especially fruits and vegetables, operates through six district
retail markets. There is no specialized wholesale market. One of the retail
markts, Market No. 4, which accounts for over 85 percent of the total retail
operation, also handles most of the wholesale trade. However, over the last
few years, this market has gone through a process of rapid and uncontrolled
expansion. Vendors have spread out from the market and taken up places on
several blocks of adjacent sidewalks and streets. Many retailers and whole-
salers (90% of the wholesalers are located outside the official premises of
Market No. 4) pay high rents to private shop owners. Around Market No. 4,
traffic has become congested, sales conditions are often unhygienic and
unsatisfactory. The Municipality of Asuncion has initiated a rehabilitation
program to rationalize the entire wholesale and retail market system. Retail



- 7 -
street vendors have been relocated into new facilities either in Market No. 4
or in private lots under municipal control. The Municipality also started
in 1973 the construction of a wholesale market on the outskirts of the city,
fínanced by its own resources. Construction of síx large buildings for
wholesale operations, as well as some ancillary facilities has been started
but the structures remain unfinished due to the shortage of funds. The
Municipality wishes to complete the construction of priority sections of
the wholesale market and transfer to them all the wholesale operations from
Market No. 4.  The reaction of the wholesaler   (by and large small-scale
operators using market space of about 20-30 m each) has been favorable to the
transfer.
Prices
1.28      Since 1968, agricultural commodity prices have increased steadily
in nominal terms. During the 1971-74 period, the input/output price relation-
ship turned against agriculture but a subsequent price increase has helped
stimulate output, particularly that of export products (paras 7.07 and 7.08).
D. Agricultural Services
Institutional Framework
1.29      The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) is responsible for
policy formulation and administration of support services to agriculture.
Within MAG, the Department of Agricultural and Forestry Research and Extension
is the main operational department. It includes seven units, among which the
most important are: (a) the National Agricultural and Livestock Extension
Service (SEAG); (b) the Division of Agricultural Research; (c) the National
Seed Program; and (d) the National Program for Livestock Research and Extension
(PRONIEGA). The Department of Agricultural Education operates six regional
centers at the high school level.
Agricultural Extension Services
1.30      SEAG staff numbers 204 persons, about 150 of whom operate through
76 distriet offices, 75 in Eastern Paraguay and one in the Chaco. SEAG is
orienting its extension activities to small farmers through groups of farmers,
including women's clubs and rural youth clubs.
1.31      The quality of SEAG staff is generally adequate, although most of
its field officers have limited experience and training. Due to organizational
weaknesses and shortage in logistical support, the field staff's effectiveness
is limited. As a result, SEAG assisted only about 12% of Paraguay's 96,000
small farmers in 1977. To improve its services and coverage, SEAG would need
to decentralize its administrative and decision-making system, provide more
adequate staff development policies, define a more rational vehicle-use and
staff housing system, and increase operatíng funds substantially.



The National Animal Health Service (SENACSA)
1.32      SENACSA, an autonomous organization funded by MAG, the University
of Asuncion and the Rural Association of Paraguay, is receiving IDB support,
and its operating budget is supported to a large extent by taxes levied on
slaughter cattle and on vaccines.
1.33      SENACSA operates through eight field offices and 26 regional offices.
It has a staff of 227, including 57 veterinarians and 11 assistant veterinarians,
of whom, 35 and 11, respectively, are working in the field. SENACSA confines
its activities to the supervision and control of vaccination campaigns carried
out by private veterinarians and by farmers/ranchers themselves (para. 1.12).
Agricultural Research
1.34      The National Agronomic Institute, the Regional Center for Agricul-
tural Research, and the Agricultural Colleges at the University of Asuncion
focus on crop research, with particular emphasis on export crops and wheat,
while PRONIEGA and the School of Veterinary Sciences at the University of
Asuncion carry out livestock and pasture research.
1.35      About 170 technicians are engaged in agricultural research.  The
academic background of research staff is relatively limited, and any significant
expansion of research would require expatriate technical assístance. Research
is also handicapped by lack of facilities and operating funds.
Agricultural Education and Training
1.36      Agricultural training is províded by:  (a) the National Vocational
Training Service (SNPP); (b) eight secondary agricultural schools; and (c) the
Colleges of Veterinary Sciences and Agronomy at the University of Asuncion.
SNPP is providing training in various agricultural areas, particularly farm
machinery. Secondary agricultural schools turn out 120 to 140 graduates every
year; the Colleges of Veterinary Sciences and Agronomy maintain relatively
high standards and produce about 40 agronomists and 40 to 50 veterinarians per
year. The majority of the agronomists and about half of the veterinarians are
employed by Government.
Agricultural Statistics
1.37      Available agricultural statistical information gives no adequate
picture about the quantitative and qualitative features of the country's
agriculture. The last census was taken in 1956 and the coverage of the
information gathered since then is limited and does not fully capture the
growth and structural changes which took place in the sector over the last
two decades. To improve and update the knowledge about the sector, MAG plans
for 1980 an agricultural census and the establishment of a continuous system
of collecting agricultural statistics on an annual basis for inter-census
years which is also expected to greatly improve the data base for agricultural
policy definition and investment planning.



E. Government's Agricultural Development Strategy
1.38      The general objectives of Government's agricultural development
strategy as presented in the National Plan for Economic and Social Development
are to: (a) increase production and productivity; (b) improve the livelihood
of the rural population; and (c) rationalize the use of agricultural resources.
For the livestock sub-sector, those objectives would be reached through more
efficient utilization of pastoral resources as a result of better extension and
animal health services, improved applied research, genetie improvement of
herds and better capitalization of livestock enterprises. In the crop sub-
sector, priority is given to the development of small- and medium-size farms
through the provision of improved extension services, infrastructure and
credit facílities, to the consolidation of existing land settlement schemes,
and to new settlements in the more productive eastern areas for expanding the
agricultural frontier.
II. PERFORMANCE OF PREVIOUS BANK/IDA-FINANCED PROJECTS
Livestock Projects
2.01      Since 1963 the Bank Group has extended five credits/loans totalling
US$29.7 million to help finance four livestock credit projects with a total
cost of US$55.5 million. The first three projects have been completed and
the closing date for the fourth is scheduled for February 28, 1979.
2.02      The first two projects, IDA Credit 47-PA (US$3.6 million) and IDA
Credit 86-PA (US$7.5 million), extended 222 and 490 subloans respectively
to assist in the development of large commercial ranches. Their focus was on
improving basic ranch infrastructure, principally fencing, watering and stock
handling facilities, and the purchase of some improved breeding stock. The
third project, IDA Credit 156-PA (US$4.3 million) and Bank Loan 620-PA (US$4.3
million), financed similar investments on 630 large ranches, but placed greater
emphasis on pasture improvement, purchase of breeding stock to allow more rapid
expansion of herds, and provision of more skilled and intensive technical
assistance. Ninety-seven percent of investments were made for basic ranch
infrastructure in the first project, 62% in the second and 38% in the third.
From less than 1% in the first project, the share of financing for pasture
improvement increased to 10% in the second and to 21% in the third.
2.03      Farm development plans under the three projects were made for
1,350 large ranches and three cooperatives composed of 234 members. A total
of nearly 10 million ha (about two-thirds of the country's area), carrying
about 2.5 million cattle (about half of the national cattle herd), is con-
trolled by farmers/ranchers participating under the three projects, and some
90,000 ha of pasture were improved, mainly in Eastern Paraguay. The average
size of subloans has been close to US$20,000 for each of the projects. The
Project Performnce Audit Report (No. 1991) of the Third Livestock Project,
dated March 28, 1978, indicates, however, that increases in beef production
and in productivity had probably fallen short of the projections made at



- 10 -
appraisal, wíth weaning rates of about 50% instead of 70% as projected,
basically because of (a) inefficient ranch management, reflecting absentee
ownership and remoteness of many ranches; (b) inadequate technical assistance
to sub-borrowers; and (c) to a lesser degree, failure to diffuse tropical
legumes as the basis for improved pastures.
2.04      The Fourth Livestock Project, Bank Loan 1037-PA (US$10.0 million),
continued to support long-term investments for large ranches in basic infra-
structure, pasture improvement and purchase of improved breeding stock, but
earmarked 14% of total subloan proceeds for small livestock farms operating
individually or as cooperatives. Altogether, 670 large ranches, 190 indivi-
dual small farms and 360 cooperative small farms received subloans under the
project. The project also provided for decentralization of the Livestock
Fund's (FG) management by establishing three field offices.
2.05      At the time of appraisal of the proposed project (June 1978), the
three field offices were fully operational. Subloan disbursements amounted
to 84.6% of total loan proceeds and all subloan funds had been committed.
While the number of sub-borrowers in the Chaco was below appraisal forecasts,
the participation in the Eastern Region was higher than expected, reflecting
the more favorable ecological, infrastructural and marketing conditions in the
East.
2.06      While the average size of the large farms participating in the
Fourth Livestock Project was about 30% smaller than forecast at appraisal,
small farms were about three times the size expected at appraisal. As a
consequence, subloans for larger farms are about 20% lower than projected and
those for smaller farms are about 40% higher.  Project participants invested
more than expected in watering facilitíes, fencing and pasture improvement,
but less in breeding stock and buildings and stock-handling facilities.
Ninety-one percent of the lending program went to beef ranches; about 6% to
beef/dairy farms; and 1% each to dairy, poultry and pork enterprises.
2.07      While the physical implementation of the farm/ranch investment
programs under the Fourth Livestock Project is generally well conceived
and of good standard, only insignificant improvements in off-take rates have
been achieved, as weaning rates are still only around 50%, with only a few
ranches with particularly good soil and management reaching 65% to 70%.
Project-induced production and profits are, therefore, likely to remain
below appraisal forecasts until there is substantial improvement in ranch
and herd management.
Agricultural and Rural Development
2.08      The Bank has financed three agricultural operations in Paraguay thus
far. The first loan (US$5.0 míllion) was made in 1951 to support the import
of agricultural supplies and equipment; the second, IDA Credit 509-PA (US$11.0
million), effective since April 1975, finances a US$15.8 million Small Farmer
Credit and Rural Development Project along the East-West Highway (Eastern
axis); the third, Loan 1418-PA (US$22.0 million), is supporting a US$42.8
million Second Rural Development Project, co-financed by the Kredítanstalt
fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) and UNDP, in the southeastern part of the Itapua
Department. While the third project became effective only in January 1978,
Credit 509-PA is expected to be completed in June 1979.



2.09      The 509-PA project aimed at raising agricultural production and
living standards in three IBR settlements. It includes financing of on-farm
investments and incremental working capital for about 2,500 small farmers;
the construction of 36 km of all-weather roads and 250 km of earth roads,
18 primary schools, two health centers (plus the purchase of equipment for a
third), and three community centers; 25 vehicles for technical staff; and a
Project Coordinator.
2.10      Despite initial problems caused by delays in land titling, manage-
ment changes at the National Development Bank (BNF), and staffing problems
until September 1976, the project has made good progress. At the end of July
1978 (11 months before project completion), 2,002 long-term subloans had been
committed, amounting to US$5.2 million, as compared to appraisal estimates
calling for 2,000 subloans, amounting to US$5 million. During the same
period, 3,303 short-term loans were approved for a total of US$1.5 miliíon, as
compared to appraisal estimates of 2,000 subloans, amounting to US$2.7 million.
Because of the lower than expected demand for short-term credit, US$1.0
million earmarked for short-term lending was reallocated for long-term lending.
Full commitment of all credit funds is expected by end 1978. The composition
of on-farm investments shows that farmers invested more than expected in
buildings, farm structures and land clearing but less in machinery, equipment,
draft animals and the establishment of permanent crops, including improved
pastures (-48%). Crop financing was mainly for cotton (50%), maize (19%), and
soybeans and cassava (13% each). Up to míd-1978, mainly short-term loans had
to be collected and BNF's recovery performance was good, amounting to almost
98% in 1977.
2.11      Since the start of the project, 1,800 land titles have been distri-
buted, representing about 90% of appraisal estimates, and the construction of
schools, health centers and community centers is progressing satisfactorily.
However, road construction is behind schedule since only about three-quarters
of the earth roads (192 km), 14% of the all-weather roads (5 km), 22% of the
culverts and 15% of the bridges had been completed by end July 1978.
2.12      It is too early to determine the full impact of the project but
it is expected that the project is succeeding in meeting its principal objec-
tives. It is estimated that about 5,000 ha of forest were cleared and 6,000
ha were destumped and that an incremental amount of about 13,000 tons of
cotton and 1,400 tons of soybeans were produced under the project.
2.13      The production support measures provided by the project, including
the provision of expatriate technical assistance under UNDP-financing, resulted
in an appreciable improvement in the quality of extension and credit services
and the establishment of 20 farmer committees, including a cooperative. The
important agricultural agencies (the National Development Bank (BNF), SEAG
and IBR) are now well established in the project areas, and a committee
consisting of representatives of the three agencies is effectively coordinating
their activities at the field level. The inter-ministerial coordination at
the Government level expected from the National Council for Social Progress
(CNPS) has, however, been less satisfactory.



- 12 -
III. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
General
3.01      The Central Bank (CB) controls the lending institutions within a
conservative policy frame and obliges the banking system to have at least
50% of the portfolio in the following activities: (a) industry (25%);
(b) export (20%); and (c) agriculture (5%).
3.02      Institutional credit to agriculture is provided by:  (a) the Live-
stock Fund (FG), the principal source of long-term credit to the livestock
sub-sector; (b) the state-owned National Development Bank (BNF), the most
important source of credit to the agricultural sector; (c) 15 cominercial banks
and one private development corporation; (d) the state-owned Small Farmer
Credit Agency (CAH); and (e) savings and loan associations affiliated to
Credicoop.
3.03      Commercial bank lending to agriculture is primarily short term and
highly selective. In 1977, loans extended for crop production amounted to
about US$16 million (BNF: US$41 million) and those for livestock production
to US$19 million (BNF: US$3 million; and FG: US$9 million). CAH is a small
farmer credit agency within MAG which provides short-term credit to members
of farmers' associations who are not eligible for other institutional credit
at an interest rate of 8% per annum, plus a 1% commission at disbursement.
From 1971/72 to 1977/78, loan disbursements increased from US$0.1 million
to 161 members of 100 associations to US$1.9 million to 4,360 members of
180 associations. Credicoop has been established with USAID support and
comprises 49 savings and loan associations, out of which 27 are rural, grouping
8,200 farmers. These associations provide short-term loans to farmers at 16%
per annum, the intermediate rate charged by Credicoop being 10%. In 1977,
Credicoop extended US$0.9 million to 2,050 farmers.
Livestock Fund (FG)
3.04      FG was established by Goverrunent Decree in September 1969 as an
entity with full legal personality under the jurisdiction of the CB. It has
the exclusive responsibility to administer all the funds of the four Bank/IDA-
financed livestock projects.
3.05      Organization and Management.  FG is managed by a Coordinating
Committee consisting of a senior representative of CB as Chairman, a
representative of BNF, and the FG Technical Director. It is headquartered
in Asuncion and has branches in Concepcion, San Ignacio and Ciudad Presidente
Stroessner. FG has a staff of 72, including 23 veterinarians and 10 agro-
nomists. While the quality of FG technicians is generally good, there are
few staff members with adequate banking and financial experience.
3.06      Accounts and Audit.  Basic accounts are well kept.  However, there
is a need to allocate income and expenditures according to programs, to
improve the management information system and to establish auxiliary accounts
for recording líabilities in foreign currencies. Accounts are audited by the
Superintendency of Banks under the CB's jurisdiction.



3.07      Lending Policies.  Loans have been traditionally directed to large
ranchers, but under the Fourth Livestock Project efforts have been made
to reach smaller farmers. Bank-fínanced subloans cover up to 75% of the
investment costs of large farmers and 85% of those of smaller farmers.
Subloans are repayable over a maximum of 12 years, including a grace period
of up to four years, and bear interest at a minimum of 6% on the capital,
adjusted annually on the basis of the general consumer price index. FG has,
in practice, not adjusted outstanding subloan principals to the full extent
of inflation but by charging an interest rate of 10% on che partially adjusted
principal has, in effect, charged a higher rate than would have resulted from
full adjustment of principal and the minimum interest rate of 6% as stipulated.
3.08      In addition, FG finances purchases of breeding stock and feeder
steers and retention of breeding stock through complementary loans with the
proceeds of "roll-over" funds from former Bank/IDA-financed livestock projects
at a rate of 12% per annum, plus a 2% commission, repayable over a maximum
period of five years, including a grace períod of up to three years.
3.09      Lending Procedures.  Lending procedures are reasonably good for
large ranchers but are rather cumbersome for smalí farmers as all decisions
are taken in Asuncion where loan agreements are formalized. There is room
for decentralization of subloan evaluation and approval, once the number
of subloans to small farmers increases. Deficíencies have been observed in
subloan appraisal, especially ín assessing the financial and technical capacity
of borrowers. A consultant is presently assisting the FG in iíproving its
monitoring system and its subloan evaluation procedures.
3.10      Collection Performance.  Recovery rates of principal were only 76%
for Bank loans and 58% for complementary loans between 1973 and 1976, but
they improved to 85% and 74%, respectively, in 1977 as the result of a more
stringent collection policy by FG and an increase in beef prices toward the
end of that year.
3.11      Financial Position.  Tables 1 and 2 in Annex 1 give the actual
and projected financial situation of FG. FG has a good liquidity position
and its main sources of funds consist of borrowings from IDA/Bank (US$29.7
millíon) and its own equity of US$8.1 million, FG's equity has increased
through Government contributions, accumulated surpluses and adjustments on the
indexed loan amounts outstanding under the Fourth Livestock Project. The
debt/equity ratio of 3.8:1 in 1977 is good and financial and administrative
costs are low: net profit, amounting to US$1.6 million, represents 4.6% of
the average portfolio in 1977.
3.12      Technical Impact.  Adopting a highly cost-conscious approach in its
operation, FG has given low priority to the training of staff and the hiring
of external consultants and has kept its technical assistance activities to
a minimum. As a result, and in the absence of adequate alternative sources
of technical assistance to the livestock subsector, many of the investments
financed by FG have fallen short of fully achieving the expected production
and productivity gains. Corrective measures would be taken under the proposed
project (para 5.02).



- 14 -
National Development Bank (BNF)
3.13      BNF is a Government-owned autonomous entity, established in 1961,
to provide credit for agriculture, livestock, forestry, industry and commerce.
Agricultural lending is its most important activity, representing 62% of
net portfolio whereas the industrial and commercial loans represent 27%
and 11%, respectively. Until 1976, its participation in a wide range of
activities, particularly in financing many unsound investments and costly
small agricultural loans, resulted in serious losses, low loan recovery rates
and a weak financial position. To rehabilitate the institution, the Government
appointed a new management in 1976, and an overall rehabilítation plan was
worked out and is being implemented within the framework of the Bank-supported
Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1419-PA). This loan became effective in
January 1978 after the Government increased BNF's capital by US$10.3 million.
The first tranche of the Bank loan (US$4.0 million) is being disbursed, and,
as provided for under the Loan, the second tranche (US$5.75 million) is to be
released after December 31, 1978, provided that (i) BNF's adminístrative costs
were reduced to at least 5.4% of the average portfolio, (íí) the yield on new
loans are increased to at least 13% p.a., (iii) a financial management unit is
established, and (iv) all necessary actions specified in BNF's Debt Recovery
Plan are taken. BNF has substantially met the first three conditions. As
regards the fourth condition, BNF has taken most of the actions of the agreed
Debt Recovery Plan in so far as it has (i) prepared a satisfactory debt recovery
manual, (ii) established a Portfolio Coordinating Committee to overview the
debt collection activities and (iii) recovered loans in arrears amounting to
0 420 million, including 37 large loans, with arrears of more than 5 2 million
each as of December 31, 1976. Total arrears over the outstanding portfolio
(20.2%) are, however, still significantly above the 15% target established in
the Debt Recovery Plan. The Bank's Industrial Credit Project is supported by
a UNDP technical assistance program which finances 124 man-months of consultancy
services (para 3.15).
3.14      Organization and Management.  BNF is governed by an administrative
council composed of a president and seven members appointed by the President
of the Republic. BNF headquarters consist basically of three operational
departments (development, agriculture and commerce), supported by four service
departments. To improve subloan recovery performance, a Coordinating Comnmittee
was established in July 1978, including the managers of the three operational
departments and the Administration Department. BNF has 41 branches, the majority
being located in the southeast. BNF staff was reduced from 985 to 815 between
December 1976 and December 1977 and the ratio of staff allocated to the head
office and branches changed from 6:4 to 5:5. Within the head office, the
three operational departments increased their share of total staff from 27% to
44%, while the share of administrative staff has declined from 73% to 56%.
3.15      UNDP Technical Assistance.  This program, for which the Bank is the
executing agency, aims to improve financial management, particularly programming
and budgeting; the accounting system, especially the establishment of a cost
accounting system; personnel management; and agricultural credit operations.
Two of the UNDP long-term consultants have started their activities, and three
more long-term consultants (including an agricultural credit adviser for
agricultural loan planning and programming for 10 months) as well as short-term
consultants are expected to be recruited shortly.



- 15 -
3.16      Accounting and Information System.  The present system produces
statements which are often distorted and delayed.  Therefore, a UNDP technical
assistance consultant visited BNF in June 1978 to review and evaluate BNF's
computer center operations, including adequacy of equipment, software, data
files and organízation, and made recommendatíons for improvement, whích are
being implemented. Auditing is the responsibility of the Superintendency of
Banks and a private auditing firm acceptable to the Bank.
3.17      Lending Policies and Procedures.  BNF operates under a general policy
statement, prepared in the context of the Bank-financed Industrial Credit
Project. The Agricultural Department has basically three programs: (a) the
Agricultural Enterprises Program, financed maínly with foreign bank loans and
suppliers' credit; (b) the "Programa de Promocion Agropecuario," financed
since 1963 by four IDB loans; and (c) the credit schemes included in the Small
Farmer Credit and Rural Development and Second Rural Development Projects,
financed by IDA/Bank (Credit 509-PA and Loan 1418-PA). Short-term loans are
repayable 60 days after the harvest and long-term loans over a period not
exceeding 10 years, including a maximum grace period of four years. The
borrower s contribution is usually 30% but reduced to 10% for small- and
medium-size farmers. Loans may not exceed 50% of the value of a chattel
mortgage (required for short- and medium- term loans) and 60% of the value of
a land mortgage (required for long-term loans). Interest rates were fixed
in the IDA-financed Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project at a
mínimum rate of 12% per annum, but, under the Second Rural Development Project
and the Industrial Credit Project, BNF has agreed to raise the average yíeld
on all new loans to a minimum of 13% by the end of 1978.
3.18      Lending Operations.  In 1977, the BNF Agricultural Department approved
loans amounting to US$35.7 million, of which 53% went to small- and medium-síze
farmers and 47% to large farmers. About half of these loans were short term
and the rest medium- and long term.
3.19      Collection Performance.  Total arrears were reduced from 22.2% of the
portfolio in December 1976 to 20.2% in September 1978. Further improvement is
expected since BNF's loan collection office has been strengthened and better
planning, subloan appraisal, and training of staff have been made possible as
a result of the UNDP technical assistance program. BNF's collection performance
under the credit component of the Small Farmers and Rural Development Project
supported by the Bank has been excellent (para 2.10).
3.20      Financial Position.  Tables 3 and 4 in Annex 1 give the actual and
projected financial statements of BNF. For the first time, BNF made an
operational surplus of US$1.2 million in 1977, which, with the reintegration
of provision for bad debts, gave a net surplus of US$4.9 million and was used
to reduce accumulated losses of the Agricultural Department by US$2.3 million
and to increase the reserve of the Development Department by US$2.1 million.
Due to the highly seasonal demand for short-term agricultural loans, BNF faces
diffículty in maintaining a sufficient cash balance during the peak demand
period (para 4.25).
3.21      Sources of Funds.  BNF deposits increased from US$16.7 million to
US$48.4 million between 1973 and 1977. Deposits in December 1977 included
US$26.2 million of official deposits on which the CB requires a reserve of



- 16 -
100% (instead of 42% on other deposits) above an amount of deposits still to
be determined by the CB. The decision on the amount would affect BNF's
liquidity and its ability to províde counterpart funds for the proposed
project (para 4.25). In January 1978, CB advances, consisting of short-term
debts (US$5.8 million) and a long-term debt of US$23.5 milleon, were reduced
by US$3.4 and US$6.9 million, respectively, by a US$10.3 millíon Government
equity contribution. External borrowings stem from varíous multilateral and
bilateral financing agencies and foreign banks.  As of December 31, 1977,
about US$35 million of external loans were expected to be disbursed. Since
that time, BNF has been entitled to use the first tranche of the Bank's
Industrial Credit Project (US$4 million) and the loan proceeds of the Second
Rural Development Project with which associated financing will provide the
equivalent of about US$10 million. BNF is also expecting financing for a
Fourth Industrial Project from KfW (US$5 militon) and for a Fifth Agricultural
Credit Project from IDB (US$10 million). BNF's equity capital and reserves
have increased from US$10.3 militon in 1976 to US$23.8 militon in 1977 and
US$36.5 million as of May 1978, including the increase of capital of US$10.3
million made in January 1978. Amounts are also shown as due from Government
(US$11.9 million), representing agricultural losses transferred to Government
in accordance with Article 12 of the BNF law of establishment, but this
reimbursement is uncertain. If such accounts are treated as losses and the
equity reduced accordingly, the adjusted debt/equity ratio would be 7.0:1 in
May 1978 against 12.5:1 ín December 1977. Thus, the debt/equity ratio of
8.0:1 required for the release of the second tranche under the Industrial
Credit Project has been met.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
4.01      The Government of Paraguay has requested a Bank loan to help finance
a livestock and agricultural development project that would provide for
(a) long-term credit for on-farm/ranch investments for livestock and crop
production; (b) the construction, ímprovement and maintenance of feeder roads;
(c) the completion of the wholesale market in Asuncion; and (d) the related
technical assistance services. The project was identified by a four-man
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) missíon that visited Paraguay in
October 1977, and final project preparation was carried out by another four-man
FAO/CP missíon which visited Paraguay in February/March 1978 and submitted its
report in May 1978. Project appraisal took place from June 12 to July 7, 1978.
A Government request was received by the Bank subsequently for fínancial
assistance to implement the 1980 agricultural census.
B. Brief Description
4e02      The proposed project would assist in the pursuit of the Government's
development strategy (para 1.38) by increasíng agricultural production, produc-
tivity and income on about 940 livestock farms and some 3,000 mixed farms



through the provision of credit, technical assistance and feeder roads.
The project would also provide for the completion of a wholesale market in
Asuncion, which would facilitate the development of an improved food crop
marketing system by reducing produce spoilage and inner city transportation
problems and improving market transparency and market accessibility to producers.
In addition, the project would provide financial assistance for implementing
the 1980 agricultural census. About 80% of the beneficiaries from the ranch/
farm development program would be small farmers, pertaining, by and large, to
the target population. This beneficiary group would benefit from about half
of the funds provided under the project.
4.03      The investment credits would be provided to farmers and ranchers
on the basis of technically sound and financially viable farm/ranch develop-
ment plans.  About 3,940 subloans would be made over the three-year commitment
period, but, since most farm development plans require two-year investment
periods, the Bank loan would be disbursed over a four and a half-year period.
4.04      FG would be responsible for implementing the project's livestock
component, including the provision of credit and technical assistance to
livestock owners. The project's small mixed-farm development component would
be implemented by BNF, which would provide credit; MAG/SEAG, which would
provide extension services; and IBR, which would furnish land titles. The
Ministry of Public Works and Communication (MOPC) would carry out the project's
feeder roads programs. The completion of the wholesale market would be the
responsibility of a project unit (DAMA) under the Municipality of Asuncion and
the agricultural census would be implemented by MAG.
C. Detailed Features
The Project Area
4.05      The proposed livestock development program would extend over the
entire country. The area of the small mixed-farm development component would
be limited to 16 agricultural public and private colonies located halfway
between Asuncion and Ciudad Pres. Stroessner along highway 7 (Map No. 13792)
and include a total area of 240,000 ha and about 14,000 small farms. This
area comprises, in addition to the coloníes included in the Bank-assisted
Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project (Repatriacion, Stroessner
and Mallorquin), the neighboring colonies: Walter Isfran, La Fabril, Chaco
Re, San Miguel, Villa San Juan, Fine Grain, Toro Blanco, Capitan Cue,
Guyraungua and Yukury -- located around Caaguazu -- and Santa Teresa, Sapire
and Jose Domingo Campo -- located around Mallorquin (Maps No. 13857 and 13858
and Table 5, Annex 1).
4.06      Eight of the above colonies have been established by IBR and the
other eight coloníes by private land settlement companies. Settlers usually
received 8 to 30 ha to be paíd for, in the case of IBR, over a six-year
period at 12% interest per year with a one-year grace períod, and, in the
case of private land settlement companies, over a five-year period, also at
12% ínterest per year and a one-year period of grace. Although some of the
colonies began to be settied over 20 years ago, families have, on the average,



- 18 -
lived for about eight years on their farms and usually have come from the
minifundia areas surrounding Asuncion. Typically, the farmer and his wife
are around 40 years old and have four children. They líve in a pole-built
thatched house and draw water from their own or a neighbor's open well or
from a river. Their farm has about 4 to 5 ha of cleared but only partially
unstumped land on which they grow 2 to 3 ha of food crops (maize, manioc,
beans, some fruits and vegetables), cultivate 1 to 2 ha of cash crops like
cotton, soybeans and some tobacco, and raise a few chicken, ducks and pigs for
subsistence.  They have few personal possessions, but, from the annual family
cash income of US$500 to US$1,000, they have partially repaid their land loan
and some have bought a cow, a pair of oxen and some farm equipment and have
constructed a well. Cattle graze on unimproved pastures and uncleared land
and are also fed some surplus manioc.
Lívestock Development
4.07      The project would continue the development approach adopted by the
four previous Bank/IDA-financed livestock projects on a country-wide basis but
increasing the emphasis on lending to medium size breeding/fattening ranches
and small beef/dairy farms in Eastern Paraguay. The support for ranches in
the Chaco would aim at increasing productivity and production of large scale
ranching which, for ecological reasons, is the only viable form of utilizing
the relatively poor land sources of Western Paraguay. The objective of
assisting medium and small livestock farms in Eastern Paraguay, on the other
hand, is primarily to expand the agricultural frontier into this fertile part
of the country and to increase incomes through an expansion and intensification
of livestock production. Main on-farm/ranch investments to be financed would
include pasture improvement (including land clearing); fencing, watering and
stock handling facilitíes; and breeding stock. The project would aim to
secure better nutrition for breeding cattle, weaner calves and for cattle
finishing, and to build sufficient paddocks and stock handling facilities to
allow better herd control, including culling of infertile females, adoption of
seasonal breeding and early weaning, provision of better veterinary care, and
the like.  Priority would be given to the development of those farms/ranches
which require only supplementary investments to increase the productivity of
earlier investments in basic infrastructure and which have already adequate
management or agreed to hire such. To that effect, high priority would be
given to providing technical assistance to beneficiaries during and after the
implementation of the investment program.
4.08      Total development cost of all livestock farms/ranches would cover
investments in pasture establishment, including land clearing (50% of total
on-farm/ranch development costs); fencing and watering facilities (11% each),
breeding stock (20%); and constructing, for the 50-ha beef/dairy farns, simple
stores and milking parlors and providing some equipment (8%). As pasture
establishment, including land clearing, and the construction of farm/ranch
structures would be carried out by both contractors and farmers/ranchers
themselves, funds earmarked for this purpose would be disbursed for contractor
services as well as for the purchase by farmers/ranchers of necessary machinery
and equipment and for the payment of related operating costs.
4.09      Generally, the financing of ranches with little or no capital
investments (undeveloped start-up ranches), especially in the Chaco, is not
recommended under present price/cost relations except under partícularly
favorable conditions such as ranches in higher rainfall areas with owners



- 19
living at the ranch. The following three types of livestock enterprises would
be financed under the project.
4.10      Large Ranches in the Chaco wíth more than 2,500 ha (Model I).  Some
100 ranches, with an average of about 6,000 ha each, would receive financing
for supplementary investments, mainly fencing, water supply (usually small
dams), improved pastures, stock handling facilities and breeding stock
(Annex 1, Tables 6 to 8). Purchase of breeding stock would be subject to the
availability of sufficient and good quality forage and good management.
4.11      Medium-size Ranches in Eastern Paraguay with less than 2,500 ha
(Model II).  About 400 ranches, averaging some 800 ha each, would make invest-
ments similar to those described above (Annex 1, Tables 9 to 11). Optimum
utilization of improved pastures, particularly of those newly established in
fertile rain forest areas, would require the purchase of additional breeding
stock, and special attention would be given to feeding mineral licks to
compensate for deficiencies in essential minerals, especially phosphorous.
4.12      Small Livestock Farms with less than 250 ha (Model III).  About 440
small specialized livestock farms, averaging approximately 50 ha in size and
located mainly around the consumption centers of Asuncion, Ciudad Presidente
Stroessner, San Ignacio and Concepcion would, according to marketing outlets
available in their areas, be oriented toward semi-intensive or intensive
dairying, cattle fattening and semi-intensive pork production. Some land
settlement colonies, with about 60 farms each, which already have well-
established livestock production systems, are also expected to qualify for
this type of investment pattern. Particular emphasis would be given to devel-
opment of semi-intensive dairy operations, using dairy-type cattle crossed
with local breeds on improved pastures and feeding little or no concentrate
(Annex 1, Tables 12 to 14). Main items to be financed would be pasture
improvement; cattle and pig breeding stock; construction of simple milking
parlors, pig breeding and fattening facilities, and stores; fencing; water
supply; and farm equipment and tools.
4.13      Machinery Contractors.  While Paraguay's private sector provides
attractive suppliers' credits through BNF and directly to contractors for the
purchase of heavy machinery for land clearing and construction of dug-outs,
no such credit línes are available for the purchase of drilling rigs to provida
water facilíties for both men and cattle on farms and ranches, despite the
strong demand for such facilities. The project would provide finance for the
procurement by private contractors of up to two drilling rigs with compressor
and sludge pump to drill wells up to 250 m deep with diameters up to 12 inches,
accompanied, if necessary, by one 10-ton truck, one four-wheel drive vehicle,
one water pump with about 25 hp and small equipment and tools (Annex 1, Table
15). Subloans to contractors would only be considered by FG after it has
identified sufficient specific requests for well drilling. The subloans would
be conditional on the contractors' agreeing to carry out the pre-identified
drilling program and would be approved by the National Service for Environ-
mental Health (SENASA) and, thereafter, by the Bank in order to ensure adequacy
and standardization of equipment with the Bank-assisted water supply program
(Loan 1502-PA). Assurances on this were obtained during negotiations.
Small Mixed-Farm Development
4.14      Small Farmer Credit (Models IV and V).  As about 90% of the farmers
in the project area have farms of around 10 ha and 10% have larger farms of
around 20 ha, two representative farm models have been elaborated (Annex 1,



Type and Number of Subloans and Average Investment and Subloan Size-
Number of Subloans                 Investment                   Subloan
--------Year --------               Average      Total        Average      Total
Category                            1        2       3      Total       (Us$)    (US$'000)        (US$)    (us$'000)
Livestock Development
6,000 ha Breeding/Fattening
Ranch (Chaco)                             40       30       30    100        74,802    7,480           56,101    5,610
800 ha Breeding/Fattening Ranch (East)   160        120      120    400        19,524    7,810           14,643    5,857
50 ha Beef/Dairy Farm (East)               170      135      135    440        12,476    5,489           11,229    4,941
Drilling Rig Contractor                       0       1        0      1       270,000       270         202,500       203
Weighted Average
Total Livestock Development        370      286     285    941         22,369   21,049           17,653   16,611
Small Farm Development
20 ha Mixed Farm                           100      150      150    400         5,462    2,185            4,916    1,967
10 ha Mixed Farm                           800      900      900  2,600         4,142   10,769            3,728    9,692
Weighted Average                                                        4,318                     3,886
Total Small Farm Development       900   1,050   1,050                          12,954                    11,659
Total Project:                   1,270   1,336   1,335  3,941                   34,003                    28,270
1/ Excluding price contingencies.
February 22, 1979



21 -
Tables 16 to 22). Thus, under the project, 2,600 subloans would be extended
for the development of 10-ha farms and 400 subloans for 20-ha farms. Some
2,400 subloans are expected for the Caaguazu area and 600 around Mallorquin.
Typical on-farm investments would be land clearing (11% of total on-farm
investment costs), destumping (20%), the construction of simple on-farm
storage facilities (7%) and wells (9%), fencing wire (4%), a pair of draft
oxen (12%), related farm machinery and hand tools (together 33%), and one
heifer/young cow for the 10-ha farm and up to five heifers/young cows for the
20-ha farm including one bull for every two 20-ha farrs (4%).
4.15      The table on the preceding page shows the expected type and number
of farms/ranches to be developed under the project, the phasing of their
development and the average investment and subloan size per farm/ranch category.
4.16      Feeder Roads.  To facilitate the extension of credit, technical
assistance, better input supply and produce marketing, the project would
expand and improve the rural road networks in the area covered by the small
mixed farm development component (Maps No. 13857 and No. 13858 and Table 23,
Annex 1) by constructing about 120 km and improving about 120 km of feeder
roads and maintaining about 500 km of rural roads per year. Design standards
for roads to be constructed are given in Table 24, Annex 1.
4.17      The project would finance the construction, improvement and mainte-
nance of the proposed road network, including equipment, spare parts, workshop
equipment and tools (Annex 1, Table 25); direct cost of equipment operation;
construction of 14 timber bridges 4 m wide with a total length of about 120 m;
construction of about 200 concrete pipe culverts; ditching and turfing; and
the services of a firm of consulting engineers to assist the General Directorate
of Roads (DGV) in the engineering, planning, organizing and supervising of the
works listed above. Cost estimates of the above are given in Table 26, Annex 1.
Completion of the Wholesale Market of Asuncion
4.18      To eliminate the growing congestion in the area of Asuncion's whole-
sale/retail market No. 4, to reduce produce spoilage, and to provide better
market accessibility and transparency, part of the half-finished wholesale
market located at the periphery of the city would be completed under the project.
This would include (a) completion of two of the six existing market halls with
a total area of 5,260 m2, an administrative building (304 m2) and a service
building (230 m2); (b) paving of circulation and parking areas (21,140 m2);
(c) provision of water supply, including a 50 m3 reservoir; (d) installation
of electricity; (e) construction of drainage and sewerage; (f) erection of
fences; and (g) landscaping. Cost estimates are given in Table 27, Annex 1.
Administrative Support
4.19      Administrative support to the implementing agencies would be required
for adequate implementation of the project without diverting resources from
other activities. They would include the following inputs (Annex 1, Table 28):
(a) replacement of 10 four-wheel drive vehicles for the FG and purchase of one
four-wheel drive vehicle for its extension unit; (b) provision to SEAG of four
four-wheel drive vehicles and 20 motorbikes and funds for related running



- 22 -
expenses during the implementation period as well as financíng for the cost of
repair of existing vehicles, rental of offices, and salaries of seven additional
extension agents for four years; (c) provision of four four-wheel drive vehicles
and repair of existing vehicles for IBR; (d) provision of 10 four-wheel dríve
vehicles for BNF; (e) financing of the topping up of the salary for a Paraguayan
chief engineer to coordinate and supervise both the road component of the Bank's
Second Rural Development Project (Loan 1418-PA) and of the proposed project;
and (f) provision of the salaries for the staff of DAMA of the municipality of
Asuncion.
Technícal Assistance
4.20      The project's livestock development component, the small mixed-farm
development component as well as the wholesale market of Asuncion would
receive technical assistance under the project, the cost being shared equally
between the IBRD and UNDP (Annex 1, Table 29). The livestock component would
receive (a) 24 man-months of short-term consultants to assist FG in resolving
livestock production, admínistrative, and financial management issues, in
project monitoring and evaluation, and in in-service training for FG staff;
(b) relevant trial work in animal production to be subcontracted with PRONIEGA
and/or private livestock producers; (c) 16 man-months of scholarships abroad
for FG staff in both technical and livestock credit management matters; and
(d) creation of a livestock extension unit in the FG which would receive
finance for three man-years of consultancy, one staff car, one four-wheel
drive vehicle, miscellaneous equipment, 150 flight hours by small aircraft,
and vehicle running costs.
4.21      The small mixed-farm component would receive the following technical
assistance inputs: (a) one internationally recruited extension advisor for the
project area for three years; (b) one internationally recruited credit advísor
for the project area for three years; (c) two four-wheel drive vehicles for
use by the consultants including operating costs; (d) miscellaneous equipment;
(e) funds to carry out trial work on existing farms; and (f) various operating
costs.
4.22      The wholesale market component would receive the following technical
assistaxnce inputs.  (a) two internationally recruited wholesale market experts
(30 man-months); (b) short-term consultants covering various marketing aspects
(four man-months); (c) visits of síx wholesalers and other users of the new
market to neighboring countries to study the functioning of wholesale markets;
(d) two vehícles for use by the consultants and DAMA/market entity staff,
including operatíng costs; (e) miscellaneous equipment; (f) overseas training
of project unit staff (eight man-months); and (g) various operating costs.
Agricultural Census
4.23      In order to improve the knowledge about the state and performance of
agriculture, the project would include the implementation of the 1980 agricul-
tural census and the establishment of a continuous system of collecting and
disseminating agricultural statistics on an annual basis. Therefore, the
project would provide for (a) hiring the required technical and auxilliary
personnel including 76 MW of expatriate technical assistance, (b) rental



Summary of Project Cost
% Total 
Baseline Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total           Cost    Exchange
Components                            -      -¢ million -------      ------US$ million------        -------- % -------
Livestock Development (FG)
Long-term Credit to Producers                  1,309.1   1,309.1   2,618.2    10.4         10.4    20.8           49.2        50
Medium-term Credit to Contractor                   7.5       26.5       34.0      0.1       0.2      0.3           0.7        78
Sub-total                           1,316.6   1,335.6   2,652.2    10.5         10.6    21.1           49.9        50
Small Mixed Farm Development
Long-term Credit to Farmers (BNF)                734.5      897.8   1,632.3       5.9       7.1    13.0           30.7        55
Feeder Roads (DGV)                               141.7      173.3      815.0      1.1       1.4      2.5           5.9        55
Sub-total                             876.2   1,071.1   1,947.3        7.0       8.5    15.5           36.6        55
Wholesale Market in Asuncion-/                    48.7       70.0      118.7      0.4       0.5      0.9            2.2       59
Administrative Support2/                          29.9       36.6       66.5      0.2       0.3      0.5           1.3        55
Technical Assistance                              18.1      162.7      180.8      0.1       1.3      1.4            3.4       90
Agricultural Census                              226.8      126.0      352.8      1.8       1.0      2.8            6.6       36
Baseline Project Cost               2,516.3   2,802.0   5,318.3    20.0         22.2    42.2          100.0        53
Contingencies
Physical-                                         23.1       19.4       42.5      0.2       0.1      0.3            0.8       46
Price                                            680.2      492,0   1,172.2       5.4       3.9      9.3          22.0        42
Sub-total                             703.3      511.4   1,214.7       5.6       4.0      9.6          22.8        42
Total Project Cost                  3,219.6   3,313.4   6,533.0    25.6         26.2    51.8          122.8        51
1/ Free of import duties.
2/ Includes FG, BNF, IBR, SEAG and the Municipality of Asuncion.
3/  Physical contingencles apply only to feeder roads and wjholesile market construction.
lebruary 22, 1979



- 24 -
(200 cars and 80 motorbikes for 20 days) and purchase (14 four wheel drive
vehicles) of transportation equipment including the corresponding operating
and maintenance costs, (c) equipment and materials for data processing,
(d) travel and subsistence allowances for fíeld staff, (e) publication and
distribution of the census and (f) training in agricultural statistics and
census work of which about 580 man-months would correspond to local
in-service training and 24 man-months to training abroad (Annex 2, B5).
D. Project Cost
4.24      Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at US$51.8
million (including taxes and duties amounting to US$2.7 million), of which
US$26.2 million, or 51%, represents foreign exchange costs. Project costs
have been estimated on the basis of June 1978 prices and a price contingency,
amounting to 22% of baseline costs, has been added. The price contingency
is based on a phasing of investment over a four-year period (Annex 1, Table 30).
The expected price increases for foreign expenditures are 3.5% from July to
December 1978, 6.5% during 1979 and 6.0% thereafter for equipment, and 4% from
July to December 1978, 7.5% in 1979 and 7% thereafter for civil works and
consultancy services. For domestic goods and services an annual price increase
of 10% has been assumed. No price contingency has been provided for the census
component. Physical contingencies of 15%, amounting to US$0.3 million, are
added to the civil works cost for completing the wholesale market and road
construction. The average costs of consultant services are estimated at
US$4,800 per man-month, ranging from US$2,700 for locally recruited consultants
to US$7,000 for long-term expatriate and US$8,000 for short-term expatriate
consultants per man-month. The project's total consultant requirements are
estimated at 335 man-months. Project costs by components are summarized in
the table on the preceding page.
E. Financing
4.25      Project financing would be shared by the sub-borrowers of the credit
programs, the Paraguayan Government, FG, BNF, the Municipality of Asuncion,
UNDP and the Bank. The financing plan is shown in Annex 1, Table 31 and
summnarized as follows:



- 25 -
Government and
Sub-      Participating /1
borrowers   Institutions        UNDP         IBRD      Total
ProJect Components         Amount   %   Amount       %   Amount   %   Amount  %   Amount
---------------------- US$ million ------------------------
1. Livestock Develop-
ment (FG)                 4.4   21      6.1      29      -      _    10.6   50   21.1
2. Small Mixed-Farm
Development
- Long-term Credit (BNF) 1.3   10       4.6      35      -      -     7.1   55   13.0
- Feeder Roads (DGV)        -    -      1.1      45      -      -     1.4   55    2.5
3. Wholesale Market             -    -     0.3      41      -      -     0.6   59    0.9
4. Administrative Support       -    -     0.3      54      -      -     0.2   46    0.5
5. Technical Assistance        -    -        -       -    0.7    50      0.7   50    1.4
6. Agricultural Census          -    -     2.0      72    0.4    14      0.4   14    2.8
Baseline Project Cost    5.7   13    14.4        34    1.1      3    21.0   50   42.2
Contingencies             1.9   20      3.6      38    0.1      1     4.0   41    9.6
Total Project Cost        7.6   15    18.0       35    1.2      2    25.0   48   51.8
/1  Participating institutions include FG, BNF and the Municipality of Asuncion.
4.26      The proposed IBRD loan of US$25.0 million and the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) contribution of US$1.2 million would finance the
project's entire foreign exchange cost, amounting to 51%. Beneficiaries of
the credit programs would finance US$7.6 million, representing about 15% of
total cost, and Government, FG, BNF and the Municipality of Asuncion would
finance US$18.0 millaon (35%). Since BNF's resources are limited, it would
need CB support for executing the small mixed-farm component of the project.
Further an increase in the legal reserve requirements is proposed which
could affect BNF's resource position severely (para. 3.21).
Assurances have therefore been obtained from the Government during negotiations
that CB would establish by June 30, 1979 and maintain a short-term line of
credit to BNF to enable it to meet the seasonally peaked demand for short-term
agricultural loans, and, further that Government would extend to BNF such
financial assistance as might be necessary to enable BNF to provide adequate
counterpart funds for the project.
4.27      The IBRD loan would be made to the Government at the lending rate
prevailing at the time of loan approval for a term of 17 years, including four
years of grace. The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk and
on-lend the proceeds of the loan to the participating institutions: BNF, FG,



- 26 -
and Municipality of Asuncion. On-lending terms from Government to FG, BNF and
the Municipality would be similar to those of the IBRD loan except that
the interest rate would be 0.5% above the IBRD lending rate to cover the
foreign exchange risk borne by the Government. FG and BNF would make subloans
to project beneficiaries. Lending terms and conditions between Government and
participating institutions and those between participating institutions and
project beneficíaries would be set out in the subsidiary loan agreements to be
entered into by the Government and BNF, CB and the Municipality. Their
execution, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
F. Procurement
4.28      Contracts for the purchase of feeder road construction and mainte-
nance equipment (US$0.7 míllion); for vehicles for BNF, SEAG, IBR and MAG-census
(US$0.3 million); and for the completion of the wholesale market of Asuncion
(US$0.9 million) aggregating about US$1.9 million, would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding. The vehicles for the FG and
the goods, except vehicles, required for the technical assistance and the
agricultural census component would be procured through local competitive
bidding. Consultants for the design and supervision of works for the road and
wholesale market components, costing about US$0.4 million, would be obtained
in accordance with procedures acceptable the Bank. The well drilling equipment
would be procured through international shopping.
4.29      The investment items to be financed through project subloans for
approximately 3,940 project sub-borrowers throughout Paraguay over a four-
year investment period are varied and not suitable for bulk procurement
through international competitive bidding. In most cases, works such as
land clearing; pasture establishment; fencing; and construction of watering,
stock handling and storage facilities would be undertaken by the sub-borrowers
themselves or by local contractors. Goods and services required for such
works would be obtained through local, well established commercial channels.
Breeding stock to be imported would come mostly from Uruguay and to a lesser
extent from Argentina and Brazil. Suppliers of imported items, including
breeding stock, are adequately represented in Paraguay, and competition is
adequate and services are reasonable. Civil works for the construction, improve-
ment and maintenance of feeder roads would be done on force account, with the
exception of the construction of related bridges, culverts, additional ditching
and turfing, which would be carried out by local contractors who would be
selected on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures
which are satisfactory to the Bank. Assurances have been obtained during nego-
tiations that the procurement procedures outlined would be followed.
G. Disbursements
4.30      The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed over a four and a
half year period as follows:



- 27 -
(a)  62% of the amounts disbursed by Fondo Ganadero (FG) for individual
subloans for: (i) large ranches, amounting to US$3.8 million;
(ií) medium-size ranches, amounting to US$4.1 million; (iii) small
livestock farms, amounting to US$3.4 million; and (iv) drilling rig
contractors, amounting to US$0.1 million;
(b)  62% of amounts disbursed by Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF)
for subloans to small mixed-farms, amounting to US$7.8 million;
(c)  33% of total expenditures for civil works for feeder road
construction, improvement and maintenance, amounting to US$0.6
million;
(d)  58% of total construction expenditures for the completion of
the wholesale market, amounting to US$0.7 million;
(e)  100% of foreign expenditures for equipment and vehicles,
excluding those covered under (f), amounting to US$1.0 million;
(f)  50% of total expenditures for goods and services included in
the technical assistance component, amounting to US$0.8
million;
(g)  100% of total expenditures for the salary supplement to the
chíef engineer for feeder road construction and for the
supervision of the wholesale market construction, amounting
to US$0.1 million;
(h)  50% of total expenditures for consultant services, amounting
to US$0.2 million; and
(i)  100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles, data processing
equipment and related materials and consultants services for
implementing the agricultural census up to an amount of
US$0.4 million.
US$2.0 million would be unallocated. Disbursements would be made against
standard documentation except for the FG and BNF credit components and civil
works for feeder roads by force account, which would be made against statements
of expenditures, documentation for which would not be submitted to the Bank
but retained by each institution for review during project supervision missions.
Under force account, statements of expendítures would be supported by DGV
monthly certificates of work performed duly approved by the engineering con-
sultants.
4.31      The estimated schedule of Bank disbursements, assuming that the date
of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be no later than June 30, 1979,
would be as follows:



- 28 -
Bank FY                  1980          1981           1982 _         1983        1984
FY Semester             1      2     1       2      1       2      1      2       1
-------------------- US$ míllion ------------------------
Disbursement
During Semester      1.7  3.6    4.5    4.2       4.0   3.8    2.0    0.9       0.3
Cumulative           1.7  5.3    9.8   14.0    18.0  21.8   23.8   24.7    25.0
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Administration
Livestock Development
5.01      FG would provide finance and technical assistance to develop small
livestock farms and ranches which require additional infrastructure and better
management to increase their productivity. For this purpose, FG's present staff
of 72, including 33 technical staff, would be sufficient, but it would increase
its output as a result of in-service training by short-term consultants and
scholarships abroad and through reassignment of agents on the basis of priority
extension areas, longer field stays (up to 15 days per trip instead of only
three to five days and 75 field days per technician per year instead of
50 days) and more efficient use of airplanes and vehicles through better
coordination of field trips. In addition, FG's mobility would be improved by
replacing its outdated vehicle fleet with 10 new four-wheel-drive vehicles.
5.02      An adequately equipped livestock extension unit (Annex 1, Table 28
and 29) would be established, comprising an internationally recruited livestock
extension specialist for the first three project years and six Paraguayan live-
stock production specialists (four of them, including the consultant would be
stationed at FG headquarters and one in each of the three branch offices).
The unit would, ín coordination with existing livestock services, elaborate
extension programs and approaches, including preparation and distribution of
pamphlets and manuals on livestock production and promotion of livestock
extension through the news media; supervise private consultants servicing large
and medium-size ranchers; advise FG management in the use of project funds for
short-term consultancies and trial work; and make sure that FG clients receive
adequate livestock extension services during and after completing on-farm
investments along the following lines:
(a)  large and medium-size ranches with inadequate management would, as
a condition of subloan approval (para 5.11), agree to hire private
consultants, whose costs would be eligible for financing out of
subloan proceeds. Medium-size ranches would be encouraged to
organize themselves into regional groups for receiving extension in
livestock development; and



- 29 -
(b)  small farms around Asuncion, Ciudad Presidente Stroessner, San
Ignacio and Concepcion would receive technical assistance free of
charge from the FG livestock extension unit. To ensure adequate
services of the small farmers, the FG extension unit would employ
a full-time livestock extension specialist at each of the four
locations (Asuncion, Stroessner, San Ignacio and Concepcion).
The establishment of the livestock extension unit within FG, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement of
the Bank loan for the livestock component. In addition, assurances have been
obtained that FG would hire one internationally recruited livestock extension
specialist for three years, as well as short-term consultants, all acceptable
to the Bank and under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and would
make available to them adequate support staff and working facilities.
Small Mixed-Farm Development
5.03      The implementation of this component would involve the field offices
of BNF, SEAG and IBR in the Caaguazu and Mallorquín areas. BNF would carry
out the lending program, SEAG would provide extension services to farmers,
and IBR would be responsible for land titling. Since fíeld staff of these
three institutions would have to work together closely, the two coordinating
committees establíshed under the Bank's Small Farmer and Rural Development
Project (509-PA) in Caaguazu and in Mallorquín would be maintained. These
committees would be chaired by the respective BNF branch managers and include
the senior regional officers of SEAG and IBR. During negotiations, assurances
have been obtained to this effect.
5.04      While IBR's existing staff in the project area (nine in Caaguazu
and four in Mallorquín) is sufficient for the titling needs of the project,
BNF and SEAG field staff would be increased to attend to the growing demand
for credit and extension. In Caaguazu, the present BNF staff of 22 (including
a manager, six loan officers, nine technical assistance staff, and six support
staff) would thus be strengthened by three loan officers, four technicians and
two support staff, while the present SEAG staff of eight extension agents
would be increased by six additional agents. Likewise, BNF and SEAG staff in
Mallorquin, numbering, respectively, 10 and two, would be reinforced by two
loan officers, two technicians and one support staff for BNF and one additional
extension agent for SEAG. In addition, two internationally recruited experts,
one agricultural credit specialist and one extension specialist, both accept-
able to the Bank and under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, would
be made available to BNF and SEAG for three years to assist in the credit and
extension activities in the project area. BNF, SEAG and IBR would all receive
adequate transport facilities (Annex 1, Table 28), and SEAG would receive
funds to carry out necessary crop trials to be subcontracted with farmers.
During negotiations, assurances have been obtained that (a) BNF and SEAG staff
would be reinforced along the lines described above; and (b) IBR would issue
500 new land titles each year in the area covered by this component.
Feeder Road Component
5.05      Implementation of this component would be the responsibility of DGV.
While the construction of bridges, culverts, addítional ditching, turfing, and



- 30 -
such would be carried out by local contractors, land clearíng, earthmovíng
and shaping and new roads, improvement of existing roads and maintenance works
would be performed by DGV on force account. For this purpose, MOPC would
receive additíonal equipment and employ, under the project, consultants for
engineering, design and supervision (para 4.17) and a qualified chief engineer
(para 4.19), both acceptable to the Bank. Assurances have been obtained
during negotiations that MOPC would employ the above consultants and the chief
engineer.
5.06      Duríng project appraisal, a tentative selection of the alignment for
the 120 km of roads to be constructed and for about half of the roads to be
improved has been made in collaboration with MOPC, BNF and IBR staff. The
consulting engineers would review this tentative selection and determine the
final alignment for all roads in consultation with IBR, BNF and MAG, according
to the following criteria: (a) the roads should serve areas of small farmers
and should benefit a minimum of 10 farms per km of roads; (b) the road align-
ment should make maximum use of existing roads, tracks or rights of way; and
(c) the road alignment should require minimum earthworks consistent with
adequate drainage of the road surface. The proposed design standards (Annex
1, Table 24) take into consideration the characteristics of existing roads in
the area, the experience obtained in the execution of the credit 509-PA road
component, and the transportation needs of the project area (less than 50
vehicles per day). During negotiations, the standards agreed upon between the
appraisal mission and MOPC, BNF and IBR, have been confirmed and an assurance
has been obtained from MOPC that the complete road program, including final
alignment and design, would be submitted to the Bank for approval not later
than September 30, 1979 but in any case before the start of construction.
5.07      Road construction works would be started only after engineering
of a first batch of roads and construction of feeder roads under Credit
509-PA had been completed and the existing equipment and organization for
execution of the road component under 509-PA were available to start the new
program.
Completion of the Wholesale Market of Asuncion
5.08      The Municipality of Asuncion would be responsible for implementing
the wholesale market component. It showed an adequate financial performance
accumulating a surplus of about 0 40 million (US$0.3 million) in 1976 and 0 50
million (US$0.4 million) in 1977 and would be able to provide the required
counterpart funds of 0 56.2 million (US$0.4 mitllton) as indicated in Annex 1,
Table 32.
5.09      Final designs for the market would be prepared by engineering
consultants financed from the Bank-supported Preinvestment Study Project
(Credit 587-PA) and assurance has been obtained during negotiations that
the final designs would be submitted to the Bank for approval before the
start of construction. To prepare for the construction and operation of the
market and to supervise its construction, the Municipality would establish
a project unit (DAMA). This unit would be provided with adequate office and
transport facilities and be headed by a director supported by one accountant,
one secretary and one driver, as well as by two internationally recruited



- 31 -
wholesale market experts for 30 months, one economist for 12 months, one
architect for one month, one engineer for five months and internationally
recruited short-term consultant for a total of four man-months. DAMA would,
before December 31, 1980 prepare a detailed plan for (a) establishing a
financially and administratively independent entity which would manage and
operate the market, (b) transferring the wholesale activities to the new
market including such actions as shall be necessary to minimize adverse
employment effects resulting from the market relocation, and (c) determining
suitable operational rules and procedures for operating the market, including
a system of market user charges for recoveríng the cost of capital, operation
and maintenance for the market. The establishment of DAMA and the employment
of a director, all satisfactory to the Bank, would be conditions of disbursement
for thís component. In addition, assurances have been obtained during negotia-
tions that the Municipality would (a) employ a director for the unit and
internationally recruited consultants, all with qualifications and under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and (b) prepare and submít to the
Bank for comments before December 31, 1980 a detailed plan for transferring
the wholesale activities to the new market and for operating the market
according to the established rules and procedures. Upon completion of the
market, the Municipality would transform DAMA into an entity for operatíng and
managing the new market according to rules and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank and implement, with the commencement of market operation, a system of
market user charges for recovering at least the capital cost as well as the
costs of operation and maintenance. The entity would have a large degree of
administrative and financial autonomy. Assurances to this effect have been
obtained during negotiations.
Technical Assistance and Agricultural Census
5.10      The technical assistance component would be implemented in accordance
with the UNDP Project Document to be signed by the Government, UNDP and the
Bank. The signing of the UNDP Project Document would be a condition of effec-
tiveness. The Bank would act as executing agency for the UNDP Project covering
the technical assistance for the livestock, small mixed farmer and market
components. The implementation of the census component would be the responsibility
of the Department of Census and Agricultural Statistics in MAG. The Bank's
contribution would be confined to providing finance for an amount of up to
US$0.4 million (about 45% of the component's estimated foreign exchange cost
and 14% of its total cost). An equal amount would be provided by UNDP as a
grant. The component would be implemented in the framework of a UNDP project
for which FAO would be Executing Agency with the responsibility of supervising
the implementation. The condition for Bank disbursement of this component
would be the signíng of a Project Document by Government, UNDP, and FAO based
on a work program (including acquisition of required technical assistance,
equipment and vehicles) satisfactory to the Bank, whereby FAO would act as
executing agency of the UNDP for implementing this component.



- 32 -
B. On-Lending Procedures and Conditions
Livestock Fund (FG)
5.11      Lending Procedures.  FG would provide banking and technical services
to appraise subloan applications on the basis of detailed investment prograns,
including comprehensive farm/ranch development plans, income and expenditure
estimates, cash flow projections, and rate of return calculations. Subloan
approvals would be subject to a verification by the FG Technical Director of
the availability of adequate management at medium-size and large ranches
(para 5.02) and of the technical and ecological soundness (para 9.07) of the
ranch/farm development plans. Subloans exceeding US$100,000 equivalent by
itself or together with any subloan to the same beneficiary during any five-year
period would require prior Bank approval. Assurances on these poínts were
obtained at negotiations.
5.12      Sub-borrowers' Contríbution.  Small farmers and/or cooperatives would
contribute 10% toward ínvestment costs while other sub-borrowers would contri-
bute 25%. Beneficiaries eligible to make the smaller contribution would be
defined as those receiving subloans of less than « 1,510,000 (US$12,000).
They, however, would not be permitted to receive more than that amount in total
during any five-year period without the prior approval of the Bank. Under the
Fourth Livestock Project, the limit of smaller loans was fixed inítially at
e 630,000 (US$5,000) and was raised to ¢ 1 millaon (about US$8,000) in April
1977. The proposed new ceiling of US$12,000 is necessary to take into account
the inerease of investment costs which occurred after the appraisal of the
Fourth Project in 1973. The reduction of sub-borrowers' contribution from
15% under the Fourth Project to 10% would enable small farmers with limited
financial resources to have more easy access to credit. It would also permit
FG to finance the same percentage of investment costs for small farmers as BNF.
5.13      Subloan Terms and Conditions.  Subloans for on-farm investments
would be for periods of 5 to 12 years, including up to four years of grace.
FG would determine subloan terms on the basis of farmer repayment capacity
derived from cash flow projections. Loans would be secured by a first mort-
gage on land. Under the Fourth Project, the amount to be used for the purchase
of breeding stock was not to exceed 45% of total on-farm investment costs.
This ceiling would be raised to 50%, taking into account the orientation of
the project toward better utilization of investments in ranch infrastructure
already made. Additional stock purchases and/or retention would continue
to be financed through complementary loans. Subloans to contractors for the
purchase of a drilling rig for water supply would be for a period of up to
six years, including up to one year of grace.
5.14      Interest Rates.  Under the Fourth Project, it was agreed that FG
would apply a minimum of 6% p.a. on the principal outstanding adjusted annually
on the basis of the general consumer price index as issued by the CB. FG has
charged a higher interest rate (10%) but has not applied the full adjustnent
corresponding to the increase in the cost of living (para 3.07). Assurances



-  X3 -3
were obtained during negotiations that (a) subloans made by the FG under the
project would bear an interest rate of at least 6% annually in real terms on
the outstanding balances fully adjusted for inflation; and (b) "complementary
loans`, made outside the project (para. 3.08) would bear an interest rate
which would cover at least the administratíve costs of these loans and ensure
the maintenance of the value of the outstanding principal amount in real terms.
National Development Bank (BNF)
5.15      Lending Procedures.  SEAG extension agents would be responsible for
promoting the project, recommending improved production techniques and urging
that the farming practices and farm development plans proposed for financing
follow sound environmental standards (para 9.07). In cooperation with BNF and
IBR field staff, they would make a pre-selection of possible beneficiaries who
would be small IBR and/or private settlers having farms of no more than about
30 ha, partly cleared. Private settlers generally have titles to their land,
but in IBR colonies, IBR would issue a land title upon payment of 10% of the
price of the land.
5.16      BNF technicians would assist farmers in preparing subloan applica-
tions based on farm plans. BNF would determine creditworthiness and legal
requirements and would approve and collect subloans. SEAG extensionists would
have responsibílity for providing technical services free of charge.
5.17      Sub-borrowers' Contribution.  BNF would finance, according to its
present policy for small farmers, up to 90% of investment costs.
5.18      Subloan Terms and Conditions.  Subloans would have a maturity of
5 to 10 years, including a three-year grace period. BNF would also provide
short-term loans to cover additional working capital requirements, if
necessary, out of its resources. BNF would recognize either an IBR certifi-
cate of ownership or a normal land title as meeting its collateral require-
ments for an investment subloan.
5.19      Interest Rates.  Subloans would yield a minimum of 13% in nominal
terms, including interest and commission. This rate was introduced in the
Second Rural Development Project to allow BNF to generate reasonable profits.
The consumer price index has increased by 6.7%, 4.5% and 9.4%, respectively,
in 1975, 1976, and 1977, equivalent to an average annual rate of about 7%, and
the inflation rate for 1978 and onwards is expected to be slightly above 10%.
The proposed 13% interest rate would therefore imply a positive real interest
rate. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government, the
Bank and BNF would from time to time, at the request of any of them, review and
if necessary revise the on-lending terms in order to maintain an appropriate
interest rate.
C. Accounts and Audits
5.20      Separate project accounts would be kept by the BNF, FG, SEAG, MOPC,
and the Municipality of Asuncion. Financial accounts and the project accounts
of BNF and FG would be audíted by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. The project accounts of SEAG, MOPC, and DAMA would be audited by the
Ministry of Finance. Certified copies of the audited financial statements and



- 34 -
signed copies of the auditors' reports of each agency would be sent to the
Bank wíthin four months of the end of each fiscal year. Assurances on the
above have been obtained at negotiations.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
Livestock Development Component
5.21      Project monitoring would be carried out by FG's existing three-man
monitoring unit, which, since July 1978, has been receiving in-service training
by a consultant. Besides training staff, this specialist is designing a
simple on-farm/ranch monitoring system for beef, pork and dairy production and
a practical data collection and evaluation system. The unit would prepare
annual monitoring reports for the project component starting with the first
year after the system became operational. The report would be made available
to the Government, the FG Board and the Bank. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that FG would furnish the annual monitoring reports to the Bank
within four months following the end of each project year.
Small Mixed-Farm Development Component
5.22      The Office for the Implementation of Rural Development Projects of
CNPS (OIRD) would be responsible for project monitoring of this component,
assisted by the two expatriate extension and credit advisers (para 4.21). The
monitoring would be based on the socio-economic survey carried out by CNPS in
the project area under the Small Farmer and Rural Development Project (509-PA)
which would serve as a baseline survey and be followed up by the regular monitor-
ing of key performance and objective indicators of the project component.
OIRD/CNPS would submit annual monitoring reports to the Bank within four months
following the end of each project year. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.
E. Progress Reporting
5.23      Semi-annual progress reports would be prepared by FG, BNF, SEAG,
IBR, MOPC and the Munícipality of Asuncion on their respective components.
The reports would be sent to Government and the Bank not later than two months
following the end of each semester. FG, the Municipality, and BNF, jointly
with SEAG, IBR and MOPC, would also prepare comprehensive draft completion
reports for the livestock program, the market component and the small mixed-
farm program, respectively. These completion reports would be submitted to
the Government and the Bank not later than six months after the closing date
of the project. Assurances on these points were obtained during negotiations.
VI. TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Livestock Development
6.01      Livestock development would take place throughout the country and
thus encounter a wide variation in climate, soils, infrastructure facilities,



- 35 -
input supply and markets. Since livestock production patterns would therefore
vary greatly, three representative farmlranch models have been prepared for the
purpose of project budgeting and calculating expected profitability and economic
justification. Actual and projected technical coefficients were estimated on the
assumption that only farms/ranches under adequate management would participate
under the project, and, on the basis of (a) impressions gained during extended
field visits during project preparation and appraisal; (b) the results of a
detailed analysis of the first two IDA-financed livestock projects by an
independent consultant in 1973; (c) data in the completion report of the third
Bank/IDA-financed livestock project, and (d) information received from FG
technicians. The technical coefficients applied in this report are as follows:
Model I          Model II           Model III
6,000-ha          800-ha              50-ha
Beef Ranch       Beef Ranch       Beef/Dairy Farm
Chaco Area   Eastern Paraguay   Eastern Paraguay
Weaning Rate (%)
Before project                     50               50                  60
At full development                62               65                   74
Adult Mortality Rate (%)
Before project                      3                3                    3
At full development                 2                2                    2
0fftake Rate 
Before project                    19.4              20.0                20.7
At full development               22.4              22.8                24.0
Stocking Rate (A.U./ha)
Before project                     0.18              0.27                0.39
At full development                0.26              0.50                1.29
Pasture Improvement
(% of improved area per ranch)
Before project                     2                 3                   3
At full development                8                13                  40
Meat Production
(kg liveweight per ha per year)
Before project                    16.5              24.2                38.8
At full development               28.3              56.5               152.0
Milk Production
(liters per ha per year)
Before project                     -                 -                  56
At full development                                                    480



- 36 -
Small Mixed-Farm Development Component
6.02      Based on the comprehensive final progress report prepared by the
three UNDP-financed consultants who helped implement the 509-PA project and
intensive field investigations during preparation and appraisal of this compo-
nent, two farm models have been prepared. The first, Model IV, is a 20-ha
holding, representing about 10% of the farms in the project area, while the
second, Model V, represents a 10-ha holding, typical of the remaining 90%.
At pre-project stage, both models are similar as development has been limited
to the area of land which a family can cultivate without relying on draft
animals or mechanization -- about 4.5 ha of cleared, but not destumped, land,
2.5 ha of which is used to grow mainly subsistence food crops and 2.0 ha is
planted to cash crops, usually cotton. Increase in productivity is primarily
based on the provision of a pair of draft oxen with related equipment and the
destumping of 6 ha of land. In the case of the 10-ha model, development is
confined to enhance cash crop production (cotton, soybean and sunflower),
while, for the 20-ha model, the combination of increased cash crop production
similar to the 10-ha model with a small beef cattle herd (five breeding cows)
on 10.5 ha of Panicum maximum pastures has been envisaged. Both models
incorporate a winter crop of sunflower once every two years, the application
of some fertilizer to the soybean crop to maintain soil fertility and a simple
crop rotation to widen the farmers' economic base, to reduce the build-up of
plant disease and to lessen soil deterioration caused by monoculture.
Increased farm productivity is estimated as follows:
At Full
Before Project      Development
(tons/ha)          (tons/ha)
Crops
Cotton                                   1.3               1.7
Soybean                                  1.4               1.8
Sunflower                                0.9               1.2
Maize                                    1.1               1.4
Beans                                    0.9               1.0
Manioc                                  18.0              24.0
Beef Production
(tons liveweight per farm per year)
10-ha Farm (Model IV)                      -               0.2
20-ha Farm (Model V)                     1.1               2.4
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Production
7.01      Annual output of the main commodities of project farms/ranches
without and with the project would be approximately as follows:



- 37 -
Incremental
Production
as Percentage
With Project                     of 1976/77
Without        At Full        Percentage       National
Commodity          Project     Development        Increase       Production
--      (tons)----------
Cotton                    7,800         15,300           96.2              6.5
Soybean                    None         16,200           n.a.              4.6
Sunflower                  None         10,800           n.a.             80.0
Maize                     1,650          2,100           27.3              0.1
Beans                     1,350           None           None                -
Manioc                   54,000         36,000          -33.3                 -
Beef /1                   9,000         20,000          124.9             12.4
Milk                      1,200         10,500          775.1              7.2
/1   Includes breeding heifers available for sale.
7.02      At full development, it is estimated that incremental production
resulting from the project and its proportion to the country's 1976/77 produc-
tion would be, respectively, 7,500 tons and 6.5% for cotton, 16,200 tons and
4.6% for soybeans, 10,800 tons and 80% for sunflower, 450 tons and 0.14% for
maize, 11,000 tons and 12.4% for beef, and 9,300 tons and 7.2% for milk. In
addition, there would be some incremental pork production, but manioc produc-
tion would decrease by 18,000 tons and bean production, presently 1,350 tons,
is expected to be abandoned because farmers would concentrate on more profit-
able cash crops. Using 1978 farmgate prices, the annual total value of
incremental production due to the project would be about US$17.2 million and
the incremental herd value would amount to US$21.9 million at full development.
B. Marketing
Beef
7.03      Paraguay's beef exports have fluctuated considerably, ranging from
22% of total production to 34% in the 1960s and reaching an all-time high
of 39% in 1973 when international beef prices were highest. However, due
to a sharp decline in export prices in 1974/75, a restricted access to the
traditional export markets and increased domestic demand, only 20% of Paraguay's
beef was registered to be exported in 1976. The meat packing industry, geared
to the export market, was hard hit by low export demand and low prices.
7.04      In 1977, official beef exports increased by 33% above 1976 levels
following an increase in the international beef price (12% in real terms as
compared to 1975). Though internal demand was strong, domestie slaughtering
levels in 1977 dropped by 28% below the 1976 level, probably for three reasons:
(a) cattle were retained by producers at year's end in the hope of getting



- 38 -
stíll better prices and/or to build up their herds; (b) output was reduced
as a result of "holding operations" owing to the low beef prices from 1975 to
mid-1977; and (c) an estimated 10% to 20% of Paraguay's slaughter cattle went
to Brazil in 1977 where prices were higher than those prevailing in the domestic
líve cattle market. Under these circumstances, it is difficult to forecast
precisely the likely future distribution of the country's beef production
between the domestic and export markets, but it is apparent that the project
would add to the country's exportable beef/cattle surplus (recorded or
unrecorded) an amount which corresponds to the project's incremental produc-
tion. The extent to which this surplus is actually exported would mainly
depend on the internal demand, which is highly price elastic and thus mainly
determined by international prices. Given the relatively favorable
medium-term price prospects for international beef prices, it is estimated
that at least half of the project's beef production would actually be exported.
This conservative estimate of 50% has also been used to determine the project's
impact on the country's export earnings (para 9.01). In any case, it is safe
to assume that the incremental beef production of the project would meet a
ready market because of increasing domestic demand and good export prospects.
The marketing system and facilities for live cattle and meat are adequate to
meet project needs (para 1.22).
Milk
7.05      Domestic milk production is not sufficient to satisfy growing local
consumption (para 1.15), which is expected to be about 150 million liters by
1981. The gap between production and consumption is filled by imported powder
milk, most of which enters through unofficial channels from neighboring
countries, mainly Argentina. It is estimated that imports of powdered milk
were about 3,000 tons in 1977. There would thus be ample demand for the
incremental milk production under the project and the existing milk marketing
system, in spite of its shortcomings (para 1.24), is adequate to absorb the
additional amounts.
Agricultural Products
7.06      Cash crops such as cotton, soybeans, and sunflower enjoy a strong
demand, especially in export markets. No marketing problems are envisaged
because of projected favorable world market demand and the country's compara-
tively low cost of production. Incremental production under the project
would be bought by merchants or truckers and exported unprocessed (mainly
soybeans) or after being processed locally (cotton and sunflower). Farmers
in the project area would be in a favorable position, since investments in
roads already made and planned would facilitate transport to the main asphalt
highway, which links the project area with the Brazilian border, as well as
with Asuncion, the major consumption center and river port. The existing
industrial facilities are adequate to handle additional production requiring
processing. The project's small incremental production of maize is expected
to be absorbed locally as there is strong domestic demand.



- 39 -
C. Príces
7.07      Farm-gate prices over the last seven years for commodities to be
produced under the project were as follows:
1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977
-------------¢ '000 per ton----------------
Cotton                        14.0   17.0   19.0   30.0   25.0   37.0   43.0
Soybean                        8.5   11.0   22.0   20.0   18.0   20.0   21.0
Tobacco                       24.0   37.0   55.0   47.0   59.0   45.5   60.0
Manioc                         3.0    3.5    4.0    6.0    7.0    9.0   10.0
Maize                          4.5    7.0   10.5    8.5    8.5   13.0   13.0
Beans                         12.0   15.0   19.0   31.0   27.0   26.0   35.0
Beef (kg liveweight)          23.0   33.0   46.0   52.0   44.0   42.0   47.0
Milk (per liter)              14.0   15.0   19.0   27.0   28.0   27.0   32.0
Source:  Boletin Informativo, Ministry of Agriculture.
7.08      While there has been a deterioration in agriculture's terms of trade
since 1974, especially for beef production, agricultural investments, including
those in the cattle industry, remain attractive, as evidenced by the fact that
130 subloan applications, in volume equal to total commitments for all of 1977,
were received by FG in the four months preceding project appraisal. The same
applies to crop production for which there is also a strong credit demand, as
indicated by the performance of the Small Farmer and Rural Development Project
(para 2.10).
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Sub-borrowers' Benefits and Financial Rate of Return
8.01      Sub-borrowers' benefits were analyzed on the basis of illustrative
farm models, which are shown in Annex 1, Tables 6 to 22. The technical assump-
tions for these models are given in Chapter VI. The financial assumptions
underlying the models reflect input (investments and operating expenditure)
prices of mid-1978 and output prices of the respective harvesting seasons of
the 1977/78 crop year adjusted in case of beef, cotton, soybeans and fertilizer
to reflect changes in real prices as projected by the Commodities and Export
Projection Division of the Bank. Base product prices used in the models
(1977/78 prices) are as follows:



- 40 -
Average Weight   Price/kg    Price/Animal
(kg)           (0)            (0)
Livestock
Cull Bulls                       480              45           21,600
Cull Cows                        360              43           15,500
Cull Steers                      400              52           20,800
Breeding Heifer (beef type)         -              -           18,500
Milk (O per liter)                                   30
Crops
Cotton                                            41
Soybeans                                          22
Sunflower                                         20
Tobacco                                           60
Maize                                              12
Beans                                             28
Manioc                                             3
The financial benefits from the investment in the completion of the wholesale
market were calculated on the basis of 1978 prices for investment and oper-
ating costs and a fee schedule for using the market facilities which would
include (a) an average initial entrance fee of ¢ 100,000 (US$800) per vending
stall; (b) a rental fee of ¢ 18 (US$0.14) per day per sq meter, which would
increase to 1 31 in terms of 1978 prices over a period of 20 years; and (c) a
parking fee of ¢ 10 (US$0.08) per day and vehicle, increasing to 0 25 in 1978
prices over a period of 15 years. Sub-borrower's benefits and the financial
rates of return to the sub-borrower are summarized in the following table.
Net income at full development without project would be higher than before
development due to changes in real prices for the main commodities.
8.02      The financial rates of return on investment in livestock and crop
production indicate that it would be profitable to ranchers and farmers to
undertake the proposed investment. The investment in the completion of the
wholesale market of the Municipality of Asuncion has a financial rate of
return of 11% on investment and of 13% on equity capital, which are considered
adequate (Annex 1, Table 33). Sensitivity analyses were made to determine
the impact of the changes in prices or volume of inputs and outputs, on the
financial viability of the proposed investment program. The resulting rates
of return, as shown below, indicate that the investments would remain finan-
cially viable under the assumptions tested, except for the wholesale market
which would have only a marginal rate of return under the unlíkely event of a
combination of all negative assumptions.



Sub-borrowers' Benefits
Net Income-/
21
At Full Development-                       4,       4/
3/               4,    Net Income-  Tax on-  Financial
Investment   Before         Without  With        Debt-     After Debt   Cattle   Rate of
Farm Model                        Cost          Development   Project   Project   Service   Service         Sales    Return
- - - - - - - - - -   _ - - - - -  ( US$) --(%)
A. Livestock
I.  6,000-ha ranch          74,802       29,306         33,991    59,790    9,333       50,457        2,921    14.5
II.  800-ha ranch            19,524        3,87 6         4,791    14,328    2,214       12,114          781    16.9
III.  50-ha beef/dairy farmJ'l2,476            698           793      6,287    1,698       4,589          132    19.8
B.  Small Mixed-Parm
IV.  20-ha mixed farm         5,462        1,318          1,411      3,394    1,112       2,282           39    31.5        1
V.  10-ha farm               4,142           944           988      2,637      843       1,794            4    40.2        4
1/ Net income is defined as sales less operating costs and tax on cattle sale.
2/ Full development is reached in year 8 for Models 1, IV and V, and year 10 for Models II and III.
3/ The difference between net incomes at before development and at full development without project is due to the real
price changes in commodity prices.
4/ At full development with    project.
5/ Operating cost in Model III includes US$600 vorth of family labor before development and US$1,200 at full development.
February 21, 1979



- 42 -
Wholesale
Component                 Model I Model II  Model III  Model IV  Model V   Market
---------------------------- %---------------------------
Best Estimates:             14.5      16.9       19.8       31.5       40.2     llol
Sensitivity Analysis:
(a) Benefíts
(i) -5%                 13.6     15.9       18.4       29.1       37.0      10.2
(ii) -10%                12.7     14.7       16.9        26.7      33.8       9.1
(b) Investment Costs
(i) +5%                 14.1     16.5       19.2       30.0       38.0      10.5
(ii) +10%                13.6      16.1      18.6        28.6      36.1       9.9
(c) Operating Costs
(i) +5%                 14.1     16.3       19.1       30.7       39.3      10.9
(ii) +10%                13.7     15.7       18.3        29.9      38.3      10.6
(d) Combination of
(í) (a) (1),
(b) (i), and
(c) (i)           12.8      14.9       17.0       26.9       34.1      9.2
(ii)  (a) (ií),
(b) (it), and
(c) (iii)         11.1      12.8       14.3       18.7       25.4      7.4
B. Project Cash Flows
8.03      The estimated project cash flows of the agricultural lending program
handled by FG and BNF, as well as the cash flow on the completion of the whole-
sale market of Asuncion, are given in Tables 33 and 34 in Annex 1. The calcu-
lations indicate that the margíns allowed to FG and BNF would be sufficient
to cover administrative costs, and that, during the 18-year period of project
operatíons, they could accumulate net earnings amounting to « 989 million
(US$7.9 million) and « 186 million (US$1.5 militon), respectively. The
operations of the wholesale market of Asuncion would generate sufficient
revenues to cover operating costs and debt service, and would, during the life
of the project, accumulate net earnings of « 276 million (US$2.2 million) in
1978 prices.
IX. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Economic Benefits
9.01      The proposed project would help Paraguay better utilize its agricul-
tural resources to increase agricultural production, productivity, income and
employment, as well as foreign exchange earnings. It would also expand



- 43 -
Paraguay's "agricultural frontier" by land clearing (85,000 ha), pasture
establishment (77,500 ha) and destumping (18,000 ha). The incremental annual
production at full development would correspond to about US$17 million in 1978
prices. The value of incremental exports is estimated at US$11.6 million, of
which soybean would account for 33%, cotton for 28% and beef for 39%. The
project's agricultural investments would create full-time permanent employment
for about 2,000 people and generate at the farm level an estimated 250,000
man-days of part-time jobs. It would also raise the living standards of about
5,000 rural families of the target group, about half of whom would be direct
beneficiaries and the other half, indirect beneficiaries. In addition,
widespread impact is expected in terms of demonstrating to non-participating
farmers the benefits of intensified land use, including better herd management
and improved farming practices.
9.02      The completion of the wholesale market would reduce the losses and
spoilage of agricultural products (3% for fruits and vegetables and 1% for
other products) and reduce the time of trucks waiting for the retail buyers
(about 500,000 hours a year). Non-quantifiable benefits of the new wholesale
market would include: (a) reduction of traffic congestion and improvement
of environmental conditions in the existing wholesale market areas; (b) better
quality of products distributed to the consumers; and (c) better price informa-
tion and market accessibility for producers. The beneficiaries of this compo-
nent would include primarily the wholesalers using the new facilities and
mainly low and middle income people living in the surrounding area of the old
wholesale/retail market No. 4. In addition, and probably equally important,
would be the benefits accruing to the retailers, agricultural produce traders,
and fruits and vegetable producers in the form of better market accessibility
and price transparency.
9.03      The fiscal benefits of the project would include incremental income
to the Government from sales and export tax on cattle, cotton and soybean,
estimated to reach US$1.0 million per year at full development, as indicated
below:
Incremental Government Revenues
During Investment Period       At Full Development (Annual)
Number of       Tax on Investment       Sales Tax 1/   Export Tax
Model     Farms        Per Farm       Total       Per Farm        Per Farm     Total
(US$)      (Us$'000)      (US$)           (US$)      (US$'000)
1        100          6,564           656        1,238            686         192
II        400          1,524           610          451            250         280
III        440            802           353           98             53          66
IV        400            383           153           21            161          73
V      2,600            364           946            4            146         390
2,718                                   1,001
1/   Taxes on cattle sales at « 800 per head.



- 44 -
B. Economic Rate of Return
9.04      The economic rates of return from the project have been calculated
separately for each project component, as shown in Annex 1, Table 35, on the
following basis:
(a)  Investment and operating costs were calculated using June 1978
príces and were assumed to remain constant in real terms; labor
costs were evaluated at the on-going rates since rural unemploy-
ment is practically non-existent in the project area;
(b)  Prices used to estimate economic benefits, except for milk, were
1978 farm-gate prices, which are in líne with economic values
of commodities produced under the project; an economic price
for milk was estimated on the basis of reconstituted milk
(US$0.15 per liter). Price for beef, soybean, and cotton were
adjusted to reflect changes in real prices according to the
projections made by the Bank's Commodities and Export Projection
Division;
(c)  Deductions were made for prevailing taxes and duties;
(d)  Incremental herd values were credited to the project at
the end of the project period;
(e)  The costs of administration, technical assistance and road
construction maintenance were charged to the project. Since
the benefits projected for the small farmer component would
be dependent upon the availability of the feeder roads to
be constructed under the project, the cost of the feeder road
program ís included in the small farmer component; and
(f)  The only benefits considered in the analysis of the wholesale
market are those associated with the reduction in produce
losses and spoilage estimated at 3% of the fruits, and 1% of
vegetable market throughput.
9.05      Based on these assumptions, the project's economic rate of return
is estimated at 19%. The economic rate of return on individual project
components is estimated as follows:  livestock component, 15%; small mixed-farm
component, 28%; and wholesale market component, 20%. Details are given in
Annex 1, Table 35. The sensitivity of these rates of return has been tested
considering (a) benefits reduced by 5% and 10% (on account of lower output or
reduced prices); (b) an increase of investment, operating and administration
costs by 5% and 10% (on account of higher prices or increased inputs); and
(c) a combination of (a) and (b). The results of this analysis (given below)
indicate that the project's economic viability would remain satisfactory under
all the assumptions tested.



- 45 -
Economic Rates of Return
Small      Wholesale      Total
Component                             Livestock   Mixed Farms      Market      Project
________________________  %  - ------------------
Best Estimate:                           15.4          28.5          20.3       19.3
(a)  Benefits:           (i) - 5%        14.3          26.1         19.4        17.9
(ii) - 10%       13.2          23.7          18.4       16.4
(b)  Investment Costs:  (i) + 5%         14.9          27.2         19.8        18.6
(ii) + 10%       14.5          26.0          19.3       18.0
(c)  Operating Costs:   (i) + 5%         14.8          27.5         19.9        18.6
(ii) + 10%       14.2          26.5          19.5       17.9
(d) Combination of:
(a)(i), (b)(i), and (c)(i)          13.3          24.0         18.5        16.6
(a)(ii), (b)(ii), and (c)(ii)       11.3          14.8         16.7        13.9
C. Project Risks
9.06      There are risks associated with each of the three major project
components. Although there is a strong demand for subloans by the ranching
sector, the economic justification for such investment, especially for tradi-
tional ranches in the Chaco, would depend mainly on raising herd productivity,
which, in turn, requires considerably improved ranch and herd management.
Experience has shown that ranchers are sometimes reluctant to adopt changes in
management practices. Conditioning the subloans on the availability of ade-
quate management and the improved arrangements for technical assistance are,
however, expected to reduce this risk to an acceptable level. The risk elements
in the small farmer development component are related to the timely provision
of the feeder roads and land titles. Delays in providing these services as
experienced in the Small Farmer and Rural Development Project (paras 2.10 and
2.11) could cause considerable delay in the development of the colonies, but
the assurances obtained during negotiations that these components would be
implemented as planned and the recent performance of IBR and MOPC give reason
to expect that such a problem will not occur. The expected agricultural
benefits depend heavily on four products (beef, cotton, soybean and milk).
Adverse price developments for these commodities would significantly reduce
the projected financial and economic benefits but the economic and financial
viability of investments would remain satisfactory. The establishment of a
specialized wholesale market would be new for Paraguay and no experience
exists in the country for managing such an institution, but the comprehensive
technical assistance provided under the project for organizing and managing
the market should reduce the risk of unsatisfactory implementation of this
component.



- 46 -
D. Impact on Environment
9.07      The land clearing envisaged under the project of large parts of
tropical and semi-arid forest to make way for crop and pasture cultivation
could result in soil depletion and water erosion. In addition, the applica-
tion of fairly large amounts of pesticides for cotton production could, if
improperly used, contaminate rivers and water supplies. Farmers would there-
fore be urged (paras 5.11 and 5.15) to ensure that: (a) steep slopes are not
deforested; (b) cultivation on sloping land is on the contour; (c) unwanted
pesticides and empty containers are disposed of adequately, and ultra-low
volume spraying, already successfully tested in Paraguay, is used; and
(d) boundaries are planted with trees.
X. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) the subloans for the procurement of water drilling equipment
would be conditional on the contractor s agreeing to carry out
out the drilling program pre-identified by the FG and on the
approval by the National Service for Environmental Realth
(SENASA) and, thereafter, by the Bank (para 4.13);
(b) CB would establish by June 30, 1979 and maintain a short-term líne
of credit to BNF to enable it to meet the seasonal peak demand for
short-term agricultural loans and, further the Government would
extend the necessary financial assistance to BNF so as to enable BNF
to provide counterpart funds for the project (para 4.26);
(c) the procurement procedures outlined in paragraphs 4.28 and
4.29 would be followed;
(d) FG would hire one internationally recruited livestock extension
specialist for three years, as well as short-term consultants,
all acceptable to the Bank and under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, and would make available to them
adequate support staff and working facilities (para 5.02);
(e)  the two existing coordinating committees in Caaguazu and one
in Mallorquin would be maintained under the respective BNF
branch managers and include the senior regional officers
of SEAG and IBR (para 5.03);
(f) BNF and SEAG branches in Caaguazu and Mallorquin would be reinforced
as described in paragraph 5.04 and IBR would issue new land titles
at a rate of 500 per year (para 5.04);
(g) MOPC would employ consultants for engineering, design and super-
vision for the feeder road construction and a qualified chief
engineer to manage and supervise the implementation of the feeder
roads component of the project, both acceptable to the Bank
(para 5.05);



- 47 -
(h)  the complete road program, including final alignment and design,
would be submitted to the Bank for approval not later than September
30, 1979 but, in any case, before the start of construction (para
5.06);
(í) the final design for the wholesale market will be submitted to the
Bank for approval before the start of construction (para 5.09);
(j) the Municipality of Asuncion would select a director for the project
unit, acceptable to the Bank, and would employ internationally
recruited wholesale market consultants with qualifications and under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.09);
(k)  the Municipality of Asuncion would, before December 31, 1980,
prepare and submit to the Bank for comments a detailed plan for
(a) the creation of an entity to operate and manage the market,
(b) transferring wholesale activities to the new market, including
suitable provisions for minimizing adverse employment effects of
the market relocation, and (c) determining suitable operational
rules and procedures for the market including the system of
charges for the market for recovering at least the investment
cost and the cost of operation and maintenance (para 5.09);
(1) the Municipality would, upon completion of the new wholesale market,
transform DAMA into an entity for operating and managing the
market according to rules and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank and implement, with the commencement of market operation, a
system of market user charges for recovering the cost of operation
maintenance and capital. The entity would have a large degree of
administrative and financial autonomy (para 5.09);
(m) a FG subloan exceeding US$100,000 equivalent by itself or together with
any subloan to the same beneficiary during any five-year period would
require prior Bank approval. Subloan approval would be subject to a
verification by the FG Technical Director of the technical and environ-
mental soundness of the investment projects and the availability of
adequate management at medium-size and large ranches (para 5.11);
(n) FG subloans would bear an interest rate of at least 6% per annum in
real terms on the outstanding balances fully adjusted for inflation
and complementary loans would bear an interest rate which would
cover at least the administrative cost of these loans and ensure the
maintenance of the outstanding principal amounts in real terms (para
5.14);
(o) the Government, the Bank and BNF would from time to time at the
request of any of them, review and if necessary revise the on-
lending terms in order to maintain an appropriate interest rate
(para 5.19);
(p) separate project accounts to be kept by BNF, FG, SEAG, MOPC and
the Municipality of Asuncion and financial accounts of BNF, FG
and the market entity would be audited by independent auditors



- 48 -
acceptable to the Bank; and certified copies of the audited
financial statements and signed copies of the auditors' reports
of the agencies would be sent to the Bank within four months of
the end of each fiscal year (para 5.20);
(q) FG would furnish the annual monitoring reports for the livestock
development component to Government and the Bank within four
months following the end of each project year (para 5.21);
(r) OIRD/CNPS would submit to the Bank annual monitoring reports
on the small mixed-farm development component within four months
following the end of each project year (para 5.22);
(s) FG, BNF, SEAG, IBR, MOPC and the Municipality of Asuncion would
prepare semi-annual progress reports on their respective components
and send them to the Government and the Bank not later than two
months following the end of each semester (para 5.23); and
(t) draft completion reports on the livestock program, the market
component and the small mixed-farm program would be prepared,
respectively, by FG, the Municipality, and BNF, jointly with
SEAG, IBR, and MOPC, and submitted to the Bank not later than
six months after the closing date of the project (para 5.23).
10.02     Condition of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a) the Government had entered into subsidiary loan agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank, with BNF, CB and the Municipality
(para 4.27); and
(b) the signing by the Government, UNDP and the Bank of the UNDP
Project Document covering the technical assistance component
(para 5.10).
10.03     A condition of disbursement for the livestock component would be
that a livestock extension unit within FG under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank had been established (para 5.02). A condition of dis-
bursement for the wholesale market of Asuncion would be that a project unit
has been established, and its director employed (para 5.09). The condition
of Bank disbursement for the census component would be the signing of a
Project Document by Government, UNDP and FAO based on a work program satis-
factory to the Bank whereby FAO would act as the executing agency of UNDP
for this component (para 5.10).
10.04     With the above assurances, the proposed project is suitable for a
Bank loan to the Government of Paraguay for US$25.0 million for a term of
17 years, including four years of grace, at the lending rate prevailing at
the time of loan approval.
March 6, 1979



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Balance Sheet of FG (as at December 31)
(O Million)
Actual                                                     Proiected
1975           1976          1977            1978           1979            1980            1981            1982
ASSETS
Cash and Bank Deposits                            57.6            91.8         350.2           526.6          605.4           842.6         1,316.6        1,698.6
Loan Portfolio
Existing IBRD Sub-loans                      2,679.4        3,052.5        3,416.4        3,601.9         3,539.0         3,416.7        3,205.3         2,845.6
Proposed New  Sub-loans                                          -             -               -            447.4         1,189.5        1,940.8         2,580.7
Complementary Loans                            742.5           740.4         758.8           839.2          985.6         1,052.0        1,034.4         1,104.8
Loans Under Collection and Legal Action    197.1               232.4         202.2           198.6          198.6           198.6           198.6          198.6
Debtor for Transferred Assets                   24.8            22.1          23.1            22.0           21.0            20.0            19.0            18.0
Awarded Assets on Sale                            13.5            12.1           9.4             9.0             8.4            7.8             7.2             6.6
Sundr.y Debtors                                   15.4             2.6           3.6             7.3            6.8             6.3             5.8             5.3
Vehicles and Office Equipments                    14.0            17.7          16.9            18.0           20.0            22.0            25.0            29.0
Fixed Assets                                       6.0            16.2          16.2            18.5           21.5            25.5            30.5            36.5
Sundry Assets                                       1.3            0.8           0.7             1.0             1.6            2.2             2.8             3.4
Experimental Farm-La Patria                         -             31.8          58.0            68.0           78.5            89.5           101.0           113.1
TOTAL ASSETS                        3,751.6        4.220.4        4,855.5        5,301.1         5,933.8         6,873,0         7,887.0        8,640.2
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Liabilities
IDA Credits                                  2,314.5        2,298.4        2,281.5        2,264.6         2,244.5         2,221.2         2,197.9        2,174.6
Existing IBRD Loans                            805.9        1,132.9        1,497.9        1,714.2         1,781.6         1,736.8         1,689.5        1,639.1
Proposed New IBRD Loan                           -               -             -               -            281.7           838.2         1,376.9        1,686.9
Central Bank Advance                            47.5            41.4          35.2            47.5           47.5            47.5            47.5            47.5
Sundry Creditors                                12.4             7.3          21.7            26.7           24.7            22.7            20.7            18.7
Total Liabilities                        3,180.3        3,480.0        3,836.3        4,053.0         4,380.0        4,866.4         5,332.5         5,566.8
Equity
Local Livestock Fund                           163.0           164.6         164.6           164.8          164.8           164.8           164.8           164.8
Reserve for Bad Debts                           34.2            34.2          32.9            79.3          126.6           174.3           219.7           232.8
General Reserve Fund                           272.4           374.1         541.6           818.0          896.7         1,009.4         1,217.4         1,474.4
Reserve for Loan  Adjustment                     -              43.8          84.3           107.3          253.0           450.1           695.6           975.7
Operating Surplus                              101.7           123.7         195.8            78.7          112.7           208.0           257.0           325.7
Total Equity                               571.3           740.4       1,019.2        1,248.1         1,553.8         2,006.6        2,554.5         3,073.4
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY        3,751.6         4,220.4       47855.5         5,01.1         5,933.8         6,873.0         7,887.0         8,640.2
November 6, 1978
oZ 
1- 2'
,-. X



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income and Expenditure Accounts of FG (Years Ending December 31)
(0 Million)
Actual                                              Pro lected
1975         1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         1981         1982
Income
Interest Received on Sub-loans
- First Project                        20.4         14.1         10.9 1/        2.2          0,3          -            -            -
- Second Project                       54.9         43.6         45.2 1-      31.8         12.0           1.2          0.3          0.1
- Third Project                       100.8        100.3        144.3 1/    113.8          97.5          88.2         73.1         55.1
- Fourth Project                        0.4         41.2        101.4        132.2        235.0        247.5         249.5        241.2
- Proposed New Project                   -           -             -            -            -         108.7         215.5        318.5
- Complementary Loans                  56.7         69.1         65.9         68.4          75.8       122.2         125.2        128.3
Commissions Received                       5.4          6.6          8.3          7.6          8.0          8.2          8.8          9.3
Sundry Receipts                            4.2          2.6          8.4          2.0          2.0          2.0          2.0          2.0
Total Income                        242.8        277.5        384.4        358.0        430.6        578.0        674.4        754.5
Expenditure
IDA Commissions                           17.4         17.3         17.1         17.1         17.0         16.8         16.6         16.5
IBRD Interest and Commitment Fees
- On-going Projects                    48.5         72.2         97.8        133.6        137.6         137.6        134.2        130.6
- Proposed New Project                  -            -            -             -            -          45.1          89.0        131.3
Commissions paid to BNF                    7.2          0.7          0.4          -            --                        -            -
Staff Salaries                           35.0         36.9          42.7         47.0         51.7         57.1         62.8         69.1
Administrative Cost                       19.9         21.3         24.1         26.6         29.1         32.0         35.2         38.7
Depreciation                               2.9          3.0          4.7          4.9          5.2          5.4          5.7          6.1
Sundry Expenses                            0.2          0.6          -            1.0          2.0          2.0          2.0          2.0
Experimental Farm (La Patria)              -            1.8          1.8          2.0          2.2          2.4          2.6          2.9
Reserve for Bad Debts                     10.0          -            -           46.4         47,3         47.7         45.4         13.1
Extension Unit                             -            -            -            -            2.3          1.2          1.2          1.2
Technical Assistance                       -            -            -            -           23.5         22.7         22.7         11.3
Operat:ng Surplus                        101.7        123.7        195.8         78.7        112.7        208.0        257.0         325.7
Total Expenditure                   242.8        277.5        384.4        358.0        430.6        578.0         674.4        754.5
1/  Due to the improvement ín collecting bad debts.
December 27, 1978                                                                                                                           -3
(D >c
rM ,_



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Balance Sheet of BNF (As at December 31)
(O Million)
Actual                                     Projected
1975       1976        1977        1978       1979        1980        1981        1982
ASSETS
Cash and Bank Deposits                            645         609       1,089         800        920      1,060        1,150       1,225
Legal Reserve                                   1,478       1,721       2,867       3,223     3,803       4,488        5,295       6,249
Net Portfolio                                  10,516      12,429    -14,541       16,944    19,715      22,862       27,036      31,361
Interests Receivable                              817       1,198       1,011       1,114     1,221       1,344        1,512       1,687
Net Fixed Assets                                  240         230         226         251        299         369         456         549
Other Assets  1/                                3.503       2,140       2,864       3.010       3,461     3.980       4.578        5.265
TOTAL ASSETS                         17,199      18,327      22,598      25,342    29,419       34,103      40,027      46,336
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Liabilities
Deposits                                      3,414       4,348       6,139       7,674     9,055      10,685       12,608      14,878
Outstanding Debts                            10,604      11,292      11,577     10,967    12,309       13,744       15,645      18,224
Other Liabilities                            1.301        1,366       1,822       1,950     2,204       2,490        2,814       3.180
Total Liabilities                        15,319      17,006      19,538      20,591    23,568       26,919      31,067      36,282
Equity
Capital and Reserve                           1,833       2,371       2,968      4,640      5,533       6,582        7,972       8,548
Retained Earnings                                47      (1,050)         92         111        318         602         988       1,506
Total Equity                               1,880       1,321      3,060       4,751      5,851       7,184       8,960      10,054
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY         17,199       8,327      22,598      25,342    29,419       34,103      40,027      46, 336
Debt/Adjusted Equity Ratio  2/                      -           39.1         12.5         6.3        5.5         4.8         4.3         4.4
1/  Includes Governnent Accounts (Law 281, Article 12) of e 2,017 million in 1975, e832 million in 1976, and ¢ 1,496 million in 1977.
2/ Equity less Government Accounts.
Source: Financial Department, BNF
January 15, 1979
w h~



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income and Expenditure Accounts of BNF (Year Ending December 31)
(9 Míllion)
Actual                                              Projected
1975        1976          1977          1978         1979         1980         1981          1982
Revenues  1/                           1,200        1,372        1,835         2,258        2,687        3,187        3,800         4,529
Financial Expenses 2/                 694          724          880           941        1,080        1,283        1,524         1,826
Financial Income (Spread)                506          648          955         1,317        1,607        1,904         2,276        2,703
Operational Expenses  3/              566          701          801           935        1,092        1,276        1,491         1,743
Operational Profits                      (60)         (53)         154           382          515          628           785          960   s
Other Income 4/                       134           18          495            -            -            -             -            -
Less: Provisions  5/                  390        1,038           31           271.         308          545           398          443
Net Profits                             (316)      (1,073)         618           111          207           283          387          517
1/  Assuming 14% of the outstanding portfolio in 1978 and 15% in 1982.
2/  Assuming 4.77,of the oustanding portfolio in 1978 and 5.2% in 1982.
3/  Assuming 5.75% of the oustanding  portfolio in 1978 and 5.85% in 1982 and including also depreciation cost.
4/  Other income includes extraordinary income of 0 458 million in 1977 due to the revaluation of bad debts.
5/  The method of estimating the amount of bad debt provision was changed in 1976 and revaluation of bad debts
was made in 1977.
Source:  Financial Department, BNF
January 15, 1979



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BNF Component - Project Area
Farms
Age of                                                                   No. of       With
Colony     IBR or      No. of       Area      Av. Farm      % Titles      509-PA      Land      New Loans
Colony         (Years)    Private    Farms          (ha)      Size (ha)      (1979)      Credits    Titles      Proposed
Caaguazu Area
Repatriacion           15        IBR        2,000       31,000       10            50           500      1,000  )
Stroessner             20        IBR        1,700        9,000       15            70           500      1,200  )
Walter Isfran          13         P         3,200       10,000       15            40            30      1,300  )
La Fabril              15        IBR        1,000       20,000        15            15           15        150  )
Chaco Re                4        IBR          270        6,000       20            50            20        140  )
San Miguel             30         P           250        4,000       10            70            25  )          )
Villa San Juan         30         P           250        4,000        10            70           20  )    800  )       2,400
Fina Grain             20         P           350        7,000       10            70            20  )          )
Toro Blanco            30        IBR          250        3,000        10           70            20  )          )
Capitan Cue            20        IBR          200        3,000       10            50            20        100  )
Guyraugua              20        IBR          200        2,000        10           50            20        100  )
Yukyry                  3         P           700       44,000        10           50             10       350  )
Sub-total                               10,370     143,000                                 1,200      5,140
Mallorquin Area
Mallorquín             15        IBR        2,300       46,000        13            40          485        920  )
Santa Teresa           10         P           500       16,000       20            50             5        250  )
Sapire                  6         P           300       30,000        30           40            10        120  )        600
Jose Domingo Campo    15          P           270        6,000       15             70           -         200  )
Sub-total                                3,370      98,000                                   500      1,490
Total                                   13,740      241,000                                1,700      6,630
November 7, 1978



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 1: 6,000 ha Breeding/Fattening Ranch in the Chaco Area
Investment and Operating Costs
(0,000)
Unit            Before             ------------------------- Years ------------------------------------
Category                                         Unita          Cost         Development                1              2              3              4               5              6              7            8 - 20
INVESTMENT COSTS
Improved Pastures-/                                   300 ha           15.5               _                  2,850          1,800
Grassland Rehabilitationr2/                            100 ha           6.0               -                    600            -              -              -               -              -              -
Fencing3/                                               10 km          74.0               -                    740            -              -              -               -              -              -
Waterlng Points4/                                        2           880.0                -                  1,760            -              -              -               -              -              -               -
Breeding Heifers                                        50             18.5               -                    925            -              -              -               -              -              -
Breeding Bulls                                          15             50.0               -                    750            -              -              -               -              -              -               -
Total Investment Costsa                                              7:625                           1.800            -               -                             -              -
OPERATING COSTS
Labor5/                                                                  -                564                  564            564            564            564             684            684            684             684
Anisal Haslth6/                                                     ¢ 500 A.U.            537                  554            610            670             700            730            770            782              782
Maintenance of Buildings and Structures7l                                                 150                  150            250            250             250            250            250            250             250
Cleaning of Improved Pastures and Grassland               -        e 1,000/ha             -                    -              -              400            400             400            400            400             400
Transportation                                                                            300                  300            300            350            350             400            400            400             400
Bull Replacement                                          -       e 50,000/hbll           350                  -              450            500            450             350            350            350              350
Renewal of Improved Pasturesd/                            -                               -                    -              --                             -                                          1,350              225
Renewal of Natural Pastsrea8-/                                                       -                                        -              -               -                                            450
Conaultsasolt                                             -              -                -                    -              180            180             180            100            100            100
Total Operating Costs: 1a9;1                                                          1.568          2,354          2,914          2,694           2,914          2,954          4,766            3,166
/,  Assumes land clearing with tractor and chain at ¢ 8,000 per ha; 5 kg of buffel grass seed at ¢ 1,000 per ha; seeding at 500 per ha;
and manual, mechanical and/or chemical wead contral at ¢ 6,000 per ha,
2/  Assumes cutting and cleaning at 0 4,500 per ha; 5 kg buffel grass seed at e 1,000; and seedíng e 500 per ha.
3   Assumes 125 posts  at e 120 each; 375 pickets at e 22 each; 4 roles of plait  wire (17/15) at ¢ 5,700 each; 1/2 role of platn wire (12) at
41 4,000 each; transportation at 0 950; and labor at e 25,000 per k¡m.
Assumes excavatíon of 8,000 mn3 per watering point at e 110 per a
5/  Includes one foreman at e 17,000 per mnoth including e 12,000 for salary, 0 4,000 for food and e 1,000 for social security; plus 3 laborers at e l0,000 each.
/per  month, including   5,000 for salary, e 4,000 for food and e 1,000 for social security, one addttional laborer startiag PYS.
61  Assumes e 500 per animal unit   for vaccines, medicaments, insecticides and mineral licks.                                                n
8 Assumes 4%. per year, starting with year after construction.
8/  Assumes e 3,000 per ha for cutting and cleaning; 0 1,000 per ha for seead and   500 per ha for seeding; 50 ha per year
lor lmprovad pastures and 17 ha per year for natural pastures,
Assumes 0 180,000 per year for PY's 2-4 and 0 100,000 for PY's 5-7.
August 11, 1978



- 55 
ANZNEX 1
PARAGUAY                                                          Table 7
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model I: 6,000-ha Breeding/Fattening Ranch in the Chaco Area
Herd Prolection
Before            ---------------------------- End of Year ---------------------------------_____
Unit    Development               1           2          3          4           5           6             7           8 - 20
Cows                            No.            512              504         525         556        617        667          666          666            666
Bulls                           No.             42               31          33          37         40         40           40           40             40
Calves                          No.            300              386         384         382        445        496          496          496            496
Heifers 1-2 years               No.            145              145         189         188        187        219          243          243            243
Heifers 2-3 years               No.             88              141         142         185        184        133          134          134            134
Steers 1-2 years                No.            145              145         189         188        187        218          243          243            243
Steers 2-3 years                No.            141              141         .142        185        184        183          214          238            238
Total Numbers:        No.         1.373            1.493        lj04       1,721      1.844       1.956       2,036         2.060          2.060
Total Animal Units; A.U.          1.073            1.107        1.220      1.339      1.399       1.460       1,540         1,564          1,564
Purchases
Heifers                         No.             -                50                           -                -            -             -             -
Bulls                           No.              7               15            9         10          9           7           7             7             7
Total Numbers:        No.              7               65           9         10           9          7            7            7              7
Mortality
Cows                            No.             18               20          13          13         15         16           16           16             16
Bulls                           No.              1                2           1           1          1          1            1             1             1
Heifers 1-2 years               No.              5                5           4           4          4          4            5            5              5
Heifers 2-3 years               No.              4                4           3           4          4          4            4             5             5
Steers 1-2 years                No.              5                5           4           4          4          4            5            5              5
Steers 2-3 years                No.              4                4           3           4          4          4            4            5              5
Steers 3-4 years                No.              4                4           3           3          4          4            4            4              5
Total Numbers:        No.             41               44          31         33          36         37   *      39            41             42
Sales
Cull Cows                       No.             70              126         107          98        109        118         118           118            118
Cull Bulls                      No.              6               24           6           5          5          6            6            6              6
Heifers 2-3 years               No.             53               -           -           -          -          50          81           104            104
Steers 3-4 years                No.            137              137         138         139        181        180         179           210            233
Total Numbers:        No.            266              287         251        242         295        354         384           438           461
Production Data
Weaning Rate                     %              50               59          60         57          60         62           62           62             62
Mortality Rate - Adults          %               3                3           2           2          2          2            2            2              2
Culling Rate - Cows              %              12               20          17          15         15         15          15            15             15
Culling Rate - Bulls             %              15               44          20          15         15         15          15            15             15
Bull/Cow Ratio                   %               7                5           5          5           5          5           5             5              5
Total Output Rate                %              19.4             19.2        15.6       14.1        16.0       18.1        18.9          21.3           22.4
Carrying Capacity               A.U.         1,200           1,300        1,500      1,600      1,700       1,700       1,700         1,700         1,700
Value of Production (0000)                                                                      Value of Production («'000)1/
Cull Cows                    15.5/head       1>248.8          2,210.8    1,874.1   1,865.3   2,074.7   2,246.0    2,319.2            2,319.2         2,319.2
Cull Bulls                   21.6/haad         149.2            586.8       146.4       132.6      132.6      159.1        164.3       164.3           164.3
Heifer 2-3 years             18.5/head       1,128.6              0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0   1,135.9    1,900.1    2,439.6             2,439.6
Steers 3-4 years             20.8/head       3.279.9          3.225.7    3.243,6   3.550.4   4.623.2   4.597.6    4.721.0    5.538.6
Total:                            5,806.4          6,023.4    5.264.1    5.548.3  6,830.5   8,138.7    9,104.6   10,461.8                11,068.4
Incremental Herd Value at Full Development («'000):   11,247.2
1/  Values are expressed in 1978 prices and adjusted for the real price changes projected by the Commodities and
Export Projections Divísion of the Bank.
February 23, 1978



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK ANID ACRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 1; 6.000 ha Sreeding/F.tt.eiog R-nch in the Chaco Area
ainacial Analysis
(d8000)
Before
Develop-
COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS          ment          1           2           3          4           5           6           7          8           9          10         11          12          13        14-19        20
Benefits
Sales of Producto
with Project             5,806.4    6,023.4    5,264.1    5,548.3    6,830.5    8,138.7    9,104.6   10,461.8   11 068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4
Sales of Products
without Ptoject          5.806.4    5.710.6    5.700.5    6.194.9    6.194.9    6.194.'    6.396.7    6,396.7    6.396,7    6.396,7    6.396.7    6,396.7    6.396.7    6,396.7    6.396.7    6.396.7
Incremental Benefits          0.0       312.8      (436.4)    (646.5)      635.6    1,943.8    2,707.9   4,065.1        4,671.7    4,671.7    4,671.7    4,671.7    4,671.7    4,671.7    4,671.7    4,671.7
_s -ts-
I-vestment Costo              0.0    7,625.0    1,800.0          0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Operating Costs           1,901.0    1,568.0    2,354.0    2,914.0    2,894.0    2,914.0    2,954.0    4,766.0    3,166.0    3,166.0    3,166.0    3,166.0    3,166.0    3,166.0    3,166.0    3,166.0
T.a on Cattle Sale          212.8       229.6      2 00.8      193.6       236.0       283.2      307.2       350.4       368.8       368.8      368.8       368.8       368.8       368.8       368.8      368.8
Total Cost with Proje
Project               2,113.8    9,422.6    4,354.8    3,107.6    3,130.0    3,197.2    3,261.2    5,116.4    3,534.8    3,534.8    3,534.8    3,534.8    3,534.8    3,534.8    3,534.8    3,534.8
Total Cost without
Project                 2,113.8    2,113.8    2,113.8    2,113.8    2,113.8    2,113.8    2,113.8    2,113.8    2,113.8    2,113.8    2,113.8    2,113.8    2,113.8    2,113.8    2,113.8    2,113.8
In-reoental Cost              0.0    7.308.8    2.241.0        993.8    1.016.2    1.083.4    1.147.4    3,002.6   1.421.0    1.421L0    1.421.0    1.421.0    1 421.0    1.421.0    1.421.0    1.421.0
Incremental Net               0.0   (6.996.01  (2,677.4)  (1.640.3)    (380,63         860.4   1.,560.5    1062,5                  3.250.7    3.250.7    3.,250.7    3250.7    3,25            3,250.7   14 497.9
Benefit (Cost)                      -                                                                                                                                                        -
CASII FLOW ANALYSIS
Infl-o
Sales of Products         5,806.4    6,023.4    5,264.1    5,548.3    6,830.5    8,138,7    9,104.6   10,461.8   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4
Subloan Received              0.0    5 719.0    1.350.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.8
Total Infles            5,806.4   11,724.4    6,614.1    5,548.3    6,830.5    8,138.7   9,104.6    10,461.8   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4   11,068.4
Out f lose
Invest.ent Costo              0.0    7,625.0    1,800.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Operating Costs            1,901.0    1,568.0    2,354.0    2,914.0    2,894.0    2,914.0    2,954.0    4,766.0    3,166.0    3,166.0    3,166.0    3,166.0    3,166.0    3,166.0    3,166.0    3,166.0
Tax o. Cattle Sale          212.8       229.6       200.8      193.6       236.0       283.2       307.2      350.4       368.8       368.8       368.8       368.8      368.8       368,8       368.8       368.8
Debt Service of Subloas
Principal                   0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0       884.0      884.0       884.0       884.0       884.0       884.0      884.0       881.0         0.0         0.0
Jnterest                    0.0         0.0       384.0      424,0       424.0       424.0      398.0       345.0       292.0       239.0    ..   0         132.0        79.0       26.U         0.0         0.0
Total OutfIco         2,113.8    9,422.6    4,738.8    3,531.6    3,554.0    3,621.2    4,543.2    6,345.4    4,710.8    4,657.8    4,603.8    4,550.8    4,497.8    4,441.8    3,534.8    3,534.8
Cash Balaste
With Project              3,692.6    2,319.8    1,875.3    2,016.7    3,276.5    4,517.5    4,561.4    4,116.4    6,357.6    6,410.6    6,464.6    6,517.6    6,570.6    6,626.6    7,533.6    7,533.6
Without Projec-t         3            3596.8    3.586.7   4. 081.1                   4.081.1    4,28.9                  4.282,9    4.282.9    4.282.9    4,282.9    4 ,282.9    4282.9    4.282.9    4.282.9
1ncremental Cash Bal-
asco                       0.0   (1.277.0)  (1.711.4)  (2_064.3)         046         36.4       278.5     (166.5)   2.074.7    2.127.7   2181.7    2234.7    2,287.7               _                   3250.7
Financial Rato of Return:  14.5%
1/  Includes e 11,247,200 fot ij-emental hetd val-e in yeat 20.
February 21, 1979



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model II: 800-ha Breeding/Fattening Ranch in Eastern Paraguay
Investment and Operating Costs
(¢'000)
Before          ---      -------------------- Project Years ------------------------------
Category                                 Units    Unit Cost        Development           1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8-20
A.  Investment Costs
Improved Pastures"/                           80 ha         19.5               -            1,080       480       -                   -         -         -           -
Fencing                                       4.5 km        74.0               -               330        -       -         -         -         -         -           -
Breeding Heifers                              20            18.5               -               370        -       -         -         -         -         -           -
Breeding Bulls                                 4            50.0               -               200        -       -         -         -         -         -           -
Total Investment Costs                                                     1.980       480       -         -         -         -         -           -
B.  Operating Costs
Labor/                                          -            -                 276             276      276       276       276       384       384       384         384
Animal Health3/                                         ¢ 550/A.U.             118             137       163      184       187       198       209       211          220
Maintenance of Buildings and
Structures4/                                  -             -                 120             120      133       133       133       133       133       133         133 >
Clearing of Improved Pastures5/                 -       01,200/ha              -               -          -        96        96        96        96        96           96
Transportation                                                                  40              60        60       60        60        60         60       60           60
Bull Replacement-/            7/                -       050,000/head            50             -         50       100       100        50       100       100          100
Renewal of Jmproved Pastures_                   -            -                 -               -          -       -         -         -         -         400           67
Consultant.                                    -             -                 -               -         80        80        80        50        50        50          -
Sub-total                                                     604            593       762       929       932       971    1.032    1.434         1.060
Feeder Steers 9/                                        012,000/head           -               272      271        295       147       147       -        -            -
Total Operating Costs                                         604            865    1,033    1,224    1,079    1,118    1.032    1.434             1.060
1/  Assumes land clearing at 0 11,500 per ha; 5 kg of Colonial grass seed at e 1,200 per ha; seeding at ¢800
2/  per ha; and manual, mechanical and/or chemical weed control at 0 6,000 per ha.
2/  Includes one foreman at ¢ 14,000 per month, including ¢ 10,000 for salary, 0 3,000 for food and ¢ 1,000 for social
security; plus one laborer at ¢ 9,000 per month, including 0 5,000 for salary, ¢ 3,000 for food and ¢ 1,000 for
social security; one additional laborer starting PY 5.
/  Assumes 0 550 per animal unit for vaccines, medicaments, insecticides and mineral licks.
5/  Assumes 4% per year, starting with year after construction.
-   At    2,400 per ha every 2nd year = 01,200 per year.
At ¢ 50,000 per bull.
-   Assumes ¢ 3,000 per ha for cutting and cleaning; 0 1,200 per ha for seed and 0 800 per ha for seeding;
assumes renewal every six years.                                                                                                                                         m>K
8/  Assumes ¢ 80.000 for PY's 2-4 and 0 50.000 for PYs 5-7.                                                                                                                 - (
9/  Price of feeder steer purchases are adjusted for real price changes projected by the Commodities and Export Projections Division of the Bank.
February 28, 1979



-58-
PARAGUAY                                                                          N_R
Table 10
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DRVE7LOPMNT PROJECT
Medel II-  800-ha Breedíng/Fattenlng Ranch ía Oantarn Paraguay
HBed Pr-o-tio-
Before            ------------U- --u-----                                   Hd of Year -----------------
Unit      Oevelormrnt              1             2            3             4             5             6             7            8             9            10-20
Coes                                No.           102                109           111           116          130           141           152           167           167           167            167
BulíI                               No.             a                  7             7             8             9            9            10            10            10            10             10
Calves                              No.            60                 84            82            86          109           110           118           130           130           130           130
H.f-eru 1-2 yeúrn                   No.            29                 29            41            40           42            49            54            58            64            64             64
Heifera 2-3 yrsr                    No.            58                 28            2S           40            39            41            48            33            33           33             33
Stlera 1-2 yearn                    No.            29                 29            41            40           42            49            54            58            64            64             64
St-ers 2-3 years                    No.            28                 28            28           40            39            41            4S            53            57           63             63
Total Nu-b-r-:            No.          274                 314          338           370           401           440          484           509           525           531            531
Total Anoimal Unit:                    214                 250          296           334           341           360           381          384           395           401            401
Parahuse
Hleifers                            No.           -                   20           -            -             -             -             -             -             -            -              -
Balín                               N.o             1                  4             1             2             2            1             2             2             2             2              2
Fender Steera                                     -                   20            20            20           10            10
Total Nu-bers:            No.             1                 24            21           22            12            11             2             2             2             2              2
M.urtality
Coon                                No.             4                  4             3             3             3            3             3             4             4             4             4
Bulín                               No.             00                              O                          O             00                                                                    0
Heifer  1-2 year                    No.             1                  1             1             1             1            1             1             1             1             1              1
haeifers 2-3 years                  No.             1                   1            1             1             1             1            1             1             1             1              1
steerr  1-2 yeara                   Nr.             1                  1             1             1             1            1             1             1             1
Stersr 2-3 yearn                    No.             1                  1             1             1             1            1             1             1             1             1
Stersa 3-4                          No.             1                  1             1             1             1            1
Total Numbers:            Nr,             9                  9             8             B            8             B      8                    9            9             9              9
Sales
Cutl Coan                           No.            14                 27            23            20           23            25            27            29            29            29            29
Cali Salís                          Nr.             1                  5             1             1             1            1             1             2             2             2              2
Heifera 2-3 yram                    No.            10                 -             -             -            -             -             -             20            24           30             30
Steera  3-4 years                   Nu.            27                 27            27            27            39           38            40            47            52           56             62
Ferder Steers                                      -                  -             10            20            20           15            10             5            -            -               -
Total Numbers:            No.            52                 59            61           68            83            79           78           103           107           117            123
Production Data
'.!eaning Rute                      7.             50                 60            60            62            64           65            65            65            65           65             65
MarsaBity Rate - Adults             %               3                  3             2             2             2            2             2             2             2            2              2
Culling Rate - Cows                 %              12                 20            17            15           15            15            15            15           15            15             I5
Culling Rate - Bulia                %              15                 36            20            15           15            15            15            15            15           15             15
Bull/C w-Ratio                      %               7                  5             5             5            5             5             5             5             5            5              5
Cotal Output Rote                   %              20.0               18.8          15.1          13.2         16.2          15,0          13.6          17.4         19.8          21.7           22.8
Careying Capacity                   A.U.          240                300           350          400           420           440           450          450           450           450            450
Valuo of Praéuotootior ( oíii9
Cull Crow                        15.5/head       249.8               473.7        402.8         384.7         437.8        475.          5 530.7       570.0         570.0        570.0          570.0
Cali Buliu                       21.6/heod         24.9              122.3          24.4         20.5          26.5          26.5         27.4          54.8          54.8          54 8          54.8
Heifera 2-3 yeara                18,5/head       212.9                 0.0           0.0          C.0           0.0           0.0          0.0         469.2         f63.0         703.7         703.7
Street 3-4 yearn                 20.8/haad       646.4               635.7        634.6         689.6         996.2        970.6       1.055.0       1.239.6      1.371.5       1,477.0        1.635.2
Fender Steers                    20 .8/hsed         0.0                0.0        235.0         51C.8         510.8        383.1         263.7         131.9           0.0           0.0           0.0
Total                                1,134.0            1,231.7       1,296.9       1,60¡.7      1,971.3       1,856.1      1,876.8       2,465.4       2,559.2       2,805.5        2,963.7
ITncreental Herd Valar at Fol1  D-velu-ment (V'0055:   4,285.6
1/  VToen are ororensed ir 1978 peitas nad adjusted for the re-í price changen projecoed by the Cuooditien aéd Export
Projections b.visonf O the BuaR.
February 23, 1979



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVEIPMENT PROJECT
Model II; 800 ha Breeding/Fatteninp Ranoh in Eastern P.ra&ooy
Financial Analysís
(0.000)
Before
Develop-
COST/BENEFIT ANALYSIS                             ment         1          2         3          4          5          6          7          8          9          1O         11         12         13       14-19        20
Benefits
Cattle                                   1,134.0    1,231.7   1,061.9   1,096.8   1,460.5   1,473.0   1,613.0   2,333.5   2,559.2   2,805.5   2,963.7   2,963.7   2,963.7   2,963.7   2,963.7   2,963.7
Feeder Steer                                  0.0        0.0      235.0      510.8      510.8      383.1      263.7     131.9         0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Soleo with Proje-t              1,134.0    1,231.7   1,296.9   1,607.7   1,971.3   1,856.1   1,076.8   2,465.4   2,559.2   2,805.5   2,963.7   2,963.7   2,963.7   2,963.7   2,963.7   2,963,7
Sales of Products without Project        1.134,0    1115.2   1113.3   1209.8              1.209.8   1,209.8   1249.2     1,249.2   1,249,2   1,249.2   1,249.2   1,249.2   1,249.2   1.249.2   1,249.2   1,249.2
Incremental Benefit.                          0.0      116.5      183.6      397,9      761.5      646.3      627.5   1.216.1   1,310.0   1,556.2   1.714.5   1.714.5   1.714.5   1.714.5   1.714.5   1,714,5
C.St
Invest.ent Costs                              0.0    1,980.0      480.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0,0
Operating Costo                             604.0      593.0      762.0      929.0      932.0      971.0   1,032.0   1,343.0   1,060.0   1,060.0   1,060.0   1,060.0   1,060.0   1,060.0   1,060.0   1,060.0
Purchase of Feeder Steer                      0.0      271.7      271.2      294,7      147.4      147.4        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Tax os Cattle Sale                           41.6       47.2       48.8       54.4       66.4       63.2       62.4       82.4       85.6       93.6       98.4       98.4       98.4       98.4       98.4       98.4
Total Cost with Projeot                 645.6    2,891.9   1,562.0   1,278.1   1,145.8   1,181.6   1,094.4   1,425.4   1,145.6   1,153.6   1,158.4   1,158.4   1,158.4   1,158.4   1,158.4   1,158.4
Total Cost without Project                  645,6      645.6      645.6      645,6      645.6      645.6      645.6      645.6      645.6      645.6      645.6      645.6      645.6      645.6      645.6      645.6
1--renental Cost                              0,0    2.246.3      916.4      632.5      500.2      536.0      448.8      779.8      500.0      508.0      512.8      512.8      512.8      512.8      512.8      512.8
noraneoetal Net Benefit (Cost)                 o0.    (2.129.8)   (732.8)   (234.6)    261.3         110.3       178.7     436.3      810.0   1,048.2   1,201.7   1,201.7   1.201.7   1,201.7   1.201.7   5.487.5
CAS    0 FLOW AALYSIS
Inflow
Salea   of Products                       1,134.0    1,231.7   1,296.9   1,607.7   1,971.3   1,856.1   1,876.8   2,465.4   2,559,2   2,805.5   2,963.7   2,963.7   2,963.7   2,963.7   2,963.7   2,963.7
Sableas Receved                               0.0    1,485.0       360.0        0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0
Complementary Loan _/                          0.       271.7      271.2      294.7     147,4      147.4        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Total TIflow                          1,134,0    2,988.4   1,928.1   1,902.4   2,118.7   2,003.5   1.876.8   2,465.4   2,559.2   2,805.5   2,963.7   2,963.7   2,963.7   2,963.7   2.963.7   2,963.7
Outf low  _
Investment Costa                              0.0    1,980.0      480. 0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0,0        0.0        0.0
Operating Costo                             604.0       593.0      762.0      929.0     932.0      971.0   1,032.0   1,343.0   1,060.0   1,060.0   1,060.0   1,060.0   1,060.0   1,060.0   1,060.0   1,060.0
P-rohaso ni Feeder Ste-r                      0.0       271.7      271.2      294.7     147.4      147.4        0.0        O.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Tao so Cattle Sale                           41.6        47.2       48.8       54,4      66.4       63.2       62.4       82.4       85.6       93.6       98.4        98.4       98.4       98.4       98.4       98.4
Debt Servioe of Subloao
Principal                                   .0         0         °0 0.0     0.0        0.0        0.0      231.0      231.0      231.0      231.0      231.0      231.0      231.0      228.1         0.0        0.0
Interest                                   o.o         0.0      100.0     111.0      111.0      111.0      104.0       90.0       76.0       62.0       48.0      34.0        21.0         7.0        0.0        0.0
Debt Servic  of Complementary Loan
Principal                                  0.0         0.0     135.9      271.4      283.0      221.0      147.4       73.7        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Interest                                   0.0         0.0       16.3       24.5      25.9       17.7       13.2        4.4        00         O.0                              0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0
Total O.tflow                       645.6    2,891.9   1,814.2   1,685.0   1,565.7   1,531.3   1,590.0   1,824.5   1,452.6   1,446.6   1,437.4   1,423.4   1,410.4   1,393.4   1,158.4   1,158.4
Cash Balance
With Project                                488.4        96.5      113.9      217.4      553.0     472.2       286.8     640.9   1,106.6   1,358.9   1,526.3   1,540.3   1,553.3   1,570.3   1,805.3   1,805.3
Wíthout Project                             488.4       469.6      467.7      564.2      564.2      564.2      603.6     603.6      603.6      603.6       603.6      603.6      603.6      603.6      603.6      603.6
InCremental Cash Balaste                      0.0      (373.1)   (353.81   (346.8)       (11.2)    (92.0)   (316.95       37.2      503.0      755.2         2.7     936.7       949.7      966.7   1           1.201.7
,:n-nal Rato of Re:rnr                     16.9%
1/ Iacladeo  e 4,285,800 fon increeontal herd val-e iS  yoar 20.                                                                                                                                                          -
2  Complementary loan woold fi-ance 10oo. of foeder rteor cost with two yeao repaymnnt period.                                                                                                                           <t,
F.br-ary 21, 1979



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model III: 50-ha Beef/Dairy Farm in Eastern Paraguay
Investment and Operating Costs
(I ' 000)
Unit          Before           --------------------------------------- Years --------------------
Category                                        Units       Cost       Development            1           2           3            4           5          6           7          8-20
A. Investment Costs
Improved Pasturesl/                                 20 ha         19.5            -                270         120          -
Fencíng                                              3km          74.0            -                222          -           -           -            -          -          -           -
Store and Milking Parlor                              -            -              -                250          -           -           -            -          -          -
Watering Facilities                                                -              -                250          -           -            -           -          -          -            -
Small Equipment and Hand Tools                        -            -              -                150          -           -           -            -          -          -           -
Dairy Heifers (Cross-breeds)                         10           25.0            -                250          -           -           -            -          -          -            -
Breeding Bull                                         1           60.0            -                 60          -           -           -            -          -          -           -
Total Investment Costs:                     -            -              -              1 452         120          -            -           -          _          -            _
B. Operating Costs
Labor2/                                               -            -             75                150         150         150         270          270        270        270          270
Animal Health2-                                       -            -              8                 23          29          34          36           40         46         48           52
Concentrate Feed4/                                    -            -              -                 30          28          34          40           42         48         48          48
Maintenance of Buildings and Syructures5-             -            -             10                 10          30          30           30          30         30         30           30
Cleaning of Improved Pastures6                        -            -              -                 -           -           30          30           30         30         30           30
Transportation                                        -            -             15                 40          40          40          40           40         40         40           40
Bull Replacement                                      -            -              -                 -           -           -            -           -          60         10           10
Renewal of Improved Pastures-- -                                   -                                            -           -           -            -          -         100           17
Total Operating Costs:                                                108                253         277         318         446          452        524        576          497
1/ Assumes land clearing at 0 11,500 per ha; 5 kg of Colonial grass seed at 0 1,200 per ha; seeding
2/ at 0 800 per ha; and manual, mechanical and/or chemical weed control at ¢ 6,000 per ha.
- Family labor has been given a cash value of 0 150,000 per year; one laborer at e 12,000 per year
3/  will be employed starting PY 4.
- Assumes ¢ 800 per animal unit for vaccines, medicaments, insecticides and mineral licks.
Assumes 200 kg of concentrate feed per  =  -        l   p    ear at0 e o per kg.
5 Assumes 4% per year, starting with year after construction.
6/ At 0 1,500 per ha per year.
-   Assumes 0 3,000 per ha for cutting and clearine: 0 1,200 per ha for seed and 0 800 per ha for                                                                                              m
seeding; assumes renewal every six years.
August 22, 1978



-61-
PARAGUAY                                                                   ANNEE 1
Tabllo 13
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Modol III:  50-ha Beef/Dairy FParto ij  Batero Paraguay
(10 Forma)
H-ed Proiection
Before-d. ---------- - - -                    - -         -- - -    End of Yr ----------------__-
Categoro Uoit                              Developrent              1             2            3             4             5            6             7             8             9           10-20
-erd Coeooalitío
Caow                                       No.            85                155           152          149           180           203           223          249           250           250           250
Bulio                                      No.            10                 13            13           15            17            19            21            21           21            21            21
Calvos                                     No.            60                138           132          132           159           180           196          220           221           221           221
Heifors 1-2 years                          No.            29                 29            68           65            65            78            88            96          108           109           109
Hoifor  2-3 700                            N..            13                 28            28           67            64            64            76            01           50            50            50
Itro  1-2 years                            No.            29                 29            68           63            65            77            88           96           108           106           100
llors 2-3 years                            No.            28                 28            28           67            64            64            75           86            94           106           106
Total NBobe-s:              No.           256                420          489           560           614           685           767          819           852           865           865
Total Aoijal UmIto:         No.           196                282           357          428           455           505           571          599           631           644           644
Calvos Boro
Calves                                     No.            70                160           147          144           173           195          213           239           240           240           240
Purchases
Heifors                                   No.             -                 188            -            -             -             -             -            -             -             -             -
Bullo                                      No.             1                 10             2            4             5             5             5            4             3             4             3
Total Narbers:              No.             1                11              2             4            5             5             5             4             3            4             3
M-rtality
Coas                                       No.             3                  6             4            4             4             5             5             6            6             6             6
Bullo                                      No.                                1                                        1            -1                                       -              1            -
Calvos                                     No.            10                 22            15           12            14            15            17            19           19            19            19
HBafrrs 1-2 years                          No.             1                  1             1             1            1             2             2             2             2            2             2
Heifors 2-3 y-ars                          No.             1                  1             1             1            1             1             2             2             2            2             2
S torr  1-2 years                          No.             1                  1             1             1            1             2             2             2            2             2             2
Storr  2-3 years                           No.             1                  1             1             1            1             1             2             2            2             2             2
Streos 3-4 years                           No.            1                   1             1             1            I             1             1             2             2            2          -
Total Nombers:              No.            18                 34            24           21            24            27            31           36            35            36            35
Sales
Coll Cowo                                  No,            12                 39            27           27            32            36            39           44            44            44            44
Cull Bulla                                 No.             1                  6             2             2            2             3             3             3            3             3             3
BHie-  3-4 yea-o                           No,            13                 -             -            -             -             -             -             35           44            56            57
Stros 3-4 ye.ro                            No.            27                 27            27           27            66            63            63            73           04            92           104
Total Narbes:               No.            53                 72            56            56          100           102           105           155          175           195           208
Produotios Dota
Calvig Rate                                 7.            70                 80            80           80            80            80            80            80           80            80            80
Mortality Rate - Cal-es                    7.             14                 14            10            8             8             8             8             8            8             8             8
Mortality Rato  -Adulto                    *.              3                  3             2             2            2             2             2             2            2             2             2
Colling Rast  - Cavo                        4             12                 20            15           15            15            15            15            15           15            15            15
Cullio8 Bort - BuTís                        %             14                 30            17           15            15            15           15            15            15            153           1
BuB.JICos/Ratio-                           7.            lo7                                7                   7             7                    7             7            7             7             7
Totol 0Otpot Rato                          7.            20.7                17.1          11.5         10.0          16.3          14.9          13.7         18.9          20.5          22.5          24.0
Aoua.    1 Milk Baleo per Cmv is Milk    litero         400                 500          600           700           800           900        1,000         1,200         1,00         1,000        1,000
Carryiog Capaoity                         A.U.          250                 350          500           600           700           700          700           700           700           700           700
Volu- of Pooductio (0'000)
(u)  Cattie Bales (0'000)
Calí Co-s                         15.5/tead       214                 684          473           514           609           685           767          865           063           063           865
CaliB ollo                        21.4/toad         23                147            49           53            53            80            82           82            82            02            87
Heifers 3-4 years                 30.0/head       277                   -            _      -            -             -                    -         1,331         1,674         2,130        2,168
Sterr  3-4 ye-rs                  20.8/head       646                 636           635          690         1,680        1,609         14É2          1,925         2.21           22           2.743
Bab-total:                             1.162               1.467        1,156         1.257         2.348        2.374         2.510         4,204         4.836         5.504        5,858
(b)  Milk Sales (4'BOB3               v 30/liter        840              2.400         2,646         3.024        4.152         5.265         6.390         7.170         7.200        7.200         7.200
Total (0'BO0)                          2,002              3,867         3,802         4,281         6,500        7,639         8,900        11,374        12,03b        12,704       13,058
Ioroto--tal Herd Valoeat Fulí Develop=eot (0'088):   13,669
1/  Boloes aro amprossed i  1970 pr,loo  amd adjusted f-o tha r-a1 ptroc ohang-s projected by tho Co noditios am¿ Expo-t Projections  Divsioo of the Bock.
PFb-aroy 23, 1979



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 111:  50-ha Beef/Dairy Farm
Financial AnalYsis
(d'000)
Before
Develop-
COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS                              ment           1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9           10         11         12         13       14-19         20
Benefits
sales of Products witlh Project
Cattle                                    116.2        146.7      115.6      125.7      234.8      237.4      251.0      420.4      483.6      550.4      585.8       585.8      585.8      585.8      585.8       585.8
Mílk                                       84.0        240.0      264.6      302.4      415.2      526.5      639.0      717.0       720.0      720.0      720.0      720.0      720.0       720.0      720.0      720.0
Total Sales with Project              200.2         386.7      380.2      428.1      650.0      763.9      890.0   1,137,4   1,203.6   1,270.4   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8
Sales of Products witho-t Project            200.2        198.3      198.1      208.0      208.0       208.0      212.1      212.1      212.1      212.1      212.1      212.1       212.1      212.1      212.1      212.1
Incremental Benefits                           0.0        188.3      182.1      220.0      442.0      555.9      678.0       925.3      991.5   1,058.3   1,093.7   1,093.7   1,093.7   1,093.7   1,093.7   1,093.7
Costs
Investcent Costs                               0.0      1,452.0      120.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Operating Coscs                              108.0        253.0      277.0      318.0      446.0      452.0      524.0       576.0      497.0      497.0      497.0      497.0      497.0       497.0      497.0      497.0
Tae on Cattle Sale                             4.2          5.8        4.5        4.5         8.0        8.2        8.4       12.4       14.0       15.6       16.6       16.6        16.6       16.6       16.6       16.6
Total Cost with Project                   112.2      1,710.8      401.5      322.5      454.0      460.2      532.4      588.4      511.0      512.6       513.6      513.6      513.6       513.6      513.6      513.6
Total Cost without Project                   112.2        112.2      112.2      112.2       112.2      112.2      112.2      112.2      112.2      112.2      112.2      112.2       112.2      112.2      112.2      112.2
Incremental Cost                               0.0      1,598.6      289.3      210.3      341.8      348.0      420.2      476.2       398.8      400.4      401.4      401.4       401.4      401.4      401.4      401.4
Ine.emental Ntt Penefít (Coat5                 0.0    (1.410.2)   (107.2)          9.8     100.2      207.9       257.8      449.1      592.7      657.9      692.3      692.3       692.3      692.3      692.3   2 059 2
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
Inf lo.
Salee of Products                            200.2        386.7      380.2      428.1      650.0       763.9      890.0   1,137.4   1,203.6   1,270.4   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8    1,305.8   1,305.8
Subloan Received                               0.0      1.307,0   1 108.0          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Total Inflow                              202.2      1,693.7      488.2      428.1      650.0      763.9      890.0   1,137.4   1,203.6   1,270.4   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8
Outf low
Investment Costs                              0.       1,452.0      120.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Operating Costs                              108.0        253.0      277.0      318.0      446.0      452.0       524.0      576.0      497.0      497.0      497.0      497.0       497.0      497.0      497.0      497.0
Ta. on Cattle Sale                             4.2          5.8        4.5        4.5         8.0        8.2        8.4       12.4       14.0       15.6       16.6        16.6       16.6       16.6        16.6       16.6
Debt Service of Slbloan
Principal                                   0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      177.0       177.0      177.0      177.0      177.0      177.0       177.0      176.0         0.0       0.0
Intereat                                    0.0          0.0       82.0       85.0       85.0       85.0       80.0        69.0       58.0       48.0       37.0       26.0        16.0        5.0        0.0        0.0
Total Outflow                         112.2      1,710.8      483.5      407.5       539.0      545.2      789.4      834.4      746.0      737.6       727.6      716.6      706.6       694.6      513.6      513.6
Cash Balance
With Project                                  88.0         (17.1) 2/   4.8        20.6      111.0      218.7      100.6      303.0      457.6      532.8      578.2       589.2      599.2      611.2       792.2      792.2
Without Project                               88.0          86.1      85.9       95.8        95.8       95.8       99.9       99.9       99.9       99.9        99.9       99.9       99.9       99.9        99.9       99.9
Incre- ental Cesh Balance                      0.0       (103.2)     (81.2)     (75.2)       15.2      122.9        0.8      203.1      357.7      432.9      478.3      489.3       499.3      511.3       692.3      692.3
Floancíal Rate of Retorn          19.8%
1/ Includes ¢ 1,366,900 for increaental hard value lo year 20.                                                                                                                                                                  H c
2/ Negative cash floí   in year 1 sould be financed by sub-borrowers' own resouraes, especially income froe non-livestock activities.
February 21, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -



-61-
PARAGUAY                                                                    ANNEX 1
Tabla 13
LIVESTOCK AMD AGRICULTURAL DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
Modal III: 50-ha Beef/Dairy FPa in Ejsstae Paraguvy
(10 FPars)
Herd Prolec tion
Before           -----.----------------------------------------------- End of Y-e  ----------------------------------------------------
CatRgory                        USat        Development               1             2             3            4              5             6             7             8             9           10-20
Herd Coor-i tice
Covr                                        No             85                 155           152           149           180           203           223           249           250           250            250
Bullo                                       No,            10                  13            13            15            17            19            21            21             21            21            21
Calesa                                      So.            60                 13S           132           132           159           180           196           220           221            221           221
Helflot   1-2 yeara                         No.            29                  29            68            65            65            78            88            96           108            109           109
Heif-ra 2-3 yaara                           No.            15                  28            28            67            64            64            76            51            30             50            30
Steera 1-2 yeara                            No.            29                  29            68            65            65            77            88            96            108           108           108
St--ro 2-3 years                            No.            28                  28            28            67            64            64            75            86             94           106           106
Total N-mbara:              Nu.            256                420           489           560           614            685           767           819           852           865           865
Total Animsl Unlta:         Nc.            196                282           357           428           455            505           571           599           631           644           644
Calves Born
CTlvas                                      No.            70                 160           147           144           173           195           213           239            240          240            240
Heifera                                     Nu.            -                  100
Bulía                                       No.             1                  10             2             4             5             5             5             4              3             4             3
Total Number:               No.              1                 110             2             4             5             5             5             4             3             4             3
Mortality
Covr                                        No.             3                   6             4             4             4             5             5             6              6             6             6
Bella                                       No.            -                    1            -             -              1            -             -               1            -              1            -
Calves                                      No.            10                  22            15            12            14            15            17            19            19             19            19
oifera  1-2 years                          Nt.              1                   1             1             1             1             2             2              2             2             2             2
Heifers 2-3 year                            No.             1                   1             1             1             1             1             2              2             2             2             2
S tarro  1-2 y--a                          Nlo.             1                   1             1             1             1             2             2              2             2             2             2
St-etr  2-3 yeuro                           No.             1                   1             1             1             1             1             2              2             2             2             2
St-era  3-4 y.ru N..                                        1                   I             1             1                           1             1              2             2             2
Total Numbars:              Nc.             18                 34             34            21            24            27            31            36            35            36            35
Sales
Cull Cow                                    No,            12                  39            27            27            32            36            39            44            44             44            44
Cull.Bols                                   Nc.             1                   6             2             2             2             3             3             3              3             3             3
H.ifara 3-4 years                           No.            13                  -             -             -             -             -             -             35            44             56            57
Steert 3-4 y..rs                            No.            27                  27            27            27            66            63            63            73            84             92           104
Total Number:               No.             53                  72            56            36           100           102           133           155           175           195           208
Prducttico  Dcta
Calvig late t%                                             70                  80            80            80            80           s0 80                        s0 80                       80            a0
Mortality Rae - Clvs                         5.            14                  14            10             8             8             8             8              8             8             8             8
Mortality Rate  -Adalts                      %              3                   3             2             2             2             2             2              2             2             2             2
Cullig Rate - Cow                            %             12                  20            15            15 15                       15            15 03                       19             13            13
Callieg Rata - Bula7 %                                     14                  30            17            15            15            15            13            15            15             13            03
Bull.Cor/Ratio                               %             10                   7             7             7             7             7             7              7             7             7             7
Total Oltpas  Rata                           %             20.7                17.1          11.5          10.0          16.3          14.9          13.7           18.9          20.5          22.5          24.0
a..a6 Milk B1ales par Cota íe Milk    lit-r               400                 500           600           700           800           900         1,000         1,000         1,000         1,000         1,000
Carryeig Capcoity                           A.U.          250                 350           S00           600           700           700           700           700           700            700           700
Valuo al Pro-duticu  (0'000)
(u) Cattia sales (4'000) -i
Cull Coca                          15.5[haud        214                 684          473            514           609           685           767           865           865           865            665
Cali BulIa                        21.6/haad          25                 147            49            53            53            80            82            82            82             82            82
Uaifera 3-4 years                 30.8/Ohad         277                   -            -             -             -             -             -          1,331         1,674         2,130         2,168
St.er. 3-4 year                   20.8rhatd         646                 636           635           690        1.060          1,609         1,662         1L925         2,215         2.426         2,743
sub-totel:                              1.162               1.467         1.156         1.257         2,348         2,374         2.310         4,204          4,836         3,304         5.858
(b)  Milk Sales ('000>)                   30/litar       840               2.400         2,646         3.024         4.152         5.265         6,390         7.170         7.200          7,200         7,200
Total (<'000)                           2,002               3,867         3,802         4,281         6,500         7,639         B,900        11,374         12,Ojo        12,704        13,058
I...e.ee.ta1 Heríd  alu  ab Pulí Savelaeae  (<0005:   13,669
11  Xolca     - aro  pepr.essd ia 1970 pnces and -  djustad for bha real prics chanegs projactad by the Com ditie sgnd Export Prcj-rtieo. Diviaion cf the BaOk.
February 23, 1979



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 111: 50-ha Beef/Dairy Farm
Financial Analysis
(8 '000)
Before
Develop-
COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS                              ment           1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9           10         11         12         13       14-19         20
Benefits
Sales of Products with Project
Cattla                                    116.2        146.7      115.6      125.7      234.8      237.4      251.0      420.4      483.6      550.4       585.8      585.8      585.8      585.8       585.8      585.8
Milk                                       84.0        240.0      264.6      302.4      415.2      526.5      639.0      717.0       720.0     720.0       720.0      720.0      720.0       720.0      720.0      720.0
Total Sales with Project              200.2         386.7      380.2      428.1      650.0      763.9      890.0   1,137.4   1,203.6   1,270.4   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8
Sales of Prodarts without Projert            200.2        198.3      198.1      208.0      208.0      208.0       212.1      212.1      212.1      212.1      212.1      212.1       212.1      212.1      212.1      212.1
Incre--etal Benefits                           0,0        188.3      182.1      220.0      442.0      555.9      678.0      925.3       991.5   1,058.3   1,093.7   1,093.7   1,093.7   1,093.7   1,093.7   1,093.7
Costs
Iívestment Costa                               0.0      1,452.0      120.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Operating Casta                              108.0        253,0      277.0      318.0      446.0      452.0       524.0      576.0      497.0      497.0      497.0      497.0      497.0       497.0      497.0      497.0
Tao on Cattle Sale                             4.2          5.8         4.5       4.5         8.0        8.2        8.4       12.4       14.0       15.6       16.6       16.6        16.6       16.6       16.6       16.6
Total Cost wlth Project                   112.2      1,710.8      401.5      322.5      454.0      460.2      532.4      588.4      511.0      512.6       513.6      513.6       513.6      513.6      513.6      513.6
Total Cost wíthout Project                   112.2        112.2      112.2      112.2      112.2       112.2      112.2      112.2      112.2      112.2      112.2      112.2       112.2      112.2      112.2      112.2
Incremestal Cost                               0.0      1,598.6      289,3      210.3      341.8      348.0      420.2      476.2       398.8      400.4      401.4      401.4       401.4      401.4      401.4      401.4
Incree..arl Net Basa.ir (Cast)                 0.0    (1.410.2)    (107.21        9.8      100.2      207.9       257.8     449.1       592.7      657.9      692.3      692.3       692.3      692.3      692.3   2.059.21/   0
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
Sales of Produrts                            200.2        386.7      380.2      428.1      650.0      763.9       890.0   1,137.4   1,203.6   1,270.4   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8
Subloan Receíved                               0.0      1.307.0   1 108.0          0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Total Inflaa                              202.2      1,693.7      488.2      428.1      650.0      763.9      890.0   1,137.4   1,203.6   1,270.4   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8   1,305.8
0utf low
Investment Costs                               0.0      1,452.0      120.0         0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Operating Casto                              108.0        253.0      277.0      318.0      446,0      452.0       524.0      576.0      497.0      497.0      497.0      497.0       497.0      497.0      497.0      497.0
Tao on Cattle Sale                             4.2          5,8         4.5       4.5         8.0        8.2        8.4       12.4       14.0       15.6       16.6        16.6       16.6       16.6        16.6       16.6
Debt Service f subloan
Principal                                   0.0          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      177.0       177.0      177.0     177.0       177.0      177.0       177.0      176.0         0.0       0.0
Interest                                    0.0          0.0       82.0       85.0       85.0       85.0       80.0       69.0        58.0       48.0       37.0       26.0        16.0        5.0        0.0        0.0
Total Outflas                         112.2      1,710.8      483.5      407.5       539.0      545.2      789.4      834.4      746.0      737.6       727.6      716.6      706.6       694.6      513.6      513.6
Cash Balance
With Project                                  88.0        (17.1) 2/   4.8        20.6      111.0      218.7       100.6      303.0      457.6      532.8      578.2      589.2       599.2       611,2      792.2      792,2
Without Project                               88.0         86.1       85.9       95.8       95.8        95.8       99.9       99.9       99.9       99.9        99.9       99.9       99.9        99.9       99.9       99.9
Incremental CasI Balance                       0.0       (102.2)     (81.2)     (75.2)       15.2       122.9       0.8      203,1      357.7      432.9      478.3      489.3       499.3      511.3      692.3       692.3
Financial Rate of Retare          13.8%
1/ Inclades e 1,366,900 far incremental herd value i year 20.
2/ Negative cash flow in year 1 would be fitnaced by sub-borrswers' on resousces, eapecially income from na-llvestack activítíes.
February 21, 1979



- 63 -
ANNEX  1
Table 15
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of One Drilling - Rig Unit1
for the Purchase by Contractor -
Unit
t '000
Drilling - rig with compressor and sludge-
pump to drill wells up to 250 m deep
with a diameter of up to 12 inches              25,700
10-ton truck                                          5,400
Four-wheel drive vehicle                              2,150
Water pump with about 25 hp and divers
small equipment and tools                          750
Total                              34,000
1/
Includes the following taxes and duties:  20% for drilling
ríg and pump and 70% for truck and four-wheel drive vehicle.
September 28, 1978



0n                   0   w3 0  =2 o.                        0          0 c2Oa                O                00             0 c--'~  0n                  >,-00           00'    c
rD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~0$$                                                                                                                           $ 2  r           100   -  VO
°C~~                ~           ~ =0                                                                                                             0     0    $2 °                 00       $ Onn
a$ o $ 00 > 2 °t                                                                                                  00.                       $1                                                                  r      0     0
000             00       - ° F                I               0 0                                                                    >        o                     ,     o           -         -        o O O
'.0                                         I00                                                   1"                               -                                    $2           '    0» |            ~ r <w _I
a$2  $200  0 0 0 0 0  $2000       ".-             olO                  0>0                       0~~~~~~~                                <0       $2     0 g   =v    V    v       0
Oa                               o n$ $                                         o .2                             '$2                                                                        0
OFW ~       ~ ~~ 09  ¡VI   I0 I- I                                                                 SHUO                      HHSHOVm                      O9                0 ¡o.nX 
Có°°   O        ) C          O                                              a                                                                                                 a   3 W
0 < <O                                         a                                        O                              r                O                                                        00>   
o*oO#                   aFIW                                                       <    O   I   Ia  0    o        
>4~|   |F   I 0                                                                          4 F0               $2wI I         
3  o              o rs      -                                                    a      $2- o              o
a    ~|   IF0  0                              F> F          I0    I                                       I |,
>  o  > 9 @           sv, o                 0.> 
a~ ~~ o 4 o o -  0       o       rto o                                                        0  0|       a     o K 
OIv o-       -                 1                                                  0     Ci
$2   ~1 -IF                                                                      $2  0<0  @O I  I                               



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULT0pAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Model IV: 20-he Mixed Farm
__antitv and Value of Pr-duction
Cultivated Area                                           Yields                                                          Total of Production
Categorv   O  1   2      3       4       5    6 - 20        °       I      2       3        4       5    6-20             0          1          2           3           4          5         8          7        8-20
------------------*--------- h- ------__ -------           ------------------- t ... ha -------______-________         ------ -^^ -     ^^^^^-------   tons -----_____--------------
Croo Production.
F.od Crops
Mateo                              0.5    0.5    0.5    0.50   0.5    0,5    0.5             1.1    1.1    1.2    1.2        1,3    1.3    1.4            0.55         0.55      0.60        0.60        0,65         0.65    0.7        0.7        0.7
Msoioc                             1.0    1.0    1,0    0.50   0.5    0.5    0.5            18.0   18.0   20.0   20.0    22.0   22.0   24.0              18.00        18.00    20.00        10.00       11.00        11.00   12.0       12.0       12.0
Beant                              0.5    0.5    0.5    0.50   0.5         -       -         0.9    0.9      1.0    1.0      1.0      -       -           0.45        0.45       0.50        0.50        0.50                   -              -
Cash Cropo
Cotton                             2,0    2.0    2.0    2.25   2.5    3.0    3.0             1.3    1.5    1.5    1.6        1.e     1.7    1.7           2.60         3.00      3.00        3.60        4.00         5.10     5.1       5.1        5.1
Soya                                 -     1.0    1,0    2.25   2.5    3.0    3.0             -      1.4    1.4    1,6       1,6    1,8    1.8             -           1.40      1.40        3.60        4.00         5.40     5.4       5.4        5.4
S-fl.ower..                         -      2.0    2,0    2.25   2.5    3.0    3.0             -     0.9    1.0    1.0        1.1    1.1    1.2             -           1.80      2.00        2.25        2.75         3.30     3.6       3.6        3.6
Imoproved Pastare                     -      2.0    5.0    7.00   9.0   10.5   10.5
Faracgate Prícoc 5/                                                          --a-ue of Production
(01kg)                                                                            (g0000)
Value of Crop Produotlon
Matee                                                                                        12 0  12 0  12 0  12.0  12 0  12.0  12 0                    56.6          6.6       7.2         7.2          7.0         7.8      04        8.4        84 
Mauloo                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0  54.0  540    6 0.0       30.0         33.0        36.0    368.0      36.0       36.0
m0--0c                                                                                       28.0  28.0  28.0  28.0  28.0  28.0  28.0                    12.6        12.6       14.0        14.0           -           -        -         -          -
BC-an                                                                                        43.0  44.4  45.1  45.1  45.1  45.1  44.9                   111.7       133.2    135.3         162.4        180.4       230.0   229.2    229.2        229.2
Cotton                                                                                       21.0  23.6  20.9  26.2  26.2  26.2  28.9                      -         33.0       29.3        94.5       105.0        141.7   155.9    155.9        155.9
S50y                                                                                         20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0                      -         36.0      40.0         45.0        55.0         66.0    72.0       72.0       72.0
59.6        68.9      83.1         69,6       L0087        142.1   125.7    181.2        135.8
Total Value of Production                                                                                                                                 244.5        344.i    368.9        422.7        503.9       620.7   627.2    b32.6        o37.2
Lees:  Value of On^farm  Consu=ption_/                                                                                                                     50.0        50.0       50.0        50.0        50.0         50.0    50.0       50.0       50.0
Total Cash Sales                                                                                                                                          194.5        294.3    318.9        372.7       453.9        570.7   577.2    632.6        587.2
1/ Operated by one family with 6 members aod o work poteotial of 70  OaO-d.Y  p-r month.  1n-1udes 0.5 ha houseplot and one ha of forost at full d-velo- noep
2/  Doble-cropped after cotton.,
0- H-erd Projection, Table 17 of this Annex.
.A.soue  consumption of oll  ba4oe, heans and  iilk aod port of manioc productioo by íarm^family.
5/  Prices of coro, coya and bo-f ore adj--ted 6or the real price chonges projected by tho C-divi.s and Eoport Proj-tío- Division of e Son6k.
February 28, 1979



- 66 -
PARAGUAY
ANNEX 1
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                       Table 18
Modal IV: 20 ha Mixad Faro
Herd Proiection
(100 Farms>
RBefore         --------------------------------         End of Year ------------------------------------
Category                                 Unit       Development             1           2           3           4           5            6           7           8-20
Herd Composition
Cao-                                             No.             427              407         655          631         699         750          750         750          730
Bulls                                            No.             100              118         120          100          90          90          90           90           90
Calves                                           No.             316              432         774         592          598         640         640          640          640
Heifero 1-2 year-                                No.             153              153         212          379         290         293         314          314          314
{eifero  2-3 years                               No.              73              148         150          308         200         150         150         150           150
Ster  1-2 years                                  No.             153              153         212         379          290         293         314         314           314
teers 2-3 y-ars                                  No.             148              148         150         208          371         284         287         308           308
Droft Osen                                       No.              -               196         196         196          196         196         196         196           196
Total NBmbers:              No.          1.370             1,755       2.469       2,693        2,734       2,696       2,741       2,762        2,762
Total Animal Units:         A.U.         1.054             1,323       1.695       2,101        2,136       2,056       2,101       2.122         2,122
Calves Bor8
Calves                                           No.            350               480         860         644          629         675         675         675           675
Purchaseo
Heifero/Yo-ng Cono                               No.              -               100         400           -           -           -           -            -            -
Bollo                                            No.              18               50          16           -           10          18          18          18            18
Dra-ftOen                                        No.              -               200           4            4           4           4           4         200            37
Total Numbors:              No,              18              350         420            4          14          22          22         218            55
m---taíity
Cowo                                             No.              15               18          19           16          17          18          18          18            18
Bolls                                            No.               3                3           2            2           2           2           2           2             2
Calves                                           No.              34               48          86          52           31          35          35          35            35
Heifers 1-2 yearo                                No.               5                5           4           8            6           6           6           6             6
Heifero 2-3 ye-rs                                No,               5                5           3           4            8           6           6           6             6
Steoro 1-2 years                                 No.               5                5           4            8           6           6           6           6             6
Steer-  2-3 years                                No.               5                5           3            4           8           6           6           6             6
Steer- 3-4 yearo                                 No.               4                4           3            3           4           7           6           6             6
Draft Osen                                       No.              -                 4           4            4           4           4           4           4             4
Total Number-:              No.              76               97         128          101          86          90          89          89            89
Boles
Coll Cons                                        No,              58              175         281         158          123         131         132         132          132
Coll Bollo                                       No.              15               29          12          18           18          16          16          16           16
eifer  3-4 yearo                                 No.              75               -           -            -          171         134         137         158          158
Steero 3-4 years                                 No.             144              144         145         147         204          364         278         281          302
Draft Oses                                       No.              -                -           -            -           -           -           -          196           33
Total Nombers:              No.             292              348         438         323         516          645         563         783          641
Prodoction Dato
Calving Rate                                      %               70               80          90          80           75         75           75          75           75
Mortality Rate - Calvos                           °b              10               10          10           8           $            5           5           5            5
Mortality Rote -Adults                            /                3                3           2           2            2           2           2           2            2
C1llig Rato - Cons                               °1              12               15          20          18          15           14          14          14           14
Colling Rato - Bollo                              /               15               30          10          15          18           18          18          18           18
Bíl1/Cow  - Ratio                                 %               20               20          15          12          10          10           10          10           10
Total Ootpot Rate                                 7/              21.3             19.8        17.7        12.0        18.9        23.9         20.5        28.3         23.2
Carrying Capa-ity                                A.U.         1,200             1,400       1,800       2,200       2,200       2,200       2,200       2,200         2,200
Value nf Prodoction («'000) 1/
Cull Cono                                      15/head        1,000             2,970       4,760       2,910       2,270       2,410       2,510       2,510         2,510
Cull Bollo                                     20/head          350               660         270         440         440         390         410         410           410
Heifer- 3-4 yeors                              15/head        1,290                -           -           -        3,150       2,470       2,610       3,010         3,010
Steero 3-4 years                               20/head        3,310             3,260       3,280       3,610       5,010       8,940       7,050       7,130         7,660
Draft Oxee                                     20/head            -                -           -           -           -           -            -       5,0702/    __
Total:                    «'000          5.960             6.890       8.310       6.960       10.870    14.210       12.570      18.120        13.580
Inoremental Herd Valoe at Fulí Development l/(«V00).  14,900
1/ Values aro expressed i 1978 constant pri-e amd adjusted for the real prioe changeo projeoted by the Co-modities and Export Projections of tho Bank.
2/  Replacemento of draft o-en  -o-ld take place i  yaers 7, 13, and 19.
Febroary 23, 1979



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model IV; 20-ha Mixed Farm
Financial Analysis
(¢'000)
Before
Develop-
COST/BENEFIT ANALYSIS                        ment         1       2       3       4        5       6       7        8       9      10      11       12      13     14-18    19       20
Benefits
Sales of Products with Project
Crop                                  134.9      225.4  235.8  303.0  345.2  428.5  451.4  451.4  451.4  451.4  451.4  451.4  451.4  451.4  451.4  451.4  451.4
Cattle                                 59.6       68.9   83.1   69.6  108.7  142.1  125,7  181.2  135.8  135.8  135.8  135.8  135.8  186.5  135.8  186.5  135.8
Total Sales with Project           194.5     294.3  318.9  372.7  453.9  570.7  577.2  632.6  587.2  587.2  587.2  587.2  587.2  638.0  587.2  638.0  587.2
Sales of Products without Project   194.5           197.7  199.4  204.5  204.5  204.5  206.2  206.2  206.2  206.2  206.2  206.2  206.2  206.2  206.2  206.2  206.2
Incremental Benefits                        0.0      96.6  119.5  168.2  249.4  366.2  371.0  426.5  381.1  381.1  381.1  381.1  381.1  431.8  381.1  431.8  381.1
Costs
Ivestment Costs                        0.0      416.8  271.4    0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Operating Costs                        26.1       22.7   58.5   98.5  114.5  151.4  154.6  224.6  154.6  154.6  154.6  154.6  154.6  224.6  154.6  224.6  154.6
Taa on Cattle Sale                       2.3       2.8     3.5      2.6     4.1     5.2     4.5     6.3      4.9     4.9     4.9      4.9     4.9     6.5      4.9     6.5     4.9
Total Cost with Project             28.4      442.3  333.4  101.1  118.6  156.6  159.1  230.9  159.5  159.5  159.5  159.5  159.5   231.1 159.5 231.1    159.5
Total Cost without Project             28.4       28.4   28.4   28.4   28.4   28.4   28.4    28.4   28.4   28.4   28.4   28.4   28.4    28.4    28.4   28.4  28.4
Incremental Cost                        0.0      413.9  305.0   72.7   90.2  128.2  130.7  202.5  131.1  131.1  131.1. 131.1  131.1  202.7  131.1  202.7  131,1
Incremental Net Benefit (Cost)              0.0   (317.35(185.55   95.5  159.1  238,0  240.3  224.0  250.0  250.0  250.0  250.0  250.0  229.1  250.0  229.1  399.0
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
Inflow
Sales of Products                     194.5      294.3  318.9  372.7  453.9  570.7  577.2  632.6  587.2  587.2  587.2  587.2  587.2  638.0  587.2  638.0  587.2
Subloan Received 2/                     0.0    375.1  2443         0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Inflow                       194.5    669.4  563.2  372.7  453.9  570.7  577.2  632.6  587.2  587.2  587.2  587.2  587.2  638.0  587.2  638.0  587.2
Outflow
Investseot Costs                        0.0      416.8  271.4      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Operating Costs                          26.1     22.7   58.5    98.5  114.5  151.4  154.6  224.6  154.6  154.6  154.6  154.6  154.6  224.6  154.6  224.6  154.6
Ta. on Cattle Sale                       2.3       2.8     3.5      2.6     4.1     5.2     4.5      6.3     4.9     4.9      4.9     4.9     4.9      6.5     4.9     6.5     4.9
Debt Service of Subloan
Principal                            0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    59.6    67.3    76.1   86.0    97.1  109.8  123.5           0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Interest                             0.0       0.0    48.8   80.5   80.5   80.5   72.8    64-0   54.1    43.0    30.3    16.1              0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Outflow                   28.4      442.3  382.2  181.6  199.1   296.7  299.2  371.0  299.6  299.6  299.6  299.1  159.5  231.1  159.5  231.1  159.5
Cash Balance
With Project                          166.1    227.1  181.0  191.1  254.7  274.0  278.0  261.6  287.7  287.7  287.7  288.2  427.8  406.9  427.8  406.9  427.7
Without Po ject                       166.1    169.3  171.0  176.1  176'1  176.1  177.8  177.8  177.8  177.8  177.8  17Z7.8  177.8  177.8  177.8  177.8  177.8
Incremental Cash Balance                    0.0      57.8   10.0   15.0   78.6    97.9  100.2   83.9  109.9  109.9  109.9  110.4  250.0  229.1  250.0  229.1   250.0
Financial Rate of Retcrn   31.57.
1/ Includes ¢ 149,000 for incremental herd vale io year 20.
2/ Consisting from 90% of incremental working capital require---ts duríig thl  disbursement period  (023,600) and investment cost (9595,800).
February 21, 1979



o  -o°            IOoIIt  r Io                                            w                                                                                           >-
a      o                                              -   oOgfl O:  o0 w °                              za|              °n rn           r    0> Ó~   -ol x°0 c00,,   -  /n      :;       
O                                               «   Lo                                111          '1    0 C       O,£nSI w n  .-s00    e= p       oj noo C00n ,-_     n bO P
c~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ °                                                             II    ooi      0- =0 0~0                O,'l 0§ o           D     
O~~~ ~ ~ ~ n    no °o n0 P00 o00 Xl ¡0                                                                                           0         00 0n   n =n
-  s   o1  n 0 ,-i on  nI                                                                              0"o          '  l       0  0  0 n0n  H
~~~~~~~~= ~ ~    ~           ~          ~          ~           - 0"   000                 - rl F                                  00,= 0g
O0    0   0    0      O                                            IV' n             00g           o                                    ~         
a=~~~~~~ ~ .1 ID   .1 °                                     n       n
00    00 0 ;                              o                                        ¡o-          o                                                   0    o  rf
10  ñ~-~ g                                                                          -E          o                                                                       n
g r~~~~O   n                                                             0l  -0 OC
j o  .0   0
~~~~~~~~~o oo                       o         o,   o.                             o
0o~ ~     ~                        o         o       ~ o          * o
O~~ ~         o -0                                         0 o0
~0'o                      O       o10o  - 



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVEIOPMENT PROJFCT
Model V: 10-ha Faras/
Guantity and Value of Production
Cultivated Area                    (0,~<000)   Yed
Cultivated Area                                           Yields                                             Total Production
Cateeors                         0        1       2        3       4      5      6-20       0      1       2       3      4       5      6-20       0       1      2       3       4      5      6-20
A. quntity of.Production    ~~~~~--- -------- ---- --- --- ----- ha -- -- --------- ---- ----   ----------~ ~~~-- ------- tons /ha ------- - ---- _-__-_-_--_--_-_____-_-__-_-_--_ tons - -- - ---- - ---------- --
A. Qatit fPouto
Food Crops
Maize                            0.5      0.5      0.5     0.5    0.5    0.5       0.5      1.1    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.3    1.3         1.4      0.55   0.55   0.6    0.6    0.65   0.65   0.7
Manioc                           1.0      1.0      1.0     0.5    0.5    0.5       0.5    18.0   18.0   20.0   20.0   22.0   22.0    24.0    18.00  18.00  20.0   10.0   11.00  11.00  12.0
Beans                            0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5    0.5       -       -       0.9    0.9    1.0    1.0    1.0        -        -       0.45   0.45   0.5    0.5    0.50        -       -
Cash Crops
Cotton                           2.0      2.0      2.0     2.25   2.5    3.0       3.0      1.3    1.5    1.5    1.6    1.6    1.7         1.7      2.6    3.00   3.0    3.60   4.00   5.1    5.1
Soya                              -       1.0      1.0     2.25   2.5    3.0       3.0       -      1.4    1.4    1.6    1.6    1.8        1.8       -      1.40   1.4    3.60   4.00   5.4    5.4
Sunflower2/              -      2.0      2.0      2.25   2.5    3.0      3.0       -      0.9    1.0    1.0    1.1    1.1         1.2      -      1.80   2.0    2.25   2.75   3.3    3.6
Tobacco                           -        -      0.5      0.5    0.5       -       -        -       -     1.8    1.8    1.8       -        -        -       -     0.9    0.90   0.90       -       -
Improved Pasture-3/                 -       1.0      1.5      1.5    1.5    1.5       1.5
B. Value of Production                                                                                           Farmgate Prices 5/                                  Total Value of Production
Maize                                                                                      12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0    12.0          6.6    6.6    7.2    7.2    7.8    7.8    8.4
Manioc                                                                                      3,0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0         3.0    54.0   54.0   60.0   30.0   33.0   33.0   36.0
Beans                                                                                      28,0   28.0   28.0   28.0   28.0   28.0    28.0    12.6   12.6   14.0   14.0   14.0    -                -
Cotton                                                                                     43.0   44.4   45.1   45.1   45.1   45.1    44.9   111.7  133.2  135.3  162.4  180.4  230.0  229.2
Soya                                                                                       21.1   23.6   20.9   26.2   26.2   26.2    28.9           -    33.0   29.3   94.5  105.0  141.7  155.9
Sunflower                                                                                  20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0    20.0           -    36.0   40.0   45.0   55.0   66.0   72.0
Tobacco                                                                                    60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0   60.0    60.0           -       -    54.0   54.0   54.0        -      --
Beef (¢/head)                                                                              13.8   13.6   13.6   14.7   14.7   14.7    15.2           -       -       -       -    9.8    9.8   10.1
Total Value of Production                                                                                                                           184.9  275.4  339.8  407.0  459.0  488.4  511.6
Less:  Value of On-farmn
Consumption4/
Total Cash Sales                                                                                                                                    134.9  225.4  289.8  357.0  409.0  438.4  461,6
/'  Operated by one family with 6 members and a work potential of 70 man-days per month.  Includes 0.5 ha
house plot and 1 ha of forest.
2/  Double-cropped after cotton.
3/ For maintenance of one pair of draft oxen and one dairy cow unit.
4/ Assumes consumption of all maize, beans and milk and part of manioc production by farm-family.
Pieces of cotton, soya and beef are adjusted for the real price changes projected by the Conaodities and Export Projections Division of the Bank.
July 20, 1978                                                                                                                                                                                          ax



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model V: 10-ha Farm
Financial Analysis
(000o)
Be fore
Develop-
COST/BENEFIT ANALYSIS                        ment         1       2       3       4        5       6       7       8       9       10      11      12      13     14-18    19       20
Benefits
Sales of Product with Project    134.9           225.4  289.8  357.0  409.0  438.4  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6
Sales of Products without
Project                           134.9      139.1  140.9  140.9  140.9   140.9  140. 5  140.5  140.5  140.5  140.5  140.5  140.5  140.5  140.5  140.5  140.5
Incremental Benefíts                    0.0       86.3  148.9  216.1  268.1  297.5  321.1  321.1  321.1  321.1  321.1  321.1  321.1  321.1  321.1  321.1  321.1
Costs
Investment Costs                        0.0     393.0  128.9       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Operating Costs  1/                    16.0       18.7   49.2   86.6  103.2  119.3  123.8  158.8  128.8  128.8  128.8  128.8  128.8  158.8  128.8  158.8  128.8
Tax on Cattle Sale                       1.0       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.5      0.5     0.5     2.1     0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5     0.5      2.1     0.5     2.1      0.5
Total Cost with Project             16.0     411.7  178.1   86.6  103.7  119.8  124.3  160.9  129.3  129.3  129.3  129.3  129.3  160.9  129.3  160.9  129.3
Total Cost Without Project             16.0       16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0    16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0
Incremental Cost                        0.0     395.7  162.1   70.6   87.7  103.8  108.3  144.9  113.3  113.3  113.3  113.3  113.3  144.9  113.3  144.9  113.3
Incre.ental Net Benefit  (Cost)             0.0    (309.4)  (13.2) 145.5  180.4  193.6  212.8  176.2  207.8  207.8  207.8  207.8  207.8  176.2  207.8  176.2  207.8
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
1nflow
Sales of Products2/                   134.9      225.4  289.8  357.0  409.0  438.4  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6
Subloan Received -                      0.0     353.7  116.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Inflow                      134.9      579.1  405.8  357.0  409.0  438.4  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6  461.6
Outflow
Investmenít Costs                       0.0      393.0  128.9    0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
Operating Costs                        16.0       18.7   49.2   86.6  103.2  119.3  123.8  158.8  128.8  128.8  128.8  128.8  128.8  158.8  128.8  158.8  128.8
Tax on Cattle Sale                      0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.5      0.5     0.5     2.1     0.5      0.5     0.5     0.5      0.5     2.1     0.5     2.1      0.5
Debt Service of Loan
Principal                            0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0      45.1    51.0   57.6   65.1    73.6   83.1    94.2          0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Interest                             0.0       0.0   46.0   61.1   61.1    61.1   55.2   48.6    41.1    32.6    23.1    12.2             0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Outflow                   16.0     411.7  224.1  147.7  164.8  226.0  230.5  267.1  235.5  235.5  235.5  235.7   129.3  160.9  129.3  160.9  129.3
Cash Balance
With Project                          118.9      167.4  181.7  209.3  244.2  212.3  231.0  194.4  226.0  226.0  226.0  225.8  332.2  300.6  332.2  300.6  332.3
Without Project                       118.9      123.1  124.9  124.9  124.9  124.9  124.5  124.5  124.5  124.5  124.5  124.5  124.5   124.5  124.5  124.5   124.5
Incremental Cash Balance                    0.0      44.3   56.8   84-4  119.3    87.4  106.6   70,0  101.6  101.6  101.6  101.4  207.8  176.2  207,8  176.2  207.8
Financial Rate of Return   40.27
1/ Includes the replacement of oxen at 0 30,000 in years 7,13, and 19;  oId oxeo could be sold at 0 40,000.
2/ Consísting fron  90% of incremental working capital requirements d.ring the disbursement period  (022,800) and investment cost (0446,900).
February 21, 1979



- 71 -  .                                 ANNEX I
PARAGUAY                                   Table 23
Page 1
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feeder Roads Component
Name and Length of Roads to be Constructed and Improved
A. Road Construction
Length            Bridges
km         6 m    12 m   18 m
Colony Walter Insfran (South)
km 8 Maria Auxiliadora Branch Road        4
North-South San Isidro Road               6
Segunda Linea                             2
Tercera Linea                             2
Cuarta Linea (2+1)                        3
Quinta Linea                              6
Septima Linea                             7
30
Colony Walter Insfran (North)
Km 3 Montanaro Branch Road                4
1° de Mayo Road                           7
11
Colony San Miguel and San Juan
Caaguazu - Arroyo Agua Syry              10          1        1
Colony Repatriacion
Tercera Linea                             3
Santa Rosa - Iturbe                       4          1
Acceso Pueblo de Dios                     6
Sombrero Kai                              4          1
Colony Chacore                              17
Ruta Este-Cangua-Chacore                 10          -2
Colony Fina Grain
Access Azuaga Area                        6          1
16
Colony Capitan Cue
Nurumi Access                             4
Mboicae Access                            6          1        1
10
Subtotal                            94           5



-72-                         ANNEX I
Table 23
Page 2
Length            Bridges
km         6 m    12 m   18 m
Colony Italo Paraguaya
Detour Arroyo Yuquyry                     3          1        -
Colony Mallorquin
Continuation Ruta Monday                12
Access Caa Yovai                          4
North-South by Villa Mercedes             4
Streets north of J.S. Mallorquín         3
23          -
Total Road Construction           120           6       4       1
B. Road Improvement
Colony Fina Grain
Main Road                                 4
Colony Capitán Cué
Transversal                               3
Colony Stroessner
Calle 7                                  3
Colony Mallorquín
Access Pastoreo Mi                       3
Calle Cacuaro                           .2
Calle R.I. 14                             3
North-South by Villa Mercedes             3
Transversal Villa Mercedes               4
Transversal Calle Victoria                2
Calle Victoria                          12           1
Calle La Paz del Chaco  North             2
Calle La Paz del Chaco  South             2
Calle Caaredy North                      1
Calle Caaredy South                      2
Calle Yuqueri                             3
Calle 60                                  5
54          1
Other Colonies, Approximate             66           2
Total Road Improvement            120           3
Source:  IBR, BNF, MOPC, consultants and mlsslon
August 1978



- 73 -
ANNEX 1
Table 24
1sARACUiáY
PriOTSrD LIVESTOCK'. fi21t'AORICTC-LTR'rAT.. DEV-EILOP'''-,VX? PROJECT
Feeder Road Component
Design Standards for Construction and Improvenent of Feeder Roads
Minimum sight stopping distance        (m)                       50
Minimum radius horizontal curves       (m)                       30
Maximum gradient                       (Z)                        8
Right-of-way                           (m)                       20
Platform width                         (m)                        5
Minimum cross-section gradient         (%)                        3
Minimum side ditch wJdth               (m)                        1
Minimum side-ditch depth               (m)                        0.3
Culverts       ,                        Precast concrete pipes (minimum diameter
0.8 m)with headwalls
Bridges (AASHTO Loading HS-20-456)      Timber, 4 m wide
Source: MOPC and mission
November 1978



- 74 -
ANNEX I
Table 25
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - ROAD COMPONENT
Feeder Roads Component
Equipment Procurement
Unit Cost
(CH Asunc.)    Total Cost
Units   (uS$t000)        (US$'000)
Tractor with angledozer and
ripper                            120 hp      1         100               100
Motorgraders                         120 hp     2          83               166
Front end loader                     1.1 m3     1          55                55
Platform truck diesel                  7 ton    2          15                30
Truck-mounted hoist                             1           4                 4
Water tank truck diesel            6,000 1      2          22                44
Low-bed truck diesel                  20 ton    1          55                55
Self-propelled rubber
tired rollers                   3 - 10 ton   2           30               60
Agricultural tractors                100 hp     2          20                40
Tandem scraper pans                  6 m3       2          12                24
Agricultural tractors                 60 hp     2          10                20
Rotary Flails                                   2           2.5               5
Water pumps                           4 ín.     2           1.5               3
FWD vehicles                                    2          12                24
Grease truck                                    1          20                20
Sub-total:                                                   650
Workshop tools and equipment                                                 10
Sub-total:                                                   660
Spare parts (about 14%)                                                     90
Sub-total:                                                   750
Source: MOPC and mission
August 1978



- 75                                             ANNEX 1
Table 26
PARAGUAY
PROPOSED LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feeder Roads Component
(us$ '000)
Civil Works Cost Estimates and Project Financíng
1.  Road Construction Costs (120 km)
F.E.C.
Ouantitylkm      Unit Price/km       Total       %      Amount
Clearing                                                 1 km                  0.35               42     70        29
Excavation                                               3,000 m3              3.20              384      76      292
Shaping                                                  6,000 m2              0.95             114      76        87
Culverts 1/                                              10 m                  3.50              420     25       105
Bridges                                                  1 m                   1.50              180     25        45
9.50           1,140      49       558
2.  Road Improvement Costs (120 km)
Excavatioa                                               1,500 m3              1.50              180     76       137
Shaping                                                  5,000 m2              0.75               90     76        69
Culverts 1/                                              5 m                   1.25              150     25        37
3.50             420      58       243
3.  Road Maintenance Cost (500 km,2 passes a year,4 yea;.s = 4,000 km)
Unit Prices
Per Hour 1'er km
Motorgrader                                                                0.016    0.090        360
Water Truck                                                                0.010    0.015         60
Compactor                                                                 0.D10    0.015          60
Towed Mower                                                               0.1010    0.015         60
0.136       540      76      410
4. Consultant Services, íncluding Chief Engineer
Man-Month                Rate
Engineering                                              36                    2.67 2/            96     50        48
Supervision (4 professionals 2 years)                    96                    2.67 II          256      50       128
Topping-up of salary forMOPC Chief Engineer              48                    1.00               48      -        -
400     44       176
5. Total Cost Estimate
120 km Road Construction                                                                      1,140      49       558
120 km Road Improvement                                                                         420      58       243
500 km Road Maintenance (4 years)                                                               540      76       410
Consultant Services,  including Chief Engineer                                                  400      44       176
Total Cost                                                                               25         55    1,387
6. Project Fínancing
Bank Financing
%    Amount
(i)   Equipment (Table  25)                                                                     750      95      713
(ii)  Direct Costs Equipment Operation
Road Construction 120 km x 2                                                              240
Road Improvement 120 km x 1                                                               120
Road Maintenance 500x120x4                                                                240
600     50       300
(iii) Culverts and Bridges
Culverts 120 units at 3.5 1/                                                             420
Culverts  60 units at 2.5 1/                                                              150
Bridges  120 m at 1.5                                                                    180
750     20       150
(iv)  Consultant Services, including Chief Engineer                                             400     55       224
TOTAL                                                                             2,500      55    1,387
1/ Including ditching and turfing.
2/ Average is based on present supervision contract for credit 509-PA works.
Source: Unit Price Estimation based on Cost Study of Feeder Roads under Credit 509-PA (Mr. Miquel's Full
Report, August 1978) and Engineering Design Study of the Coronel Oviedo - San Estanislao Road
(Consultants SAE, April 1976).
Foreign Exchange Component based on Feasibility Study of the Coronel Oviedo - San Estanislao Road
(Consultants SAE, April 1976)
October 1978



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Investment Costs of the Completion of Wholesale Market
(G'000)
Total Investment Cost
------------- Years --------------                                                        Foreign Exchange
1         2          3          4           Local        Foreign         Total          Component (%)
Investnent Cost
Design -                            5,679         -         -          -           1,136         4,543           5,679                80
Construction
Buiílding N. 1 and N. 4              -      26,961      8,987        -          16,177        19,771         35,948                55
Entrance Building                    -         -        1,040        -             624           416           1,040               40
Parking                              -      10,810        -          -           4,193         6,617          10,810               65
Road                                 -      22,123        -          -           7,743        14,380          22,123                65
Circulation Area for Walkers         -       2,598        -          -             909         1,689           2,598                65
Administrative Building              -       3,338      3,338        -           4,006         2,670           6,676                40
Auxiliary Building                   -         997        997        -           1,196            798          1,994               40
Fence                                -       3,524                               1,762         1,762           3,524                50                 o
Electricity                          -       1,870      5,610        -           2,244         5,236           7,480                70
Wqter Supply System                  -       2,355        785        -           1,884         1,256           3,140                40
Sewage System                        -       2,005        668        -           1,737           936           2,673                35
Land Preparation                     -       9,432        -          -           1,415         8,017           9,432                85
Water Tank                           -       2,505        -          -           1,253          1,252          2,505                50
Drainage System                      -       2,007        669        -           1,739            937          2,676                35
Land Scaping                         -         -           95        -             666            286            952                30
Sub-total                    -      90,525    23,046          -         47,548        66,023         113,571                58
Supervision of Construction           _        4,074      1,037        -           1,022         4,089           5,111                80
Total Baseline Cost        5,679    74,599    24,083          -         49,706         74,655        124,360                60
1/ To be financed by Preinvestment Fund
Deceinber 20, 1978



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Administrative Support
(G '000)
-- -- -- - --- - --roject  vear 3- - - -- -- - ---                          - -To a
Unit Cost                                                                                                                    Foreign Exchange         Bank
Units    Cost    Units        Cost       Units      Cost        Units        Cost         Cost         Coponent              Financing
Livestoeck Component
Replacement of Four-Wheel Drive Vehicles  1,100                         4     4,400        3      3,300          3      3,300           -            -       11,000               90                 9,900
Extension Unit
Per Diem  '/                                  160/year/man          6        960        6        960           6       960           6          960        3,840                0                      0
Four.UWheel Dríve Vehicle                  1,100                    1     1,100        -          -           -         -            -           -         1,100               90                   990
Operating Cost of 4-wheel Drive Veh.          200/year              -        200        -        200          _       200            -          200           800              60                      0
Sub-total                                                        '6-,660              4,460                 4,460                   1,160        16,740               68                 .0,890
Small Farm Development
SEAG
Four-WheelDrive Vehicles                    1,100                   2      2,200        -          -           -         -            2       2,200         4,400              90                  3,960
Motorbikes                                     100                  3        300        7        700           -         -           10       1,000         2,000              90                  1.800
Repair of Existing Vehicles                      -                  -        600        -          -                -                 -           -           600              60                      0
Rental of Offices                             150/year              6        900        6        900           6       900            6         900         3,600                0                      0
Salaries of Additional Staff                  360/year              7      2,520        7     2,520            7    2,520             7       2.520        10,080               0                       0
Operating Cjp,it of Four-Wheel Drive
Vehirles       -                           225/year              7      1,575       7      1,575           7      ,575            7        1,575        6,300               60                      0
Operating Cost of Motorbikes                   30/year              3         90       10        300         10        300           10         300           990              60                      0
SEAG Sub-total                                                    8,185              5,995                 5,295                     8,495        27,970              37                  5,760
Other Institutions
IBR Four-Wheel Drive Vehieles               1,100                   1      1,100        1     1,100           -          -            2       2,200         4,400              90                  3,960
- Repair of Existing Vehicles               -                     -        500       -           -          -          -           -            -           5uu            '60                       0
BNF
- Four Wheel Drive Vehicles               1,100                   5      5,500       -           -          2    2,200             3       3,300        11,000               90                  9,900
Ocher Institutions Sub-total                                      7,100               1,100                2,200                     5,500        15,900               89                13,860
Sub-total                                                        15,285               7,uy5                7,495                    13,995        43,ó7u               56                19,ú2O
Wholesale Market Component
Project Unit
Salaries
-Coordinator                             1,040                   1      1,040       1      1,040           0.25   260             _            _        2,340                0                       0
-Accountant                                470                   1        470       1        470           0.25    120            -            -         1,060               0                       0
-Economst                                  470                   1        470       -           -          -          -           -            -           470               0                       0
-Architect/Engineer                        650                   0.5      325       -           -          -          -           _            _           325               0                       0
-Secretary                                 260                   1        260       1        260           0.25      65           _            _           585               0                       0
-Driver                                    230                   1        230        1       230           0.25      60           -            -           520               0                       0
Operating Cost of Stiff Car 2/               200/year              -        200        -        200            -      200            _            _          600              60                       0
Sub-total                                                        2.995               2,200                    705                        -         ;90               =6                        0
Grand Total                                                     24.940              13.755                 12.660                   15,155       66.510                5530510
1/ At e 1,600 per day for six existing FG staff to be assigned to extension service.
2/ '20u,000 km per year at ¢ 10 per km for fuel, lubricants, spare parts, repair and insurance.
3/  15,000 k. per year at 0 15 per km for fuel, lubricants, spare parts, repair and insurance.
December 27, 1978                                                                                                                                                                                                -5>
a x<



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Costs
(e'000)
_________________------Project Years 5         -------- ----------------------
-_i-1_5ct2                                   3                       4             Total
Category                               Unit Cost           Units    Cost       Units      Cost       Units       Cost       Units        Cost       Cost
Livestock Component
Short-terms Consultant  lj                 1,000/month              6    6,000          6     6,000           6       6,000           6     6,000      24,000
Trial Work in Animal Production  2/                                 -    2,500          -     2,500           -       2,500           -     2,500      10,000
Scholarship abroad  3/                       400/month              4    1,600          4     1,600           4       1,600           4     1,600       6,400
Livestock Extension Unit
- Permanent Consultant 4/              10,600/year                1   10,600          1    10,600           1     10,600           -           -     31,800
- Four-Wheel Drive Vehicle  5/          1,500                     1    1,500         -         -                        -          -          -       1,500
- Miscellaneous Equipment                  -                      -      200         -        200           -         200          -        200         800
- Hiring of Small Aircraft             32/flight hour            25      800        50      1,600          50       1,600         25        800       4,800
- Running Cost of Four-Wheel              225/year                -      225          -       225           -         225          -        225          900
Drive Vehícle 6/
Sub-total                                                    23,425               22,725                  22,725                11,325       80,200
Small Farmer Component
Permanent Consultant 7/                      9,100/year             2   18,200          2    18,200           2      18,200           -          -     54,600
Four-Whee Drive Vehicles
for SEAG 8/                                1,100                    2    2,200          -         -           -          -            -          -       2,200
Miscellaneous zquipment                        -                     -      300         -        300          -          300          -        300       1,200
Ru,niíng Cost Df SEAG-Vehicles               225/year               2       450         2        450          2         450           2        450       1,800    X
Trial Work  j/                                                      -       500         -        500          -         500           -        500       2,000
Divers Operating Costs                                              -       150         -        150          -          150          -        150         600
Sub-total                                                     21,800               19,600                 19,600                  1,400      62,400
Wholesale Market Componení
Permanent Consultants                    10,600/year                1   10,600          1    10,600           0.5    5,300            -          -      26,500
Short-term Consultants                    1,000/month               2    2,000          2     2,000           -           -           -          -      4,000
Training Abroad  DL/                        300/month               4    1,200         4      1,200           --                      -          -       2,400
Travel for Market Observation  11¡           15O/person             -         -         6       900           -           -           -          -         900
Vehicle                                   1,100                    2    2,200           -          -          -           -           -          -      2,200
Miscellaneous Equípment                        -                    -       200         -        200          -         100           -          -         500
Vehicle Running Cost  12/                    200/year               -       200         -        200          -         200           -          -         600
Divers Operating  Cost  13¡                    -                    -       500         -        500          -         100           -          -
Sub-total                                                         -               15,0                        0                     =            0
Grand Total                                                  6                    57 925                  4_8025                12,725      180,800
1/   Includes cost of international air travel, subsistence and fee.
2/   To be subcontracted with PROMIEGA and/or private livestock producers.
3/   Includes cost of tuition, transport and living allowances.
4/   Includes cost of international air travel, and family medical, lease, retirement, housing and other allowances.
5/   Long-wheel base station-wagon
6/   15,000 km per year at 9 15 per km for fuel, lubricante, spare parts, repair and insurance.
7/   One extension advisor and one credit advisor for Caaguazu and Mallorquín area.
8/   Short-wheel base.
9/   To be subcontracted with farmers.
10/  Eight months of training for coordinator (2 months) , and other technicians (4 months).
11/  Sending wholesalers and other wholesale market users to study the functioning of on-going wholesale markets in neighboriulg countries.                       - >
12/  20,000 km per year at 9 10 per km for fuel, lubricants, apare parts, repair and insurance.
13/  Includes the training of wholesalers and retaílers.                                                                                                           e x
February 2 1
February 28, 1979



-79-
ANNEX 1
PARAGUAY                              Table 30
LIVEST0CK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Phasing
(Us$'000)
-____----- Year ------------   -
1        2        3         4        Total
Livestock Development
Baseline Cost                       6,894    6,870    6,271   1,014        21,049
Price Contingency                     887    1,500    1,994       431       4.812
Total                           7,781    8,370    8,265   1,445         25,861
Small Mixed-Farm Development
Credit Sub-component
Baseline Cost                   2,814    4,331    4,548   1,262         12,955
Price Contingency                  354      928    1,409       522       3,21
Total                        3,168    5,259    5,957   1,784         16,168
Road Sub-component
Baseline Cost                   1,149       843       436       72       2,500
Physical Cor.tingency (15%)         41        98       54        9         202
Price Contingency                 141       227       173       38         579
Total                        1,331    1,168        668      119       3,281
Wholesale Market
Baseline Cost                         -         751       191     -           942
Physical Contingency (15%)            -         108        27     -           135
Price Contingency                     -         195       72      -           267
Total                             -       1,054       290      0         1.344
A,dministrative Support
Baseline Cost                         198       109      101      120         528
Price Contingency                      25        23        31      50         129
Total                             223       132       132      170         657
Technical Assistance
Baseline Cost                         493      460       381      101       1,435
Price Contingency                      60        93      111       39         303
Total                             553       553       492      140      1,738
Agricultural Census
Baseline Cost                      1,600    1,200        -        -         2,800
Total Project
Baseline Cost                     13,148   14,564   11,928   2,569         42,209
Physical Contingency                   41      206        81        9         337
Price Contingency                  1,467    2,966   3.790   1,080           9.303
Total Cost                     14,656   17,736   15.799   3,658        51.849
Percentage of Total Investment         28%       34%       31%       7%         100%
February 22, 1979



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICIILTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financing Plan
(« Million)
Poreíg.
1/  9                                                          Ra~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Echange
-UD-borrowers    Government-/           Institutio-n-/           UNDP                 IBRD           Total          Compooent
Am,ount    7.       Am,ount    %.       Aounlt    %         Am.ount    7.        Amount    %         Amount              7%
Livestock Development
FC Subloans to Large Ranches                        235.6      25          -        -         235.6   25           -         -        471.3   50           942.5           50
FG sRblosas to Medium Ranches                       2461,o.    25          -        -         246.0   25           -         -        492.0   50           984.0           50
FG Subloans to Small Livestock Producers             69.2      10          -        -        276.7   40            -         -         345.8   50          691.7           50
FG SRbloans to Contractor                             8.5      25          -        -           8.5   25           _         -          17.0   50           34.0           78
Total                                        559.3      21         -         -        766.8    29           -         -      1,326.1   50         2,652.2          50
Small Mixed-Furm  Development
BNF Subloans                                        163.2      10          -        -        571.3   35            -         -         897.8   55        1,632.3           55
Road Construction,
Equipment                                          -        -          4.7      5            -       -          -         -         89.8   95            94.5          95
Operating Cost                                     -        -         37.8    50                     -          -         -         37.8   50            75.6          52
Bridges and Culverto                               -        -         75.6    80             -       -          -         -         18.9   20            94.5          25
Consultant Servie  e                               -        -         22.2    50                     -          -         -         22.2    50           44.4          50
Salary Supplement to Chief Engineer                -        -          -        _           -        -          -         -           6.0  100            6.0           0
Total                                        163.2       9       140.3       7        571.3   29            -         -      1,072.5   55         1,947.3           55
Wholesale Market
Construction                                          -         -          -        -          47.7   42           -         -          65.9   58          113.6           58
Supervision                                                                    -                -                   -        -           5.1  100             5.1          80
Total                                          -         -          -        -          47.7    41          -         _          71.0   59          118.7           59
Adsinistrative Service
Livestock Component                                    -        -          -        -           5.8   35            -        -          10.9   65            16.7          68
SRolI Mixed-Farm Component                            -         -         23.2    53            1.1      2          -        -          19.6   45            43.9          56
Wholesale Merket Component                             -       _           -        -           5.9  100            -        _            -       -           5.9           6
Total                                          -         -        23.2    35            12.8   19           -         -          30.5   46           66.5           55
Technical Assistance
Livest-ck Componenít                                                       -        -           -        -          40.1   50           40.1   50            80.2          90
Small Mixed-Earm Component                             -        -          -        -           -        -          31.2   50           31.2   50            62.4          90
Wholesale Market Coeponent                             -        -          -        -            -       -          19.1   50           19.1   50            38.2          90
Total                                          -         -          -        -           -        -          90.4   50           90.4   50          180.8           90
Agricultural Census                                       -        _        252.0    72             -       -         50.4      14          50.4    14         352.8           36
Total Baseline Cost                                     722,5     13        415.5       8      1,398,6   26          140.8       3      2,640.9    50       5,318.3           53
Physical Contingencies                                 -        -         16.0    38             7.1   16           -         -         19.4   46            42.5          46
Price Contingencies                                 238.1      20         50.0      4         387.0   33           19.0      2         478.1   41        1.172.2           42
Total Project Cost                                      960.6     15        481.5       8      1.792.7    27         159.8       2      3,138.4   48         6_533.0           51
1/ Incbs-es SOAS, IBR, MAG and MOPC.
2/ Inlodeo FG, RNF and Municipality of Asoncion.
lo sD
February 23, 1979                                                                                                                                                                      R



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Performance of the Municipality of Asunción
(G' Million)
1976            1977             1978 1'
Revenues
Municipal Taxes                                          297.2           433.8              483.4
Municipal Fees                                            90.8           138.6              152.6
Sales of Goods and Services                                5.5            10.9               65.3
Rents                                                     43.1            53.8               51.1
Contributions  2                                          64.8            94.8              119.5
Other revenues -/                                        155.9           150.3              374.7
Total Revenues                                     657.3           882.2           1,246.6
Expenditures
Personnel Cost                                           289.2           396.4              492.5
Other Services                                            31.2            43.1               45.5
Materials and Supplies                                   146.5           191.5              398.9
Transfer Payment                                           6.3              7.9              26.0
Repair                                                     7.3            13.6               22.4
Obligations                                               84.9            33.9               27.0
Various Expenditure                                        4.7              7.7              14.7
Equipment and other capital costs                          5.7            66.8              141.2
Financial Costs                                           41.7            70.2               78.4
Total Expenditure                                  617.5           831.2           1,246.6
Surplus
Annual                                                    39.8            51.0                0.0
Accumulated                                               39.8            90.8               90.8
1/  Projected figures for 1978 are based on conservative estimates aimed at balanced budgets.
2/  Other revenue in 1978 includes credit operations amounting to 0 235 million.                                           m
Source:  Municipality of Asunción and Missíon                                                                            r )
December 20, 1978



Cosctaccfít600loaoa                1          ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~~~~                                                                  ~~2  3  456  7  1 0  112  1 3  14          6          0710                   190                     21          22
Ubit Chate
ta,,ía  pe  aq apee doy ($/d,y>               0.0        0.0        ío.0        19. 0       20 .0      21. 0       22. 0       03. 0       24. 0      75. 0       05.0        26. 0      26. 0       2 7.0       2 7. 0      208.0       20.0        29.0        29,0        30.0       30.0        30.0
Pa-kíoo feo (O/60y)                           0.0        0.0        10.0        00.0        10.0       10.0        10.0        15.0       03.0        10.0        15.0        15.0       20.0        70.0        00,0        20.0        20.0        25.0        25.0        25.0       25.0        05.0
iEc-..t. ceo                                  o.o        0.0   15.600.0          0.0         M,         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0,0         0.0         0.0        0.0          0.0        0,0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Ocotal                            ~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~0.0  0.0   170610.0   23,940.0   23,200.0 1 2640.0   27~,720.01   20,000.0   30,240.0   3150  1,500.0   32,760.0   32,740.0   34,02.0   34,020.0   35,200.0   33200.0   36540D.0   36.540.0   378000.0   37.00.0   39,060.0
Paekíc  le 0,.0                                          0.0      9720      126,0       126.0      1,.290.     0,9.0       0,01 44.0    1,944.0    1,944.0    1,944.0    1,944.0    2,592.0    2 .5920.0    2,592 .0    2,592.0    2.5 92 .0    3,0240.      3,240.0    3.240. 0    3,240.0    3,240.
Otíelíly 3605. of the tot ll61)           0.0         0.0       554,0       139 .0     730 .0      739.0       7309.0     739.0       039.0       030.0        309.0     739.        739 .0      739.0       73.0        73.         230.        730.0       739.0      730.0       339,0       739.0
...acat ...                                  0.         0.0       460.0       600.0      600.0       600.0       600.0       600.0      600.0        000.0      600.0       600.0      600.0       600.0       600.0       660.0       6300.0      600.0       600.0      600,0        00.0       600.0
local ReVatoce                 ~~~~        ~~~~~~0.0  0.0   34,536.0   20,577.0   27,032.0   29,092 .0   30, 350.0   32,260.0   33 , 520 .0   34.700.0   34,700.0   36,060.0   36,600.0   37,940.0   37.940.0   39,2700.0   39, 200.0   41,106.0   41,116.0   42,376.0   42,376 0   43,636 
Pereocce 1                       ~~~~        ~~~~ ~~~~~0.0  0.0    4.000.0    6,344.0    6,044.0    6,3344 .0    6,344.0    6,344.0    6,344.0    6.344.0    6.344.0    6,344.0      634. 0    6,344.0      6.44.0    6,34.0   6,340  0,344.0    6,344.0         6,44.    6.344.0    6,344.0
El-ociely                                    0.0         0.0       92.       ,31.0       31230      121.        1,.0  0      ,.0  0    131. 1.     12 1,21,2 3    31.     1,3.         ,3.31.0    1.          0,31.0    1,30.0    1.23.           1,3.0    0.31.0    1,31.0    1.031.0    1>331.0
0.0        0.        355.0    1,473.0       473.:0      473.10      4~73.0      473I.0     473.0       473.0       4730.0 41 0            473.0   7. 4            4730        43, 473 13:  7.9         9           7.         7.         47t.3       473.3
Oolocace,ooe                     ~~~~        ~~~~ ~~~~0.0  0:.0    1,13.0    1,55.  1500  ,1.0       ,1.0        ,1.0        ,515.0    2,515.      1,315.0    1.515.       0.315.0    0.513,0     0 ',51.0    1, 515.0    1515.0    1,515.0    1.515.0    0,515.0    1.515,0    1,305.0
0,0   0.0       5~~~~~25.0  700.0      700~.0      000.0       700.0      700.0'      700.0       700.0       M    700.0 200         700.0       700.0       700.0       700.0 -  700.0          700.0       700.       760.0       70.0        700.0
local Coto                     ~~~~        ~~~~ ~~~~0.0  0.0    7.009.0   10,063.0   00, 263.0   10,263.0   10,263.0   10,743.0   10,263.0   10, 26 3.0   10,263.0   10 ,263 .0   10,263.0   10,263.0   10,263.0   10,263.0   10,263.0   00, 263,0   10,263.0   10,261.0   10,263.0   10,763.0
Oeto iotom                                     _O,,..a      0,    26._717.0   16.309.0   17._569.0   18j,290   20 _449.0   21,_99 0.0   3)tZ2).    24._517.0   24JU,51.0  2t2777.o   26,423,    27.605.0  2fl_6850   /b _45,,   2894                360,53,0   30 _053.0   22113,0   322113o   33.273.0
D-rloc                                   5, 679,o        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.          0.0         00         000    0                00          0 .0       0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0,0         0.0        0,0         0.0         0.6
Oooeteoootoo                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~.0  104,~104.0   26,500.01  0.     0.0         0.0        O.0         0.0         .          0.0         0.0o        0.0    0    0     .0    0     .0    0     .0   o.          00.0.0.0.0                                                 0.0
Oo,_ríao_ oOoacolo00                                 404.0    1,570             0.0         0.0         0.0         0.         0.0         0.0         00          0.0        00          0.0         0.0         7.0         0.7         0.0         0.0         0     0      0,        60          0.
OT-hnla -1    lata--                    16,900.0   15,600.0    5 ,700..0         0,0        0.0         0.0         0.         0.0         0.          0.          0.0        0.          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.6        t.0
P-ojeocltc                              2.0995 0    2~200.0        7050          .         ,3,           . 0    0 .0                       0.          0. 0    0              0.0          0.0         .0.0                   0.0         0.0         0.0         7.0        0,0         0.0         0.0
foca  lc---eo                        25 . 574.0  125,970.0   33 ,945. 0      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.7         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0,0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
¡Itt F0oo 04ta OtOeco          ~~~~~~(l5.574 .0)(125,970.0   ( 7.2 20.0)  16.309.0   17 _269.0   18.429/0   20,089.0   21._I97o0   Á2.OA 25 7  24,_517.0   24 _52.0   25 _.a.Zi0   26.425.0   27.605.0   27.085.0   /,_925,0  _2,8945.0   30._853.0   30. _853.0   32.113,0   32.1I3.    33,3730
FíoooeOaí lae of Retoro 11.10.
Caah FIowl
R. n                           ~    ~~~    ~~~~0.0  0.0   34,536.0   20,522.0   27,632.0   29 ,092 .0   30 ,35 2 .0   32,2o7.    33, 520.0   34.700.0   34. 7800.0   26,047.0   36,680.0   3 79480.0   3 7 . 94.0   39,200.0   33,700.0   41.106.0   41.116.0   47, 376.0   42,376.0   43,636.0
patcbotFocO  (95, of destíc)   5,395.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         2.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0,0         0.0        0.0          0,0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0,0
- 200 L...0                             6,450.0   73,254.0   13,259.0          0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         7.0         0.0         0.    00   0.0               0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0,0         0.0         0,0        0.0,0             0.0         0.0
- 110 Coooeíbottío                                7 40. _8.)02fQ  2.0850.0     0.0        00          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.7        00     .0               0 .0t       00          0.0  0,.,..Q/          0.0         0.0        7.0  _..,,,,,4f  ,,,,,,,,,          0.000
Tota                                2 2,295 .0   00,054.0   50,645.0   26,570.0   2 7,0 30.0   29 ,092 .0   30,352.0   32,060.0   33,5 20 .0   34,700.0   34700 3,4.               6600      3,4.          2900 3,200             9200 4,0.               1160 4,7.               7360 4   3  0
Cato Otlílo
Oootstmact                   ~~~~~~~~~~~25,574.0  025.970.0   33 ,945 .0  0.0     0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.          0.0         0.0         0.0         0:10        7.7         0.0         0.0        0,0
Opoettc  OtO                                 0.0         0.0    7,019.0   10,263.0   10,203.0   10.243.0   10 ,263 .0   00,203.0   10,2630    10,203.0   10,203.0   10,203.0   10,263.0   00,263.0   10,203.0   20, 26 3 .0   10.263.0   10,263.0   10,263.0   10,263.0   10,263,0   10,263,0
Ott  SanIt  to   eooaea-       oPo          0.0       324.0       324.0    1,201.0    1,200.0    1,200.0    1.201.0    1,700.0            0.0O        0.0         0.0         0.0        0,0         0.0         0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0,0         0,          0.
p---cotepal                                 0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0    7,690.0    7.6 90. 0    7,690.0    7,690.0    0,090.0    7 ,60 0.0    7,090.0    7,690.0    7,690.0    7,090.0    7,690.0           7,690.0    7.603.0          0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
tota  OttOlOt                       25 ,                               -7 .   16-360 4-14 -019 -4-   19,04..a. 26. 731..  ,,,,...,,    6.344.0   5,,767.0    5.190.0    4 0613.0    4  _037.0  3__6____ 83__.360      1,3.    1_530             56w 
374.0  126.036.0   46,141.0   09,040.0   19,061,0   26.731.0   06.154.0   05,577.0   03.700.0   20,143.0   22,566.0   20,990.0   21,413.0   20,830.0   20,259,0   19,683.0   19.176.0   10,577.0   10,26 3.0   10,263,0   10,263,0   10,263.0
N., Cath Oalao-
Ocotal Oalaoee 21            ~~~~~~~(3,279,0) (46,002.0)   0,504.0    7,531.0    0,790.0    0.361.0    4,196.0    6,603.0    9,000.0   10.637.0   12,214.0   14,050.0   15,275.0   17,102.0   17,009.0   29,975.0   20,102.0   22,594.0   30,053.0   32,113.0   32130                 33,373.0
Aeool -d tplto                   (3 ,2 79 .0) (50.161.00  (41.657.0) (34,126.0) (25,339.0) (22,974,0) (06,776,0) (12,093.0)  (2,293.0)   9,344.t0  21.550.0   35,600.0   50,003.0   67,395.0   63,604.0  105,209.0  125,311.0  147,905.0  170,750.0  210,071.0  242,40  216,357.0
tegacta eah fcas  t ch  ¡lel ta  poce atld he fít-acead hy che MtoletPaltry
Fahc-ae 22, 1979



PAgAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND  AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENI  PROJECT
ProLeot Cash Flor for FU and BNF
(O Million)
1        2        3        4         5        6        7        8         9        10        11       12        13       14       15        16       17        18      Total
Livestock Fund (ia Carrent Price.) 1/
Calsh Inflow
G_vern_art 0n-lending 2/
Livratrck Dev.l.p.not                                         482.4   496.0    510.3       87.4      -         -        -        -         _        _        _         _        _        -         _        _         -        _      1,576.1
Co-tractor                                                      -       19.3       -        -        -         -        -        -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -       19.3
Technioal Annirranre                                           13.2     13.8     15.0       8.1      -                                                                 -        -        -         -        -         -50.1
bu-toratl                                                 495.6   529.1   525.3    95.5                    -                  _                 _                                                                                  1,645.5
Repaynent fran Sub-borronerr
Liveatock D-vrlap...t 3/
- Principal                                                     -        -         -        -        -      185.5   356.5   557.9    613,9    675.9    743.0   817.5    898.8   590.8   322.0               -         -        -      5,761.8
- Interers                                                      _       51.3   109.6   175.0   201.8   222.0   231.8   231.5   217.1   198.4    173.1    142.0   102.3    53.4                    19.6      -         -        -      2,128.9
Cantrartor 4/
-Principal                                                      -        -        -         4.7      5.1      5.6       6.2      6.8      -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -          28.4
- Iatarest                                                      -        -         1.3      1.4      1.2       1.0      0,7      0.4                                                                                                       6 _  _ -  _  _  _  _  _  6.0
UNDP Contributian fLr Tec-hical Arsistance                        13.2      13.8     15.0      8.1       -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -         50.1
Taral Inflar                                              508.8  524.2   651.2   284.7   208.1   414.1   595.2   796.6   831.0   874.3   916.1   959.5 1,001.1   644.2   341.6                           -        -        -       2,620.7
Cash Outflau
Loans to Sub-borro-ers
Livestack D-valop-ent                                            778.0   800.0   823.0   141.0           -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -         -                 -         -      2,542.0
Contractor                                                          -       31.1      -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -        -         -         31.1
Repayment to GUveronnot 5/
Principal                                                                    -        -        -         -      126.6   126.6   126.6    126.6    126.6    126.6   126.6    126.6   126.6   126.6   126.6    126.6    126.3    1,645.5
I.nrarrr                                                                    37.2     76.9   116.3   123.4    123.4   113.9   104.4           94.9     85.4      72.9    66.4      56.9      47.5     38.0    28.5       13.0     95.5   1,217.5
Adoinistrarive Cost 6/                                                         12.8    27.4    43.7    50.5    55.5           57.9    57.9      54.3    49.6    43.3    35.5          25.6    13.4        4.9      -         -        -        532.3
Enterrian Unit OparaLing Cort 7/                                       2,6      1.4      1.5       1.7      1.8       2.0      2.2      2.4      2.7       2,9      -                                                                 - _        21.2
Trchnical A-nirrance 8/                                               26.4     27.6     30.0      16.2      -        -         -        -        _         -        -         _                 -         -        -         -        -         100.2
Total Outflo.                                                 807.0   910.1   958.8   318.9   175.7   307.5   300.6   291.3   278.5    264.5    245.8   228.5   209.1   187.5   169.5   155.1   145.6   135.8   6,089.8
Carh Balance  9/
Anna-1 Carh S-rplus (Deficit)
- Current Price                                                 (298.2) (315.9) (307.6)   (34.2)   32.4   106.6   294.6   505.3   552.5    609.8    670.3   731.0   792.0    456.7    172.1  (155.1) (145.6) (135.8)  3,530,9
- Conatanr Peino                                                (271.1) (261,1) (231.1)   (23.4)   20.1          60.2   151.2   235.7   234.3    235.2    234.9   233.0    229.4   120.3             41.2   (33.8)  (28.8)   (24.4)         989.4
Cumolated Calh Surplur
- Currert Priae                                                 (298.2) (614.1) (921.7) (955.9) (923.5) (816.9) (522.3)  (17.0)  535.5 1,145.3  1,815.6 2,546.6 3,338.6 3,795.3 3,967.4 3,812.3 3,666.7 3,530.9                                -
- Con-ta-t Prein                                                (271.1) (532.2) (763.3) (786.7) (766.6) (706.4) (555.2) (319.5)   (85.2)  150.0    384.9    617.9   847.3   967.6  0;908.8 1,042.6 1,013.8    989.4
National Develepme-t Bank (ir Conrtant Pricar)
Carh Inflaw
GLovrorart On-leadilg 2/                                             198.4   305.0   319.9        87.4      -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -         _        -        -         910.7
Repapym-t frLe   Sub-borr-r-   10/
- Priniípal                                                            -        -        -         -       42.0     96.7   159.0   179.9   203.8    230.1    259.8   194.5    103.2              -        -        -         -        -      1,469.0
- Iatrrear                                                             -       41.6   105.6   172.6   191.0    185.7   173.0   152.1    128.2    101.9    72.3    38.7                13.4       -        _1376
Tlal Inflar                                                      198.4   346.6   425.5    260.0   233.0   282.4   332.0   332.0   332.0    332.0    332.1   332.2   116.6                    -         -        -         -        -      3,755.8
Carl Outflour
Subloanr tr  S-aa   Míned-Farm                                       320.0   492.0   516.0   141.0          -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -         _        -        -       1,469.0
Repayntyr to tanorGne-t 5/
- Principal                                                            -        -        -         -        -       70.1    70.1    70.1        70.1      70.1     70.1     70.1      70.1     70.1   70.1        70,1    70.1       69.5       910.7
- Intereat                                                             -       14.9    37.8       61.7     68.3     68.3    63.0       57.8     52.5      74.3     42.0     36.8      31.5     26.2    21.0       21.5    10.5        5.2       660.5
Admíniatrative Caet 11/                                                -       16.0     40.6      66.4     73.5     71.4      66.5     58.5     49.3      39.2     27.8    14.9        5.2       -        _-                          -         529.3
Toral Garblow                                                    320.0    522.9    594.4    269.1    141.8    209.8   199.6    186.4    171.9    156.6    139.9    121.8    106.8           96.3      9.1      85.5    880.6      74.7   3,659.5
Carl Balance 9/
Annual Cash Surplus (Deficit)                                       (121.6) (176.3) (168.9)    (9.1)   91.2         72.6   132.4   145.6   160.1    175.4   192.2   111.4              9.8   (96.3)   (91.1)   (85.8)   (80.6)   (74.7)    186.3
Cumalrted Carh Surplus (Deficit)                                    (121.6) (297.9) (466.8) (475.9) (384.7) (312.1) f17(nc  n          R l 1   19 i n   381 ih  ion a   a050    ci  O   519 5   4?72h    341.6    7i1.0   186.3                   -
1/ Arromnig roncual lotíation raro of 10%..
2/  IBRD loan on-lending to finnarc 62% of csubloans  o be moa. b        y FG ami - NF.
3/  12 yrar repaymn.t period incclding fLor yer grare pearid at 67. int-e-rt rote on iLde-ed loan amounr.
4/  Sic yepr repayment penaod includiig ore ye-r groce periad at 6% interrst raot -n indemed loan amort.
5/  On-lrnding tate  ,f 7.57. fLr 17 yearr iocluding foor year of groar portad.
6/ 1.57. of Ibloan octrtanding -o-n-nt.
7/ See Table 28 ir Anneo 1.
8/ Se- Talle 29 iL Anneo 1.
9/  Negativ-  canh fllo  rould be fooanced ort of oun reouraer of FG aid BF.
10/ 10 yeer repayn.rt peaiod icaluding thrco year gr--0   portid at 137. interert rate.
l1/ 5% of rabloan  orottanding ao.n.t.
FPbrIary 27, 1979



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AKO0 AGRUCULTI)1 RALDELRDP7M8NT PRO.IECT
Economicí Anr lysis
(lis $ 000)
__________________---____________________--------___------ _------------        -------------------------Y- r-------------_------------------------------------_                  ------------  -------
1         2         3          4         5          6         7          8         9         10    tR             12         13        14         15        16         17 __                09        20
Livestock Development (Rate of Rat-o 15.41)
Oocre,neool Value of Prod-Ctí-o                            428.1     575.2      983.3   2,045.2   3,335.5   4.960.5   6,078.6   8,559.3  10,330.4  11,163.2  11,976.2  12,165.2  12,165.2  12,165.2  12,165.2  12,165.2  12,165.2  12,165.2  12,165.2  39,513.7
Capital Jnveobme-t                                       6,399.0   6,075.0   5,783.0       902.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Operating Cosít                                            285.0   1,132.0   2,225.0   3,002.0   3,318.0   3,372.0   4,581.0   4,511.0   4,650.0   3,895.0   3,895.0   3,895.0   3,895.0   3,895.0   3,895.0   3,895.0   3,895.0   3,895.0   3,895.0   3,895.0
Project AdminiitrtiotO                                     039        293.0       2.0      330.0     261.0     257.0      242.0      217.0     186.0     155.0      124.0       93.0      63.0       38.0      20.0       19.0       09.9   19.0                    19.00 
Net 1ncreoo-t-l Benefit                           (6,494.9) (6,924.8) (7,396.7) (2,188.8)   (243.5)  1,331.5   2,055.6   3,831.3   5,494.4   7,113.2   7,957.2   8,177.2   8,207.2   8,232.2   8,250.2   8,251.2   8,251.2   8,251.2   8,251.2  35,599.7
naO Mixed-Fermo DeveloopRgnt (Rote of Re--in 28.52)
Incremental Valye of Orodoctioo                            627,7   1,776.1   3,4B7.5   4653.    5.7613         .500.5   7.738.7   7.823.5   7.835.1   7.782.7       7.782.7   8,125.6   8.]65.9   8.18551  8.186.1   8,125.6   8,125.6   8,1625,6   8,15.9   8,699.4
Ctpital oIveatmet                                        3,515.0   4,600.0   4,490.0   1,213.0                                                                                                                                                  0.0 00,              0.0
Oparatíng3 Costs                                            70.3      290.4     073.9   1,497.5   7,061.7   2,376.0   2,640,3   2,753.3   2.901,3   2,734.3   2.734,3   2,734.3   2,734.3   2,734,3   2,734.3   2,734.3   2,734.3   2.734.3   2,734,3   2,734.3
Project Oídatottratio-                                     306.0     351.0      550.0     661.0      636.0     620.0      581.0      519.4     444.0     366.0      274.0    171.0        94.0       53.0       53.0      536        53,       53.0       53.0      53.0
Not I-rem---tal Benaflt                          (3,263.6) (3,473.3) (2,376.4)  1,282.0   3.063.5   3,583.7   4,509.4   4,552.2   4,587.8   4,682.4   4,774.4   5,220.3   5,337.6   5,398.8   5,398.8  Y--338.3   5,338.3   5,338.3   5,378.6   5,912.1
90,olaaala Markat (R1te 0f Returo 20.31.)                       0.0        0.0     131.0      183.0     221.0     231.0      456.0      473.0     494.0      501.0     518.0      527.0     543.0      809.0     821.0      833.0      845.0     857.0      857.0     857.0
Iooroo,onteI Yalu7 of ProdoCtion                             0.0       0.0      131.0     183.Y      221.0     231.0      456.0     473.0      494.0     501.0      518.0     527.0      543.0      809.0     821.0      833.0     845.0      857.0      857.0     857.0
Copit         - Invesbment                                  50.0     723.0      209.0       0.0        0.0        0.o       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Operatiíg CoRsa                                              0.0        0.0      62,0      81.0       81.0       01,0      81.0      80.77      81.0       81.0      8190       81.0       01.0      01,0       81.0      81.0       81.0      81.0       81,0      81.0
Project Administrat-on                                     158.0      141.0      51.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0,0        0.0       0.0       0.Y        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0,0       0.0        0,0       0.0        0.0       0.0
N-t  ---reo--tal Bn-ef1t                            (208.0)   (864.0)   (191.0)    102.0       140.0     150.7)     375.0-    392.0      413.0     470.0      437.07    446.0      462.0      728.0      740.0     752.0      764.0     776.0      776.0     776.0
TotoI Proiect (R.ta of R.toro 19.33,)
IncrementeI Bencfit                                      1,055.8   2,351.3   4,61)1.7   6,881.7   9,317.6  11,772.1  15,073.3  16,855.8  18,659.6  19,446.9  20,276,9  20,817.8  20,874.1  21,160.3  21,172.3  21,123.8  21,135.8  21,147.8  21,188.1  49,070.1
Gae aeíod llOotoOo                                  ,54.01  41,3 .010,4012 .7   2,405.0          7.0       U.0        0.        0.         0.0       0).0       U.U        0.0       71.7       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0,0
np---     Coeto                                           355.3   0,430.4   3,701.    4.58        5,46      5,829.8   7,31.3   7,3453   7,532.3   6,71003   6700.3   6,717.3   6,710.3   6,710.3   6,710.3   6,710.3   6,710.3   6,710.3   6,710.3   6,710  3
Projtot AdmiOtrOtRoo                                       703.R     70,5       97         91.7       97.0     077.0      823.0      735.0     632.0     571.0      390.0     264.0      157.0       91.0       73.0      72.0       72,0      72.0       .0 0       72.0
N., Imíremon171 OeooCRC                           (9,966.5) (00.262,1) (9,964.2)    004.    2,959.9  5.065 3   6 940-0 8  7755 5  10.495.3  1 2 2 15 6.8 13. U0 6  13  43                   4359.0                 341.5  14,353.5  14.365.5 144058 427.8
February 22, 1979



- 85 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
Al   -  Paraguay:  Appraisal of a Small Farmer Credit and Rural
Development Project, IBRD Report No. 4130-PA, July 17, 1974.
A2   -  Paraguay:  Appraisal of the Fourth Livestock Credit Project;
IBRD Report No. 346a-PA, July 19, 1974.
A3   -  Paraguay:  The Agricultural Sector of Paraguay, IBRD Report
No. 933-PA, February 1976.
A4   - Paraguay:  Appraisal of Second Rural Development Project;
IBRD Report No. 1448a-PA, April 12, 1977.
A5   -  Paraguay:  Project Performance Audit Report of Third
Livestock Project (Credit 156-PA/Loan 620-PA), IBRD Report
No. 1991, March 28, 1978.
A6   -  Paraguay:  Regional Development in Eastern Paraguay;
IBRD Report No. 2099-PA, June 1978.
A7   -  Paraguay:  Recent Economic Developments, IMF Report, June 29, 1978.
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B1   -  Paraguay:  Fifth Livestock and Agricultural Development Project,
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme Project Preparation Report,
May 22, 1978.
B2   -  Paraguay:  Proyecto de Desarollo de Pequenas Empresas Agricolas,
GOPA Final Report on the Implementation of the 509-PA Project,
May 1978.
B3   -  Paraguay:  Encuesta Agropecuaria por MUESTREO 1976, Ministerio
de Agricultura y Ganaderia.
B4   -  Paraguay:  Wholesale Market Employment Issues, Jorge Tersoglio.
B5   -  Paraguay:  Proyecto de Mejoramiento de las Estadisticas
Agropecuarias del Paraguay, Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia,
Enero 1979.



- 86 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
C.   Selected Working Papers and Tables Prepared by Mission Members
Cl   -  Detailed Farm Models and Assumptions for On-Farm Development
of the Small Mixed-Farm Component.  Text and Tables/Arthur O.
Ballantyne and F. Miyanaga, August 1978.
C2   -  Financial Analysis.  Tables/F. Miyanaga, February 1979
C3   -  Agricultural Credit in Paraguay.  Text and Tables/M. Hassid,
August 1978.
C4   -  Feeder Roads.  Text and Tables/S.S. Miquel, August 1978.
C5   -  Appraisal of the Wholesale Market of Asuncion, Text and Tables/
J.P. Kahla, July 1978.
C6   -  Economic Analysis.  Tables/F. Miyanaga, February 1979.



B99 13792
9> 11
*'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1                       ¡~~~~~~~~~~~~ i~
z~~~~
9-";~~~~~~~~     
2                                                                           9    ¿~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
iI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;  -'4~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~p   U
:1;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                7:i                               ES
>2              1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
7                                                                          2ViS'J1 1W 






=:-L-   -   -f -,-                                               .S )l4  4S X               4r
ís  V                7                      <         g      t           « ,  --4  o-'-t     w
fi                            -         E                               nt ',%,, ............-r--/<~ 
J i                 y                                                        <               1x 
Iz_            -      ~M    --\2                                                 :     
iL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i'---  ../,,  -   -
E~~                            <ex   00 E n                                     r
Zaj                 _ S'  ~  ~-X   ~ -SI,! 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f i                           4'- 4X     ,






:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A -1 tl b-.-                                                      h
PARAGUAY                                                                                        0V6        'na
Livestock and AgricuJGurial Deveiopment Pro¡ecf                                                            d lh ",   i
MALLORQUíN AREA                                                                 b                                        "a.'
Projeci 509 orea                                                              r                     -                                 .
Proposed projecj areas
C o lo n ia   b oa nda ries                                                                             \       P A R A G U A Y
_   Poaed  !rngkooy                                                                                      '  *\,  P   A     R    A    G    U A    Y  i
Road construclion project 509                                                                         .   "         1s:: 
Road  construction  proposed  projecl                                   "rana
Road improvement proposed p,oject                                           "                                         --    -
Regionol offices BNF,SEAG,IBR "Z
-. SEAG district offices                              ,' 'PNPI2I5l
-     Rivers                                                          ,                          .                                             1
2  2   4     6      m2ts,S                     166  0  lo
COLONIA  SANTA  TERESA                           ''a
6002 1)c 
COLO ~     ~         ~        ~         ;                t tAÚ  r                                  AV
J i   ,,HÁ                            <              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~502ta,nae          ?a
¡fSE DOMINGO                   i f                                                      <" E                                                          _
la'                -. L.,- .;t O<          =    S!eri 6)N,iA   ¡S,MAi i N RQ~O~LIA N\ S A PR É
a                                                           2.06 ','a > ¡.  /!X.' .;
X               V    S    '.  ¡:¿                                _'1
I   hj  .,'C"Z.... /, v , r,
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -a'    2'r-i-  
-~~ ~        ~ ~ ~                    ~        ~        ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ,                                   'a ;í    
a -      g  Rr bJ2C"   6.<a8:Is2                                                                      ' 5o 
'a'                                                                               a ,''- /                          _   CR



