CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1674 PA
Loan Agreement
(Livestock and Agricultural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 6, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1674 PA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 6, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost equivalent of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the
Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower's Central Bank (hereinafter called Banco Central) through
the Fondo Ganadero, Part B.1 and B.6 of the Project will be
carried out by the Borrower's National Development Bank (herein-
after called Banco Fomento) and Part C of the Project will be
carried out by the Municipality of the City of Asunci6n (herein-
after called Municipalidad), with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
Banco Central, Banco Fomento and Municipalidad, respectively, such
portions of the proceeds of the Loan as are hereinafter provided;
(C) the Borrower will carry out Parts B.2 through B.5, and
D.I and D.II of the Project and, pursuant to its agreement dated
October 7, 1977 with the United Nations Development Programme
(hereinafter called UNDP and such agreement hereinafter called
the UNDP Basic Agreement), intends to enter into an agreement with
the Bank (acting as Executing Agency of UNDP) and UNDP for the
execution of Part D.I of the Project and the partial financing
thereof by UNDP (such agreement hereinafter called the Part D.I
Project Document); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to lend to the Borrower upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth hereinafter and in project agreements of even date
herewith between the Bank and Banco Central, Banco Fomento and
Municipalidad, respectively;
qOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and


﻿- 2 -
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same firce and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means any of the agreements of
the Bank with Banco Central, Banco Fomento and Municipalidad, of
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and
all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; and Banco
Central Project Agreement, Banco Fomento Project Agreement and
Municipalidad Project Agreement mean each of the Project Agree-
ments, as so defined, between the Bank and Banco Fomento, Banco
Central and Municipalidad, such entities sometimes hereinafter
collectively called the Participating Entities and singularly
called a Participating Entity;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and Banco Central, Banco
Fomento and Municipalidad pursuant to Section 3.01 (d), (e) and
(f), respectively, of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; each of such Subsidiary Loan Agreements
hereinafter called the Banco Central Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
Banco Fomento Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Municipalidad Subsidi-
ary Loan Agreement, respectively;
(c) "C ico region" means the territories of the Borrower
west of the Paraguay River; and "Eastern region" means the terri-
tories of the Borrower east of such River;
(d) "Medium-Sized Ranch" means a ranch of not more than
2,500 hectares;
(e) "Small Livestock Farm" means a specialized livestock
farm of not more than 250 hectares;
(f) "Large Ranch" means a ranch of more than 2,500 hectares;


﻿- 3 -
(g) "Small Mixed Farm" means a small farm of about 20
hectares other than a Small Livestock Farm, located within any of
the following settlements (colonias): Capitan Cue, Chaco Re,
Fina Grain, Guyraungua, La Fabril, Repatriaci6n, San Miguel,
Stroessner, Toro Blanco, Villa San Juan, Walter Insfram, Yukury
(the aforementioned colonies hereinafter sometimes collectively
called the Caaguazu' Area), Jose Domingo Campo, Mallorquin,
Santa Teresa and Sapire (the four latter colonies hereinafter
sometimes collectively called the Mallorquin Area);
(h) "Fondo Ganadero" means the fund established under the
jurisdiction of Banco Central by Decree No. 7383 of the Borrower,
dated September 12, 1969, as confirmed by the Borrower's Decreto-
Ley No. 20 of February 6, 1970 and amended by Decree No. 13475 of
July 8, 197C, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(i) "SEAG" means the Borrower's Agricultural and Livestock
Extension Service or any successor thereto;
(j) "Instituto" means the Borrower's Instituto de Bienestar
Rural (Rural Welfare Institute) or any successor thereto;
(k) "Chief Engineer" means an engineer of Vialidad special-
ized in the construction and maintenance of rural roads to
be hired in accordance with Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(1) "DAMA" means the project unit to be created within
Municipalidad in accordance with Section 2.01 (b) of Municipalidad
Project Agreement;
(m) "Livestock Extension Unit" means the livestock extension
unit to be created within Fondo Ganadero in accordance with
Section 2.02 (a) of the Banco Central Project Agreement;
(n) "Sub-loan" means any of the loans made or to be made by
Fondo Ganadero to a Part A.1 Beneficiary or by Banco Fomento to a
Part B.1 Beneficiary, for the carrying out of an Investment
Project which either Fondo Ganadero or Banco Fomento has financed
or proposes to finance in part out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(o) "Equipment-loan" means a loan to be made by Fondo
Ganadero in accordance with Section 2.14 (b) of the Banco Central
Project Agreement for purposes of Part A.2 of the Project;
(p) "Livestock Investment Project" means a project to be
carried out under a Sub-loan by a Part A.1 Beneficiary on a Small


﻿-4-
Livestock Farm, a Medium-Size Ranch or a Large Ranch; "On-farm
Investment Project" means a Project to be carried out under a
Sub-loan by a Part B.1 Beneficiary on a Small Mixed Farm; and
"Investment Project" means any Livestock Investment Project or
On-farm Investment Project;
(q) "Part A.1 Beneficiary" means an individual or coopera-
tive who or which has received or will receive a Sub-loan for
partially financing the carrying out of a Livestock Investment
Project; "Part B.1 Beneficiary" means an individual or cooperative
which has received or will receive a Sub-loan for partially finan-
cing the carrying out of an On-farm Investment Project; and "Bene-
ficiary" means any Part A.1 Beneficiary or Part B.1 Beneficiary;
(r) "Organismo" means the body to be created by Munici-
palidad in accordance with Section 2.08 (c) of the Municipalidad
Project Agreement; and "Estatutos" means any legislation, regula-
tion or resolution relating to its creation and operation;
(s) "Vialidad" means the Borrower's Direcci6n General de
Vialidad;
(t) "Regional Coordinating Committee" means either of the
committees referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement and
Section 2.01 (b) (ii) of the Banco Fomento Project Agreement; and
(u) "guaranies" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five
million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the


﻿- 5 -
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed: in respect of Part A of
the Project, by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Banco Central
Project Agreement; in respect of Parts B.2 through B.5 and D of
the Project, by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; in
respect of Parts B.1 and B.6 of the Project, by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to the Banco Fomento Project Agreement; and in respect
of Part C of the Project, by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Municipalidad Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven per cent (7.00%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The following persons or any other person or
persons designated by the Borrower for the purpose are designated
as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions in respect of the corresponding Part of the Project, as
set forth below:
Person Designated                    Part of the Project
The Presidente del Comite Coordinador                 A
of Fondo Ganadero
The Presidente of .6anco Fomento                 B.1 and B.6
The Intendente Municipal de Asunci6n                  C
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower          B.2, B.3, B.4
and B.5, and D


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts B.2
through B.5 and D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate engineering, agricultural and
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose. In carrying out such Parts of the Project, the
Borrower shall: (i) in respect of Part B.2 of the Project, abide
by the program referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
and (ii) in respect of Part D of the Project, observe the terms
and conditions set forth in the UNDP Project Documents referred to
in Section 6.01 of this Agreement and in Schedule 1, paragraph 4
(e), hereto.
(b) The Borrower shall duly perform all of its obligations
under the UNDP Basic Document and the Part D.I Project Document
ensuring, inter alia, that the funds, goods and services to be
provided thereunder to Fondo Ganadero, Banco Fomento or Munici-
palidad are made available thereto as and when needed for purposes
of the Project.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause Banco Central, Banco Fomento and Municipalidad to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Banco Central Project
Agreement, the Banco Fomento Project Agreement and the Munici-
palidad Project Agreement all their respective obligations therein
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Banco Central, Banco Fomento
and Municipalidad to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(d) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) and (5) (a) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, to Banco Central
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and Banco Central on terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank and which shall include those set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
(e) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (2), (5) (c) and 6 (a)
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment to Banco Fomento under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into betwrten the Borrower and Banco Fomento on terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which
shall include those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(f) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (4) and (6) (b) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, to Municipalidad,
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and Municipalidad on terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank and which shall include those set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(g) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive such
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause Banco Central to
manage Fondo Ganadero by means of the coordinating committee
referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of the Loan Agreement (Fourth
Livestock Project) between the Borrower and the Bank dated
September 6, 1974.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in coor-
dinating and supervising the carrying out of Part B.2 of the
Project and of Part I of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank dated May 18,
1977 (Second Rural Development Project) the Borrower shall employ
a Chief Engineer whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Parts B.2 (a) and (b) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment (including the availability to
Vialidad of such consultants' services) shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.


﻿- 8 -
(c) In oider to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ contultants or
experts, as the case may be, in the fields specified in such
Part of the Project. The qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of such consultants or experts (including the avail-
ability of such consultants' or experts' services to the relevant
Participating Entity) shall be satisfactory to the Bank and in
conformity with the Part D.I and Part D.II Project Documents.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for purposes of Parts B.2
through B.5 and D of the Project against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan for purposes of Parts B.2 of the Project to be used
exclusively for the Project, and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds for purposes of Parts B.3 through B.5 and D
to be used exclusively for such Parts of the Project until its
completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for Parts B.2 through B.5 and D of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Vialidad shall, not later than September 30, 1979 but
prior to the commencement of any work thereunder: (i) furnish to
the Bank for approval a complete road program (including final
alignment and design) for purposes of Part B.2 of the Project;
and (ii) make such changes in such program as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record (in respect of Parts B.2 through B.5 and D of
the Project) and monitor (in respect of Part B of the Project) the
progress of each of such Parts of the Project (including its cost
and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and


﻿- 9 -
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose
their use in such Parts of the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(d) Without limiting the generality of paragraphs (a) and
(b) above: (i) all monitoring reports and related information in
respect of Part B of the Project shall be prepared and furnished
to the Bank, on behalf of the Borrower, by the Borrower's Consejo
Nacional de Progreso Social; such reports to be furpished annually
within 4 months after the end of each calendar year or at shorter
regular intervals that the Bank may reasonably request, (ii) all
reports concerning the progress of the Project and related infor-
mation, in respect of Parts B.2 through B.5 of the Project, shall
be prepared and furnished to the Bank, on behalf of the Borrower,
(A) by Vialidad in respect of Part B.2 of the Project, (B) by SEAG
in respect of Parts B.3 and B.4 of the Project, and (C) by Insti-
tuto in respect of Part B.5 of the Project; such reports to be
furnished not less than twice a year, not later than two months
after the end of each six-month work period or at such shorter
regular intervals as the Bank may reasonably request.
(e) The Borrower shall, through: (i) Vialidad, in respect of
Part B.2 of the Project; (ii) SEAG, in respect of Parts B.3 and
B.4 of the Project; and (iii) Instituto, in respect of Part B.5 of
the Project, furnish Banco Fomento in a timely manner with all
such information as Banco Fomento may reasonably request so as to
enable Ban'o Fomento to comply with its obligations under Section
2.07 (c) of the Banco Fomento Project Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out Part B.2 of the Project and shall
furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to such Part of the
Project.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, through SEAG:
(a) assign at all times not less than 17 extension agents
(including the seven referred to in Part B.4 of the Project) to
the settlement colonies in the Caaguazu' and Mallorquin Areas
and cause such agents to provide their services to Part B Benefi-
ciaries; and
(b) provide such agents with the vehicles included in Part
B.3 of the Project and with adequate funds for the performance of
such agents' services and for the operation of such vehicles.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause Instituto:
(a) for a period of four years starting August 1, 1979,
to issue land titles to Instituto settlers in the Caaguaz15 and
Mallorquifn Areas at a rate of not less than 500 per year;
(b) to assign and station an adequate number of field staff
to the settlement colonies in the Caaguazu' and Mallorquin Areas,
under terms and conditions suitable for the timely implementation
of the provisions of paragraph (a) above; and
(c) to provide its field staff with the transportation
facilities referred to in Part B.5 of the Project, and with
adequate funds and other facilities for the performance of such
staff services and for the operation of such transportation
facilities.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take all necessary action
to enable the Regional Coordinating Committees to carry out their
functions in respect of Part B (except B.2) of the Project, and
shall cause Instituto and SEAG to maintain in such Committees
competent staff composed of senior regional officers thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit


﻿- 11 -
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts and records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for carrying out Parts B.2 through B.5 and D of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have each of the accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) hereof for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not


﻿- 12 -
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of such account for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such
account and the audit thereof as the Bank she'll from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall adequately maintain, or
cause to be maintained, all equipment purchased for purposes of
the Project, shall make the necessary repairs or renewals thereof
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources for such purposes.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, through Vialidad: (i) cause
(A) all roads in the Caaguazui and Mallorquin Areas (including
those to be constructed, improved or maintained under Part B of
the Project) to be adequately maintained and cause necessary
repairs thereof to be made, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering practices; and (B) all road maintenance equipment and
workshops of Vialidad in such Areas to be adequately maintained
and, as necessary, repaired and renewed, all in accordance with
appropriate practices; and (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities and other resources required for the foregoing.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Banco Central shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Banco Central Project Agreement or the
Banco Central Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) Banco Fomento shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Banco Fomento Project Agreement or the Banco
Fomento Subsidiary Loan Agrement;
(c) Municipalidad shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Municipalidad Project Agreement or the
Municipalidad Subsidiary Loan Agreement;


﻿- 13 -
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of Banco Central or Fondo Ganadero or Banco Fomento or
Organismo, or for the suspension of their operations;
(e) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Banco Central or Banco Fomento or Munici-
palidad will be able to perform its respective obligations under
the Banco Central Project or Subsidiary Loan Agreements or the
Banco Fomento Project or Subsidiary Loan Agreements or the Munici-
palidad Project or Subsidiary Loan Agreements, respectively;
(f) A resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Organismo;
(g) The Estatutos shall have been suspended or repealed, or
amended so as to materially and adversely affect the carrying out
of Part C of the Project or the operations of the Organismo;
(h) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the UNDP grant made to the Borrower to assist
in financing Part D of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the UNDP Basic
Agreement or of the Part D Project Document.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: (A) such suspension, cancellation or termina-
tion is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under such Agree-
ment or Document; and (B) adequate funds for Part D
of the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given


﻿- 14 -
by the Bank to the Borrower and to the corresponding Participating
Entity; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (d), (f), (g) and
(h) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the Banco Central Project Agreement, the Banco Fomento
Project Agreement and the Municipalidad Project Agreement have
been executed on behalf of Banco Central, Banco Fomento and
Municipalidad, respectively;
(b) each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and, Banco Central, Banco Fomento and
Municipalidad, respectively; and
(c) the Part D.I Project Document has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that each of the Project Agreements has been duly
authorized or ratified by each of the Participating Entities which
is a party thereto, and is legally binding upon such Participating
Entity in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and by each of the
Participating Entities which is a party thereto and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and such Participating Entity in accor-
dance with its terms.


﻿- 15 -
Section 6.03. The date August 7, 1979, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministro de Hacienda
Asunci6n, Paraguay
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Asunci6n
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused


﻿- 16 -
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By Is! Cesar Romeo Acosta
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The tabli below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans under
Parts A.1 and A.2
of the Project:
(a) Part A.1 (a)              3,800,000    )
)   62% of amounts
(b) Part A.1 (b)              4,100,000    )  disbursed by
)   Fondo Ganadero
(c) Part A.1 (c)              3,400,000    )  in respect of
)   the Project
(d) Part A.2                    140,000    )
(2) Sub-loans under                7,820,000       62% of amounts
Part B.1 of the                                disbursed by
Project                                       Banco Fomento
in respect of
the Project
(3) Civil works for Part            570,000        33%
B.2 of the Project
(4) Civil works for Part C          660,000        58%
of the Project
(5) Equipment and vehicles
(a) Part A.3 of the              90,000    )
Project                               )
)   100% of for-
(b) Part B.2 (c), B.3           860,000   )   eign expendi-
and B.5 of the                        )   tures
Project                               )
(c) Part B.6 of the              90,000    )
Project                               )


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Services for:
(a) Part B.2 (d)                190,000       50%
of the Project
(b) Part C.7 of the              50,000       100%
Project
(7) Goods and services under         780,000       50%
Part D.I of the Project
(8) Agricultural census
in Part D.II of the
Project:
(a) Vehicles and data           290,000    )
processing equip-                     )   100% of
ment and related                      )   foreign
materials                             )   expendi-
)   tures
(b) Consultant services         110,000    )
(9) Chief Engineer                    50,000       100%
supplementary ser-
vices for Part B.2
of the Project
(10) Unallocated                   2,000,000
TOTAL         25,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied


﻿- 19 -
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) under Categories (4) and (6) (b) of paragraph 1 above,
unless: (i) the unit referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of the
Municipalidad Project Agreement has been established in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) a head for such unit,
acceptable to the Bank, has been appointed by the Intendente
Municipal de Asunci6n;
(c) under Categories (1) and (5) (a) of paragraph 1 above,
unless the Livestock Extension Unit has been established in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(d) under Category (7) of paragraph 1 above, unless an
equivalent amount is available for such expenditures under the
UNDP grant; and
(e) under Category (8) unless the Borrower has entered
into an agreement based on a work program (including acquisition
of required technical assistance, equipment and vehicles) satis-
factory to the Bank whereby Food and Agricultural Organization
(FAO) shall act as executing agency of UNDP for purposes of
carrying out Part D.II of the Project (such agreement called the
Part D.II Project Document).
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to


﻿- 20 -
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   Livestock Development
1.   A credit program to increase the production and productivity
of various livestock operations by improving pastures and
animal health, developing lands (including protecting natural
resources), ranch infrastructure and breeding stock and
utilizing appropriate equipment and machinery for the
purpose. This program consists of Sub-loans to Part A.1
Beneficiaries to assist in financing Livestock Investment
Projects to be carried out on:
(a) Large Ranches mainly in the Chaco region;
(b) Medium-Size Ranches mainly in the Eastern region; and
(c) Small Livestock Farms located mainly in the vicinity of
the cities of Asunci6n, Ciudad Presidente Stroessner,
Concepci6n and San Ignacio.
2.   A program to provide safe water facilities for human and
animal consumption on farms and ranches in the Borrower's
territories, with emphasis on farms and ranches in which
projects have been, are being or will be carried out with the
financial assistance of Fondo Ganadero, such program to
include, inter alia: (i) the acquisition and utilization of
drilling equipment, including compressors and sludge pumps,
able to drill wells up to 250 meters deep with diameters of
up to 12 inches, and ancillary vehicles and equipment there-
for; and (ii) the opening, by Fondo Ganadero, of a credit
line for Equipment-loans to assist in financing about 75%
of the cost of the goods referred to in (i) above to the
purchaser thereof.
3.   Acquisition of 10 four-wheel drive vehicles for Fondo
Ganadero, and of 1 four-wheel drive vehicle for, an, utiliza-
tion thereof by, the Livestock Extension Unit.
Part B:   Small Mixed Farm Development
1.   A credit program to improve and increase cash-crop production
on Small Mixed Farms. This program consists of Sub-loans


﻿- 22 -
to Part B.1 Beneficiaries to finance On-farm Investment
Projects on such Farms.
2.   A program to expand and improve the rural road networks in
the Caaguazu' and Mallorquin Areas, consisting of:
(a) construction of about 120 kilometers and improvement of
a further 120 kilometers of rural roads in accordance
with the design standards set forth in the Annex to this
Schedule;
(b) continuous four-year maintenance of about 2,000 kilo-
meters of rural roads;
(c) acquisition and utilization of equipment (including
tools and spare parts) for purposes of (a) and (b)
above; and
(d) consultant services to Vialidad for the engineering,
planning, organization and supervision of the works
included in (a) and (b) above.
3.   Acquisition of 4 four-wheel drive vehicles and about 20
motorbikes for, and utilization thereof by, SEAG and repair
and maintenance of existing vehicles of SEAG.
4.   Provision to SEAG, and utilization thereby for purposes of
assisting Banco Fomento in the carrying out of Part B.1
above, of services of 7 additional extension agents; and
provision of funds to SEAG for the rental of offices for its
field staff.
5.   Acquisition of 4 four-wheel drive vehicles for, and utiliza-
tion thereof by, Instituto and repair of existing vehicles of
Instituto.
6.   Acquisition of 10 four-wheel drive vehicles for, and utili-
zation thereof by, Banco Fomento.
Part C:   Asunci6n Wholesale Market
A program to establish and begin the operations of a whole-
sale market located about 8.5 km from the center of the city
of Asunci6n, comprising:


﻿- 23 -
1.   completion of two of the six existing market halls;
2.   completion of an administrative and a service building;
3.   paving of about 21,150 square meters of circulation
and parking areas;
4.   provision of water supply (including a reservoir with a
capacity of about 50 cubic meters), electricity and
drainage and sewerage services to the market;
5.   fencing and landscaping of the market;
6.   creation of the Organismo; and
7.   consultant services to Municipalidad for the engineer-
ing, planning and supervision of the works included in 1
through 5 above.
Part D:  Technical Assistance and Census
I.   A program of technical services to Participating Entities and
Beneficiaries to assist them in the execution of Parts A
through C of the Project. This program consists of the
following:
1.   In respect of Part A of the Project:
(a) about 24 man-months of short-term consultant
services to assist Fondo Ganadero in resolving
important production, administrative or financial
issues that may arise in connection with, or as a
consequence of, the carrying out of Part A of the
Project;
(b) trial work in animal production;
(c) about 16 man-months of scholarsb4.ps abroad to
enhance the capabilities of Fondo Ganadero's staff
to deal with technical and livestock credit manage-
ment matters;
(d) about 3 man-years of services of a consultant
for the Livestock Extension Unit, including acqui-
sition for such consultant and utilization thereby,


﻿- 24 -
of a four-wheel drive vehicle and miscellaneous
equipment, and utilization by the Livestock Exten-
sion Unit of about 150 flight hours of small
aircraft services.
2.   In respect of Part B of the Project:
(a) about 3 man-years of services of an extension
adviser for the Caaguazu' and MallorquIn Areas;
(b) about 3 man-years of services of a credit adviser
for the Caaguaz' and Mallorqufn Areas;
(c) acquisition and utilization by the advisers
referred to in (a) and (b) above, of 2 four-wheel
drive vehicles and miscellaneous equipment; and
(d) trial work on existing farms.
3.   In respect of Part C of the Project:
(a) provision to, and utilization by DAMA and Organismo
of, about 30 man-months of services of wholesale
market experts, including acquisition of a vehicle
for, and utilization thereof by, such experts, and
about 4 man-months of short-term marketing consul-
tant services;
(b) acquisition of one vehicle and miscellaneous
equipment for, and utilization thereof by, DAMA's
staff;
(c) about 8 man-months of overseas training for DAMA's
staff; and
(d) visits of: (i) wholesalers who have entered into,
or are about to enter into, leasing agreements
with Organismo to operate in the wholesale -narket
included in Part C of the Project; and 'ji) a
selected number of other users of such market, to
neighboring countries to study the functioning of
wholesale markets.
II. A census of agricultural, livestock and forestry resources in
Paraguay, and the establishment of a permanent statistical


﻿- 25 -
system for gathering and processing annual data on the
sector, including required technical assistance, equipment
and vehicles.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 26 -
ANNEX FOR PART B 2.(a)
OF SCHEDULE II TO THIS AGREEMENT*
Design Standards for Construction and Improvement of Feeder Roads
Minimum sight stopping distance                           50 m
Minimum radius horizontal curves                          30 m
Maximum gradient                                           8 %
Right-of-way                                              20 m
Platform width                                             5 m
Minimum cross-section gradient                             3 %
Minimum side-ditch width                                   im
Minimum side-ditch depth                                   0.3 m
Culverts                                  Precast concrete pipes
(minimum diameter 0.8 m)
with headwalls
Bridges (AASHTO Loading HS-20-456)        Timber, 4 m wide
*    This Annex may be amended by agreement between the Bank and
Vialidad.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1983
through   August 15, 1995                    960,000
On February 15, 1996                            1,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 28 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                            1.25%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                   2.45%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                            4.55%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                            6.20%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                            7.00%


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D of this Schedule, goods
and civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the construction of bridges and culverts, and
for ditching and turfing, both for purposes of Part B.2 of the
Project, may be awarded under bidding procedures locally adver-
tised satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 30 -
2.   Goods (other than vehicles) for purposes of Part D of the
Project may be procured through regular commercial channels
after soliciting not less than three quotations from reputable and
responsible suppliers thereof, care being taken, if so required,
of the availability of servicing of, and spare parts for, such
goods.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts subject to international
competitive bidding:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 31 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works for the construction, improvement and maintenance
of roads under Part B.2 of the Project, other than those mentioned
in Part B hereof, may be carried out by Vialidad's own forces.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
1.   The loans made under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall
be denominated and repayable in guaranies.
2.   The foreign exchange risks shall be borne by the Borrower.
3.   The interest rate shall be 1/2 percentage point above the
rate set forth in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
4.   A commitment charge shall also be paid by each Participating
Entity on the undisbursed proceeds of the loan provided for
in the applicable Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
5.   The Borrower shall delegate to the Implementing Agencies, to
the satisfaction of the Bank, the carrying out of the compon-
ents of Part D of the Project to be carried out by them.


