Document of
The Wor!d Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9054
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2005-TUN)
OCTOBER 11, 1990
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GOVKRNIENT OF THE REPUILIC OF TDRISIA
Currency Unit   Dinar
At Appraisal    US$1.00 - D.T. 0.4
At Completion   US$1.00 - D.T. 0.886
FISCAL M&6
January 1st to December 31st
BHS     Basic Health Services
CNI     National Computer Center
(Centre National d'Informatique)
cRFP    Center for Pedagogical Research and Training
(Centre de Recherche et de Formation Pedagogique)
DBHS    Directorate of Basic Health Services
FP      Family Planning
HPN     Health, Population and Nutrition
INE     National Institute of Child Health
(Institut National pour l'Enfant)
INNTA   National Institute of Nutrition and Food Technology
(Institut National de Nutrition et Technologie Alimentaire)
HAS     Ministry of Social Affairs
(Minist6re des Affaires Sociales)
MCH     Mother and Child Health
MFPV    Ministry of the Family and Protection of Vomen
MIS     Management Information System
MOPH    Mtnistry of Public Health
ONFP    National Office of Population and Family Planning
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
TYR     Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA   United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID   US Agency for International Development



FOR OFFIAL U   ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington, DC 20433
USA
Offic. of Doivc.Cmwal
Op,wwwo EvWImitnA
October 11, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Republic of Tunisia
Health and Population Project (Loan 2005-TUN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Republic of Tunisia Health and Population Project
(Loan 2005-TUN)", prepared by the Europs, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a retrctd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their olilcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dnk authoriation



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
FIRST HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2005-TUN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE . ...............                                                            
EVALUATION SNAY ...............                                                                ii
PART I  PROJECT REVIEW FROM RBANS PsrECTsIV    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    a
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   is
Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BoRaoRw's PEPZCTIVE . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
PART III STATISTICAL INFORKMZION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Table 1:      Related Bank Loans    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
Table 2:       Project Timetable         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
Table 3:       Loan Disbursesents
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  . . . . . . .  27
Table 4:       Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Table 5:       Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
B. Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
Table 6:       Project Results
A. Direct Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
B. Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Table 7:       Status of Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Table 8:      Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Input . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
B. Mlssions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2005-TUN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR' for the Health and
Population Project in Tunisia, for which Loan 2005-TUN in the amount of
US$12.5 million was approved on May 28, 1981. The Loan was closed on
December 31, 1988, two years behind schedule. The Loan Account was kept
open until September 30, 1989, at which time, total disbursements were 8.3
million. The Borrower requested a three month extension of the grace
period, which the Bank approved.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Population and
Human Resources Operations Division of the Europe, Middle East & North
Africa Regional Office. The Borrower's comments are included as Part II.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision of the project in October, 1988, and is based, inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan Agreement; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and
interviews with Bank staff.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2005-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.    Proiect Obiectives
1.          The purpose of the project was to (i) integrate family planning
services with preventive and curative care, nutrition, health education and
sanitation, to establish a basic health delivery system in eight underserved
governorates; and (ii) support the government's plans to extend basic health
services gradually to the entire Tunisian population by 1990.
B.    mlDIementation Exoerience
2.          Despite  rapid  and  promising  initiation  of  major  components,
significant factors impeded project implementation including:
(a)   Institutional rivalry between the NOPH and ONFP, which prevented the
planned integraz.ion of basic health services with family planning;
(b)   Ministerial turnover at MOPH in 1984, accompanied by criticism and
reassessment of project goals and BHS policy, caused profound delays
in implementation and a one-year cessation of supervision;
(c)   A  combination  of  project  complexity,  scale,  and  inadequate
preparation, affected achievement of the MIS, health education, and
studies and applied research components;
(d)   Borrower reluctance to use technical assistance funds, affected
training programs, civil works supervision, and use of consultants;
(e)   Overestimated Borrower capability, as well as cumbersome bidding
and evaluation procedures, delayed procurement; and
(f)   Chronic tardiness  in gowernorates'  submission of documentation
supporting expenditures, caused slow pace of disbursements.
C.    Results
3.          The project was a qualified success, achieving several of its
objectives, including: (i) strengthened BHS capability and orientation of MOPH;
(11) establishment, staffing and equipping of major health infrastructure in
8 governorates; and (iii) improved health training system.
4.          Other objectives may be achieved longer-term, if the MOPH maintains
its commitment to the BHS program.



- iv -
D.    Sustainability
5.          In view of progress in laying the groundwork for a national BHS
system, sustainability is especially vital. The major issues are:
(a)   Adequate recurrent funding for BHS;
(b)   Maintenance of structures and equipment;
(c)  Renewed efforts to integrate family planning in BHS;
(d)   Training and motivation of health service personnel;
(e)   Establishing of monitoring and evaluation and a focussed research
program; and
(f)   Further effort to build institutional capacity and coordination.
E.    Findinas and Lessons Learned
6.          The project experience provides the following lessons:
(a)   Preparation should have included a thorough analysis of the existing
health system, the government's goals, and plans for achieving them;
(b)   Institutional antagonism over integration might have been avoided
by better collaborative arrangements, and a designed integration
process with timetable;
(c)   Projects seeking major change need careful lobb-ing for their concept
and objectives;
(d)   A series of simpler, phased projects is preferable to projects of
massive scope and scale;
(e)   Project  supervision  is  a  mutual  obligation  whose  deliberate
interruption should not go unchallenged;
(f)   Better supervision might have rescued the studies, applied research
and health education components; and
(g)   Undue reliance was placed on technical assistance to mitigate project
risks, in a country known for its resistance to borrowing for this
purpose.



TUNISIA
HEMITN AND POPULATION PROJICT
(LOAN 2005-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW FROH BANK'S PERSPECTIM
A. Proiect Ildentit
Project Name       Health and Population Project
Loan No.           2005-TUN
RVP Unit           ENENA. Department 2,
Population and Human Resources Division
Country            Tunisia
Sector             Population and Human Resources
Subsector          Health
B   hsksrBa  d
2.01.       The reduction of social inequalities has been a goal of the Tunisian
Government since independence. Up to the mid 1970s, the Government's development
efforts in the health sector emphasized expansion of physical infrastructure,
and of hospital-based and curative services, principally in urban areas.
Institutional  deficiencies  and  slow  progress  towards  integration  and
decentralization had perpetuated Inappropriate and costly patterns of health,
family planning and nutrition services. This strategy had (a) not satisfied the
basic health needs of a majority of the people, including 50X of the rural poor;
and (b) neglected the organization, management and maintenance requirements of
the rapidly expanding physical infrastructure.
2.02.       Thus, inadequate health service coverage and nutrition outreach,
poor sanitation and limited access to safe water were perpetuating high infant
and child mortality, persistent high fertility and malnutrition.  These, in
turn, contributed to impaired learning and productive capacity, the latter one
of the major impediments to economic development affecting particularly the
agricultural sector.
2.03.       While family planning (FP) and fertility reduction programs, since
their inception in 1964, had made remarkable progress, due to well over a decade
of successful promotion which had garnered widespread popular support, many
problems remained.   These included logistical and financial constraints on
extending rural coverage, shortages of specialized personnel, and inadequate
supervision and monitoring of field activities.   The GOT had established
demographic objectives designed to keep population growth in line with economic
development and thus it was necessary to expand FP services, which in any case,
tended to lag demad. Experience had shown that to increase the use of existing
*    services and generate further demand for FP, it had to be offered in conjunction
vith maternal and child care.
2.04.       Government awareness of these deficiencies resulted in a radical
shift of emphasis in the mid 1970s, reflected in the Fifth Development Plan
(1977-81) which stressed, for the first time, basic health services (3BH) and
preventive nedleine, delivered through an integrated, decentralized and more
cost-effective system. The Bank's contribution to establishing macroeconomic
linkages betweom health, family planning and e*one c dewelopmnt was colal



in implementing the Government's new BHS strategy and, therefore, the project
came to represent the definition of that strategy.
C. Project Oblectives and DescriDtion
3.01.       Proiect Obiectives : The overall purpose of the project was to (a)
integrate family planning services with preventive and curative care, nutrition,
health education, and sanitation, to establish a basic health delivery system
in eight underserved governorates; and (b) support the Government's plans to
extend basic health services gradually to the entire Tunisian population by
1990.   Specific objectives of the project- were to reduce infant mortality,
morbidity from common diseases, and fertility, and ensure more eq.litable
distribution of, and access to basic health services. These objectives were to
be achieved over a five-year period, once the project had become fully
operational.   Targeted beneficiaries would include 86,000 infants, 280,000
children from 1 to 5, and 300,000 married women of reproductive age, and coverage
was to be extended from 50% to 90% of the project area population, which totalled
2.3 million at appraisal.
3.02.       Proiect  DescriRtion        The  project  comprised  the  following
components:
(a)   strengthen the management capability of the Ministry of Public Health
(MOPH) through the provision of supporting staff and services;
(b)   improve and expand the basic health care delivery system and
infrastructure in eight governorates through: (i) the construction
and/or remodelling, equipping and furnishing of about 140 health
posts, 325 dispensaries, 90 staff houses, 2 regional health education
centers, 6 paramedical schools, and 8 vehicle maintenance workshops;
and (ii) provision of additional equipment for 21 district hospitals,
and appropriate transportation;
(c)   improve and expand the scope, content and effectiveness of national
edaucation and communication programs in health, population and
nutrition;
(d)   improve the training system and its infrastructure, and train,
upgrade and redeploy health personnel in the project area; and
(e)   provide technical assistance in support of all components.
D.  Prolect Desitn and Organization
4.01.       ConceRtual Basis and Desien : Despite an average 16% per year of GDP
being spent on social programs from 1970-1978, of which public health took the
second largest share, the health sector at the time of project preparation was
still dominated by patterns of care appropriate to industrialized countries,
supported by an entrenched medical lobby, with infrastructure concentrated in
urban areas and the emphasis still, despite official pronouncements, on hospitals
and sophisticated, curative care. However, the existence of a group of young,
highly motivated, public health-oriented physicians convinced the Bank that



- 3 -
Tunisia had the human as well as technological and financial resources to make
ambitious changes to the system.
4.02.       Project design sought to accommodate the lessons derived from five
previous schemes (Bank and bilateral aid), including the USAID/WHO-supported
Medjez-el-Bab pilot primary health care project, and the IDA Population I Project
(Cr. 238-TUN), implemented by the National Office of Family Planning (ONFP) and
the MOPH.
4.03.       The Bank's mandate was sweeping and thus the scope and scale of the
project reflected its ambitiois objectiveLs'.   A sophisticated, comprehensive
approach was adopted which relied heavily upon political and economic continuity
and a well-informed, broad-based constituency which understood and supported
project goals.   The record indicates, however, that the integration concept
itself eluded understandinig or consensus within the Government, did not permeate
the he. -h hierarchy even within MOPH, and that its structural, administrative,
financial and political implications evoked insecurity and resistance.  Much
depended upon the Minister and his enthusiastic team being able to integrate
services using the resources of the project, without clear evidence that other
key players in the system including the ONFP, the medical fraternity, and
political groups at the certral and regional levels, were on board.
4.04.       Proiect Pregaration : Preparation was initiated in 1977 following
intensive efforts by the Bank's Population Division to strengthen its pipeline
in the health sector and persuade a reluctant Tunisian Government to continue
to include social sector projects in its borrowing agenda.
4.05.       Project preparation was thorough and eve.ry effort was made to
accommodate the lessons of pilot projects, and initiate measures to correct
institutional deficiencies well in advance of project effectiveness. Much was
achieved to establish training programs. effect the necessary administrative
reorganization and decentralization of MOPH, and modernize its management and
budgeting systems.  Nevertheless, a number of issues complicated and delayed
preparation including:
(a)   The project was seen, initially, to focus on family planning and
maternal and child health, and thus its preparation was entrusted
to the ONFP.  However, inexperience with project preparation and
lack of the requisite technical expertise, combined with reluctance
to collaborate with the MOPH, meant virtually nothing occurred in
the first year.
(b)   The complexity, sophistication and scope of the project increased
greatly from 1978 when the MOPH, Ministry of Planning and Bank agreed
The ambitious objectives are better understood in light of the
Government's own enthusiasm for comprehensive changes and the fact
that this was one of the earliest Bank health projects.   The
epidemiological objectives were sought by Management and final
figures represented a compromise with what Project staff thought
achieavable under optimal circumstances.



- 4 -
that it was to become the model for the HOPH's new system and thus
had to address a broad range of activities essential to a fully
integrated approach, if it was to succeed.  This, in turn, placed
heavy demands ott the MOPH and ONFP not only to design the detailed
elements of a new health system, but to do it within the Bank's
preparation schedule.  The  record reflects Tunislan appeals for
assistance beyond the Bank's usual advisory role, as well as serious
GOT concern over the funding requirements for complex preparation
needs.
(c)   Modification of the project outline stemming from the shift in
emphasis from family planning to health integration signalled
profound changes in the structure, role and function of the ONFP,
and its relationship to the MOPH, but these issues were not addressed
by the Government.   Early proposals tended, not surprisingly, to
stress civil works construction and skirted the definition of project
organization, administration and financing. The Bank actively sought
detailed proposals of the HOPH's integration and decentralization
processes, and a timetable for bringing about full service
integration, but there is no evidence these were ever provided.
id)   Repeated Cabinet-level changes destabilized the preparation process
by   causing   discontinuity   of   implementation   policies   and
disorienciiion of resource use and planning.
(e)   Preparation lacked formal coordination until the late stages, when
the lOPH set up a task force comprising working and consultative
groups2, wnich achinved major progress in important areas. However,
task force members were unable to coordinate their efforts and tended
to work in isolation, which did not bode well for the planning or
implementation of an integrated system.
4.06.       Proiect Organization : Project success rested on the introduction
of basic institutional reforms in the sector and bot.h Bank and Borrower put great
effort into setting up organizational and administrative arrangements that would
ensure the speedy introduction of the integrated basic health services policy
and effective centrol and coordination of project implementation. The SAR sets
out clearly the responsibilities of the MOPH and other involved agencies. A
number of important steps were taken, including:
(a)   The MOPH was reorganized in 1980, and ministerial decrees delegated
authority to 20 medical regions corresponding to the 20 governorates,
each headed by a Regional Director of Health with wide executive and
administrative powers.
2      Working groups headed by HOPH Planning Director, and Consultative
groups made up of MOPH divisions and other Government agencies
involved in rural social services development, including Ministry
of Plannir, Ministry of Social Affairs (MAS), ONPP, etc.



-5-
(b)   A new Directorate of Basic Health Services was established within
MOPH to strengthen public health care delivery, and importantly, to
supervise the activities of the ONFP and the National Institute of
Nutrition  and  Food  Technology  (INNTA)3,  which  would  retain
responsibility for policy formation, research and training but no
longer be in charge of service delivery, now to be provided by the
DBHS through its regional agents4.
(c)   A Project Coordination Unit, responsible for project administration
and implementation, was established in 1981.
(d)   A Basic Health Advisory Committee chaired by the MOPH and including
heads of the ONFP, INNTA and the National Institute of Child Health
(TNE) was formed to study and advise the Government on policies and
procedures for to effect the integration of health, FP and nutrition
services.
4.07.       Effects on Implementation : The project called for collaboration
and coordination between a number of powerful national agencies whose willingness
to integrate their activities was declared, but not guaranteed.   The Bank's
expectation, for example, that the ONFP and INNTA "will divest themselves of
their field activities"5, and "ensure that their field staffs and activities in
the project area are integrated with those of the MOPH" , was unrealistic, given
the high degree of autctomy, visibility and influence to which they had become
accustomed.
3      A semi-autonomous organization under MOPH, created in 1969.  With
broad-based internal assistance, main activities were food research,
nutritional assessment and regional food supply analysis, aimed at
setting agricultural production targets.   Like ONFP, a vertical
program with limited scope in rural areas. Integrated BHS was to
include INNTA's applied nutrition program, to be delivered by MOPH
personnel, and for which nutrition training programs were already
in place.
4      ONFP was encouraged in the 1970s by AID and others to develop its
own FP service delivery system (principally due to lack of MOPH
capacity, and dilution of service) and was given generous funding
to do so. The rationale was to improve the quantity and quality of
services.   The resulting system, while successful, was somewhat
duplicative, high cost, and still had insufficient coverage in rural
areas.
5      SSAR, para. 2.09.
6      SAR, para. 5.03.



4.0         This is not to say that the Bank was unaware of the implications of
project requirements.   Early on, the new approach was foreseen having major
ramifications for the ONFP in particular and its relationship to the MOPH. The
project was expected to add momentum to that process. The Bank realized that
sustained GOT effort would be required to secure their wholehearted cooperation
in the integrated delivery of services which were being provided separately.
4.08.       However, the leverage that would have been provided by a designed,
phased action plan for integration based on a thorough analysis of the existing
institutional framework was absent, and the ONFP felt no incentive to take the
initiative given that it believed, genuinely, that its work and existence were
at  stake.    Therefore,  relations  between  the MOPH  and ONFP  deteriorated
progressively in the first 18 months of implementation, with adverse operational
effects.
4.9.        The sustained technical and logistical support needed by the DBHS
from the ONFP to reinforce the former's ability to provide family planning
services within the basic health services framework did not materialize. Bank
supervision staff sought without success to stimulate a more systematic and
dynamic collaboration between the two agencies on training, data collection and
analysis, as well as joint programming of field activities. At the core of the
matter were (a) perceived differences in operational objectives based on their
respective public health and demographic mandates; and (b) a complex set of
institutional, political and personality considerations, the latter precluding
discussion of the former. The Bank and donor organizations became embroiled and
despite best intentions managed to antagonize both parties through their
respective perceptions of the problem.
4.10.       Population aspects of the project increasingly lost focus as it
seemed the goal of integration would not be met and resolution through the
project ceased to be pushed. Donor agencies, in fact, urged the Bank to leave
the ONFP alone in order for the organizational and managerial implications of
integration to be studied.   The ONFP was subsequently absorbed by the newly
created Ministry of the Family in 1986, then reabsorbed by MOPH in 1987, with
much the same original form, function, influence and tensions.
4.11.       The record reveals little about the effectiveness of the PCU or
Health Advisory Committee. The former was intended to report directly to the
Chef de Cabinet of the MOPH, who was nominated Project Coordinator.   In the
early years of implementation, the Project Coordinator held, simultaneously,
the positions of Director of Basic Health Services and Chef de Cabinet, which
proved useful for implementation, especially for strengthening public health
structures within the MOPH.   However, this usefulness did not extend to the
resolution of the dispute with the ONFP, and relations with the governorates
were uneasy because of an element of central authoritarianism and the
inconsistency of some of the directives issued by the DBHS with existing MOPH
administrative directives.
4.12.       The PCU was also unable to expedite or effectively coordinate
procurement which became the single greatest practical obstacle to project
implementation, a key factor in -the diminishing effectiveness of Bank
supervision, and largely responsible for the two one-year extensions of the



closing date.   Implementation benefitted in the last three years from the
continuous services of a capable, steady coordinator who tried to keep things
moving despite lack of staff or real authority.   The Project Coordinator's
summary report of the project mentions inherent management problems at the MOPH
impeding smooth progress, as well as a tendency for the PCU to concentrate its
coordination at the internal, departmental level and chiefly on financial matters
pertaining to the project, to the detriment of a more "intersectoral" approach
(perhaps alluding to a greater role in coordinating efforts with the ONFP).
4.13.       Little can be said of the Health Advisory Committee, charged with
ensuring prompt integration of health, FP, and nutrition services. The ongoing
institutional controversy, the fading of the project's FP connection, and the
inability of the MOPH until the last months of the project to implement the MIS
component (see para 5.08) , resulting in a serious lack of data on which to
judge the extent of regional health service outreach, integration or
effectiveness, suggests that the Health Advisory Committee was not the catalyst
for change envisaged.
4.14.       An Assessment : The Bank was challenged with designing a new system
through a single project and was undoubtedly aware of the risks.   But this
awareness did not translate into measures to reduce the potential for
institutional controversy. For example:
(a)   Undue faith was placed in the ability of the Minister and his
departmental directors and advisors to effect needed changes,
particularly  in budgetary allocations.   The Minister's private
assurances to this eifect were not followed by actual changes in the
budget.
(b)   The Bank's understanding that there was widespread popular demand
for the proposed system caused potential institutional arnd political
obstacles to be downplayed. Thorough analysis of the relationship
between project components and the existing health system and the
obstacles to integration of health and FP services might have laid
the groundwork for a better working relationship between the MOPH
and ONFP.   As it was,  integration appeared to be imposed for
political reasons and aroused the ONFP's implacable opposition as
a result.
(c)   Whilst the extension of the successful pilot scheme to the national
level would seem logical, the institutional and organizational
environment of a national program was quite different. Medjez-el-
Bab's success derived fror its manageable size, the wholehearted
commitment of project staff working at the micro level in a community
where communication was simpler, goals more modest, and political
and institutional stresses insignificant compared to those which were
present at the national level.



-8-
E. Prolect Implementation
5.01.       Implementation commenced well in advance of effectiveness, with
promising progress in the first years following rapid initiation of civil works,
procurement, plans for and development of the MIS, and execution of the
fellowship and training programs. However, progress from 1984 was impeded by
a number of significant factors including the following:
5.02.       Institutional Im'.)ediments : The Minister of Health was replaced
twice in three months from October 1983 to January 1984, with attendant turnover
in the Director of Basic Health Services, Project Coordinator, and dissolution
of the original HOPH team.   The new Minister expressed serious reservations
about the project7 and deferred project-related commitments pending reassessment
of the overall direction of the BHS policy and project objectives. This position
was encouraged by the new health team which, despite limited public health
experience, was critical of project performance and achievement under the nascent
BHS policy.
5.03.       At the same time, the efforts of the new Director of BHS to involve
his team in furthering the BHS strategy were impeded by their lack of familiarity
with the history and objectives of the BHS program. Paralysis set in as a result
of conflicting pressures from the Ministry of Planning to hasten project
disbursements and, from traditional sources (political and medical communities)
to build more hospitals, despite the worsening financial position of the
Ministry, and austerity measures affecting BHS outreach programs.
5.04.       Bank supervision staff noted in 1984 that technical discussions were
soured by personal, conceptual, and ideological issues, and that the MOPH clearly
preferred to defer extension of the BHS program than delay hospital construction,
despite the lower capital and recurrent costs of the former (and implicit
requirement of the project that hospital construction be curtailed).
5.05.       A 1984 Bank Public Expenditure Review stated that, despite the
project, health care financing was still poorly structured with expenditures
skewed towards tertiary care and considerable scope remaining for improved
efficiency.    The  GOT  appeared  to  have  disregarded  the  Bank's  policy
recommendations under the ongoing project, reflected in negligible improvement
in regional resource allocations, management performance or the health referral
system. The provisions of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) had, in fact,
already demonstrated the absence of political will on integrated basic health
care.
5.06.       From early 1984 until April 1985, the Minister of Health communicated
only rarely with the Bank and was reluctant to receive supervision missions (in
technical violation of the Loan Agreement), apparently due to the lack of a
Project Coordinator and concerns about project design. Service delivery suffered
(especially health education and MIS development), audits were two years overdue,
7      Criticism focussed inter alia, on perceived rapid expansion of the
physical network, without commensurate human resources availability
or training.



-9-
the construction program faltered, procurement encountered inordinate delays and
price escalation due to lengthy MOPH review processes, and the research and
studies programs remained stalled in their infancy.
5.07.       In addition, the integration of family planning into the BHS system,
already affected by the unresolved institutional dispute, sut5ered further
through the Government's failure to specify arrangements for providing FP
services, after transferring the ONFP to the new Ministry of the Family, an
agency with only minimal budget or agenda. Yet another casualty of this period
was the proposed Second Health and Population Project, already at the post
appraisal stage, which was blocked by the-Minister due to concerns about the
first project, the costs and sustainability of the new BHS system and escalating
appraisal costs at a time of austerity.
5.08.       Component ExRerience : Following the appointment in late 1985 of a
new Project Coordinator, implementation improved generally, but remained
problematic in the following respects:
(a)   MIS:
5.09.       This component was strikingly difficult to implement, and achieved
virtually nothing until the last months of the project period. It represented
an ambitious and perhaps, idealized vision of a sophisticated, responsive system
able to provide systematic and timely data, and "promote the speedy
identification and correction of problems"8.   The original MIS concept was
prepared at a time of rapid technological change, computers were seen as the
necessary catalysts to modernization and efficiency, and the MOPH leadership
wanted the best. The CNI proposal for the implementation of the MIS was far-
reaching and overly complex and thus set aside by the new Minister during the
1984-85 hiatus described earlier.   Other problems including:  (a) inadequate
understanding of the role and functions of an MIS; (b) technical issues such as
equipment compatibility; (c) relative cost effectiveness of alternative systems;
(d) the CNI's responsibilities with respect to the system; and (e) procurement
delays, foiled introduction of the envisaged working system by project's end.
5.10.       Nevertheless,  in the last months of the project, a total of 30
computers were acquired, of which about half were being used within MOPH, most
notably to process data collected from an inventory of health services. Others
were in use for (i) patient registration at a major hospital; (ii) on a test
basis in the DBHS in Jendouba Governorate; (iii) within the planning and
epidemiology units of MOPH; and (iv) at the Center for Pedagogical Research and
Training (CRFP).
5.11.       The lack of a functioning  system meant  that baseline project
indicators were never updated as planned and the project monitoring data base
was poor, making determinations of health service outreach and attainment of
specific project goals difficult to measure.
8      SAR, para.  5.15.



- 10 -
(b)   Studies and Applied Research
5.12.       This component achieved minimal success.  The SAR (paras. 3.13 and
7.03) called for the design of a research program, in consultation with the
Bank, before December 1981. The Loan Agreement, however, makes no reference to
this undertaking and it was, apparently, not carried out. The DBHS, following
weak response to its solicitation of research proposals, did attempt to develop
a program but little was accomplished.   The limited success of the research
component may be attributed to (i) inadequate perception of the critical link
between research and planning; (ii) the lack of a specific research agenda set
down as part of project preparation; (iii) the existence of other indigenous
research agencies with ongoing programs which perhaps reduced pressure on the
Borrower to execute this component.
5.13.       Several studies were executed successfully, on infant mortality,
vaccination coverage and hepatitis. A study on health financing became a matter
of urgency with the fiscal crisis of 1984, but was deferred because of the
Ministerial turnover. Interest in financing issues was revived in the fall of
1988 after the appointment of a new minister, and a review of health financing
is now being carried out by the MOPH and the Bank as sector work. The "Carte
Sanitaire" inventory showing the distribution of sector resources, took much
time to execute, but is now beginning to produce a body of data for analysis.
(c)   Construction Program
5.14.       The project called for the building of about 225 health structures.
Their successful completion with delays of about a year, and to generally
commendable standards of architecture and construction, was a major achievement,
especially given the constraints which included (a) the heavy supervision burden
created by the simultaneous start-up of the program in all eight governorates;
(b) the PCU's inability to assign sufficient staff to that task; and (c) the
inadequacy of travel allowances for supervisors.   The project had allocated
funds for this purpose under technical assistance, but the issue was a question
of Tunisian law, and the comparative benefits assigned other Ministries for
similar purposes. The Bank was unable to convince GOT to release the funds.
(d)   Technical Assistance
5.15.       The funds allocated for technical assistance were largely unused
throughout the project. While the Borrower's draft report cites overestimated
allocation as the main reason, in fact. Tunisia, like many countries, has been
reluctant to borrow for this purpose, preferring to obtain such assistance free
of charge from WHO, UNICEF, USAID, etc. The project had little effect on this
attitude and the Borrower paid for consultants, overseas training, and travelling
allowances for supervisors (paras 5.13, 5.15).



- 11 -
(e)   Training
5.16.       Project  funds  for  training  were  chiefly  to  bolster  training
infrastructure in the form of remodelling and equipping paramedical schools,
vehicles, curriculum development, consultant services to prepare programs and
seminars, and travel expenses for MOPH personnel engaged in training, project
management and evaluation. The latter suffered from the same Borrower reluctance
to use project funds for travelling expenses as the technical assistance
component.
5.17.       However, while the project did-not directly fund hands-on training,
it did stimulate much activity especially in the early years.   Collaboration
between the CRFP, the DBHS, and regional health directors was especially fruitful
in retraining full-time paraiaedical school teachers, arranging seminars,
preparing teaching materials (in addition to USAID-developed materials used under
the project), and training instructors. Numbers of fellowships abroad for health
educators and planners exceeded expectations.
(f)   Provision of Basic Health Services
5.18.       By mid 1985, the MOPH had taken most of the measures necessary to
decentralize the organization of BHS, about 50% of project-financed dispensaries
were operating, and the training program was implemented. However, while the
development of BHS Was well-conceived and supported by heneficiaries, it
encountered the following difficulties:
-     Health education was of uneven quality and most health posts were
without basic educational materials;
-     Supervision and monitoring of health care quality was generally
insufficient;
-     Many centers were underutilized and overstaffed,  primarily with
nurses who had no FP training, while midwives were present as little
as once a week in many facilities;
-     As a consequence, by late 1987, only 60% of project facilities were
offering FP services, despite the integration policy, and
responsibility for FP education and services was still widely viewed
as the exclusive domain of the midwife and specialized physician;
Bureaucratic inefficiency caused long delays in the payment of staff
salaries with attendant loss of morale;
Despite years of MOPH effort, and changes in medical curricula, the
shortage of physicians willing to serve in rural areas remained
acute;
The equipping of health posts was very slow due to budgetary
restrictions and procurement problems; and



- 12 -
General deterioration of the health sector because of a lack of
attention to maintenance affected the overall quantity and quality
of health service delivery.
(g)   Procurement
5.19.       Procurement became, progressively, the single greatest practlcal
impediment to project implementation, the principal reason for two extensions
of the closing date, and an inordinate drain on supervision time.
5.20.       The Bank overestimated the procurement capacity of the MOPH and did
not work carefully enough on establishing acceptable bidding and evaluation
procedures or documentation at the outset.   The change of Minister in 1984
further protracted procurement schedules when a review of MOPH procurement and
standardization policies resulted in dates for validity of offers having to be
extended, price escalation, and lengthy review processes within MOPH, which
delayed contract awards on vital computer and X-Ray equipment.
(h)   Disbursements
5.21.       Disbursements were exceedingly slow from the beginning and the
schedule was adjusted repeatedly. The reasons for this were:
-     Regional authorities were receiving funds from the Center to pay
contractors and others through the regular budget and thus had no
incentive to submit documentation to the Center in support of
expenditures for civil works;
-     HOPH was reluctant to use project funds earmarked for technical
assistance (see paras 5.13 - 5.15);
-     Chronic delays in awarding contracts for goods; and
-     Dramatic appreciation of the U.S. dollar.
5.22.       Disbursements as of the December 31, 1988 Closing Date were US$5.60
million. The Loan Account was held open until June 30, 1989 to permit further
drawdown of the Loan at which time disbursements were US$8.3 million.   The
Borrower requested a 3-month extension of the grace period, which the Bank
approved. Most of the factors causing disbursement delay were beyond the Bank's
control. The slow submission of project documentation has been fairly typical
of Bank-financed projects in Tunisia.
5.23.       An Assessment of Imglementation : The SAR identified major project
risks as being (i) scale and design roo difficult for effective MOPH coordination
and implementation; (ii) resistance from the medical establishment to the shift
of emphasis to rural areas and preventive care; and (iii) the traditional
difficulty of recruiting Tunisian physicians to serve in rural areas.   This
assessment proved correct, despite actions taken or suggested to countervail
their occurrence, for the following reasons:



- 13 -
(a)   The reorganized MOPH still fell far short of the managerial and
organizational efficiency required to implement the new system;
(b)   The project did not, in fact, pay adequate attention to the existing
health system (SAR, 1:29) which would have provided a better understanding of
the processes necessary to transform that system in a less controversial manner;
(c)   The Medjez-el-Bab experience proved the feasibility of project
activities at the pilot level, but its application to a national system
represented a different magnitude of activity with many added complications
(some of which could have been foreseen).
(d)   The ONFP has successfully resisted integration, importantly because
the government effort required to ensure its cooperation with the MOPH
(SAR 6.04), presumed the Government's own wholehearted commitment to the concept;
(e)   While decentralization of MOPH administration was effected in large
measure, continued changes at the ministerial level and perpetuation of a
bipartite health system in which hospital construction remained an unassailable
element meant the medical establishment could continue to resist change. Again,
reorganization of the MOPH meant little in this situation.   It faced with
fatalism, the inevitability of financial decline from trying to run two systems;
and,
(f)   Motivating physicians to serve in rural areas requires a complex
blend of incentives.   It was evident at project's end, that despite all the
measures taken to change their orientation, almost any job was preferable to a
public health post in a rural area. The absence of salary incentives, shortage
of adequate housing, lack of other amenities, and cost of traveling to see family
in other parts of the country, plus the social problems for single female health
professionals all continue to act as strong disincentives to rural service.
F. Prolect Results
6.01.       Achievement of Oblectives : The project achieved several of its
objectives and others may be achieved in the longer term if the MOPH maintains
its commitment to the BHS program.
6.02.       The project strengthened the BHS capability and orientation of the
MOPH through internal reorganization including the establishment of the DBHS,
a comparatively vital body whose functions were, in turn, decentralized in an
effective manner to the Governorates. The MOPH was, however, unable to achieve
the envisaged integration of BHS and over time the ONFP settled back into its



- 14 -
traditional, vertical posture on FP9. The seeds of this situation may be found
in project preparation, assumptions about institutional behavior and commitment,
and in the unique status of the ONFP.
6.03.       The  project  established,  staffed  and  equipped  major  health
infrastructure in 8 governorates, a commendable and important achievement given
existing constraints.   The quality and distribution of care, however, still
needs major attention. National HPN education and communication programs remain
embryonic.
6.04.       An improved health training system was implemented but needs further
work in (i) gaining acceptance for FP training in nursing and medical curricula;
(ii) ensuring that all midwives and nurses have such training, since many still
do not; and, (iii) training a new generation of physicians who accept the
philosophical as well as practical implications of rural public health service.
6.05.       Population objectives of the project were more implied than actual,
and limited support was offered the ONFP in the form of equipment. By the end
of 1988, the ONFP appeared to a great extent, to have defined the parameters of
integration, with MOPH concurrence. A 1988 USAID mid-term evaluation of one of
its own FP projects states, "joint planning of family planning activities is
not yet a reality between ONPF, MOPH and Ministry of Social Affairs (HAS)",
(although it is reported that coordination is now better at the regional level).
6.06.       Proiect ImRact : Only limited judgments can be made about project
impact at this stage.  The project challenged Government to adopt and sustain
a health care policy based on equity and pragmatic, long-term national
considerations. An extensive infrastructure now exists, which has raised public
awareness of certain obligations of Government to deliver services, and much has
already been achieved to train the requisite staff. The project funded a large
quantity of medical equipment in support of service delivery, and, in the last
stages of the project,  some  30 computers.    The  latter was  a promising
breakthrough whose next stage, information systems development, merits
encouragement.
6.07.       Little data is yet available on specific project objectives relating
inter alia, to reductions in fertil_ty and morbidity from common diseases. The
Borrower reports a 50% de:line in infant mortality and a doubling of the rate
of medical consultations from 15 to 30% across the project area. Project staff
report a current T"s (total fertility rate) of 4.3, and a significant increase
in  contraceptive  prevalence,  to  51%.    With  the  exception  of  medical
consultations, it is unlikely that these figures can be attributed solely to
project intervention, but they are encouraging.
9      The ONFP claims it could not release its service delivery function
to MOPH until it was sure of MOPH capacity. Donor agencies supported
this position.   However, the ONFP began to intrude on the MOPH
mandate, taking on more medical functions and using specialized
physicians for even simple services, chiefly because it needed the
support of the medical community to justify the continuation of a
vertical planning program.



- 15 -
G. Project Suatainabilitt
7.01.       The project made sufficient progress in laying the groundwork for
a national BHS system, that the issue of sustainability becomes especially vital.
The post-Bourguiba period has been characterized by efforts to get health sector
planning back on course, perhaps through less ambitious but more soundly-based
initiatives that look, inter alia, at financing, maintenance, training and health
education.
7.02.       The key issues of sustainability are the following:
-     Adequate recurrent funding for health and FP services, which presumes
real commitment to the concept of BHS and the will to contain the
cost of hospital services and the cost-efficiency of retaining
parallel delivery systems for MCH and FP;
-    A systematic and well-funded maintenance program for structures and
equipment, which will, in turn, require specialized training
programs;
-     Training and motivation of health service personnel including quality
control supervisors, and renewed efforts to increase the capacity
of BHS to provide MCH/FP;
-     New initiatives to establish systematic monitoring and evaluation,
and a focussed research program with a strong planning orientation;
-     Concerted effort to build institutional capacity and coordination,
since health and population invariably involve multiple agencies.
H. Bank Performance
8.01.       The Bank put great effort and vision (and with hindsight, excessive
optimism) into designing a project which would establish a new system reflecting
the Government's policy shift to national basic health care, which the Bank
supported wholeheartedly and believed was feasible. Components were designed
to cover most major requirements of such a system including the reorganization
of the principal Ministry well  in advance of project effectiveness.   As
anticipated, implementation was not smooth, due to a combination of events of
varying predictability. However, regular supervision, except for the 1984-85
hiatus previously described (para 5.06), sought to maintain momentum and iron
out problems, even though at times the internal logic of the Tunisian bureaucracy
proved impervious to creative solutions.  A major failing of the preparation
process was not to understand the interests at stake in the ONFP/MOPH
"integration" discussions, and then to assume away the potential implementation
difficulties.
8.02.       Conclusions: A number of conclusions can be reached from a review
of the project experience, and these might usefully guide the preparation of
future projects in the sector:



- 16 -
Despite extensive preparatory analysis of the public health problems,
the political and organizational inertia of the existing health
system did not receive sufficient attention. A more comprehensive
analysis should have included definition of the government's long
term policy goals and the process envisaged for achieving them;
Integration of health and FP services required greater emphasis on
rational, mutually agreed collaborative arrangements, a designed
process with timetable to avoid the antagonism that arose from the
perception that integration was being imposed, attention to differing
priorities and the authority to take remedial measures;
-     Project preparation should include, as a matter of course, careful
lobbying for its concept and objectives, especially where major
changes are contemplated which intrude upon vested interests,
responsibilities and prerogatives.   Care must be taken to ensure
(as far as possible) that all relevant parties are on board;
-     Projects of massive scope and scale seeking to attain complex
objectives simultaneously, should be avoided in preference to a
series of simpler, phased'efforts which address logical steps in a
longer-term program.  This is especially true where institutional
capacity is weak and vulnerable to political pressures;
-     Project supervision is a mutual obligation,  and its deliberate
interruption by the Borrower should not go unchallenged;
-     Acknowledging the difficulty of reversing the direction of components
if preparation was weak, nevertheless, more intense supervision might
have rescued the studies, applied research and health education
components, which were important for project success and
sustainability. The fate of these components further emphasizes the
need for simpler projects that inter alia permit more focussed
supervision;
-     Undue faith was placed in the ability of the technical assistance
component to mitigate acknowledged project risks, in a country well
known for its resistance to the use of borrowed funds for this
purpose.
I. Borrower Performance
9.01.       The principal factors affecting Borrower performance throughout the
project cycle were the MOPH's fluctuating level of influence in the system and
managerial shortcomings, unsteady commitment to the central project concept,
political pressures, and deteriorating economic conditions which adversely
affected social spending.
9.02.       Preparation was prolonged by the escalating demands of project
design, the Borrower's inexperience, and the challenge of defining the more
complex aspects of BUS organization,  management and finance.   While  the
management capabilities of the MOPH were undoubtedly enhanced by the project,



- 17 -
it remains a bureaucracy prone to political pressure, leadership turnover and
consequent lack of clear direction.
9.03.       The Project Coordination Unit lacked adequate staff or power and was
entirely out of commission for almost two years, with serious effects on project
implementation and management. However, within its limitations and given the
scope of the project, the PCU performed well, especially after 1985.   The
extensive and successful construction program deserves special note.   The
Borrower's system for transmitting funds to the Governorates for timely payment
of contractors worked well, (though the governorates submission of documentation
in support of expenditures was chronically tardy), and a major effort was made
to maintain the momentum of a program covering 8 governorates simultaneously,
despite lack of supervision staff and funding.
9.04.       The Borrower resisted hiring the long-term consultants required by
covenant, especially on the MIS, because, as previously stated, it did not want
to use project technical assistance funds allocated for this purpose. Thus it
argued successfully for alternative, in-house and short-term arrangements (CNI)
that cost less, but may have had adverse effects on the quality and timely
execution of certain components.
9.05.       Conclusions  : The Borrower might usefully derive the following
lessons from the project experience:
-     Clear health policy goals and a consensus on the means to their
achievement, are prerequisites for good project design;
-     The Borrower should be ready, in the spirit of the Loan Agreement
and its own development priorities, to intervene more directly in
inter-agency disputes that threaten project implementation;
-     The 3orrower shuuld understand its obligation to permit regular Bank
supervision, and to facilitate the activities of organizations
established specifically, to promote project management and
implementation;
-     Greater appreciation is needed of the critical value to policy
planning, of information systems for data collection and analysis,
and a focussed research program.
J. Proiect Relationshios
10.01.      The Bank's relationship with the principal project agencies and
their relationship with each other, were not always smooth and had prejudicial
effects on project implementation. Relations with the MOPH deteriorated rapidly
after January, 1984 due to political, philosophical and financial differences
of opinion over the project, and Bank supervision missions were postponed
repeatedly. This disagreement must be seen against the backdrop of the uncertain
economic and fiscal situation in Tunisia at the time, putting constraints on



- 18 -
health sector financing and casting doubt on the sustainability of project
abjectives.
10.02.      Relations with the ONFP were poor from the beginning, partly a
leftover from the experience with the First Population Project, but more
importantly because, as earlier described, it felt its existence, mission and
prerogatives threatened by the project. The Bank could have been more sensitive
to ONFP concerns in project preparation, and tried harder to create a more
broadly-based dialogue about integration of FP and the new BHS policy. On the
other hand, the ONFP's reaction could more accurately and simply be seen as the
natural desire of a prominent, well-funded-and connected, autonomous agency to
stay that way, largely free of controls or oversight.   Its present status and
the failure of integration to date, presents the same challenge as in 1981, to
be addressed in creative new ways that maintain the high priority of
population/FP programs, and reduce the level of mistrust, since "integration"
of FP remains the best course of action to improve service reach and efficiency.
10.03.      The MOPH relied heavily on ONFP cooperation for the effectiveness
of the new DBHS and its regional representatives, in establishing the integratec
BHS, but was unable to promote a working dialogue free of personal and political
rancor. The relationship normalized to some extent in the later stages but this
was after integration had faded from prominence in project implementation, and
the ONFP had largely reasserted its independence.
K. Consulting Services
11.01.      The project called for consultant services for the applied research
program, the organization of training and the supervision of civil works. The
MOPH decided against employing long-term specialists for the MIS, health planning
and management, in favor of in-house efforts supplemented by short-term
consultants.   As previously described, neither the applied research nor MIS
components were fully implemented. Consultants retained to oversee designs and
supervise civil works construction performed vell.
L. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01.      Legal Agreements : The Loan Agreement was a sound and useful document
whose only reported weakness was  its procurement provisions,  which staff
described as inflexible, especially in the distribution of categories of
procurement.
12.02.      Staff Apgraisal Report : The SAR provided a comprehensive and useful
framework for project implementation although it (i) describes a project which
was over-reaching in key respects; (ii) tended to put difficult objectives in
the best possible light, glossing over the seriousness of acknowledged risks;
and (iii) referred repeatedly to family planning as if it were a material element
of the project, which it was not, while ignoring the importance of FP to
population objectives which go beyond "health".
12.03.      The project had specific family planning targets, but these were to
be &r. implied resilt of establishing the integrated BHS system. No direct aid
was Siven to the ONPP throughout the project until 1987, when some equipment was



- 19 -
purchased, and the ongoing FP dialogue between the Bank, ONFP and MOPH was
limited, because of the atmosphere of distrust created by the integration issue.
12.04.      Project Data Base : No progress was made until the very end in
establishing the MIS, thus the record lacks a consistent, evolving data base.
As originally designed, the MIS component vas overly ambitious and its
implementation problematic.   Baseline project indicators were not revised, .-s
originally planned.
12.05.      The  Project  Implementation  Index File proved of only  limited
usefulness, chiefly because the accessible data did not reflect the lists of
documents, including the Borrower's annual progress reports, presumed to have
been forwarded to it. This report recommends more consistent use of the P.I.I.F.
and a follow-up system to ensure the receipt and storage of key project papers.



- 21 -
PART II: REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(A) Accuracy of Part III:
No comments received from Borrower
(B) Comments on Part I:
(i) The report mentions the "institutional rivalry" between the
Ministry of Health and the ONFP (National Family Planning Office). Since
each has a well-defined role in the structure of the government, this term
is inappropriate. It would be more accurate to speak of a lack of good
coordination between the two.
(ii) It is suggested that remarks concerning delays in project
preparation caused by the ONFP's lack of experience in project preparation
be replaced by a statement that because the MOH had more technical
expertise available, project preparation was delegated to that institution.
(iii) An observation in the report to the effect that repeated changes
at tne cabinet level in the MOH destabilized the project preparation
process and created discontinuity in project execution be replaced by a
statement to the effect that because of some -onstraints in the MOH, the
project's preparation and execution were subjct to some disconitinuity and
changes in the allocation of resources.
(iv) A statement in the report to the effect that too tmach confidence
was placed in the capacity of the MOH and advisors to carry out the
necessary reform was countered by a MOH suggestion that the project
underestimated the refonms required, in partic.:lar with respect to the
allocation of resources, which slowed project ':.iplementation.
(v)   The PCR describes the MOH reorganizati. in 1980 which delegated
some authority to the governorates.  Certain detalls of the delegation of
authority, to the regional health directors, an' rLot to the basic health
services, were clarified by the MOH in their coitmients. This clarification
does not alter the conclusions of the PCR.
(vi)   The PCR comments on the failure of the Government to make more
progress in the integration of health and family planning services were
considered to be centered too much on the negative attitude of the ONFP and
its efforts to maintain its autonomy, while the lack of a clearly defined
strategy for integration and the lack of training of MOH personnel in
family planning were omitted from the PCR. In fact, the PCR mentions
specifically that the failure to develop a strategy or training activities
were two of the side effects of the institutional rivalry between the MOH
and the ONFP.
(vii) The MOH comments conclude with remarks to the effect that in spite
of the delays experienced during the course of the project, the integration
of health and family planning services is now proceeding -well, and as of
1990, 74% of health services offer some family planning services. There



- 22 -
are, however, persistent problems related to the provision of sufficient
quantities of medicines, health personnel, equipment, transportation and
supervision.
(C)   Evaluation of Bank Performance  during project preparation and
implementation, particularly in terms of lessons to be learned for the
future.
The Bank's role lay primarily in providing technical assistance
for project preparation and implementation.
The supervision missions, which were conducted regularly, ensured
that there was fairly regular monitoring of the execution of the various
project components and the recommendations made at the end of each mission
were designed to help project officials ensure that the activities planned
were being properly carried out and that optimal use was being made of
project funds.
However, this assistance was rather limited in the case of certain
components, in particular studies and research and health information and
education.
Although efforts were made, Bank assistance failed to result in
feasible programs in research and health education or even in the
formulation of a strategy in these areas.
In future, greater emphasis must be placed, starting with project
preparation, on the programming of research, information and education
activities, as was done in the case of the infrastructure component.
There should have been more dovetailing between the
infrastructure, on the one hand, and the health activities (health care,
research, training, education), on the other.
The Bank's financial assistance should also have been adapted to
possibilities for using the funds, in light of current procedures in
Tunisia. The technical assistance component, which was to cover travel and
personnel supervision costs, among others, was overestimated.
(D) Self-evaluation during project preparation and implementation
Although the overall objectives of the project were achieved in
general, there were still certain areas of project implementation where
certain activities could not be completed successfully and several
difficulties inherent in the management system hindered the smooth
implementation of the project.
The setting up of a project coordination unit enabled the Ministry
to undertake and ensure fairly satisfactory monitoring of activities.
Coordination was, more often than not, however, limited to work at
the departmental level and to aspects relating to financial management,
when it really should have been focused more on other aspects and included
intersectoral activities.



- 23 -
Stren2ths
(1)      Allocating the credits to the gouvernorats made it possible to
complete the new construction as planned. Despite some delays, the rate of
progress was fairly good, considering the fact that the component involved
225 rural health structures and construction had been contracted out to a
large number of local companies.
(2)      The contribution of the two assistant engineers who aided the
Regional Infrastructure Directorates was decisive monitoring of the work
sites.
(3)      Purchase of vehicles, motorcycles and equipment for the health
centers had made it possible to upgrade primary health care.
(4)      Despite budgetary constraints, the Ministry was able to assign the
necessary staff to the centers built under the project and efforts were
made to improve training programs.
Weaknesses
(1)      Allocating the credits had drawbacks in terms of the disbursement
of funds by IBRD, since the regions tended to be late in sending the
project unit the expenditure records, which then had to be forwarded to the
Bank.
(2)      Since 225 buildings had been scheduled for simultaneous
construction, it was extremely difficult to monitor the sites properly,
particularly as the Project Coordination Unit was understaffed.
(3)      The travel allowance rates and the inability of supervisors and
instructors to assume these costs in many cases handicapped certain
activities and the monitoring of the works.
(4)      Procurement was slowed down by the red tape (in addition to
currency fluctuations and import licenses which delay government
contracts), entailing waits for equipment.
(5)      Public accounting procedures were not compatible with the
management of programs receiving external financing. For each activity the
project unit had to obtain prior approval from the World Bank, the go-ahead
from the control authorities (expenditure control, procurement commission,
etc.) and the project unit was audited each year by Ministry of Finance
auditors, as required by the loan agreement.
(6)      The late availability of allocations and lengthy disbursement
procedures meant that the regions did not receive the funds in time to
execute certain works in the course of the year. In addition, the
cancellation at the end of each year of the amounts made available but not
spent seriously hampered the execution of investments planned because the
same formalities had to be repeated at the start of the new fiscal year.



- 24 -
(7)      Although the Ministry of Health succeeded in computerizing
personnel management, it had proved impossible to develop the management
information system in the proper manner (inventory control and processing
of statistical and epidemiological data) because the necessary computer
equipment was not acquired.
With reference to the disbursements under the construction
component, care must be taken in future to devise a more efficient system
for this component. It should be possible to make disbursements on the
basis of a contract figure plus 15% for inflation as soon as the
reimbursable portion has been established; the following system should be
adopted: for center X, whose total cost would be D 100,000, the
reimbursable portion would be 40% of D 115,000, i.e. D43,000.
The reimbursable amount would thus be established and the Bank
would disburse 30% as soon as the contract is approved, the remaining 70Z
being paid when the center is completed, following certification by a
Tunisian consultant. This would thus avoid all the problems involved in
obtaining expenditure records, cost breakdowns, etc.
The equipment component experienced several delays, particularly
at the bid examination stage and with the conclusion of certain contracts.
In light of this, steps should be taken in future to ensure better
identification of equipment when the work program (plan d'operation) is
prepared and a provision included in the loan agreement to allow the use of
UNICEF or WHO for the procurement of certain equipment.



- 25 _
PART THR:  STATISTICAL IUP4ORAfIC
Related N-nk Loom  andior Credits
Loan/Credit                                           Year of
Title                   Puropose                   Approval                   Status                     Coasnnts
Cr. 238-TUN                U.S.S4.6 M Credit to         1971              Completed and closed,   Positive impact on FP
support the Tunisian                           Decembor 31. 1981         Service delivery. MH and
national FP program                                                      other important benefits
through a population                                                     However, institutional and
project implemented by                                                   program goals not achieved
the ONFP and MOPH.                                                       due to preoccupation with
construction problems and
fivefold escalation in
total cost.
(a)     A Second Health and Population Project was identified in 1983 and appraised in 1984. seeking to extend the BHS concept
nationwide and resolve institutional problems evident under Loan 2005-TUN. Project was blocked by new Minister in 1984.
due to concerra about the achievements and recurrent cost implications of the BBS policy.
(b)     A third project was identified in 1987 but was aet aside by the Minister of Planning, in favor of health sector work
emphasizing services and finance. A dialoguo bat now opened on a new Population Project, once again reviving the issue
of tho respective roles and attitudes to 35S on the part of MDPH and ONFP.



- 26 -
2.    Prolect Timetable
Date            Date             Date
Planned      Revised            Actual
-- Identification       1977              n.a.            June 1977
- Preparation           Sept. 1977        n.a.            March 4, 1978
- Appraisal mission   n.a.                n.a.            June 1979 (pre-appraisal)
Oct. 1979 (pre-appraisal)
Nov. 1979 (Ist stage appr.)
May 1980 (2nd stage appr.)
Sept. 1980 (post-appraisal)
- Loan Negotiations   n.a.                n.a.            April 27, 1981
- Board Approval        FY1979            n.a.            May 28, 1981
- Loan Signature        n.a.              n.a.            July 15, 1981
- Loan Effectiveness  Oct. 15, 1981    Jan. 29, 1982  March 23, 1982
Apr. 30, 1982
- Loan Closing1/        Dec. 31, 1986    Dec. 31, 1987  Dec. 31, 1988
Dec. 31, 1988
- Loan Completion2!    Dec. 31, 1986    n.a.               September 30, 1989
t    Loan Closing date was extended twoco from original of Docmber 31, 1985. principally to complete
procurement of computers for the MIS, and X-Ray equipment.
2    Loan Account hold open to complete disbursements.



- 27 -
Cmulative Estimated  nd Acturl Dieburante
(U S. 8 000)
F8           FY8                     rm           Un           Wi"   FYU  r!n   Ff
Appraisal Estimate                 0.9          3.8          7.9        10.6         12.5          8.5       6.6
Actual                             -            0.08         1.44         1.97        2.77         3.79      6.U4   6.09   6.6
Actual I of Estimate:                           2.1         18.2        18.6         22.0         44.6      69.8   71.6   97.6
Date of Final Disbursement:       (RN1t: Not known at time of PCR proparation.
Loan Account to remain open until Septeber 30. 1989)2/.
Source: Preaident'a Report and Statement of Loen.
1      U.S.$4.0 million of Loan cancelled in March 1987, due to drmtic appreciation of US dollar and other causes. Loan
Cloeing date extended twice, fro  Dceber 31, 1986 to Dscebor 31. 1988.
2      Figure for total actual disburcsemts prered on June 19, 1989 and includes US8121,000 of unprocessed Borrower
claim  for reisura_ment.  Total disbursemnts at Loan Cloa4n date were uss5.60 mIlliun.



- 28 -
4. Project Imolementation
Appraisal
Indicators                         Estimate                  Actual
CONSTRUCTION (units)1/
- health posts                    76 (81)                      66
- rural dispensaries              82 (80)                      81
- urban dispensaries              11 (16)                      15
- staff houses                    88 (69)                      55
- vehicle maintenance workshops          8                      6
- health education centres               2                      2
VEHICLES (units)2/
- minibus (tra  iing)                    6                      6
- audio-visual vans                      6                   n.a.
- ambulances                            19                     19
- 4-wheel drive                         31                     29
- small sedans                          53                     58
- mopeds                               100                    550
EOUIPMENT (U.S.$'000)3/
- MIS                                  250                    160
- Training                             160                   n.a.
- I.E.C.                               680                   n.a.
- basic health services             2,662                    n.a.
- project administration                10                   n.a.
TRAINING (units)
- mid-level managers
and statisticians                     40                   n.a.
- full time teachers                    45                   n.a.
- physicians, public health             80                   n.a.
- paramedicals                      1,060                    n.a.
- fellowships abroad
for health planners                    6                      13
- fellowships abroad
for health educators                   8                       9
1     eRvised by MDPH in December, 1981. with Bank approval following rt-assesament of noeds. Revised figures in
brackets.
No data available on audio-visual vans; two 7 tonne trucks also purchased.
3    About 30 computers purchased; total cost of equipment Including vehicles was U.S.S5.94 million.



- 29 -
5.    Project Costs and Flnaneina
A. Project Costs
(U.S.$)
Loan       Revised Loan
Categorv                           Allocation       Allocationh/              Actual Costs2'
Foreign
Exchange         Local         Total
Costs             Costs        Costs
I Civil works
- by contract                         1,900,000        900,000
- by force account                    1.600.000      1.600,000   2.170,0003/       4,658,000     6.828.000
II Equipment. furniture
vehicles & materials                  5,700,000      4,380,000     5,780,000       6,325,500    12,105,500
II  Computer Services                     800,000        800,000        160,000        204,680        364,680
IV   Technical Assistance                1,500,000        500,000       390,000         312,000        702,000
V    Training4/                            200,000        200,000           n.a.           n.a.              -
VI   Increm. Cost of 4/
Internal Travel for
project staff                         100,000         20,000          n.a.            n.a.
VII  Unallocated                           700,000        100,000           n.a.           n.a.              -
TOTAL                                   12,500,000      8,500,000     8,500,000      11.500,180    20,000,180
1/     U.S.S4.0 million cancelled, March 1987 and the total Loan reduced to U.S.S8.5 million at the request of
the Tunisian Government. By February, 1987, project costs mounted to only 65Z of estimated dollar cost
du- to exchange rate changes since appraisal. The dollar exchange rate fluctuated from 0.400 DT at
appraisal, to 0.840 by February, 1987. The Government estimated and the Bank confirmed, that only
US$8.5 million of the Loan would be needed.
2/     Local costs in Tunisian Dinars. converted at 1.026, exchange rate at June 16, 1989.
3/      Includes contract and force account.
4       Included under technical assistance component.



- 30 -
B.    Project FinancMn&
Source                   Planned          2            Revised1'/                    Final22
(USS M)                       (USS M)                       (USS M)
IBPD                     12.5           30.0            8.5            23.0            8.3           41.4
Domestic                 28.5           70.0           28.5             77.0          11.' S881
TOTAL:                   41.0          lU00            37-0 100.0                     19lo
1      US$4.0 million cancelled in March 1987 principally due to dramatic appreciation of US dollar.
Based on MOPN data showing total local cost of TD 11.8 million, converted at June 16, 1989 exchange rate
of 1.026.



^ 31 _
6            PrmoWimot
A.           Direct Banafita
No data yet available from Borrower on results for specific project indicators including fertility. infant
mortality, or morbidity froe coon and coamnicablo diseases.  Borrower still in process of compiling this data
with new computer capability end has notified intention to forward it.
B            Studies
Purpos as
Defined at                                                    Impact of
AMUriAL                       Status                            SAUdz_
1.  Infant Mortality             n.a.                     Completed                              n.a.
2.  Vaccination                  n.a.                      Completed                             n.a.
3.  Hepatitis                    na.                       Completed                             n.a.
4.   Carte Sanitairea        Detailed study                Data collected end                    n.a.
Health Resource          for extension of             under  nalysis as
Inventory               integrated BUS                at June. 1909
nationwide.
The Loan Agreement required the preparation of studies (and applied research) to Ci) identify improved ways and
means of meeting basic health needa in rural areas and to determine the cost and impact of health services; and (ii)
a detailed study for oxtention of an integrated health delivery systm throughout Tunisia which becme known as the
Cartte Snitaire.  A study on health services costs and tinancing was sought by the Bank. but never executed.
7.         Status of Covaamto
Section
of Loan                                                   DOadline for
Agreement                                                  omliance                       Sta
3.02 (a)         MOPH to set up and suitably staff           na.                  Condition mt initially.
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU)                             Project Coordinator then left KPB in Jan. 1984 and
replacment not ned until 1985.
3.02 (b)         PCU to prepare a mid-term evaluation        01/31/S4             Was done ia Nov. 1983 but new Minister of Health
requested a new evaluation. Bank agreed to a review.
Condition mt.
3.03 (a)         HDPH to recruit:
Ui)  1 architect/coaultant and             06/30/82             Condition met.
2 construction supervisors
(ii) (A) a managment informtion            03/31/82             HOPS decided not to recruit long term
systi  expert                                              specialists for (A) and (B) as planned
(B) a health planner/manager          03/31/82             originally. Decided to propare MIS in-house and
aupplemet own staff with short-term  consultants.
(C) a curriculum developuent expert 03/31/82               Due to progress made after project appraisal. Bank
agreed full tim expart not needed and could be
replaced by short-term specialized consultants.
3.06 (a)         All sites to be acquired for urban          12/31/81             Condition met.
facilities to be constructed under
the Project.
3.07 (b)         Completion of all arraments for             03/31/82             Condition met.
computer services to be made available
by the National Computer Centre.
4.03             13P1  to establish a Health Advisory        03/31/82             Condition mt.
Comittee.
5.01   .DII to appoint the Director of                       Condition of Loan   Condition mt.
Basic Health Services.                     Effectiveness.



- 32 -
A. Staf Inputs
(Staffweeks)
Stage of                     To
?r-iect cycle             F     Y7 9 FY8Y2   EFY8    EXi    eM    FM                 E8        E         M7    EU          Ei      I
Preparation                   75.7    18.2         .1                                                                                940
Appraisal                              81.2      60.3                                                                               141.5
Negotiations                                      5.3                                                                                513
?rocessing time                   .7    7.0      25.3                                                                                37.0
Sub-total                     80.4   106.4       90.9                                                                               277.7
Adinilstration                                    2.0       .6       .9       1.3     3.4      1.0       1.4      n.       na.       10.7
Supervision                                       2.5    14.4    24.3       15.2    14.6    20.4        19.6    10,4       5.5      127.1
S..b-total                                        4.5    15 0    25.2       16.5    18.2    21.4        21.0    10.4       5.5      137.8
.__ ___ ____ _~~~~~~~-- -                      _ _ .....   ----- _  ----  _  _ --_____-__
160.6   212.8    190.9    30 .0    50.4        33.0    36.4    42.6        42.0    20.6    11.0       831.1
a. Hiam
Stage of                                   No. of            Days       Speeisaiti           Perform.'           T,ypaa of
YrO1. CYB1e         Month/'Lear           Porun            In Fiald             Bn   na                a         Probl_a3/
Supervision I         10/81                   4                17         EC. P8, AC                2                M
Supervision II        07/82                   3                17         EC, PO. AC                1                M
Supervision III       03/83                   3                9          2C. P8. AC               2                 M
Supervision IV        09/03                   3                6          EC. P8, AC                I                M
Supervision V         06/84                   1                3          'IC                      2                 MP
Supervision VI        06/85                   2                10         EC, Pg                   2                 MP
Supervision VII       11/85                   3                10         EC. PH                    2                TP
Supervision VIIr      07/86                   2                14         IC. PH                    2                T
Supervision IX        12/06                   2                1          EC. PH                    2                TF
Supervision X         09/87                   3                14         EC. PU                   2                 Tr
Supervision XI        02/88                   1                2          Pg                       2                 0
Supervision XII       07/88                   2                5          PU                        2                0
Supervision XIII      10/68                    1               5          P82                                        0
AC - Architect
EC - Econaeist/Operatims Officer
PU - Publie Bealth Specialist
I 1 - Problm  free or minor probl_
2 - Moderato problems
3 - Major problm
3     F - Financial problm
T - Technical problems
M Maneaemt    t pmablm
P - Politiecal peblms
0 - Otber



